27-08-2020||Calcutta||Missionaries of Charity celebrate Mother Teresa's birthday sans outsiders||Missionaries of Charity nuns celebrated the birthday of Mother Teresa through prayers and distribution of cake among the poor. A mass was held by the Sisters at Mother House, the headquarters of Missionaries of Charity. But unlike previous years, no outsiders were allowed to take part in the mass to mark the birthday of the order's founder as a preventive measure against Covid-19. "Every year many people visit Mother House and pray with us on this day. This year, we decided not to allow any outsiders to participate in the mass to maintain Covid-19 restrictions," a nun said. But many people offered floral tributes through the windows. Soon after the mass the nuns came out of the chapel and sang Happy Birthday at the tomb of Mother, like they do every year. A cup of coffee and bread are distributed among the poor from Mother House at 7.30am everyday. On Wednesday, a piece of cake was added to the menu, the nun said. The Catholic Association of Bengal organised a mass at St. Thomas' Church on Middleton Row to celebrate Mother's birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Septuagenarian's fatal fall off bus||A 75-year-old man slipped and fell while trying to board a moving bus at the Mayo Road-Dufferin Road crossing on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Sheikh Ladu, a resident of Ekbalpore Road, died of injuries later. He was trying to board the bus around 1.30pm when the accident occurred, the police said. “The elderly person started running after the bus… he tried to board the bus while it was moving. He slipped and fell on the road. Luckily, he did not come under the tyres,” an officer of Maidan police station said. Ladu did not lose consciousness; but he sustained injuries to the waist. He helped cops contact his family while on way to SSKM Hospital. He died while being taken to a private hospital by his family members, the police said. “There were no bleeding injuries. He was stable and talking about his family. We thought he had escaped a big accident despite his age. It is sad to know that he passed away hours later,” said the officer. The bus is still to be identified. Missionaries of Charity nuns celebrated the birthday through prayers and distribution of cake among the poor. A mass was held by the Sisters in the chapel at Mother House, the headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity. But unlike previous years, no outsiders were allowed inside to take part in the mass to mark the birthday of the order’s founder as a preventive measure against Covid-19. “Every year many people visit Mother House and pray with us on this day. This year, we decided not to allow any outsider to participate in the mass to maintain Covid-19 restrictions,” a nun said. But many people offered floral tributes through the windows. Soon after the mass the nuns came out of the chapel and sang Happy Birthday at the tomb of Mother, like they do every year. A cup of coffee and bread are distributed among the poor from Mother House at 7.30am every day. On Wednesday, a piece of cake was added to the menu, the nun said. The Catholic Association of Bengal organised a mass at St Thomas’ Church on Middleton Row to celebrate Mother’s||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||CM says Metro services can resume with social distancing||Metro services can resume by maintaining social distancing norms, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Suburban trains can also resume in phases and railway officials can “talk to” the state government on resumption of both services, she said. But railway officials said they would wait for directions from the Centre before approaching the state government. “If Metro authorities want to resume services, by maintaining physical distancing norms… we don’t have any objection. Similarly, if local trains resume gradually… may be one-fourth to start with. If this is done, we don’t have a problem. The railways can talk to us on resumption of services,” Mamata said at Nabanna. Asked about the statement, Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said: “We will work out the modalities with the state government. But the ministry of home affairs has to allow resumption of Metro services first. The railway ministry will then take a call on specifications.” Metro services have been suspended since March 25 because of the Covid-19 curbs. On June 29, the home ministry had issued guidelines that listed Metro among activities that would not be permitted. The guidelines were issued hours after Mamata had said her government would talk to the railways for partial resumption of Metro for essential service providers. Railway sources said any direction on resumption of services from Delhi would come with a set of standard operating procedures, like the number of passengers allowed in each coach. The implementation of the SOPs will be challenging because most trains in the Metro fleet do not have cameras inside them. “For effective crowd control, the feed has to be accessed by the control room,” said an official. An eight-coach Metro train can seat around 400 people. The carrier used to ferry over 600,000 passengers a day before the lockdown. Maintaining social-distancing among even a third or fourth of that number would be daunting, officials said. Access for only smart-card users and ensuring crowd control right from the station gates are some of the steps being considered by Metro for resumption of services, sources said. Eastern Railway officials said they, too, were waiting for a nod from Delhi. “The chief minister spoke of the resumption of one-fourth of local trains. That might make crowd control more difficult because most local train passengers are office-goers or workers,” said an official. “Anything we do for crowd control and social distancing, we cannot do without the help of the state government,” said Sheelendra Pratap Singh, the divisional railway manager of Sealdah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Cab driver in ‘spray attack’||An app cab driver allegedly sprayed something on the face of a woman passenger sitting on the backseat after they picked a fight over dropping her friend on the way to the booked destination, the woman has reported to police. The driver, who allegedly fled with the women’s belongings, has been arrested. The incident happened on Jatin Bagchi Road, near Vivekananda Park, around 8.35pm on Tuesday when the 19-year-old complainant and her 25-year-old friend were returning home in the hired cab. The complainant had booked the cab from Mahanirvan Road, near Gariahat, for an address in Haridevpur around 8.20pm. “My friend was supposed to get off near Tollygunge Phari. Once we mentioned that, the driver said we should add the destination to our booking and that the fare would change, too. The moment he turned his face towards us and started talking, I realised he was intoxicated,” said the 19-year-old college student. The woman alleged that when she protested about his state of intoxication, the driver said the smell was that of a sanitiser. “Before I could react, he got hold of a can and sprayed something on my face. It blinded me for a few minutes and my eyes started watering. My friend and I started screaming for help,” she said. The driver then apparently lost control of the car and the vehicle rammed into a road-side railing. “Just when the car stopped, the driver again turned towards us and tried to touch my feet as if trying to apologise. But while doing so, he touched me indecently. I screamed. My friend and I jumped off the car leaving our belongings inside,” she said. The vehicle sped away from the spot with both its rear doors open. The women reported the incident to Rabindra Sarobar police station. The driver, arrested early on Wednesday, has been booked for outrage of modesty of the woman and theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Faster radiotherapy for cancer patients||A private hospital in Calcutta has introduced a new machine for radiotherapy treatment of cancer patients. More patients can avail themselves of the treatment in a day because the machine gives more targeted radiotherapy in a short time, doctors at the hospital said on Wednesday. The Halcyon E linear accelerator, which the Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has started using, can provide radiotherapy treatment in two to three minutes compared to the 15-20 minutes taken by older linear accelerators. A patient goes inside a linear accelerator machine for radiation therapy, a doctor said. The Halcyon E is advanced in one more respect. The therapy is fully “image guided”, which means doctors will be able to see the exact location of the tissue where they intend to target the radiation. A tumour can move 1-2cm because of various reasons such as breathing if it is in the breast or of if the urinary bladder is full one day and empty on another day, a doctor said. “The image guided radiotherapy (IGRT) will enable the doctor to see the exact location of the tumour when the therapy is being administered.” “The doctor can accordingly manipulate the direction of radiation and target the affected tumour, completely protecting neighbouring tissues,” said Tanweer Shahid, a radiation oncologist with Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “In the older accelerators, we could give therapy to 60-70 people in a day. In the Halcyon E series machine, we can provide treatment to close to 100 people in a day,” Shahid said. The Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had two linear accelerators. After the introduction of the Halcyon E series, one of the older accelerators has been decommissioned, a doctor said. Prathap C. Reddy, the chairman of the Apollo Hospitals group, who attended the formal inauguration of the machine on Wednesday through videoconferencing from Chennai, said the hospital had made consistent progress in the field of cancer treatment. “We have consistently improved in cancer. Patients not only from India, but also from abroad visit our hospitals for treatment,” he said. An oncologist in the city said this was the first Halcyon machine being introduced in any hospital in Calcutta. If more hospitals procure the machine, it will benefit more patients, the oncologist said. “Patients have to endure a long wait to undergo radiotherapy. But a machine like Halcyon will reduce their wait.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Six-city flight services thrice a week from September 1||Flights between Calcutta and six cities in the country, suspended since July 6 as a precaution against Covid-19, are set to resume on September 1 but services will be available only three days a week. “I will tell the chief secretary and home secretary that flights from six places such as Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai can operate for three days. Then there will be some (relief) after September 1. But everyday operations should not happen,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. In the evening, Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola, saying flights could operate from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad to Calcutta “thrice a week” from September 1. Airlines immediately complained that there was a difference between what the chief minister said and what the home secretary wrote. An official in the Bengal government clarified to Metro on Wednesday night that what the chief minister announced was the state government’s stand. “Calcutta will have flights ‘three days a week’ to these six cities and not ‘thrice a week’,” the official said. The state government’s letter to the civil aviation ministry reads: “This is also to inform you that restrictions on flights coming in from six cities viz Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad is being partially lifted from September 1, 2020 onwards. Flights from these cities can come to West Bengal thrice a week.” It also mentioned that the state would be under lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12 and the ministry should “ensure that there is no flight coming to or going out of West Bengal on those three days”. Airlines said there would be confusion on who would fly since the state government had not clarified on which days flights would operate and how many flights would be allowed each week. Before the ban, 25-odd flights would operate from these cities to Calcutta every day. “We are getting in touch with the Airports Authority of India headquarters to get clarity on the schedule. We hope there will be clarity in a day or two,” said an official of a private airline.   A team in Delhi will allocate the slots after discussing with airlines, said an official at the Calcutta airport. Flights to Calcutta from the six cities were suspended on July 6, following a request from the Bengal government, because of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases there. “The decision is welcome but it would be better if the ban was lifted completely. Also, we once again appeal to the state government to reconsider allowing international evacuation flights,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Father Gaston Roberge dies at 85||Father Gaston Roberge, considered the doyen of film studies in Calcutta, died on Wednesday. He was 85 and suffering from age-related-ailments. The Jesuit priest-turned-film academic from Montreal, Canada, reached Calcutta in 1961, and the city became his home. He founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970 as an extension service of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, and remained its director till 1996. He taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College. He was the founder-director of the UGC’s Audio Visual Research Centre, which later became Electronic Multi Media Research Centre under St Xavier’s College. Father Roberge lived on the college campus. “He had not been keeping well for the past few years… he was living at the infirmary for priests,” a member of the college’s former students’ association said. He had told this newspaper earlier that the first Indian film he saw was the Apu Trilogy in New York on the eve of his journey to India. “I was very impressed, particularly with Pather Panchali,” he had said. He had done his Masters in theatre arts (film) at the University of California in Los Angeles. “With the passing away of Father Gaston Roberge, the Jesuits lost a noble companion who served the Society of Jesus for 64 years and a guru of film theory, who was confident of India's potential in the area of film, art, culture and media,” Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, said. He was associated with the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Calcutta, National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi, and Calcutta and Jadavpur universities among other institutions. Father Roberge conducted several discourses in various countries on the films of Satyajit Ray and Mrinal Sen, with whom he had the best of academic exchanges. He was also an expert on Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein. He did his research on Eisenstein in Moscow on a Canadian scholarship. Father Roberge’s funeral will take place at Dhyan Ashram near Joka on Friday at 11am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Distance digital, not online at JU||Jadavpur University has decided that “online real-time classes will not generally be held” considering the digital divide among “a considerable number of students”, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. The preferred mode is “distance digital”. An official said a central repository was being created on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials and lectures would be uploaded. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be shared with the students. “Teachers will share the addresses of the files with the students through email or any messaging service,” the official said. The university is also subscribing to online platforms for more space. “The lectures and study materials will be uploaded on YouTube. Students will be given links to view the content,” the official said. A teacher of the physics department said the advantage of this mechanism was that a student could go through the content at any time of the day. “Then, in consultation with the teacher, a slot will be fixed for clearing doubts through conference calls,” he said. Parthapratim Roy, a teacher of the physics department, said he had asked students to make conference calls for clearing doubts. “As making a conference call does not require Internet connectivity, those without a smartphone can be engaged, too,” said Roy. VC Das said: “Real-time online classes will not be held generally. We want classes to be held in distance digital mode. If a teacher wants to hold online classes on a paper that has 10 students, with each enjoying sound connectivity, he is free to do that.” The departments have been asked to adopt a digital mode in consultation with students, so that whatever platform is used for online dissemination of knowledge, no student is left out, Classes for the next semester will start on September 14. The university is raising funds to provide smartphones and high-speed Internet data packs to 800-odd students with poor connectivity at home. “We are raising a corpus on our own and with the help of willing individuals and business houses,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Teachers’ help sought to vacate IIT Kahragpur hostels||The IIT Kharagpur director has requested teachers to ask all students to vacate hostels and leave the campus by August 30 after 10 people in the institute, five of them students, tested positive for Covid-19. The rising numbers “is a serious concern”, director Viredra K. Tewari said on Wednesday evening. In a letter to teachers, he said: “You maybe aware that 10 people of our campus, out of which five are students, are Covid positive. This is a serious concern for all of us. Considering the safety and well-being of everyone, I appeal to the faculty to instruct their students who have been staying in the halls of residence to vacate them and leave the campus by August 30. “I request all to ensure that no student is on the campus and everyone leaves positively by August 30.” The director requested the teachers after visiting the halls of residence, registrar B.N. Singh said. “We have accommodated the students as long as possible. But now the scenario has changed.” The appeal from the director came two days after a video emerged showing an IIT Kharagpur official, accompanied by guards, telling students at a hostel to vacate the campus, failing which their belongings would be taken away. “Today, there was a perceptible change in tone. The director requested us to understand the gravity of the situation. We are not sure, though, how we will move out at a time when transport options are scarce,” a BTech student who hails from another state said. “On Monday, the warden of Madan Mohan Malaviya hall of residence came with guards to throw us out. Today, the director has asked teachers to speak to us,” an MTech student said. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. “On Sunday, two more tested positive. By Wednesday, the overall number rose to 10, prompting the director to request teachers,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Potholes on VIP Road and Jessore Road trigger traffic snarls||A series of potholes on VIP Road and Jessore Road near the airport is causing long traffic snarls during rush hours every day, even on days the city is under lockdown. Commuters headed towards the airport as well as Ultadanga, in the other direction, are facing a harrowing time around the airport as the asphalt surface has worn off on both flanks of VIP Road. To add to the woes of motorists and pedestrians alike, construction materials are stacked along VIP Road at various places, including in front of the airport’s gate number 1. Near the airport, a combination of craters, construction materials on the roadside and bottlenecks created by traffic guardrails are triggering traffic snarls during rush hours. Motorists headed towards Belghoria Expressway as well as cars driving into the city from the expressway are facing regular snarls because of potholes on Jessore Road. The problem gets compounded at night when trucks drive to the city from the expressway as well as places like Barasat. It takes as long as 30 minutes during non-rush hours to travel between the airport gate number 2.5 and the point where Belghoria Expressway meets Jessore Road. Adding to the problem, traffic guardrails placed in a zig-zag manner on VIP Road and Jessore Road narrow down the carriageway and increase the travel time. Traffic snarls are also being reported regularly from the EM Bypass-Broadway intersection, near the Sports Authority of India (SAI) complex, as a 200-m stretch of the road is pockmarked with potholes. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday raised the matter of battered roads in the city and neighbouring areas during an administrative review meeting, which she and other participants attended via videoconference. She said she had found the top coat of a road worn off on her way to Nabanna a few days ago. She also expressed concern about construction materials lying dumped along roads, blocking drains and increasing chances of flooding during the monsoon. Metro had on August 12 reported about the poor condition of some of Calcutta’s roads. Engineers of several state government agencies had blamed the poor condition on the absence of repairs ahead of the monsoon because of the Covid-19 pandemic. A resident of Baguiati said her husband had faced a traffic snarl around 9pm two days back and had to take a detour to reach Dunlop. “My husband usually drives down Belghoria Expressway to reach Dunlop. However, there was such a traffic snarl near the airport that he took a U-turn and turned back to Teghoria. He then took Dum Dum Road and drove to Dunlop,” she said. Chandan Agarwal, a Sreebhumi resident, said snarls were a regular occurrence near the airport and it was taking half an hour to reach the airport’s gate number 2.5 from Baguiati, a distance of around 5km. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s traffic wing said the width of the road near the airport gate number 1 crossing had reduced by some extent because of the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro line. “We have a regular deployment of traffic personnel at all hours in an attempt to keep traffic moving. However, it is a very busy area as vehicular traffic from Nagerbazar, Dum Dum, Barasat as well as from the city converges here. We have asked the agency that maintains VIP Road and Jessore Road to undertake repairs,” said the officer. According to a plan drawn up by the commissionerate, one lane of the EM Bypass-bound flank of VIP Road is being cordoned by guardrails in the evening to make room for airport-bound vehicles. “This is being done to ensure faster dispersal during the evening rush period,” the officer said. Another resident of Dum Dum said every spell of rain washed away some of the soil from the Metro construction site near the airport, making the road surface slippery. “My bike skidded and I fell into a pothole while riding home in the rain. I was wearing a helmet and am fortunate to have escaped with minor injuries. The authorities must do something about it immediately,” said Sunil Biswas, a resident of Dum Dum Station Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock 4: Schools to stay shut, flights to resume||Schools and colleges in Bengal will remain closed at least till September 20 because of the Covid-19 situation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. “Under these circumstances, I do not believe it will be prudent to lift the lockdown completely. As of now, we are announcing that the schools, colleges and universities will remain closed till September 20 as they already are. The status quo in terms of functioning will be maintained,’’ Mamata Banerjee said at a news conference in Nabanna. Earlier, the chief minister had expressed a wish that schools could open on alternate days from September 5, Teacher’s Day, if the situation improved. On Wednesday, Mamata requested the Centre for a third time in three days to put on hold the all-India engineering and medical entrance examinations until the situation became conducive again. “25.06 lakh students will write the tests (JEE-Main and NEET). They will be crammed in the centres to write the test…. Let the tests be held when the situation becomes conducive,” said Mamata. The JEE-Main exams, through which students are admitted to engineering colleges, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which students are admitted to medical colleges, is scheduled for September 13. “The chief minister scrapped the plan to reopen schools from September 5 as the Covid situation has worsened,” an official in the higher education department said. Five-hundred-and-fifty-four Covid-19 cases were detected in Calcutta on Wednesday, according to the state health department. Nineteen people died from the disease in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the city stood at five. “Given the spike in cases, the chief minister announced on Tuesday that her government had launched a door-to-door survey to identify people with comorbidities. The death of over 87 per cent of Covid patients has been attributed to such health conditions,’’ the official said. “She is against conducting JEE-Main and NEET now as any kind of physical assembly at the exam centres could pave the way for the spread of the disease.” A professor at Jadavpur University, where only a handful of employees are attending office to run the essential operations, said the administrative headquarters of the institute, Aurobindo Bhavan, had to be closed twice as two employees tested positive for Covid. “If normal gathering is allowed, there could be a disaster,” he said. “In the absence of regular transport, how will students come to campuses?” asked a vice-chancellor. The teachers, many of them elderly and suffering from comorbidities, are too scared to visit campuses. Non-teaching employees are reluctant, too. “How could there be classes without teachers? The state government is justified in extending the closure. Let the situation stabilise first,” said another VC. The condition is so bad that the state government has not been able to announce the start of the academic session even as colleges are about to publish the merit list for the first-year students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
27-08-2020||Business||Centre places 2 options before states to meet GST revenue shortfall||The Centre on Thursday placed before the GST Council two options for borrowing by states to meet the shortfall in GST revenues, pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current fiscal. Briefing reporters after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the economy is facing an extraordinary "Act of God" situation, which may result in economic contraction. As per the Centre's calculation, the compensation requirement by the states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore is expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime. Hence, the total shortfall is estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said of this, Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST shortfall, while the rest is due to the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. Pandey said a special window can be provided to the states, in consultation with the RBI, at a reasonable interest rate for borrowing of Rs 97,000 crore. The amount can be repaid after five years (of GST implementation) ending 2022 from cess collection. The second option before the states is to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window. "States have been given seven days' time to think over the proposal," Pandey said. The crucial meeting of the GST Council on compensating states for revenue shortfall began with the states ruled by non-NDA parties opposing the Centre's move to ask states to borrow to meet the deficit. While Congress and the states ruled by non-NDA parties pushed for the Centre meeting its statutory obligation of covering the deficit, the Union government cited a legal opinion to say it had no such obligation if there was a shortfall in tax collections. The Centre as well as BJP-JD(U)-ruled Bihar were of the opinion that the states should borrow to make up for the shortfall in the tax revenues that have been compounded by the Covid-19 crisis, sources said. In 2017, 28 states agreed to subsume their local taxes such as VAT into the new, nationwide Goods and Services Tax (GST), in what was hailed as the biggest tax reform. At that time, the Centre had promised to compensate states for any revenue loss for five years from a pool created by levying cess over and above the GST on luxury and sin goods. GST collections including that of compensation cess had been falling short of the targets even before the pandemic, making it difficult for the Centre to compensate the states. States are supposed to receive half of the GST receipts. While the kitty of GST compensation cess may have lagged targets, the Centre has raised cess on items such as petrol and diesel, which have been kept out of the GST regime. This collection, which totals to several thousand crores of rupees, is not shared with states. At Thursday's meeting, Bengal was joined by Punjab, Kerala and Delhi in asking the Centre to make up for the shortfall, sources said. They said Sitharaman was citing an opinion of Attorney General K K Venugopal that stated the Centre is not legally bound to make up from its coffers any shortfall in GST revenues of states. The Centre had in March sought views from the Attorney General on the legality of market borrowing to make good the shortfall in the compensation fund -- a corpus created from levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into GST. The AG had also opined that the GST Council has to decide on making good the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited to the corpus. Sources said the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise GST rates, cover more items under the compensation cess or increase the cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund. Under the GST law, states were guaranteed to be compensated bi-monthly for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections by states over the base year of 2015-16. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The GST Council has to decide how to meet the shortfall in such circumstances and not the central government, according to sources. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Centre had released over Rs 1.65 lakh crore in 2019-20 as GST compensation. However, the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore. The compensation payout amount was Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 41,146 crore in 2017-18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Smell vulnerabilities early to avoid frauds, RBI Governor tells banks||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday asked banks to avoid extreme risk-aversion, terming it self-defeating, and also advised them to smell vulnerabilities in businesses early to avoid frauds, which have been growing lately. He said the banking system continues to be sound and stable, but acknowledged that the Covid-19 crisis will lead to an erosion of capital for banks. The remarks, made at a webinar by financial daily Business Standard, come at a time when credit growth has slowed down to under 6 per cent, leading many to wonder if the banks have become risk-averse because of concerns over asset quality. The RBI annual report released earlier this week said frauds doubled to Rs 1.85 lakh crore in FY20. The risk management systems (of banks) should be sophisticated enough to smell vulnerabilities brewing within various businesses well in advance and should be dynamic enough to capture the looming risks in sync with changes in the external environment, Das said. One visible area of concern in the arena of risk management is the inability or the ability to manage the incidence of frauds, both cyber related and otherwise, he added. Das said the higher incidence of frauds which have come to light in recent times have their origins in not so efficient risk management capacity of the concerned banks both at the time of sanctioning the loans and also post-sanction credit monitoring. Das also trained his guns at the sluggish credit growth, warning banks that extreme risk aversion will be self-defeating which will deprive the banks of their income sources. It would create a situation where the banks will not be able to win their bread. In other words, it will impact their income also. Extreme risk-aversion is certainly not desirable, he said. The banks have to focus on governance, risk management, quality of decision-making and going forward building resilience, he added. At the same event, Aditya Puri, head of largest private sector lender HDFC Bank, denied any aversion at his bank and pointed to the 20 per cent growth in core interest income it reported in the last quarter. Das said there will be an impact on banks' capital base because of the impact of the ongoing pandemic, and reiterated his wishes from them of being forthcoming in capital raising. The current pandemic-related shock is likely to place greater pressures on the balance sheets of banks, leading to erosion of their capital. I am stating the obvious, he said, clarifying that what is more important is how the banks proactively react and respond to this challenge. Proactive capital raising can ensure credit flow and also boost the confidence of the investors and other stakeholders, Das said. He said the RBI has asked banks and other financiers to do stress testing. Once any stress point is identified, the lenders have to use available dispensations and the June 7, 2019, circular. Das, however, made it clear that the financial sector should not presume that the post-COVID dispensations will continue after the crisis is over. However, he was quick to clarify on it as well. By no stretch should it be assumed that RBI is going to unwind the measures in the near future, the Governor said. Das said the RBI is expecting an efficient and diligent implementation of the debt resolution plans by the banks and added that the recast package has been designed to take care of all the stakeholders including the depositors and also the crisis-affected individuals and entities. The moratorium on loans was a temporary solution and the debt recasts are expected to give a durable relief to borrowers, he said. Das also said that banks have to be run in a professional manner with full autonomy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Cash-strapped airlines likely to cede ground||The weak liquidity position of some Indian airlines is likely to force them to curtail operations and allow stronger rivals to enhance their presence in the domestic aviation sector, Fitch Ratings said on Wednesday. A higher market share, apart from cost-cutting measures, will allow airlines such as market leader IndiGo to improve their performance after a sharp drop in earnings in the second quarter of 2020 even though overall travel demand is unlikely to rebound quickly. IndiGo is well placed to consolidate its market position in the coming months because of the liquidity pressure at rival airlines. Its share of domestic passengers has already risen to 60 per cent by July-end of 2020 from 48 per cent in the first quarter of 2020. The rating agency said the company mitigated the impact of an almost 90 per cent fall in revenue by focusing on lowering its fixed costs for aircraft and renegotiating lease terms with lessors and employee expense. “IndiGo’s position contrasts with that of SpiceJet, which had the second-largest domestic market share of 16 per cent as on July, but is facing liquidity-related challenges. SpiceJet’s standby letter of credit facility remained unpaid for more than 30 days as of June-end 2020 and the company asked the market regulator for a delay in the reporting of its financial results for the year ended March 2020 to July, from end-June.” GoAir has also been asked by the Airports Authority of India to clear its unpaid dues and pay upfront for utilising airport services, it said. The Tata group may also be consolidating its presence in the Indian aviation sector with a bid for state-owned Air India. The group, which already has 51 per cent stakes in low-cost carrier AirAsia India and full-service airline Vistara, is evaluating whether to place a bid for Air India. “We think volume growth will remain in single digits over the next few months,” Fitch added. The government allowed domestic flight operations to resume from May 25, 2020, two months after they were prohibited. However, capacity restrictions and fare brackets remain in place. The government initially allowed carriers to deploy only 33 per cent of their capacity in place before March 25 and this was increased to 45 per cent in late June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Ex-IOC chief to head Reliance Industries Ltd O2C biz||Former Indian Oil Corp (IOC) chairman Sanjiv Singh has joined Reliance Industries Ltd as group president for the Mukesh Ambani-run firm’s oil-to-chemicals business. A communication by RIL executive director Hital R. Meswani to the company employees said Singh, who superannuated from India’s largest oil firm on June 30, will be a member of the leadership team of oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business. RIL’s O2C business consists of the group’s twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat, petrochemical plants, 51 per cent of fuel retail and aviation fuel venture and bulk wholesale marketing businesses. It does not include the firm’s upstream oil and gas exploration assets that include a 66.6 per cent interest in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block. RIL is in the process of carving out the O2C business into a separate unit, called Reliance O2C Ltd, for a possible sale of a 20 per cent interest to Saudi Aramco for $15 billion. The firm had earlier this year hired former IOC chairman Sarthak Behuria, 68, as a senior adviser to help shape the firm’s fuel retail business. “Sanjiv will lead and drive the group manufacturing services (GMS) organisation which is the backbone of our oil-to-chemicals business,” Meswani wrote. The refining and marketing business of RIL is headed by Meswani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Bengal 22nd in export index||A central government’s export index has put Gujarat on the top among states followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, while assigning Bengal a low 22nd rank. The Niti Aayog’s first ever export preparedness index, which gives Gujarat the top rank, aims to assess the readiness of states in export potential and performance. Bengal was ranked 22 in the index and placed at the bottom among the coastal states. According to the report, six of eight coastal states feature in the top-10 rankings, indicating the presence of strong enabling and facilitating factors. Among the landlocked states, Rajasthan has performed the best, followed by Telangana and Haryana. Of the Himalayan states, Uttarakhand topped the chart, followed by Tripura and Himachal Pradesh. Across the Union territories, Delhi has performed the best, followed by Goa and Chandigarh. The index weighed all states and Union territories on four pillars such as policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem and export performance and 11 sub-pillars, including export promotion policy, export infrastructure, access to finance, transport connectivity and export diversification. About 70 per cent of India’s exports are currently dominated by five states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said India’s exports sector holds immense potential to become a viable alternative supplier for some of the major economies. The commerce ministry’s investigation arm DGTR has recommended the imposition of anti-dumping duty for five years on “choline chloride”, a chemical imported from China, Malaysia and Vietnam, to guard domestic players. The directorate-general of trade remedies (DGTR) has recommended a duty in the range of $94 per tonne to $315 per tonne after conducting a probe on the alleged dumping of choline chloride in all forms by these countries, following a complaint by a domestic manufacturer. The chemical is used in animal feed and in the oil and gas sector. The finance ministry will take the final call on the levy. Jubilant Life Sciences had filed an application for imposition of anti-dumping duty on the imports from these three countries. “The authority recommends imposition of anti-dumping duty...so as to remove the injury to the domestic industry,” a notification of the DGTR said. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Surge in NPAs makes bad bank inevitable: D. Subbarao||Former RBI governor D. Subbarao made a strong case for setting up a bad bank, saying it is “not just necessary but unavoidable” in the present circumstances when NPAs are likely to balloon and much of the resolution will have to take place outside the IBC framework. Even Economic Survey 2017 had proposed this idea, suggesting the creation of a bad bank, called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency, to help the lenders  tide themselves over the problem of stressed assets. “The standard advantage of a bad bank is that the entity taking a decision on the sale price is different from the entity accepting that price. Conflict of interest and corruption are avoided, and importantly, are seen to be avoided. “There are some successful models of bad banks with carefully designed carrots and sticks. Danaharta of Malaysia, for example, is a good model to study in designing our own bad bank,” Subbarao said. The former RBI governor noted that with the economy contracting by at least 5 per cent this financial year, non-performing assets (NPAs) will balloon. Also, according to the RBI’s Financial Stability Report, the gross NPAs of banks may rise to 12.5 per cent by March 2021 from 8.5 per cent in March 2020. “The bankruptcy framework is already overloaded and it will be unable to deal with this huge additional burden. It is important, more than ever before, that much of the resolution takes place outside the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code framework,” he said. Before the Covid-19 crisis, the economy was already decelerating, real gross domestic product (GDP) growth had moderated from 7 per cent in 2017-18 to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19 and 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The growth projections for the current financial year by various global and domestic agencies indicate a sharp contraction in the Indian economy, ranging from (-)3.2 per cent to (-)9.5 per cent. Earlier on, Subbarao said he had some reservations about a bad bank but, in view of the recent experience, he is veering towards the idea of it. “First I believed the bankruptcy framework will put resolution on track and help clean up the system,” he said, adding that in hindsight that faith seems misplaced. Subbarao admitted that he also had concerns about the capital structure of the bank.  “If capital has to come from the public sector banks (PSBs), the problems that bogged down PSB chiefs from taking bold decisions — fear of retribution — will persist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Showcause notice to Vodafone Idea||Trai has issued a show cause notice to Vodafone Idea for its premium plan which it feels is misleading and not in compliance with regulatory principles. The regulator has asked Vodafone Idea to “show cause” by August 31, “as to why appropriate action should not be initiated against it for violating the extant regulatory framework for its RedX tariff plan”. In the notice sent to Voda Idea, Trai said it is of the view that the “claim of the company in providing priority 4G network with faster data speeds is not in compliance with the extant regulatory framework”. “The RedX tariff offer lacks transparency and is misleading and not in compliance with regulatory principles of tariff assessment contained under the Telecom Tariff Order, 1999, as amended from time to time,” Trai has said in the show-cause notice. Sources in Vodafone confirmed receipt of the notice. However, sources in Bharti Airtel said they have not received any such notice yet. Airtel also has a similar Platinum plan for post-paid users. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Wednesday said it has approved the acquisition of compulsorily convertible preference shares and equity shares in Airtel’s data centre business, Nxtra Data, by Carlyle Group's Comfort Investments II. The Carlyle Group in July said it will acquire about 25 per cent stake in Nxtra Data Ltd for $235 million (about Rs 1,780 crore). This will peg the enterprise valuation of Nxtra Data at $1.2 billion, which is over Rs 9,084 crore. On completion of the deal, Carlyle will hold about a 25 per cent stake in the business, with Airtel continuing to hold the remaining 75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Rajiv Bajaj comes down on Modi govt over withdrawal of export incentives||Feisty businessman Rajiv Bajaj had another go at the Modi government on Wednesday — this time over the withdrawal of export incentives. Bajaj had earlier strafed the present regime for their policies on the lockdown, saying they had flattened the wrong curve of GDP. The latest jab came in an interview with a television channel with his claim that his company Bajaj Auto has lost Rs 300 crore because of the withdrawal of incentives under the government’s MEIS scheme. “The government should provide export incentives to businesses that have scale to become global players," the managing director of Bajaj Auto said, while making an uncharacteristic self-serving plea. Bajaj, however, welcomed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s observation on Tuesday at a CII event that 28 per cent GST rate on two-wheelers may be brought down, possibly to 18 per cent. Bajaj said this would reduce the price of motorbikes and scooters by Rs 8,000-10,000 per unit. He was, however, scathing in his criticism of the merchandise export of India scheme (MEIS). Government data showed that the auto and the pharma sectors have been the major beneficiaries of the scheme, with Bajaj Auto the third biggest beneficiary in 2017-18. The top 10 companies that have obtained maximum disbursals during 2017-18 include JSW Steel (Rs 301.5 crore), Ford India (Rs 272.8 crore), Bajaj Auto (Rs 246.5 crore), Dr Reddys Lab (Rs 240.6 crore), Aurobindo Pharma (Rs 211.3 crore), Mylan Lab (Rs 192.9 crore), Hyundai Motor India (Rs 189.3 crore), Vedanta (Rs 180 crore), Lupin (Rs 155 crore), and Nissan Motor India (Rs 150 crore). Under MEIS, the government provides duty benefits depending on product and country. Rewards under the scheme are payable as a percentage of realised free-on-board value and the MEIS duty credit scrip can be transferred or used for payment of a number of duties, including the basic customs duty. The cash-strapped finance ministry has decided to limit benefits to Rs 9,000 crore under it during April to December 2020. The government data showed that in 2017-18, it  had disbursed about Rs 31,000 crore to exporters under the scheme, which increased to Rs 34,750 crore a year later. However, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), on July 23, blocked the MEIS module from accepting new applications for shipping bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Centre must bridge GST gap||Bengal has joined several other non-BJP states to ask the Centre to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to compensate states for any shortfall in GST collection. State finance minister Amit Mitra sent a letter to his central counterpart a day before the GST Council meets on Thursday, which will be the first such meeting only to discuss how to narrow the deficit for states. States want to find resources to compensate for the shortfall, while the Centre is likely to nudge states to borrow from the market themselves. “Under no circumstances states should be asked to borrow from the market as it will increase the debt servicing liability,” Mitra wrote to Nirmala Sitharaman. The Centre has cleared compensation up to March 31, 2020. The compensation, which is usually paid bi-monthly, has not been paid this financial year. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Centre owed Rs 4,100 crore to Bengal on account of the GST. GST collection had nosedived in April and May as India had imposed one of the strictest lockdowns to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Between April and July, combined GST collection was down a whopping 34 per cent compared with the year-ago period. However, the gap narrowed in June and July when the collections were down 9 per cent and 14 per cent ,respectively. Bengal had mopped up Rs 43,386 crore in 2019-20, up from Rs 39,780 crore in 2018-19. The state-wise data for this fiscal has not been published by the Centre yet, except for June when Bengal’s collection was down 7 per cent at Rs 3,128 crore against Rs 3,514 crore a year ago. Quoting section 18 of the 101 Constitutional Amendment Act, Mitra said there was no going back on the fact that compensation must be paid and the rate of 14 per cent was also sacrosanct. The Act binds the Centre constitutionally to factor in a revenue growth of 14 per cent with 2015-16 as the base year and make up for the shortfall for five years. GST was introduced from July 1, 2017, whereby states gave up their power to tax goods and services by 70 per cent. “The Centre must pay the compensation from the different cesses it collects, as it is not getting devolved to the state. In case of shortfall, it is the responsibility of the Centre to garner resources for fully compensating the states, according to the formula agreed upon with the states,” Mitra wrote. The Centre has blamed the poor revenue collection on all accounts as an excuse to delay paying compensation. Petrol, diesel, ATF and liquor are some of the items which are not part of GST, allowing states and the Centre to tax them at their will. Earlier this year, the Centre imposed an additional Rs 8 a litre cess on petrol and diesel to mop up gains from low global crude price. Collections from the pool of cess are not shared with states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: Markets bet on correction||Indian stocks won’t return to their pre-pandemic levels this year despite a rally in recent months because companies face further difficulties and a market correction is likely, a Reuters poll of equity strategists found. The benchmark BSE Sensex has rallied over 50 per cent from a record low hit on March 24, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a strict nationwide lockdown, which ended at the start of June, to try to control the pandemic. The index is still down around 6 per cent so far this year and is about 8 per cent below its life-high of 42273.87 on January 20. Nearly two-thirds, or 30 of 46 equity strategists polled, said a significant correction in Indian equities was either likely or very likely over the next three months. “I expect a correction of 10 per cent plus in the current calendar year at some point,” said Bharat Arora, equity strategist at B&K Securities in Mumbai, citing expectations for poor corporate earnings and economic performance in the previous and the current quarter. The BSE Sensex was forecast to end 2020 at 39000, near Tuesday’s close of 38843.88, the latest Reuters poll taken on August 13-25 found. That would be a 5.5 per cent loss for 2020, marking its worst calendar year performance since 2011. It was predicted to rise to 40500 by mid-2021, which would still be more than 4 per cent below the pre-pandemic high of 42273.87. Asked what would likely drive stocks for the rest of the year, most of those questioned said economic data and corporate earnings rather than the direct impact of the spread of the novel coronavirus. The virus has infected nearly 3.2 million people in India, where cases are accelerating at the fastest pace in the world. Asia's third-largest economy was forecast in the previous quarter to have shrunk 20.0% - the first double-digit contraction since official quarterly data began in the mid-1990s - and no growth for the rest of the year, a separate Reuters poll of economists found. With business activity and consumer sentiment restrained, Indian companies have reported their most disappointing numbers in the previous quarter in at least three years, with a quick rebound not expected soon. "There is a lot of demand destruction and after the recent and nascent pent-up demand gets exhausted, there will again be a slowdown. To come back to a pre-COVID-19 scenario the economy will have to tackle lot of issues," said Neeraj Dhawan, director at Quantum Securities in New Delhi. The latest poll findings also resonate with widespread criticism of New Delhi's $266 billion economic rescue package, which does not contain new spending, tax breaks or cash support to revive demand and prevent firms from collapsing. "Although the government has provided some support to the economy by announcing a fiscal stimulus package, we believe more would be needed to get the economy back on track," said Ajit Mishra, vice-president of research at Religare Broking Ltd in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Sensex tops 39,000 after 6 months||The Sensex closed above the 39000-mark for the first time in six months on Wednesday as equities extended their winning streak for the fourth straight session amid upbeat global cues. The BSE benchmark, which opened on a cautious note, touched a high of 39111.55 amid fag-end buying. It finally ended at 39073.92, up 230.04 points or 0.59 per cent. The Sensex had last closed above the 39000-level on February 27 this year. On similar lines, the NSE Nifty advanced 77.35 points or 0.67 per cent to finish at 11549.60. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 5.93 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto and HCL Tech. Market heavyweight RIL contributed to over half of the index’s gains. Global markets were on the upswing ahead of a key speech by US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell at the Jackson Hole symposium. “Volumes on the NSE were in line with the recent average, with auto stocks (on hopes of a GST cut on two-wheelers), banks and media stocks doing well, while pharma and FMCG stocks were dull. Midcap and smallcap indices rose for the 8th consecutive session — the longest such streak since January 2020,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. In the rest of Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo closed lower. In Europe, stock exchanges in Paris and Frankfurt were trading on a positive note in early deals, while London witnessed losses. Brent crude was trading 0.13 per cent higher at $46.23 per barrel. The rupee pared some of its early gains to settle 3 paise higher at 74.30 against the dollar on Wednesday supported by positive domestic equities and sustained foreign fund inflows. Volatility guard Sebi on Wednesday said measures to deal with market volatility will be in place till September 24 after reviewing the pandemic-related situation. In March, Sebi had come out with various measures, including revision of market wide position limit, to ensure orderly trading and settlement. “The Indian rupee ended flat on Wednesday against the US dollar for the second straight day as markets turned cautious ahead of the Fed speech from Jerome Powell tomorrow,” said Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst, Reliance Securities. Iyer said market sentiments remain upbeat supported by optimism surrounding the US-China trade deal and foreign fund inflows into the domestic equity markets. However, appreciation was limited due to likely intervention by the central bank in the spot and forwards market to counter the impact of dollar portfolio inflows, he said. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, advanced 0.06 per cent to 93.07.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||India||UP leader being harassed for signing the letter, alleges Kapil Sibal||Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among those who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul, on Thursday alleged that party leader Jitin Prasada is being targeted in Uttar Pradesh and termed it as "unfortunate". Prasada, a former union minister, was among the signatories to the letter that sought an active and full-time party president. Prasad is also a special invitee to the CWC. "Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP.Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own," Sibal said on Twitter. Reacting to it, another Congress leader, Manish Tewari who was also a signatory to the letter, posted a single word "Prescient" on Twitter. The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress reportedly passed a resolution demanding action against Prasada, a leader from Uttar Pradesh, and has accused his family of being against the Gandhi family. Jitender Prasad, the father of Jitin Prasada, had also unsuccessfully contested for the post of Congress president against Sonia Gandhi in the past, the DCC reportedly said. The charge comes three days after the Congress Working Committee urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president and bring about organisational changes. The CWC was convened to discuss the leadership issue and the letter written by over 20 leaders on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||No organ is safe in Covid-19, warn experts||Covid-19 can affect almost all organs besides the lungs and the initial symptoms may be totally unrelated to chest complaints, according to experts at AIIMS New Delhi. They stressed that classification of cases into mild, moderate and severe categories based just on respiratory symptoms should be relooked to include other organ involvement. Experts from the institute, including its director Dr Randeep Guleria, Dr MV Padma Srivastava, head of department of Neurology, Dr Ambuj Roy, Professor of Cardiology and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor in the department of Medicine during their weekly 'National Clinical Grand Rounds' organised in collaboration with NITI Aayog discussed various possible extra-pulmonary complications of Covid-19. Dr Guleria said eight months into Covid-19, a lot has been learnt and accordingly strategies are being changed from time to time. From what we thought of as a viral pneumonia has a lot of other manifestations which are beyond the lungs, he said. "As we have known more and more about Covid-19, we have realised it causes many extra pulmonary manifestations. This is basically of the fact that this virus enters into cell through ACE2 receptors which although are present abundantly in upper airways and lungs, they are also present in many organs and thus other organs are also affected. "We have seen many patients who presented with features which are not been predominantly pulmonary but extra pulmonary manifestations," Dr Guleria said. He said though pulmonary manifestations continue to dominate as far as majority of Covid-19 cases are concerned, there is a significant number of patients who would present with manifestations which may be along with pulmonary manifestations or may be without pulmonary manifestations. "We as clinicians need to have a high index of suspicion during this pandemic -- when to suspect, treat and isolate these patients so that we can provide them good quality care," he stressed. The experts in the programme presented a number of cases in which the patients were labelled as asymptomatic or mild Covid but had serious life-threatening extra-pulmonary manifestations like stroke and heart blocks. "What started off as a viral pneumonia is now a multi-systemic disease. However, the jury is out whether SARS-COV2 is the culprit in these extra pulmonary manifestations or just an innocent bystander which happens to be at the wrong place at a wrong time," Dr Nischal said. "So the classification of Covid-19 into mild, moderate and severe cases based only on respiratory symptoms should be relooked into to incorporate other organ involvement," he said. Dr Nischal further underlined that management of such patients with other organ involvement should be as per existing guidelines of that particular complication. The doctor from the Medicine Department also highlighted the case of a 35-year old man who had headache and was vomiting but was found to have life threatening cortical vein thrombosis. When tested, he was found positive for Covid-19. He was asymptomatic for Covid19 as per existing severity guidelines, Dr Nischal said. "There is a big spectrum of neurological manifestations which have been linked to Covid-19. In some patients, brain is involved and it may lead to clotting, resulting in stroke or can cause infection and lead to encephalitis or other complications which have nothing to do with lungs," Dr Padma said. Dr Ambuj's team presented the case of a patient who came with a very low pulse rate, detected Covid-19 positive and required initial support with some medicines to improve heart rate. "Normally pacemaker is put in such patients to improve their heart rate but based on experiences documented in literature, we realised some of these could be due to Covid-19, so a pacemaker was not put and her heart rate gradually improved with supportive treatment. "Sometimes, the electrical pulse system of the heart which gives rise to heart beat can be affected in Covid-19 and it is self-limiting and improves with time. So these patients who would otherwise normally require pacemaker may not ever need it. "However, more evidence is needed to be definitive about this as it is a new disease and limited information and experience regarding it is available as of now," Dr Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Academicians appeal to PM not to stop JEE, NEET||Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that delaying the medical and engineering entrance exams -- JEE-Mains and NEET -- any further will mean compromising the future of students. Referring to the growing chorus against conducting these exams in September in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the academicians said in their letter, "Some are trying to play with future of students to propel their own political agenda". "Youths and students are the future of the nation but in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, clouds of uncertainty have gathered over their careers too. There are lot of apprehensions about admission and classes which need to be resolved at the earliest, they have said in their letter. Like every year, millions of students have passed their Class 12 exams this year and are now waiting at home to eagerly take the next step, the letter said. "The government has announced the dates for JEE-Mains and NEET any further delay in conducting the exams will result in waste of precious year for students. The dreams and future of our youth and students cannot be compromised at any cost. However, some are trying to play with the future of our students simply to propel their own political agenda and oppose the government, it said. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, Lucknow University, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others. "We strongly believe that the central government will successfully conduct the JEE and NEET exams taking full precautions to ensure that the future of students is taken care of and the academic calendar for 2020-21 is rolled out," it added. Over 14 lakh admit cards for the medical and engineering entrance exams -- NEET and JEE -- were downloaded after the National Testing Agency (NTA) released them on Wednesday, even as the issue was discussed extensively during a meeting of chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states who decided to jointly move the Supreme Court to seek deferment of these exams. The issue, which has been a matter of intense public discourse for the past few months, has evoked contrasting views with many backing the holding of the tests arguing that not doing so would result in a 'zero academic year' for students, while the Opposition and a section of activists demanding their postponement in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue also took political undertones on Wednesday with opposition leaders attacking the Central government. While the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains and 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. These exams have already been deferred twice in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. JEE-Main was originally supposed to be held from April 7-11, but postponed to July 18-23, NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, then pushed to July 26. They were postponed again and are now scheduled in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Covid: India records highest single day spike in cases||Registering over 75,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time in a span of 24 hours, India's virus tally sprinted past 33 lakh on Thursday, while the number of recoveries crossed the 25 lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. A record 75,760 infections were added in a day taking the total coronavirus caseload to 33,10,234. The death toll climbed to 60,472 with 1,023 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a total of 25,23,771 patients having recuperated so far, the recovery rate was recorded at 76.24 per cent while the COVID-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.83 per cent. There are 7,25,991 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.93 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,85,76,510 samples have been tested up to August 26 with 9,24,998 samples being tested on Wednesday. Of the 1,023 fresh deaths, 295 are from Maharashtra, 133 from Karnataka, 118 from Tamil Nadu, 90 from Uttar Pradesh, 81 from Andhra Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 41 from Punjab, 19 from Jammu and Kashmir, 17 each from Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Gujarat, 15 from Jharkhand, 14 from Assam, 13 each from Odisha and Kerala, 12 from Rajasthan and 11 each from Bihar and Haryana. Ten fatalities have been reported from Chhattisgarh, eight each from Goa, Puducherry and Telangana, six from Uttarakhand, four from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, two each from Tripura and Himachal Pradesh while Chandigarh, Ladakh and Manipur have registered one fatality each. Of the total 60,472 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 23,089 followed by 6,839 in Tamil Nadu, 5,091 in Karnataka, 4,347 in Delhi, 3,541 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,149 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,964 in West Bengal, 2,945 in Gujarat,and 1,282 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 1,219 people have died of COVID-19 in Punjab, 992 in Rajasthan, 788 in Telangana, 657 in Jammu and Kashmir, 634 in Haryana, 530 in Bihar, 441 in Odisha, 362 in Jharkhand, 274 in Assam, 257 in Kerala and 219 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 231 deaths, Puducherry 180, Goa 165, Tripura 85, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 41 each, Himachal Pradesh 32, Ladakh and Manipur 25 each, Nagaland nine, Meghalaya eight, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Maldives sups with both India and China||The Maldives on Wednesday made it clear that it would continue with its balancing act vis-a-vis India and China, iterating that Beijing would remain an important development partner of Male a fortnight after India announced investment in the archipelago’s biggest infrastructure project. The last few weeks have seen India try to mend its frayed relations with its immediate neighbours in the face of the Chinese aggression in Ladakh but no country, not even Bangladesh, appears to be in India’s corner at present with all preferring to remain equidistant at best. Participating by videoconference in an event organised by the Maldivian embassy in China on the Maldives’ 55th Independence Day, foreign minister Abdulla Shahid said: “China has and will continue to be an important development partner of the Maldives.” On August 13, India had announced its decision to invest in the Greater Male Connectivity Bridge (GMCB), the largest infrastructure project in the Maldives that seeks to connect the archipelago’s capital with three neighbouring islands, including a new industrial zone, and is thrice the size of a similar bridge constructed by the Chinese. Along with the investment of $100 million for the GMCB, India had announced a new line of credit of $400 million. First democratically elected Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed’s tweet welcoming the decision had come as music to India’s ears: “The super low cost development assistance announced by @DrSJaishankar today is exactly what Maldives needs. Genuine help from a friend, to help us build critical infrastructure. Rather than eye-wateringly expensive commercial loans that leaves the nation mired in debt. @PMOIndia.” This was an obvious reference to the Chinese investment boom during the Abdulla Yameen years and what is known as debt-trap diplomacy where Beijing uses its deep pockets to offer cheap loans to countries that can ill afford to pay back, leaving them indebted to China and, thereby, helping it gain a foothold across the world. Both India and China have been competing with each other to increase their influence in the immediate neighbourhood, and New Delhi had hoped to see the Maldives dial back some of the pro-China moves made during the regime of President Yameen. But foreign minister Shahid has from the early days of this government in late 2018 maintained that the Maldives will remain engaged with China. In November 2018, during his first visit to India after Yameen was defeated in the elections, Shahid had spelt out the Maldives’ policy clearly: “(Former) President Yameen tried to play India against China, and China against India. He thought he could become the puppet master. Our government will not play one country against another. We have a strong India First policy but we will work with all countries also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Tests to tackle Delhi  surge||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced measures, including increased testing, to curb a fresh spurt in Covid cases since August 16. More than 12,000 cases have been reported in the last 10 days, although the number of deaths has been much lower than what it used to be during the surge in the early days of the pandemic. The recovery rate is high. The number of daily cases has gone up from 652 on August 15 to 1,693 on Tuesday. “The reason we were able to control the corona situation in Delhi was that we had increased the number of tests, and now we will double the rate of testing. Around 20,000 tests are conducted in Delhi today, which will now be increased to 40,000 in a week. Our strategy of testing and isolation will remain the same,” Kejriwal said. “A new trend has been noticed — when corona patients recover and return home, the symptoms persist. Some suffer from lower oxygen levels and breathing issues. A few patients have also lost their lives because of low oxygen levels…. So, the government has decided that all patients who have recovered will be supplied with oximeters for a few more days. If their oxygen levels continue to remain low, oxygen concentrators will also be installed at their homes for free so that they do not need to visit hospitals,” the chief minister added. Kejriwal said no patient had died in home isolation since July 14, and that the recovery rate in Delhi was more than 90 per cent and the death rate this month 1.4 per cent. “Due to overconfidence, some people think they will recover even after they have symptoms. They do not realise that if they do not get tested in time, they end up infecting many people around them,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||SC adjourns hearing of Sharjeel plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday adjourned by two weeks the hearing of JNU student Sharjeel Imam’s appeal for consolidation of multiple FIRs registered against him in various states for alleged sedition, after his lawyer sought permission to place certain additional documents on the issue. Sharjeel was arrested on January 28 and is now in judicial custody. He is accused of delivering inflammatory speeches at a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||MP: Don’t discuss J&K 4G||The meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology next week promises to be a heated one with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey now asking chairman Shashi Tharoor not to take up the issue of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir, citing an advisory from the Lok Sabha Speaker to all panels that the convention of not examining sub judice matters should be followed. Last week, Dubey had objected to Tharoor deciding to summon Facebook on September 2 without consulting other members after The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) expose revealed that the platform had given the BJP kid-glove treatment while implementing the company’s hate speech rules. Not only did he write to Speaker Om Birla seeking to move a breach of privilege against Tharoor — in retaliation to the Congressman making the first such move — Dubey subsequently followed that letter up with another demanding the former minister’s removal as panel chairman. Wednesday’s missive to Tharoor comes after Birla sent out an advisory on Tuesday to the chairpersons of all the committees, reminding them that the proceedings of their meetings and the conclusions should not be revealed to the media before the report is tabled in Parliament. Further, he urged them to keep in mind Rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination. Rule 270 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha states: “A Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records: Provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final...’’ On sub judice matters, the Speaker said: “I would like to point out that as per convention, the Committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the Courts.’’ The advisory is being perceived in parliamentary circles as a middle path response to Dubey’s demand for action against Tharoor. Citing the Speaker’s letter, Dubey flagged the discussion on 4G services in J&K, scheduled for September 1, and said: “Since this issue is presently pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant Rules/Directions as well as disregarding the recently issued advisory...’’ As of now, both contentious issues — 4G services in J&K and Facebook — remain on the agenda for the panel’s meetings on September 1 and 2 respectively. Both issues have been included as part of the subjects selected for the consideration of the panel during the 17th Lok Sabha: 4G services in J&K under “Suspension of telecom services/Internet and its impact” and Facebook within the purview of the examination of “Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Situation in Ladakh most serious since 1962: Jaishankar||Foreign minister S. Jaishankar has called the situation in Ladakh the “most serious” since the 1962 conflict. “This is surely the most serious situation after 1962. In fact, after 45 years, we have had military casualties on this border. The quantum of forces currently deployed by both sides at the LAC is also unprecedented,” Jaishankar told Rediff.com in an interview ahead of the release of his book. A solution to the border row with China must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings without attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally, the minister said in a clear assertion of India’s position on the issue. “As you know, we are talking to the Chinese both through military channels and diplomatic ones. In fact, they work in tandem,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||IIT Bombay and Delhi chiefs against postponing JEE ||The directors of IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi have said any postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main will land the tech schools and students in uncertainty and cause academic disruption. Several chief ministers, including Mamata Banerjee, and students’ organisations have demanded that competitive exams such as the JEE Main and the medical National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) be deferred because of the pandemic. The exams are scheduled to begin from September 1. IIT Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said on Wednesday that deferring JEE Main might not be the right solution since there was no clarity on how long the Covid-19 pandemic would last and “how long we can keep our young aspirants guessing over their future”. “Even if the exam is postponed by two months, there is no guarantee that the Covid crisis will end by that time. The best way to get over any uncertainty is to get done with the uncertainty. The idea will be to hold the test by enforcing all safety precautions to guard against the spread of the infection, both by the test centres and the candidates, as well as facilitating the candidates’ safe travel to the exam centres,” Chaudhuri told The Telegraph. Chaudhuri said all international entrance exams like SAT, GMAT, GRE and TOEFL are being held as scheduled by adhering to safety protocols. He pointed out that the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918 had lasted over two years, killing nearly 15 million people in India alone. However, there is no record to suggest any major disruption in academic activities in universities during that period, he said. “The issue is if Covid continues for two years, should academic activities be stopped for two years?” Chaudhuri asked. IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao has put out a post on Facebook stating that the pandemic is not going to recede in another six months to one year. The institutions and stakeholders need to get used to this new normal and the “earlier we realise that, the better it is for all of us”, he has written. “As far as JEE Main is concerned, the exam is now conducted multiple times in a year. In case some students cannot write the JEE Main this time, they can take the exam after six months. I don’t see any reason for a concern. The consequences of postponing these exams any further can have serious repercussions on IIT academic calendars and for the candidates,” Rao has written. JEE Main is held to admit students to BTech courses in the National Institutes of Technology and many other engineering institutions. The top 2.5 lakh scorers are eligible to appear for JEE Advanced, conducted by the IITs for admission to their BTech programmes. Nearly 8.5 lakh candidates have applied for JEE Main, to be conducted by the National Testing Agency from September 1 to 6. Around 16 lakh students have applied for the NEET, which is scheduled for September 13. The NTA has written to the state governments to ensure power supply at the exam centres, law-and-order monitoring, crowd management and facilitation of the movement of candidates. The NTA chief has appealed to students to take the test under the standard operating procedure put in place for the smooth conduct of the exams. The IITs usually admit students in July. If JEE Main is held next week and JEE Advanced later in September, the academic session for the fresh batch can start in December. If JEE Main is further delayed, the new batch will lose most of this academic year, and the time gap between the 2020-21 and 2021-22 batches will be minimal, Rao pointed out. “I fail to see how we can run two batches together. It will become a zero academic year for lakhs of students. Our academic calendars are too packed already and linked to too many other things. The delays can impact the careers of so many bright student,” he wrote. IIT Delhi is the organising institute for JEE Advanced, which is scheduled to be held on September 27. The director has mentioned in the Facebook post that all preparations for JEE Advanced are already in place. The director of Punjab Engineering College, Dheeraj Sanghi, has suggested that JEE Main be spread out over 10 weeks. “I feel one sitting should be held once a week. JEE Main is scheduled to be held in 10 sittings over six days. If it is staggered over 10 weeks with a frequency of one sitting per week, and students are allowed to take the test as per their convenience, a lot of the concerns can be addressed,” Sanghi said. There has been a nationwide online campaign against compromising students’ safety by making them sit for exams in the middle of the pandemic. The campaign caught the attention of Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg who has lent her support to the cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Fight-without-fear cry at Opposition meet||Seven Opposition chief ministers have resolved to collectively fight what they described as an assault on the federal structure by the Narendra Modi government whose political antagonism is threatening to disrupt governance in several parts of the country. The grievances of these chief ministers are not restricted to the usual charge of financial injustice because of political bias but their complaints involve structural issues of Centre-state relations, misuse of central agencies for harassment, attempts to impose ideological hegemony and conspiracy to topple Opposition governments. Participating in a video conference called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the chief ministers repeatedly asked her to create a permanent platform for collective action and contended that democracy would not survive in India without the protection of the federal structure and multi-party system. They accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being interested only in imposing the RSS agenda of cultural and religious uniformity while being completely oblivious to the people’s concerns. Sonia was surprised to note that non-Congress chief ministers demonstrated greater keenness for a united fight against the BJP, contrary to the perception that the regional allies were not in tune with the Congress’s aggressive anti-Modi posturing. They requested Sonia to take the lead in offering stiff politico-legal resistance to the BJP government in the larger interest of India’s pluralist democracy. Sonia, apparently not prepared for such a demand, responded in agreement instead of promising any concrete plan. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee emerged as the central figure at the meeting, with Sonia giving her exceptional importance. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a new entrant in the so-called secular camp, was the most belligerent. He said: “All of us are in the same boat. We face similar challenges. These meetings — exchanging pleasantries and eating snacks — won’t help. We have to decide: Darna hai, ki ladna hai (To fear them, or fight them). Agar ladna hai, toh jo hoga woh hoga (If we have to fight, don’t fear the consequences).” In the typical Shiv Sena style, describing himself as the son of a combative father, Uddhav said: “We are for satyamev jayate, not satta-mev jayate (We want truth to triumph, not power to triumph). On people’s issues, there can’t be any compromise. We are also elected governments. If people have elected Modi, we are also elected by the people. It is not that different sets of people have elected us. If somebody tries to suppress the voice of the people, our duty is to make that voice louder.” Laying stress on the inviolable rights of states in the federal scheme, Uddhav said: “Rajiv Gandhi brought panchayati raj with the objective of decentralising power. Now we are moving in the reverse direction as everything is being centralised.” Uddhav added: “Do we want to reach a situation where only one man rules this country? What will be left of democracy without federalism? The dues and compensation under the GST is a genuine grievance but the fundamental question is whether we should go back to the old system. The states have a right to collect taxes. Or should we explore a middle path?” Uddhav questioned the strategy of meeting only during crises. “The states are undoubtedly distressed because of non-payment of GST dues. The states cannot survive in this financial distress. But why should we meet only in crisis? We should evolve a common programme and approach the Centre collectively for people’s rights. There are issues like environment, exams and resources. Development does not mean loot of natural resources. We shouldn’t wait for a crisis. Our unity should ensure the crisis is averted in advance.” Mamata asked the Congress to take the advice of a collective fight seriously. She said: “States are bulldozed in the garb of cooperative federalism. If we speak up, central agencies are unleashed on us. They disturb us in various ways. But we have to fight for the people. Never saw this type of atrocities in democracy.” Mamata added: “We are not supposed to speak out despite so many problems. The media is not allowed to speak. There are tools like Facebook to damage the Opposition. Every scheme will be decided by the Centre; we share data and financial burden but the Centre will write to beneficiaries as if the state has done nothing. They collect taxes from our people and then we have to beg for our share. If they want to arrest us, let them do that. But we have to fight for the people. We have to launch a people’s movement.” Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren lamented that the resistance put up by the Opposition was very weak. He said: “We are unable to forcefully raise the issues. We saw how the migrant labour issue was handled by the Centre. The economy is in a mess, there are massive job losses and the people are very angry. The Centre has broken the backbone of states financially by not paying GST dues and denying aid for the Covid-19 fight. Then there is discrimination against Opposition states.” Soren added: “All resources are being privatised. The Centre is strategically collecting revenue by increasing cess and excise duties on petroleum products despite low international prices of crude oil but the states get nothing. Coal and iron blocks are being sold to private parties. There are issues like the new environment law and the sale of PSUs and even the railways. The whole strategy is to disturb the Opposition-ruled states. We have to counter them politically, otherwise the country will be destroyed.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot contended that a democratic approach cannot be expected from the Modi government. He said: “The way they have worked after coming to power in 2014, we feel suffocated. There is no redress of genuine grievances. Our suggestions are ignored; the Prime Minister never replies to our letters. The government is interested only in enforcing the RSS agenda; it has no interest in solving people’s problems. When the states were fighting Covid-19 and acute financial distress, they were pulling down governments.” Asking all the non-BJP parties to create a political movement, Gehlot said: “This government will not listen unless this discrimination and threat to democracy are made big political issues. All states are reeling from an acute financial crisis; they can’t even pay salaries now. No matter what the economists and experts say, this government does not listen to sane advice. Their interest is political, not economic. We wanted a moratorium for six months on debt repayment, which was denied. None of the suggestions we gave to the Prime Minister was acted upon.” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel called for a movement against profiteering by selling national resources. He said: “All profit-making public sector units are being sold to crony capitalists. There is no consultation with states on any issue. We were told to buy our own coal mines. There has to be a movement called ‘India against Profitisation’. States can’t be mute spectators when such reckless decisions are taken. A collective fight is needed.” The chief ministers of Punjab and Puducherry, Amarinder Singh and V. Narayansamy, lent their support to the demand for a collective fight. Amarinder said: “Let us go to the Prime Minister together and force the issue.” His concern was primarily financial assistance and the Covid-19 fight as he wondered how schools and colleges could open when the corona crisis was peaking. Sonia, in her opening remarks, referred to the Centre’s tendency to thrust decisions without consultations. She referred to issues like GST compensation, the new education policy, the new environment law draft, the ordinance on agriculture marketing and the sale of PSUs and asked the parties to make a coordinated effort in the coming Parliament session to check the government’s “anti-democratic tendency”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||‘Business before people’ for government||The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed the Centre for failing to clarify its stand on the waiver of interest on loans that became eligible for a six-month moratorium that ends on August 31 — and accused it of being keen to protect the interests of businesses but not the common man. The loan moratorium, which was announced on March 27, was designed to help borrowers tide over the Covid-induced crisis. It also helped banks skirt a regulatory tripwire that obligates them in normal circumstances to recognise defaults of more than 90 days as bad loans on their books. As a result of the moratorium, retail and home loan borrowers were allowed to stop making EMI payments without the risk of botching up their credit scores. But while granting the moratorium, the Reserve Bank of India did not say anything about the waiver of accrued interest during the period of the moratorium. It was assumed, therefore, that this would be tacked on to the outstanding sum and automatically extend the tenure of the loan. The even more contentious issue was whether banks would charge interest on the accrued interest — a sort of penal levy — and if it was fair to do so while granting the relief to borrowers. The three-member bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the government was “hiding behind the RBI” and refusing to clarify its stand on the subject despite a clear directive from the court. “You cannot be interested only in business and not about the sufferings of people…. The problem has been created by your (Centre’s) lockdown. This happened because you (Centre) have locked down the whole country,” the court said. “This is not the time to consider the (plight of) businesses. The plight of the people has to be considered also,” Justice Bhushan told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who appeared for the Centre. Justice Bhushan told the Centre through the solicitor-general: “You have to tell us your stand on two things: the Disaster Management Act and whether the interest on loans will be charged or not.” The lockdown was announced under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which grants sweeping powers to the Centre. The court was of the view that the Centre had ample powers under the act to provide all sorts of succour during a disaster like the present pandemic and there was no reason why it should not take a stand on waiver of interest on these loans. Not all borrowers have sought a moratorium and many continue to pay their EMIs inclusive of interest — which raises the argument whether an interest waiver to one group of borrowers actually penalises the person who fulfils his contractual obligations. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by an Uttar Pradesh-based businessman, Gajendra Sharma, and a few others who have challenged the constitutional validity of the RBI’s March 27 circular through which the moratorium was granted. The petitioners contended that the failure to grant a waiver of interest while offering the moratorium was unconstitutional and amounted to a violation of Article 21 (the right to life and liberty). There have been two submissions by the petitioners: first, that the entire amount payable including principal and interest should not be charged during the moratorium period. Second, at least the demand of interest on interest should not be made and the relief ought to be extended by the Centre and the RBI. In its affidavit filed earlier, the RBI had contended that interest was the main source of a bank’s income and a waiver would result in huge losses to banks. Mehta, the solicitor-general, said the Centre and the RBI were working in close cooperation and it would be “unfair to say” that the government was “hiding” behind the apex bank. “Our (the Centre’s) stand cannot be different from that of the RBI,” he said, indicating that the government may also not agree to a complete wavier of interest. However, the bench said the government must come out with its affidavit on the issue. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that the Union government had still not filed its affidavit and its counsel had been pleading for a number of adjournments on the ground that he was seeking instructions from the finance ministry. Mehta told the court that the RBI had taken a decision on August 6 that the question of interest waiver would be decided on a “sectoral basis” but did not elaborate. The solicitor-general appeared to be referring to the monetary policy committee’s decision to start a new debt restructuring programme that allows banks to pick borrowers who will be allowed to reschedule their loans for another 24 months with some also qualifying for a moratorium. The new programme will start from September 6 when the RBI is expected to come out with a notification. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for some other petitioners seeking a similar interest waiver, submitted that as the moratorium period was to end on August 31, the default would accrue from September 1. “I am only saying that till these pleas are decided, the extension does not end,” he said, suggesting that the moratorium ought to be extended. The court said it would consider all the issues on September 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||‘Rigid’ China continues construction||Chinese troops have been continuing construction work, including building of roads and additional camps, in the “occupied” zones in eastern Ladakh despite Beijing and New Delhi last week maintaining during diplomatic talks that the two sides would keep working towards complete disengagement along the Line of Actual Control. Defence ministry sources on Wednesday hinted that the two sides were planning to hold another round of military talks next week to initiate the stalled disengagement process. “The stalemate continues after a series of talks, and the disengagement process at the multiple friction points has completely stalled. What is more worrying is that the Chinese troops have not budged from their occupied zones and continue building roads and military camps inside India-claimed lines amid the ongoing dialogue,” said a security official attached to the home ministry. The latest diplomatic talks between India and China last Thursday had failed to achieve a breakthrough but both sides had agreed to carry forward the dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels. So far, the five rounds of military talks, in addition to the diplomatic discussions, have failed to break the logjam. “The date has not been fixed yet but another round of military talks is expected to take place by the end of next week,” said a defence ministry official. During the diplomatic and military talks, India has been pressing for restoration of status quo ante at the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — where the Chinese troops have been holding on to their newly claimed zones and have so far shown no intent to pull back to their side of the LAC. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army, the defence ministry official said, has been adamant on not pulling back from the Finger areas near the Pangong Lake, causing the impasse. “They are now claiming the occupied zones as their own territory and want Indian troops to move further back from our own land. They have been very rigid,” the official said. The sources said defence minister Rajnath Singh had last week held a review meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. “During the meeting, the minister was given a PowerPoint presentation on the prevailing situation along the LAC, especially the friction points, and the operational preparedness of the Indian Army,” said another security official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Whiff of Himanta-Madhav power struggle ||Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s face for the Northeast, has proclaimed he has no intention of contesting the Assam elections and has spelt out his goals for the “last few months” for those thinking he is “after some post and position”, prompting murmurs in Delhi that this is the fallout of a simmering faction feud. After crossing over from the Congress and spending close to five years in the BJP, Assam finance minister Himanta is learnt to be getting restless, a situation aggravated by his purported power struggle with another influential leader, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav. Himanta on Tuesday posted two tweets that caught the attention of BJP managers in Delhi. “(A) few people feel that I am after some post and position,” Himanta wrote, raising eyebrows in the central leadership about the possible target. “My only ambition is to see a BJP GOVT with 100+ seats,” he added. “In my last few months, I want to work for my state as much as possible to have eternal satisfaction,” Himanta wrote, referring to the Assam elections that are due in April 2021. While claims of selfless service by politicians are usually taken with a pinch of salt, Himanta did not hide his frustration in the second tweet. “As I have already indicated in several public platforms that I am not interested in contesting the next Assembly election, my role will be limited to contribute whatever I can for my party and for my state. For Assam’s future we need to have a strong nationalist govt,” he wrote. BJP leaders in Delhi read Himanta’s tweets as an outpouring of his disappointment at not getting what he believes is his due. Many had seen Himanta as Assam’s chief ministerial face when he joined the BJP in 2015 ahead of the Assembly polls the following year. He, however, had to settle for the finance ministry. Then BJP chief Amit Shah was said to have been impressed with Himanta’s political clout and manoeuvring, and this ensured that he became the convener of the NEDA (Northeast Democratic Alliance). Himanta is seen to have aided the BJP’s drive to extend its influence over the whole of the Northeast. The NEDA was envisaged by Shah to get powerful regional parties spread across the northeastern states to align with the BJP. Himanta in a way was made the BJP boss for the entire Northeast. Himanta’s position as the unquestioned leader of the Northeast, however, began colliding with an equally ambitious leader’s desire to dominate the region, that of Madhav. Madhav, who has deep interest in the region since his RSS days, secured the charge of the BJP’s affairs in the Northeast along with Jammu and Kashmir, also central to the party’s scheme of things. The alleged clash between Himanta and Madhav played out in Manipur recently when the BJP-led Biren Singh government faced a crisis after four MLAs of the Conrad Sangma-led National People’s Party resigned. This was seen as a revolt against Biren Singh, who is regarded as a Madhav loyalist. As the BJP’s Manipur government tottered, Himanta herded the four MLAs to Delhi, met Union home minister Shah and announced that the crisis was over. “The swiftness with which the MLAs ended their rebellion after Himanta’s intervention was fishy,” a BJP leader said. Madhav struck back. At the BJP headquarters in Delhi recently, he paraded five Manipur Congress MLAs who had switched loyalties. “Nobody can destabilise the Manipur government now,” Madhav declared, Biren Singh by his side. Himanta did not respond to calls and a text message from this newspaper. Madhav could not be reached for comment. Madhav, despite his clout, has failed to get into the good books of Narendra Modi and Shah, many in the BJP believe. He has been waiting in the wings as leaders junior to him have made it to the Rajya Sabha. His closeness to the RSS, however, has seen to it that he remains an important player in the party organisation. “Himanta had wanted to contest the last Lok Sabha polls and hoped to get a key berth in the Modi government,” a BJP leader said, adding that with the Assam polls scheduled next year, Himanta was gearing up to extract his pound of flesh. On Wednesday, another tweet of Himanta drew attention, with the BJP leader hailing Congress veteran and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi as “our revered senior leader”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Nishan-e-Pakistan award storm in Geelani cup||Pakistan’s award of the country’s highest civilian honour to separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who has preferred political reticence since the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year, has finally stirred those close to him into action, but only to wrestle an alleged campaign to malign him. Geelani’s family has issued a statement saying the “vicious campaign” against the 90-year-old leader, who is under house arrest since the August 5 decisions, had left him disturbed and taken a toll on his health. Geelani’s family, however, made no mention of a letter attributed to the leader and doing the rounds on social media that claims that he has rejected the Nishan-e-Pakistan award. The purported letter has triggered a blizzard of criticism in the Valley, further cornering Geelani who has already faced condemnation for appearing to capitulate before Delhi during the Valley’s gravest crisis. Geelani, a hardliner who once saw himself as the tallest leader of Kashmir and enjoyed widespread support, became an unlikely casualty of the scrapping of Article 370, falling silent apparently because of the fear of his immediate family being hounded. During the government’s unprecedented crackdown that followed, the separatist camp was left in disarray, with top leaders either landing in jail or being put under house arrest. The hawk’s supporters attribute Geelani’s silence to his failing health but have never explained why he chose hibernation the very moment Kashmir lost its special status and was subjected to one of the most brutal clampdowns and communications blockade. Although Geelani remains under house arrest, it would not have stopped him from at least issuing a statement. Geelani addressed his supporters for the first time in nearly a year on June 30, issuing an audio message in which he announced that he was ending his decades-long association with the hardline Hurriyat Conference, heaping a litany of corruption charges against his colleagues in the separatist forum as the reason. The announcement earned Geelani much criticism, with many accusing him of surrendering before Delhi when the Valley needed him the most. The hawk had spearheaded the separatist movement for decades, being a vocal supporter of militancy and shutting Kashmir down on hundreds of occasions. While Pakistan is believed to be unhappy with Geelani for lying low, the neighbouring country conferred its highest civilian award on him — the first Kashmiri to be honoured thus — on its independence day on August 14, triggering a blizzard of criticism in the Valley that forced the leader’s family to react on Monday. The award by Pakistan is being seen as an attempt to further stir the Kashmir pot and also to placate Geelani. “It is unfortunate that people with vested interests have launched a vicious campaign to malign the stature of Quaid (leader),” a statement issued by Geelani’s two sons — Nayeem Geelani, a doctor, and Naseem Geelani, an academic — and son-in-law Zahoor ul Haq Geelani said. Not making a direct reference to the letter being attributed to Geelani Senior in which he has rejected the award, the statement said: “Repeated and fabricated letters in his name, posts, comments and imaginary stories is disturbing him and affecting his health very badly. The unnecessary social media campaigns and hounding of the family only adds to our already stressful life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Direct booking for Vande Bharat ||Passengers taking international flights from India need not apply to the civil aviation ministry and can directly book their tickets with the airlines, said an official statement on Wednesday. A standard operating protocol issued by the home ministry on August 22 stated that persons who are eligible to travel on outbound flights “will apply to Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) or an agency/agencies designated by MoCA for this purpose with necessary details, including places of departure & arrival”. The ministry said on Twitter on Wednesday that it “has designated all the airlines operating under Vande Bharat Mission & air transport bubble arrangements as designated agencies for this purpose”. “Passengers may book tickets directly with the airlines concerned. They need not apply/register with the Ministry of Civil Aviation,” it added. While scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic, special international flights have been operating under Vande Bharat Mission and bilateral air bubble arrangements. Since July this year, India has signed separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries like the US, the UK, the UAE, Germany, France and Qatar. Under a bilateral bubble pact, airlines of both the countries can operate special international passenger flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Deposits stuck in bank for a year, customers struggle ||In February, 82-year-old Kishan Lal appealed to India’s finance minister for help, saying in a Twitter message he was ready to donate his kidney and eyes if someone could help arrange funds to treat his daughter, who had a brain tumour. The Lals had enough savings to tide over the medical crisis —more than Rs 25 lakh in Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. But withdrawals were capped at Rs 50,000 from each account at the time because authorities were investigating fraud at PMC. The withdrawal cap is now at Rs 1 lakh per depositor. “I just borrowed money from wherever I could, I had to save my daughter,” said Lal. “If I had access to my own money, I’d not have been ashamed.” The RBI took control of PMC last September after it was accused of fraud and concealing non-performing loans. PMC’s top officials and the owners of a realty company that received the bulk of the loans were arrested. The withdrawal cap has left many of PMC’s over 900,000 depositors in deep difficulty. Some say they are struggling to clear loans or pay their children’s school fees, while others say they depend on friends for their groceries. The situation at PMC has also amplified concerns about the health of India’s tens of thousands of co-operative banks, which often serve communities in the rural interior and have assets worth around $220 billion, about 11 per cent of India’s total banking sector assets. These banks, many of which are tiny, are subject to less stringent regulation than commercial banks and currently, more than two dozen of them are facing lending or withdrawal restrictions by the RBI because of financial irregularities. Asked about the delay in resolving PMC’s problems, Jai Bhagwan Bhoria, an administrator appointed by the RBI to revive the bank, told Reuters: “The recovery is an ongoing process and it takes time in actual realisations due to legal steps and hurdles faced.” The PMC crisis has also sparked courtroom battles. In one of them, Sandeep Bhalla, whose parents have nearly Rs 1 crore blocked in PMC, has told Delhi High Court that depositors of PMC were “discriminated against” compared to those from commercial lender Yes Bank. In March, the RBI imposed a cap of Rs 50,000 on withdrawals from Yes Bank, after its finances deteriorated. But less than 24 hours later, the finance minister announced that India’s top state-run bank, the SBI, would infuse funds into Yes Bank and the withdrawal curbs were subsequently lifted. The finance ministry told the court the government had not infused any funds in Yes Bank but it was investors and the SBI who came to its rescue, according to court documents. The SBI is 57 per cent government owned. The judge wasn’t convinced. Noting PMC depositors were in a “dire state”, the court said the RBI and the finance ministry played a crucial role in rescuing Yes Bank and asked them both to “delve into the aspect” of why PMC depositors were differently treated. The RBI told the court the two lenders were “fundamentally different”, including the different regulations governing them. It also said with PMC’s “really precarious financials”, no investors were willing to bail it out. The court is set to hear the case in mid-September, ahead of the first anniversary of PMC’s collapse. Set up in 1984, PMC is a regional lender with 137 branches across six states and by last year, it had deposits of $1.5 billion. Yes Bank is far bigger with more than 1,000 branches across India. Many depositors said they were unaware of the differing regulatory structures for banks, and believed PMC was like any other commercial lender. “If it was not safe, why did you name it a bank?” asked Pooja Chaudhary, 26, who said she had to struggle for hours last month to get custody of her father’s body after a hospital refused to release it until she cleared medical bills. “My father died, and I couldn’t even cry,” said Chaudhary, who said her savings of Rs 15 lakh were blocked in PMC. Earlier this month, dozens of PMC depositors organised a protest in Mumbai and shouted slogans against the RBI. “Get well soon RBI. Thanks for doing your job so well that we lost all our life savings,” read one poster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Odisha trims syllabus by 30%||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced a 30 per cent reduction in syllabus for students of classes 1 to XII in the current academic year. The government was forced to take the decision as the schools that are closed since the second week of March are yet to open. Though online classes are taking place, the majority of the students are not able to benefit from them in the absence of smartphones. Even those who have smartphones are often unable to connect to the classrooms because of the unreliable mobile network. Reports are pouring in from different parts of the state on how students are being forced to climb atop 150-feet tall water tanks and hills to get connected to mobile networks and access online classes. The Telegraph in its August 4 edition had published a story titled “Battle for Education, atop 150 ft-high tank”, highlighting the problems of college students who are risking their life and limb for online lessons. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said: “Studies have been badly hit by the corona pandemic. Classroom teaching has been affected to a large extent. However, we have decided to rationalise the syllabus by up to 30 per cent without compromising with the core concepts. The new revised syllabus will soon be published and uploaded on the websites of Board of Secondary Education, Council of Higher Secondary Education  and State Council of Educational Research and Training.” “The changes in the syllabus have been finalised with the approval of three committees,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Youths band together to make a film||They are amateurs drawn from sundry backgrounds — daily wagers, salesmen, tutors and motor mechanics. But they share a common trait — patriotic fervour and a passion for movies. That is what brought 70 youths of Gunupur town in the tribal dominated Rayagada district of Odisha together and made them pool in their modest savings to shoot a film on a patriotic theme and release it on YouTube on August 14, on the eve of Independence Day. So far, 10,000 users have viewed the movie on YouTube. The total budget for the project was Rs 15,000. The youths put together their pocket money to produce the aptly titled Hindi film, Kurbaani — The Sacrifice of Life. The 23-year-old youth who directed the venture works in a lodge at a monthly salary of Rs 5,000. Director Livingstone Takiri told The Telegraph, “We had been watching the aggressive designs of Pakistan and China with concern. We have seen extremist attacks on our soil and supreme sacrifices made by the Indian soldiers while repelling such attacks. When I met my friend’s father, who is in the BSF, he gave me a clear picture of what is actually happening on our borders. So we decided to make a movie on this theme.” The biggest problem for the group was arranging at least 30 pairs of dresses for the movie and props like guns to create a realistic look. “We took 45 days to prepare 40 sets of guns out of plastic bottles and other plastic materials. The issue of military uniform was sorted out when jawans of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) posted here assured to loan us their uniforms for 15 days,” said Livingstone. Though around 40 people in the group are semi-literate, there are ones with degrees in pharmacy and BEd who were very enthusiastic from the beginning about working for a good cause. “Everyone was at home due to the lockdown. To avoid being caught by the police for not adhering to social distancing norms, we used to leave for shooting early in the morning. We almost always carried biscuit packets with us,” said Nitesh Ranjan Nimala, 22, a tuition teacher. Cameraman Dwarikanath Panigrahi, 21, who is an amateur photographer and also did the editing, said, “Sometimes we also took rice, pulses and vegetables from our homes and cooked in the forest and ate when we got hungry during shooting. Though it was just a 24-minute film, the shooting went on for 2 months. All the shooting was done with the help of one DSLR camera.” There were also drivers in the group and they helped arrange the vehicles used in the film. “We requested the vehicle owners to let us use them for carrying the artistes to the film set and also for other purposes. Thankfully no one objected. It was all good jugaad (flexible approach) which made us successful,” said Anjan Panigrahi, 23, a driver by profession. Parents of some of the group members were roped in to play the role of military officers. “We put stickers on the uniforms to make them look authentic,” said a member. The film has been hailed by critics for the sheer determination of its makers. “It is a good effort. The way they brilliantly use technique and sound and the dialogue delivery is superb. There are many good pictures which have never been awarded with any awards. Here the award is not important but the all-out efforts made by the youths need to be appreciated,” said film critic Surya Deo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Minor raped and killed in Bihar, 1 held||A 24-year-old youth has been arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a minor in Bihar’s Gopalganj district. Police arrested the accused Jai Kishore Sah and forwarded him to jail on Wednesday and said it was a case of rape and murder in which the victim’s private parts were also mutilated. The incident occurred at Bakhraur village under Sidhwalia police station in Gopalganj district on Tuesday. The area is around 160km northwest of the state capital Patna. According to the police, the 9-year-old victim had been playing on her own at around 10 in the morning and disappeared soon after. Her parents started looking for her all around and asked their neighbours too, but in vain. In the evening, they became very worried and started searching frantically in neighbouring homes. It was then that they came upon a sack in the neighbour’s house with blood oozing out of it and discovered her body. Subsequently, they informed the police who came and sent the body for post-mortem. Police said the owner of the house claimed her nephew had committed the crime while she was not at home. “The girl was raped and then smothered to death. The accused had tortured her brutally. There were injuries on various parts of the victim’s body. The accused stuffed the body in a gunny bag with the intention to dispose it of later,” said Sidhwalia station house officer (SHO) Ranjeet Kumar Paswan. According to the police, the accused is in the business of fruits. Meanwhile, a video of alleged gang rape of a woman by seven persons was widely shared on various social media platforms on Wednesday. Bihar police traced the site of the crime to an area near a government high school under Aandar police station in Siwan district. An FIR has been registered in connection with the incident. Siwan superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar said that four of the seven accused have been identified and a special team has been formed to arrest them. This is the third gang rape incident in Bihar this month. The two earlier incidents happened in Patna and Muzaffarpur districts and came to light after videos of the heinous acts were also shared on social media. A 70-metre bridge over the Bakra river in Araria district of Bihar collapsed late on Tuesday evening while several people and vehicles were crossing it. It is feared that some of them could have drowned in the incident that happened under Jokihat police station. The district administration has roped in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) to conduct search operations in the flooded river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Irregularities in betel growers' Cyclone Amphan compensation||Another instance of alleged corruption in disbursal of compensation for people hit by Cyclone Amphan has been uncovered when a survey has found that many recipients of grants forked out by the Bengal government for betel leaf growers in East Midnapore were ineligible. A smartphone-based geo-informatics verification by block development officials found that several people had received Rs 5,000 each under the Amphan Betel Vine Grant Payment scheme even though they had no plants. The doles were delivered through panchayats and allegations cropped up that the ineligible beneficiaries were linked to panchayat members from the Trinamul Congress. The district administration had in July distributed Rs 20 crore to betel growers who had applied for the compensation. “Block development officials had received several reports of alleged irregularities in the initial beneficiary list. This led them to launch a smartphone-based geo-informatics verification through field workers. The survey is still on in the district’s 25 blocks,” said the source. Sources said the field workers had found that several of the 39,000 dole applicants did not have betel plants. “Approximately 80,000 farmers had applied for the initial dole and 39,000 were paid by block officials after reviewing eligibility,” said deputy director (horticulture), Swapan Kumar Sheet. In Ramnagar I block, sources said, more 834 of the 2,200 applicants were not bona fide. Block officials said they had begun to compile a fresh list post-verification and ineligible beneficiaries would be asked to refund the amounts. “We received reports that those 834 people are in some way connected to Trinamul,” said CPM leader Ashish Pramanik, adding that a written complaint had been submitted to the BDO. In the Trinamul-run Bhagabanpur panchayat, member Mangalmay Bhowmick and five family members have all returned their doles of Rs 5,000 each, saying it was a “mistake” on their part. “We have asked all other party members to return the doles they had wrongfully taken,” he said. Trinamul spokesperson Madhurima Mondal said: “All panchayat leaders have been directed to ensure the return of wrongfully received funds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Two murders in Kalimpong district||A farmer in his 40s allegedly killed his wife with a sharp weapon in Nimbong gram panchayat in Kalimpong district and inflicted injuries to himself. Police said Pachyo Lepcha had been admitted to Kalimpong district hospital. His deceased wife, Santumaya Rai, is also in the 40s. In another incident, Subham Rai, 24, allegedly killed his grandfather, Mani Kumar Rai, 72, at Upper Cart Road near Children Park in Kalimpong town. Police said preliminary investigation suggested that other members of the family which included  grandmother and another grandson were present at the house at the time of the crime. “The suspects in both the cases have been arrested,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the Kalimpong district police chief. Subham has not fled after incident. “Subham had earlier gone to Delhi for work and it is suspected that he was into substance abuse earlier,” Roshan Thapa, a neighbour of the Rai family, said. The grandfather had suffered injuries from a blunt weapon. Police sources said both the incidents were linked to the “mental health” of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Talks to end  Longview tea garden impasse ||The Bengal labour department will hold a meeting with trade unions and the management of the Longview estate that produces orthodox Darjeeling Tea on August 28 to discuss the impasse in the garden. The management had announced suspension of work in Longview, located 26km from here and is in the Kurseong subdivision, on August 21, citing alleged lawlessness. Workers, other the other hand, accused the management of not clearing dues and started a relay fast in the garden. “The assistant labour commissioner of Kurseong has convened the tripartite meeting at Shramik Bhavan that is in Dagapur, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. All trade unions concerned and representatives of the management have been invited to the meeting,” said Nima Lama, the president of the GNLF’s Kurseong branch committee. “We feel all pending issues will be resolved through talks and operations will resume in the garden.” Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba has threatened to join the hunger strike of the workers if no decision is taken by the state government to facilitate the reopening of the estate. He visited the garden on Tuesday to express solidarity with the labourers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||GTA to wait for Bengal government decision on tourism||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration has decided to wait for the Bengal government to take a call on opening tourism sector in the Darjeeling hills even though the tourism subject is vested with the GTA. At a meeting in Gymkhana Club in Darjeeling on Sunday, representatives of associations of hotel and homestay owners, transporters, drivers and tour operators had stressed the need to open up the hills for tourists again and decided to approach the GTA and the state government. Sources in the GTA said the hill body had held a discussion with the district magistrates of Darjeeling and Kalimpong and other officials on the issue on Wednesday. “The general discussion revolved over the fact that the Centre and the state technically opened hotels and the GTA couldn’t come up with a different set of rules. It was generally agreed that the GTA would wait till September 1 for new standard operating procedures to be laid by the governments specifically for the tourism industry,” said a GTA source. The overall understanding of the GTA is that the hill people are not yet ready to welcome tourists for fear of Covid-19 spread. “Of late, the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the hills, even though not as exponentially as in the plains of Darjeeling district, and that is probably why the GTA is dragging its feet on taking a decision on tourism,” said a source. The GTA had come under tremendous public pressure after announcing that tourist sites under the hill body would start opening in a staggered manner from July 1. “It is a classic case of GTA being twice shy after being bitten once and it is clear that the hill body will not make a definite announcement in the coming days,” said a source. Tourism is the mainstay of hill economy with nearly 4 lakh tourists visiting the hills on an average annually. “The economy has been hit hard by the pandemic and tourism is one of the most sensitive sectors. The GTA is aware that many are employed in the sector but it also has to weigh public sentiments,” another source said. Sections among those involved with GTA have also tossed up the idea of opening up hill tourist sites only for residents of the GTA area. “Intra-GTA movement of tourists not exceeding 20 per cent of the total hotel capacity is something that can be discussed to build confidence and provide some income to hoteliers,” said a source. Many believe even residents of the GTA area want to move within the region for an outing provided hotels and homestays are open. “Locals might not oppose the overnight stay of people within the GTA area and this might be a small step ahead,” said the source. Tourism stakeholders had on Sunday pointed out that hill residents feared the arrival of tourists and hence decided to appeal to the GTA and the state government to take up the task of convincing them. “In any case even if the tourism sector opens up in the hills, one is not expecting hordes to arrive,” said a stakeholder. Unlike the hills, homestays and hotels have opened up in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to continue complete lockdown on certain days||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said Bengal would continue to observe complete lockdown on certain days at least till September 20. The chief minister announced three complete lockdown days on September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). The remaining full lockdown days in August are 27 (Thursday) and 31 (Monday). “I am declaring two to three dates when complete lockdown will be in place. The rest we will inform by September 20,” Mamata said. “As Covid cases are rising in different states, I feel that it will not be proper to withdraw the lockdown completely,” the chief minister said at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Mamata added: “Schools and colleges, which are closed these days, will remain closed till September 20. Status quo will be maintained in case of attendances in offices.” Government offices now operate with 50 per cent of their employees, and private enterprises are advised to encourage work from home wherever it is possible. Sources in the state secretariat said the government would review the situation across Bengal after September 17 and take a decision on whether further complete lockdown is needed in the rest of the month. The sources said a preliminary assessment of the complete lockdown being put in place in phases since July 23 suggested it had helped contain the spread of Covid to some extent. “On July 28, new Covid cases in Calcutta were 778. On August 25, it is 541. It is assumed that the strategy to impose complete lockdown has helped us contain the spread in Calcutta,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Life imprisonment for killing partner ||Udayan Das, who had murdered his live-in partner Akansha Sharma and buried the body in a marble-top tomb at his house in Bhopal three years ago, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a first track court in Bankura on Wednesday. Public prosecutor Arun Kumar Chatterjee said the judgment was pronounced on Wednesday but the court had convicted Udayan on Tuesday under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC for murdering Akansha, 28, in 2017. While he was being whisked away by police after the verdict, Udayan told news persons that he would move the high court against the judgment. Bankura girl Akansha, who was the daughter of the manager of a nationalised bank, had befriended Udayan, who lived in Bhopal, through a social media platform in 2016. Akansha went to Udayan’s home in Bhopal, but told her parents that she was in the US. It later emerged that Udayan had killed his parents following a tiff over his career in 2012 at Raipur in Chhattisgarh. Sources said three separate cases were pending against Udayan at a court in Raipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Trackless Toy Trains for north Bengal parks||The parks and gardens wing of the Bengal forest department has decided to introduce one trackless Toy Train each in three different parks of north Bengal. Anjan Guha, the divisional forest officer of the wing in the region, said the Toy Train service would be similar like the one introduced at the Bengal Safari Park located on the outskirts of Siliguri. “The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 1 crore. The service will come up at the parks in Malbazar town (Jalpaiguri district), Balurghat (South Dinajpur district) and at the N.N. Park in Cooch Behar town,” said Guha. “We have taken the task of cleaning and decorating all the parks and will come up with newer attractions like the trackless Toy Trains to pull visitors. So far, no decision has been taken on reopening the parks closed since March 17 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. According to sources in the department, nearly 39 lakh would be spent for the toy train project at N N Park while for Balurghat and Malbazar the department will spent 35 lakh and 30 lakh, respectively. The Toy Train, sources said, will run on battery or diesel engine, along with three coaches. Each coach, fitted with glass windows, will have a capacity of 25 to 30 passengers, along with CCTV cameras and alarms. “The Toy Train service introduced at the Bengal Safari Park has already earned popularity among the visitors. It would be new experience for people visiting these parks to take a trip in the train that will move through the entire park. But considering the current situation, we will allow only 10 to 12 passengers in a coach,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Plea to import raw jute from Bangladesh||Jute mill owners in Bengal have written to the Union government seeking permission to use raw jute imported from Bangladesh to manufacture bags they sell to central agencies. The unprecedented demand is the fallout of a dip in jute production in Bengal following Cyclone Amphan. “The industry will have to survive the effects of the cyclone this year. The yield has been adversely affected and will be lower by at least 20 per cent than what was estimated earlier. We have thus asked for this permission from the Centre so that we can meet the demand for jute bags,” a source at the Indian Jute Mills Association, a lobby group of mill owners, said. Mill owners in their letter — written on Tuesday and addressed to the secretary of Union ministry of textiles, Ravi Capoor — have said use of imported raw jute has become inevitable in the present situation. According to the letter, the IJMA had estimated a harvest of 75 lakh bales of raw jute this year. A bale is equivalent to around 180kg. But, post-Amphan, there has been a shortfall, which has also inflated the price of raw jute. On the other hand, mill owners are facing an all-time high demand for jute bags this year. Although no official estimate was available, a source at the office of Jute Commissioner said the demand may go up to 24 lakh bales of jute bags to pack food grains grown in the kharif season alone. “So, import is a must and we should be allowed to use the raw jute to make the bags that we supply to agencies like the Food Corporation of India,” said a source adding that the mill owners were expecting a favourable decision by the Centre. It has been mandated by the Jute Packaging Material Act that jute bags to be purchased by the Union government agencies for the packaging of food grains — rice, wheat and sugar — must be made of home-grown raw jute. The provision was intended to protect the interests of the farmers engaged with the jute cultivation. Hence, the mill owners’ plea to the Centre for permission to import jute from Bangladesh is unprecedented. Jute is mainly grown in India and Bangladesh. Abhijit Palit, the secretary of the Jute Balers Association, said use of imported raw jute for the manufacture of packaging bags would hurt the farmers. “The rate has gone a bit high towards Rs 5,300-5350 a quintal, which is normally not more than Rs 4,000 a quintal during normal times. This extra cash has proved to be useful for the farmer,” he said. Raghavendra Gupta, the chairman of the IJMA, however didn’t accept this logic. “This year, the farmers are already getting 12-13 per cent more than the minimum support price... Also, compared to the quality of jute being sold, the farmer is being well remunerated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Total deaths in Covid period low||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday furnished figures to substantiate her claim that despite Covid-19, Bengal had seen less deaths this year compared to 2019, suggesting that the extent and the effects of the pandemic were not alarming yet in the state. “I was trying to tell you this (yesterday). Last year, between April 1 and July 31, for all possible causes, total deaths in Bengal were 1,20,457. This year, also between April 1 and July 31, the total death toll of the state is 1,19,916. That is less, year-on-year, by 541…. This year’s figure includes the Covid-19 deaths,” the Bengal chief minister told a news conference at the state secretariat. Wednesday’s count of deaths from Covid-19 was 55, which took the toll to 2,964. Mamata was following up on her claim that deaths in Bengal had come down compared to 2019, while speaking of comorbid deaths getting recorded as Covid-19 deaths. As of Wednesday, 2,586 (87.2 per cent) of the total pandemic death toll was attributed to comorbidities by the state government. “There is this perception that many deaths are taking place because of Covid-19… this is what I was trying to say. Strokes, cancer, heart attacks, accidents… there are so many factors for death. We actually conducted a study to see if a lot of people are actually dying because of Covid-19,” said Mamata, who is also the health minister. The state’s mortality remained 2 per cent, while the national rate was 1.83. “Actually, those with comorbidities, only some of them are dying. Those with mild or no symptoms are getting well easily. Our recovery rate (79.75 per cent now) has been on the rise. We will have to ensure it keeps rising,” she added. Hours later, the health department’s daily Covid-19 bulletin reported yet another fall — deemed a significant positive — in the total active cases in the state, now 26,954. On Sunday, that total was 28,069. The state reported another 24-hour high in recoveries, at 3,314, which outweighed the 2,974 new cases. With 40,031 tests, the state managed to cross the 40,000 mark in daily testing, taking the total test count to over 16.74 lakh, at 18,601 tests per million. The turnaround for the five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly continued, as they logged a collective fall by 349 in their total active cases. “These five districts had 18,048 total active cases on August 9, after which the turnaround began. On Wednesday, they have a total of 15,529 active cases. Calcutta alone has improved from 7,041 to 5,526,” said a minister. Bengal reported 35 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.28 lakh till now, including 4,617 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata steals show at Sonia meeting||Mamata Banerjee was the cynosure of a meeting conducted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday to discuss a bunch of issues as the Bengal chief minister led from the front an attack on the Narendra Modi government. The 109-minute virtual meeting of some of the chief ministers of non-BJP parties seemed to be an early indicator of a platform taking shape for the anti-Sangh parivar forces to unite on. The meeting convened by Sonia, purportedly on the basis of an advice from Mamata, started out with issues at hand, such as the conduct of the JEE/NEET exams scheduled for next month. But it became a platform where non-BJP parties rolled out their pet peeves vis-a-vis the Modi regime. “The situation is very, very serious... If they want to arrest us, let them. We have to speak for the people,” said the Bengal chief minister, the first to speak after Sonia. “If we want to say something, then, of course, there are so many agencies. They will surround us. Let them…. I have not seen in a democracy these types of atrocities. Lots and lots of money being spent on speaking against us, from Facebook to fake news, everywhere… to damage the Opposition. They don’t care,” she added. Although the Trinamul Congress chief was to leave after her speech to attend a state cabinet meeting and later a government event, she stayed till the very end. Urged by Sonia, Mamata took over the reins and conducted most of the exercise, which included Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and his Jharkhand counterpart and senior Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader Hemant Soren. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh of Punjab, Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and V. Narayanaswamy of Puducherry were also present. All of them virtually echoed each other on the core issues, mainly the problem areas being faced by the state governments being run by non-BJP forces in the country. Mamata started with the JEE/NEET issue, taking it up in the public domain for the third consecutive day. Then, she moved to other issues like non-payment of GST dues to Bengal, alleged attacks on cooperative federalism, the bulldozing of non-BJP state governments and the “atmosphere of fear” in the country. “Every meeting (with Prime Minister Narendra Modi), I raise these issues. Where will states get money? Our taxes we give to the Centre. The Planning Commission no longer exists. Nobody is there to talk to,” she said, reiterating the Centre’s dues to the state to the tune of Rs 53,000 crore. Mamata said never before had she seen a Centre behave the way the Modi government did. “All central schemes, states will have to give half the funds. But the names of the schemes, they will decide and they will impose. We will have to share all data with them so that they can send letters to every individual, saying your state government is doing faltoo (rubbish) work, only the BJP is working, nobody else. This horror is going on,” she said. Later, in response to a question from this newspaper on whether the meeting was the start of a new formation, Mamata said: “It was an issue-based meeting…. This unbearable situation, some have to speak out. Today, these chief ministers spoke in one voice.” Mamata said there was a limit to intimidation and the people could no longer be kept back with fear. “Democracy will survive if all the democratic systems survive. If its pillars are destroyed, bulldozed, then a states-versus-Centre conflict is inevitable, which will not be good for the nation. We don’t want it. We want a united, inclusive India, abiding by the Constitution and its processes. That is what everyone agreed on,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Teachers: VC curbed freedom at Visva-Bharati||Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association has sent a letter to vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, accusing him of lacking focus in academics and curtailing democratic environment on the campus while he extolled the virtues of freedom by quoting from Rabindranath Tagore’s poems. Coming in the midst of the ongoing controversy over building of a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground, the teachers’ body has highlighted in its letter how Chakrabarty’s role was detrimental to running the institution that Tagore had set up in keeping with his vision of education.  They have urged the VC to get back his focus on academic activities. In the past two months, Chakrabarty has written nine letters that ran into 56 pages and shared those in the public domain. Going beyond the nine letters, the VC had on August 22 issued a “special missive” that sparked off a controversy for describing Tagore as an “outsider” to Santiniketan. Referring to the gag order on Visva-Bharati employees, including teachers, the association flayed the VC for quoting Tagore’s famous lines — “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high” — in his last of the nine missives issued on August 15. “While teachers and staff are not allowed to air their opinion in the public domain, the VC indulges in double standards by referring to the poem where Tagore urges his countrymen to realise the need to live in a free country,” a teacher said. The letter holds Chakrabarty responsible for the flaws that had crept into the Visva-Bharati system and led the varsity to lag behind other central universities. Firing its salvo at the VC, the teachers’ association criticised him for lowering the morale of Visva-Bharati stakeholders by blaming them for the deterioration of the institution. The teachers condemned the VC’s for repeatedly referring to the varsity as the proverbial “goose that lays the golden eggs”. The teachers’ body claimed the reference was deeply demeaning to the entire Visva-Bharati community. The teachers’ association has marked the letters to several dignitaries including Prime Minister and varsity Chancellor Narendra Modi, President and varsity Visitor Ram Nath Kovind and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The letter states: “In the missives as well as on several other occasions you have publicly made extremely derogatory statements about the faculty members.” In a sharp criticism, the association describes the missives “...as an audit inspector’s report of a commercial company, not the prognosis and developmental agenda of the Vice-Chancellor of Visva-Bharati. We strongly object to such factually incorrect, grossly generalized, disparaging and deeply demotivating remarks”. The teachers “politely” reminded the VC that the institution did not require “sanctimonious reformers... We need leaders – firm, sympathetic, just and with vision”. Pointing to the undemocratic environment on the campus, the letter stated that the “faculty members, other employees, and students, who don’t even have any elected representation in the administration, or have little role to play in policy making and administration, kept bearing the brunt of the aggressive reformist agendas”. The letter said that VC’s repeated idea of “Visva-Bharati parivar” was antithetical to Tagore, who in his writings had deplored the concept of parivar (family) as he felt it was often “synonymous with paternalism and a tool for suppression of dissenting views”. The teachers urged Chakrabarty to initiate a serious campus-wide discussion for academic rejuvenation and development of Visva-Bharati before formulating the course of action. The teachers’ body has implored the VC to believe in the leadership as Tagore had envisioned and expressed in the most consummate manner in his song: “We are all kings in the kingdom of our kings”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Jio gets Bengal nod to build cable landing station at Digha||The Bengal cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal by Reliance Jio to set up a cable landing station in Digha at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. The project, once implemented, will create the necessary global connectivity in Bengal and the neighbouring states, which will give a big boost to business activities. “Reliance Jio had sent a proposal for a cable landing station in Digha and the cabinet cleared it today. It would invest a sum of Rs 1,000 crore. The infrastructure would generate employment opportunities in the state,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources aware of the development said the cable landing station would connect Bengal to the data superhighway of the world and may provide a big boost to the IT & ITeS sector of the state . In this instance, the submarine cable will connect Bengal with Singapore. “Jio is likely to get a 1.5-acre plot from the state at the market rate to set up the station at Digha,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said public sector telecom major BSNL had earlier proposed to set up a cable landing station in Digha in 2011. “But the project is currently gathering dust as the BSNL is not in the right position financially to carry forward the project. The proposal from Reliance Jio looked viable,” said a senior government official. According to him, over 15 such cables coming to Indian shores make landfall in India’s financial capital, Mumbai, or in the southern region, which accounts for bulk of IT sector. “This will be the first in eastern India,” he said. The submarine cables and their connections to terrestrial networks enable real-time access to business and consumer applications, social media, streaming video, websites, and many other bandwidth-intensive services. Tech companies planning to build data centres will be the beneficiaries of this important telecom infrastructure. “Reliance Jio is also set to build a data centre in Rajarhat where it has taken 40 acres of land from the state under Silicon Valley project,” said a source. Reliance Jio has two such cable landing stations in Chennai and Mumbai and if the proposal takes a shape, Digha would be their third such facility, the source added. “There are five places in the country — Mumbai, Chennai, Cochin, Thiruvananthapuram and Tuticorin — where sub-sea cables land at multiple cable landing stations set up by some of the major telecom players. If it comes up in Digha, it would be the first such station in eastern India. This will definitely help draw investments as connectivity will improve leaps and bounds,” said a source. The chief minister also said the state government had decided to develop the deep sea port in Tajpur on its own. “The cabinet has cleared the proposal that we will develop the deep sea port in Tajpur. The policy decision was ratified by the cabinet today and the rest, like who will be the partner, will be decided later on,” said Mamata. Earlier, the state government had given 74 per cent stake to the Centre to develop the Tajpur port in 2017. But the state had decided to develop the port on its own last year, saying the Centre was delaying the project unnecessarily. Sources said the decisions had been taken at the cabinet as Mamata was laying stress on creating job opportunities in the state ahead of the Assembly polls. She said the state was trying to start mining at Deocha Panchami in Birbhum as early as possible. “The chief minister is laying stress on these projects as these are capable of generating employment opportunities. This is what the ruling party is focusing ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls,” said an official. She said her government had given employment to nearly 5.6 lakh out of 10 lakh migrant workers who had to return during the lockdown through 100 days’ job scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Fee anxiety for trafficking survivor||Parul (name changed), 18, a resident of Kakdwip in the Sundarbans, wants to work in the IT industry as an accountant. She is enrolled in a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) programme at a private management institute. A survivor of trafficking, Parul has fought through trauma and hardship to be here. But the lockdown has left the future she has been dreaming for herself looking elusive again. Parul was rescued in December 2018, three months after she had been trafficked to Gurgaon for prostitution. She had been 16, and a Class XII student. Parul was glad to be back home: she has a loving family and had been rescued without much time having been lost. Her neighbours welcomed her back warmly. “I never faced any stigma or negative reaction,” Parul says. Yet she could not escape the deep trauma that victims of trafficking almost invariably experience. She could not sleep at night. She often vomited blood, which requires immediate treatment. She was being counselled. But she still dreamt about her future. When she was finally through with the official processes and treatments after her rescue, only about a week remained for the 2019 higher secondary examination of the West Bengal board. She took it and passed with 56 per cent marks. That was a great boost for Parul and her family. “Especially for my father, who did not go to school,” Parul said. Her father, a mason, had always supported her studies. He had sent Parul away as a child to stay at a relative’s place so that her education could continue unhampered. Now he saw to it that Parul enrolled herself — at a cost he could barely afford — in the residential BBA programme at an institute in another district. It was an exceptional step. Very few survivors of trafficking can go back to school, mostly because of adverse circumstances. A minuscule proportion takes up higher education, which tends to be expensive and requires financial support from the family. Parul is grateful to the NGO Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra (GGBK) for the steady support it has offered. She enrolled in the BBA course in August last year. “We had to pay Rs 43,500 at the time,” Parul said, “which my father had to borrow.” He did so willingly. In June, however, Parul’s father had to borrow heavily again after the institute set a deadline for the payment of all dues. Now the financial stress on the family was becoming unbearable: Parul feared that the cost of her education was plunging her father into spiralling debt. “In June, we had to pay Rs 26,500 to the institute, otherwise I would not be allowed to continue in the programme,” Parul said. The outstanding fees were meant to be paid in January. But the first semester was running slow; it was understood that the fees could be paid later, Parul said. “But suddenly the lockdown was imposed, and everything stopped. Then (Cyclone) Amphan came.” Then, in a notice dated June 9, and with the subject line “Final call to submit semester fees”, the institute informed the students that all outstanding fees must be paid by June 17. “We are in dilemma that some of you may not be interested to continue the course, so we are requesting you to confirm if you are continuing the course or not so that we can take further action,” the notice said. Verbally, the students were told they had to pay the fees or pull out. “Despite several attempts, I could not speak to anyone who could help me,” Parul said. Her father had stopped earning after the lockdown. Amphan had not destroyed their home but had damaged parts of it. “It’s true that every organisation faced a financial crisis during the lockdown. But the institute could have been kinder,” said Parul, who lives with her parents and two younger siblings. “Some students comefrom business families, but many are from families like mine.” Her father borrowed the Rs 26,500. “I don’t know from where,” Parul said. They then had to get a demand draft ready, which was difficult enough because of the lockdown. For some technical reason, it was not accepted. So it had to be cashed again and the money was paid through Google Pay, a process that too posed difficulties because of erratic connectivity. “My assignments were accepted only then,” Parul said. She does not know how long she can continue amid such difficulties. Namita (name changed), 21, a Class XII student from another Kakdwip village, too is a survivor of trafficking. She had returned home and resumed her studies in 2016, with support from her family and GGBK activists. She is as concerned as Parul about her future and her father’s increasing debt. Her father, a small farmer who also owns a paaner baraj (betel grove) and a modest poultry farm, can barely afford her education. “Everything has stopped now. Amphan destroyed our house and the paaner baraj. And in the days that followed, all the chickens were stolen. Now we have nothing,” Namita said. “My father is borrowing money from everywhere.” Namita would like to become an activist one day, just to help girls like her, she says. The lockdown and the impact of Amphan are affecting the girls’ lives in the severest ways, said Nihar Ranjan Raptan, GGBK founder secretary. The organisation works to empower the survivors of trafficking in Kakdwip, Namkhana, Canning, Diamond Harbour and Baruipur in south Bengal and some areas of north Bengal. “The Kakdwip and Gosaba areas in the Sundarbans have traditionally been advanced academically,” Raptan said. It’s a pity that Parul and Namita are facing this hopelessness, especially because of how they had to struggle, he said. “Only about 10 per cent of trafficking survivors go back to school.” A fraction of that go on to enrol for higher studies. Parul’s situation raises the question whether higher professional training is reserved for the elite, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||North East||Artistes united by CAA, divided by politics||The movement against the Citizenship Amendment Act had united the artistes of Assam last year but the upcoming Assembly polls has divided the fraternity in two halves, which seems to be evident from the two induction functions held by the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress here on Tuesday. While 39 artistes joined the Congress, which is opposed to the CAA, 30 others embraced the BJP, whose government at the Centre brought the law into force. Indications are that more such inductions will be effected by both parties in the run-up to the polls next year. BJP had inducted a few more artistes last week. Most of those who joined either the BJP or the Congress were an integral part of the anti-CAA movement in the state. Now they will be taking diametrically opposing positions on the CAA which is likely to be the main issue in the state polls. Leading the artistes to the Opposition camp were popular singer Babu Baruah and lyricist Ajoy Phukan as this group from the entertainment industry is convinced that the Congress was consistent in its stand against the CAA, according to Imdad Hussain, AICC member and Assam Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson. The artistes were inducted in the Congress by PCC president Ripun Bora. “They believe in the party’s secular and inclusive ideology. They were also convinced that only the Congress can fight the legislation in Parliament. More artistes will join the party and they will take the Congress’s anti-CAA and other pro-people messages to the people before the Assembly polls next year,” Hussain told The Telegraph. The Citizenship Amendment Act, which provides citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan entering the country till December 2014, came into effect on January 10 this year. Those opposed to the CAA assert that it is a threat to Assam’s identity and culture while those in its favour dismiss the contention. Protests are still being held across the Brahmaputra Valley even now. Besides Bora, several senior leaders including AICC joint secretary Sanjay Choudhary, Sarat Borkotoky and Bhumidhar Barman were present during the induction function, the highlight of which was the launch was a catchy song by Babu, CAA nemanu (We won’t accept CAA). At around the same time, 30 artistes, comprising popular singer Simanta Shekhar and flautist Dipak Sarma, joined the BJP. They were welcomed by state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, who said the BJP has already scaled up the number of seats it would win — from 84 in 2016 to 100 in the 2021 Assembly polls. Assam has 126 seats. Shekhar, who had composed the BJP’s popular campaign song Akou ebaar Modi sarkar (Once more, Modi government) for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and was also a leading face of the anti-CAA protests, said the BJP will form the government once again. State BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said the artistes  joined the ruling party because they have seen that “lakhs and lakhs of illegal migrants” have not entered Assam because of the legislation as was claimed by the anti-CAA brigade. “Moreover, they have faith in the BJP, our Prime Minister and our chief minister (Sarbananda Sonowal) and the development work they are doing,” Goswami said, adding the artistes met the chief minister after the induction function. Though both the Congress and BJP were happy with the developments ahead of the polls, social media and TV debates were mostly critical of the artistes, most questioning their conduct. A panellist said there was nothing wrong in them joining any party but they should desist from playing with the emotions of the common people who believe in what they see and hear. Others said that the upcoming polls have “unmasked” the artistes and their political preferences. The CAA has remained an emotive issue in Assam since 2018. There was lot of criticism when popular singer Zubeen Garg, the leading face of the anti-CAA movement in Assam, when he was earlier this month asked to become the brand ambassador of the state agriculture department. He has not yet accepted the offer but has been keeping a low profile since. Popular actor Jatin Bora, who had resigned from the BJP during the anti-CAA movement, and rejoined the party recently was criticised and trolled for “letting the people down”. Paresh Malakar, general secretary, Axom Nagarik Samaj, said the developments would not make any impact on politics at the grassroots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
27-08-2020||North East||Snag stalls ropeway 2 days after launch||The services of the 1.8-km-long Guwahati-North Guwahati river ropeway over the Brahmaputra was suspended on Wednesday, two days after it was commissioned with the objective of boosting tourism and reducing travel time between the two banks. Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) sources attributed the suspension of the services of India’s longest river ropeway to an electrical problem triggered by voltage fluctuation. Those in charge of its maintenance said it was a “small issue which they were trying to resolve at the earliest”. Another source said that as most machine parts are from Switzerland, it may take some time if the malfunctioning parts were to be replaced. “Our technical team is working on it,” he  said. Before services came to a standstill on Wednesday, over 480 commuters had travelled from the south bank to the north and 165 from the north to the south on Tuesday. “We made 37 trips from one end, starting at 8.20am and finising at 5.40pm on August 25,” a GMDA source said. The ropeway has two cabins and each cabin has the capacity to ferry 32 people, including the operators. It can ferry 250 persons an hour, with the one-way fare fixed at Rs 60 and two-way at Rs 100. However, only 15 passengers could avail of the ride one way because of the pandemic-triggered social distancing norms. It takes around 8 minutes to cross the river. Costing over Rs 56 crore, the bi-cable ropeway has been constructed by Samir Damodar Ropeways, a joint venture company between Damodar Ropeways and G.L. Construction, under the supervision of the GMDA. Gangloff Cabin, Switzerland, is the cabin designer and supplier while the carriage and rescue system is by Garaventa AG, Switzerland. Garaventa AG also issued the safety certificate. The joint venture company is in charge of operation and maintenance while the GMDA looks after ticketing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
27-08-2020||Opinion||Urgent need: Congress leadership turmoil||Sir — The nature of discussions at the much-awaited meeting of the Congress working committee last Monday that took place against the backdrop of an unusual letter of discontent — 23 senior leaders had written to the interim Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi, pointing to an internal churn and an urgent need for reconstruction — further proved that the party is far from resolving its leadership crisis (“After fight, hunt for leader”, Aug 25). Although it was finally decided that a session of the All India Congress Committee would be called within the next six months to elect a new party president, the CWC also chose to debate the intention of the letter writers and its timing. The Congress, which is facing an unprecedented internal crisis, must not alienate its well-wishers. It should also hasten the process of selecting a new party chief if it hopes to salvage its position in contemporary Indian politics. The Congress needs to restructure itself at the earliest and, once again, prove its commitment to the people of the nation. It is only then that the party can hope to counter the political and ideological onslaught of the majoritarian Bharatiya Janata Party. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The rumblings of discontent within the Congress must be looked at in conjunction with the overall political situation of the country. One must understand that the turmoil within the Congress is part of a larger political problem that has engulfed the country. The popularity of the Grand Old Party has waned in recent years with the BJP dominating Indian politics. A rightward shift in voting patterns is not unique to India. Several countries around the world are facing a crisis of democracy. While the Gandhi family has been steadfast in opposing the assault of Hindutva on the secular fabric of the nation, it is time to assess its capability to guide the party in this trying situation. It is thus not surprising that over two dozen Congress leaders chose to write a letter to Sonia Gandhi and express their grievances. However, the leak of the private letter to the press is unfortunate. This might further embolden the BJP to take advantage of the problems within the party. A change in leadership or a systemic overhaul of the Congress might not be enough at this point to fight the battle against the forces of Hindutva. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the Grand Old Party has now become a sinking ship. The lack of sincere effort on the part of senior Congress leaders to revive the party after two successive defeats at the general elections is cause for concern. Not only that, but several state governments, too, seem to have slipped out of their hands. Many had hoped that there would be an organizational reshuffling within the Congress but, so far, this has not come to fruition. The Congress should pay heed to the grievances of its party members. It is time for a massive overhaul in the structure of the party and its leadership. The Congress needs to be better prepared for the next general elections scheduled to be held in 2024. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — When we heard that 23 senior leaders — this included former Union cabinet ministers, sitting members of parliament and former chief ministers — had written to the interim party chief, Sonia Gandhi, asking for sweeping organizational reforms within the Congress, it had seemed that the time for change had finally arrived. Unfortunately, however, it is reported that the actions of the dissenting leaders were questioned. It was shocking to learn that the signatories to the letter were put on the spot instead of having the issues they raised discussed. A strong Opposition is crucial for the functioning of a healthy democracy. The Congress leadership in Parliament, unfortunately, has been unable to provide that for a while. In the meantime, strong regional parties seem to be taking up the mantle of the Opposition in their bid to keep the spirit of democracy alive. Bal Govind,Noida Historic step Sir — In a welcome move, the British Museum has removed a bust of its founding father, Sir Hans Sloane, in an effort to confront its own links to colonialism. Sloane — his artefacts became the starting point of the museum — partly funded his collection from the output of enslaved labour on Jamaican sugar plantations. While it is encouraging that the demands by civil society organizations for reparations are finally being heard, it is unfortunate that it took so long. Other institutions must follow suit and rectify the historical wrongs that continue to plague formerly colonized communities. Paramita Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Family matters: Congress leadership storm||Differences, the interim president of the Congress concluded after a stormy meeting of its working committee, are natural in a large family. But the Congress’s problems seem to stem from the reservations that some members of the parivar have against the First Family. The simmering rancour was brought out in the open when 23 senior Congress functionaries wrote a letter — it got leaked mysteriously —  to Sonia Gandhi, seeking to redress, what these leaders believed, are festering problems. Among them were the question of party presidentship that remains unresolved, the Congress’s failure to politically exploit the gaffes of the Narendra Modi regime and — quite significantly — a push for collective decision-making. Some of the issues raised by the ‘dissenters’ merit concern. Yet, the other argument is that this may well be a barely-camouflaged attempt on the part of the Old Guard to retain its turf. Such conjecture is not unwarranted. The Congress has a long history of clashes between the Gandhis and entrenched interests. There is, however, another point that need not be missed. Notwithstanding their expertise in several vocations, many of these senior leaders lack a solid political base. They are entirely dependent on the party and its organization to remain politically relevant. Their demand for democratizing decision-making is, thus, a bit rich. Such a demand would perhaps suit those with a formidable following among the people. Not many among the Old Guard can lay claim on such public endorsement. Ms Gandhi’s gracious response may have averted a crisis — at least for now. But the Congress’s revival remains unclear. Schisms and ambition — the malaise of putting self above the party — have weakened the Congress’s roots not only among the cadre but also the people. Its diminishing political footprint bears evidence of this corrosion. Perhaps the cure lies in a harmonious coalescing of leaders, young and old, around its most acceptable face — a Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Long shadow: Post-moratorium debt restructuring||The moratorium on loans to businesses and retail borrowers in financial stress after the outbreak of the pandemic draws to a close by the end of the month. With still no indication of when the crisis will blow over, the policymakers at the Reserve Bank of India have thrown open a new window for debt resolution that ostensibly gives banks the sole discretion to pick borrowers who will be granted a longer runway to pay back their loans. The broad idea that underpins the proposed debt restructuring programme is to ensure that firms, with an otherwise good track record under the existing management, do not get pitchforked into a crisis that could unnecessarily jeopardize the recovery process. The governor, Shaktikanta Das, has said that banks can start the process of sifting through their databases to identify the firms and individuals who will qualify under the new dispensation. The policymakers had formed a committee under the eminent banker, K.V. Kamath, to suggest a set of financial parameters that should be factored into resolution plans. Banks have been asked to adopt a board resolution relating to the new debt recast programme and start implementing it without waiting for the Kamath Committee report or the central bank notification, which is expected by September 6. But niggling doubts remain. Public sector banks, which, empirical evidence shows, usually have the largest exposures to stressed borrowers, have never really been completely free from interference while taking commercial decisions. The process does provide for an inter-creditor agreement among lenders before signing off on a resolution plan. But the fidelity of collective decision-making can be subverted. In order to invoke a resolution plan, only 75 per cent of the lenders by value of the outstanding credit and representing just 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number need to agree. Cherry picking of borrowers —  they will get the benefit of an extended two-year runway to resolution with the added advantage of a debt moratorium of up to 12 months — could undermine the integrity of the process with the enormous risk of a pile up of bad loans in the end. Until the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was adopted, the banks had a variety of debt resolution mechanisms in place. Many of them did not work but there were no real infirmities in the procedures. The problem was with the enforcement of the guiding principles. The system will work only if there is no government interference in banking decisions. This harks back to the wisdom of the good governance practices suggested by the P.J. Nayak Committee in its May 2014 report. The panel had suggested that the government should cease to issue any instructions to banks under the guise of development objectives. Perhaps it is time to introduce that major structural reform first to witness real success on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||The environment in a new light||On March 23, 2020, the Centre issued the draft Environment Impact Assessment notification 2020 and invited anyone interested to make objections or suggestions within 60 days. The time period was later extended until August 11 on court orders. The draft notification, allegedly diluting several EIA provisions, generated considerable interest and reaction. At one point, the Delhi Police cited the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to block websites campaigning against the draft EIA notification. Public uproar led the Delhi Police to issue a puerile clarification that the UAPA had been cited inadvertently. Was the earlier EIA notification of 2006 serving us well that any dilution would result in environmental crises? The State of Environment Report India 2009 states that 47 per cent of the land is degraded and air quality is an issue of concern. India leads the world in premature deaths due to outdoor and indoor air pollution. On water, the report had this to say: “Erosion in the watersheds due to rapid development and poor land management practices is increasing siltation and changing stream hydraulics. Groundwater reserves are becoming more and more depleted even as surface water sources become too polluted for human use.” Further, it has been estimated that at least 10 per cent of the country’s recorded wild flora and fauna are on the threatened list and many are on the verge of extinction. We are already in an environmental crisis. Instead of tweaking EIA norms, perhaps we need to revisit and reset our relationship with the environment. In popular parlance, the environment, to some, is simply ‘nature’ or wilderness while others include human elements such as agricultural and pastoral landscapes or even urban areas. That the ‘environment’ exists in some kind of relation to humans underlies the various perceptions. However, when I think of the environment, two images come to my mind; one is by the Voyager 1 space probe when it was six billion kilometres away from earth; and the other by the photographer, Jonathan Clark. Voyager 1 captured a speck of dust in a sunbeam, while Clark photographed an open-air crematorium by the Ganges. Viewed from a distance of six billion kilometres, the dark vastness of space, the sunbeam, and the speck of dust comprise our environment where we all live; every human being has lived out his/her life within it. A closer look at the environment reveals three different worlds interacting among and within themselves; the physical world with its objects and processes, the living world full of living things and life processes, and the built world comprising our beliefs, the intangible and tangible things we build, and our actions guided by our beliefs and the things we create. Clark’s photograph captures all of these in a single frame; the physical objects and processes in the form of a flowing river sanctified by a belief system; humans, dead and alive, representing the living world and life processes, and the built world of created objects and a faith. This is not how environment is usually perceived. If environment education across levels persists with the perception of the environment comprising the atmosphere, the hydrosphere, the lithosphere and the biosphere and the processes and the interactions therein, then no amount of environmental regulation will get us out of the environmental crisis humanity is faced with. Higher-level environment education is broadly categorized as environmental science and environmental management. The term, ‘environmental science’, refers to a grouping of scientific disciplines that are all concerned with the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of the surroundings in which organisms live, the two main sub-groups being the life sciences and the earth sciences. Environmental management is concerned with the understanding of the structure and function of the earth system, monitoring environmental changes, predicting future changes. It attempts to maximize human benefit and minimize environmental degradation. It is about decision-making in relation to the use of natural resources, degradation of habitats, and the modification of ecosystems but not the belief systems that make humans act as they do. If environmental education still does not take into account the built world consisting of our beliefs, the intangible and tangible things we build, and our actions, particularly when human action is causing planetary-scale changes, how are we to extricate ourselves from the multiple crises? Environment education must instil that environment is where we all live and all that we do to improve our well-being within that abode. Environmental recklessness has cost implications for everyone. Environment education has to create a new cadre of citizens and professionals who view the environment holistically, recognizing that human actions and inactions have consequences, as in insurance schemes. If an insured individual behaves recklessly leading to loss and/or damage only to her/him, the cost of insurance goes up not only for the reckless individual but also for every other insured individual under the same scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Time to marry||In late June, a 15-year-old girl from East Midnapore in West Bengal alerted a non-governmental organization about her impending marriage. It had been arranged by her father who had lost his income because of the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the Covid-19 infection. She was saved in the nick of time, but organizations working to prevent minor marriages now have their hands full. Their experience suggests that for every foiled marriage, more go unreported. The Calcutta High Court noted the “alarming rise” in child marriages in the state during the pandemic. Sudden impoverishment because of the lockdown combined with the ravages wrought by Amphan has rendered a huge segment of West Bengal’s population deeply insecure, particularly in villages. In this atmosphere of desperate need, men who offer to marry young girls without dowry or even offer large sums of money to the family — the high court suggested that some of the marriages were disguised child trafficking — are too tempting to refuse. Although Amphan added to Bengal’s difficulties, it is not there alone that child marriages have risen. In April, the relevant authorities in Karnataka reported having stopped 118 such marriages, Telangana reported 204 cases in three months, Andhra Pradesh stopped 165 between March 25 and May 11, and by the end of June, the Centre reported having intervened in 5,584 minor marriages. The list could go on, with the reminder that these are just the known numbers. It is not as though child marriages occur only when unexpected drops in income and insecurities of livelihood drive parents to marry off their daughters for gain or relief or in the hope that the girl will find a better life. The updated version of the law against the marriage of women before they are 18 and men before they are 21, the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, has not succeeded in wiping out the practice, even with penalties for the adults concerned. Although monitoring by local administrations is now sharper in many districts, and much has been done, too, in terms of raising awareness — girls themselves sometimes complain to NGOs and local authorities when untimely marriages threaten them or their friends — child brides and, in some regions, child grooms have not disappeared. There is often a peculiar disconnect between laws and the practicalities of their implementation, most evident in the case of laws meant for the protection and progress of women. For example, researchers predict that the failure of the ban on prenatal sex disclosure to stop female foeticide will lead to a daily loss of 1,200 female foetuses for the next 10 years. This cannot be put down to economic strain alone — girls mean dowry, not income — but an attitude shared by all levels of society. Dowry has not been eradicated either, trapping women in a kind of cyclical devaluation. Lawmaking cannot be sterilized of social attitudes. So it is not merely a question of panchayats looking the other way when children are married off, but oddities in the laws also that continue to cause problems. Child marriage may be forbidden, but once the marriage is over, it cannot be annulled unless one of the partners or a relative asks for annulment. Being illegal does not make them void. Allied laws, such as those regarding age of consent, intercourse with minor wives, or the interpretations of the laws by different courts, apart from personal laws regarding age of marriage, together seem quite bewildering. What such confusing legislations represent is a casual sense of duty done and dusted, not a dynamic engagement with society’s desire to keep women in their place as useful vessels subject to oppressive social mores and religious rituals. Yet the 2006 law had seen some success. The National Family Health Survey of 2015-16 showed a steady decrease in minor marriage in all states except Himachal Pradesh and Manipur, an advance that has now been endangered by the pandemic. The same survey indicated that the better off a girl’s family, the later she was likely to marry. More important, it established a link between education and age of marriage, showing that a girl who had 12 years of schooling would marry later. The Right to Education Act, 2009, contributed to the decrease in minor marriage by making schooling free and compulsory till 14 years, just as midday meals play their part in keeping youngsters in school. In a society as unequal as India’s, the role of education in delaying marriage is of greatest importance in view of the prime minister’s announcement that the government is considering the upward revision of women’s age of marriage to 21. This would, presumably, be another blow to child marriage and also create gender parity. As a progressive measure, such rumination is welcome, especially as the government’s discussions would depend on a task force’s findings on maternal and infant mortality rates, age of motherhood and so on. The prime minister expects that being more educated at 21 than at 18, girls would be empowered to make marital and reproductive choices. That is an excellent outlook, but the question is, how is that education to be achieved? In 2018, the ministry of human resource development reported that 62.1 million children were out of school in spite of the RTE. Since for better reproductive health and a non-coercive married life, women need educated partners, this figure seems ominous. The Annual Status of Education Report, 2017 found that although the gender disparity in enrolment figures at 14 has declined, at 18, when the RTE no longer operates, 32 per cent of girls are not enrolled, compared to 28 per cent boys. In early 2018, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights reported that 39.4 per cent of girls between 15 and 18 are not in school or college. More, the NFHS data on the education of women between 15 and 49 show that 42 per cent of girls from scheduled tribes and 33 per cent from scheduled castes have received no schooling. Completing more than 12 years of education is limited to 10 per cent of scheduled tribes and 15 per cent of scheduled caste women. The importance of education and the presence of schools that surround a girl with teachers and companions is best exemplified in the way girls take their help when a marriage is being forced on them. With schools closed during the pandemic, they have become vulnerable to family pressure. For girls out of school in normal times, household chores, care of siblings, paid domestic work call them away, just as distant schools and the lack of sanitary facilities discourage continued attendance. Early marriage is as often the result as the cause of dropping out. Fixing the legal age of marriage for women in a country as socio-economically unequal as India cannot be a simple matter. It has to be accompanied by investment in educational institutions and training facilities which would be accessible to, and practicable for, girls from every corner of the country. Women can study up to 18 only if it is possible for them, and given the aptitude of Indian girls, it would solve many of the present social and economic problems. Punishing families for the early marriage of their daughters can hardly be a deterrent in the face of economic need, fears for sexually vulnerable girls out of school and persistent prejudice against inter-caste and inter-community marriages. A law, however welcome, cannot in itself be the display of a progressive mindset. Neither is it a magic wand. It will work only if the government is willing to pay attention to the foundations first.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two herders die in swollen river||Two persons have died after being swept away by a river in Huntergunj block of Hazaribagh district. The duo, part of a group of 10 herders from Bela and neighbouring Kobana, had crossed the rain-fed Nilanjana river with their cattle like any other day when the water level began to rise and they got stuck. Locals launched a rescue mission without success. A team of 20 divers brought in from Barhi managed to save eight of the herders. Manoj slipped in the gushing water and soon disappeared while the rescue operation was on. Kaliya Devi, 65, also drowned while crossing the river. The dead bodies were sent for post-mortem to the Chatra Sadar hospital. A constable in Ramgarh district was arrested for allegedly raping an assistant sub-inspector after promising marriage. The officer and constable were posted in Mandu. The accused, Meraz Ansari, was a computer operator at the police station. He was training the officer on creating a database of cases in the area. He took her into confidence and promised her marriage. They were in a relationship for six months, and the woman had also undergone abortion. Later, Ansari was transferred to the Ramgarh police station. In the meantime, he married another woman. The accused has been arrested. The Mandu police station officer in charge has been suspended in connection with this case. The BJP has protested the decision of the JMM government to establish a law college in place of an engineering institute at Ghodabadi in Chandankyari block. The engineering college was planned by the erstwhile BJP government which had sanctioned Rs 13 crore and allotted 20 acres for the project. “The engineering college was approved at a cabinet meeting in March 2019. The detailed project report was accepted soon after and 20 acres allotted. Rs 13 crore was sanctioned and the work order placed. And now, when we were waiting for the foundation ceremony, the JMM government converted the project into a law college,” said Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri during a news conference. “How can the government justify this?” Bauri has gone to Ranchi seeking an appointment with governor Draupadi Murmu to discuss the matter. He said: “I will die, but not give up on the engineering college project. If the government does not relent, we will launch a massive agitation.” JMM city president Mantu Yadav justified his party’s stance. He said: “It was the Bokaro MLA who had sent a letter urging the change. Former Bermo MLA Jogeshwar Mahato Batul supported him a year ago. The BJP MLAs are not concerned about the engineering college, but are using it as an issue to gain the votes of youths.” Residents of Chandankyari, which is witnessing rapid industrialisation, are disappointed that an engineering college will not come up in the area. A team of Dhanbad officials led by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Thursday carried out a surprise inspection of the interstate border with Bengal at Maithon and Chirkunda and gave instructions to policemen to not allow anybody to enter Jharkhand without a valid pass. He said a medical team will be deputed at the border from Saturday to conduct Covid-19 testing of everyone entering the state. The syndicate meeting of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, Dhanbad, held on Thursday approved the decision to carry out major changes in the syllabuses of both undergraduate and postgraduate courses of the varsity. Significant changes have been carried out in the course curriculum of Semesters V and VI of the undergraduate course (BA/BSc/BCom) and Semesters III and IV of the postgraduate course. The meeting, led by vice-chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava, also approved the decision to soon publicise the new syllabus through the heads of 28 departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Congress, JMM plan major offensive against Centre over JEE and NEET||The Congress and the JMM, coalition partners in the ruling dispensation, are planning the launch of a major offensive against the Centre’s decision to go ahead with JEE and NEET scheduled next month. On Friday, the Jharkhand Congress unit will hold statewide protests outside Union government establishments to press for the postponement of the exams in wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, including in the state. JMM, on the other hand, said that it too was strongly backing calls for postponing the exams. Jharkhand Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said: “All our units will stage demonstrations while maintaining social distancing outside Government of India entities to make our voices heard. The Centre’s indifference towards the safety of students and the public must end.” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee at a news conference accused the Narendra Modi government of being unconcerned about the growing clamour for postponement of the exams as it involved the aam aadmi. “The Modi government is only concerned about corporates. Since only students belonging to the lower, middle and upper middle classes take the competitive tests, the Union government isn’t concerned about their safety,” said Bhattacharjee. He added: “When Covid-19 cases were touching the 10,000 mark per day nationally, the Union government postponed the exams twice but when the caseload is now nearing one lakh, exams are being held. What an irony. This shows the shoddy planning by policymakers in the Modi government.” Bhattacharjee warned the Union human resource development minister to be prepared to face the people’s ire and criminal-negligence cases if any untoward incident occurs during the exams. “The nation will not pardon the government if any fresh Covid-19 infections or mortalities take place because of the exams,” Bhattacharjee said while drawing the Centre’s attention to the closure of public transports, hotels, lodges, etc. which will lead to chaos for examinees. He said that in Jharkhand, exams centres were located in only five districts—Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh. “This means several students will have to travel from one district to another in private vehicles. Can poor students afford this?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Government doctor succumbs to Covid in steel city||A 52-year-old doctor who was in-charge of a community health centre, died of coronavirus infection at Tata Motors Hospital in Telco on Thursday morning, the second physician to succumb to the virus in the steel city. Dr Jai Prakash Lal of Jugsalai health centre was admitted to hospital’s Covid ward in Telco along with his 45-year-old wife, who tested positive for the virus in the morning of August 20. Dr M.M. Agarwal (71), a resident of Golmuri, was the first doctor to die of Covid at Tata Main Hospital on August 15. In the last 24 hours, the district recorded 11 Covid deaths in all, while the number of new cases was 132. Till 11pm on Wednesday, nine persons had died at Tata Main Hospital and one at MGM Medical College Hospital. The total number Covid deaths so far is 204. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon Rajendra Jha said with the detection of 132 new cases on Wednesday, the total number of cases was 5,738 in the district. "While 132 people were admitted at various hospitals on Wednesday, 164 patients were discharged after they recovered from the illness till 10.30 pm on Wednesday. In all, 3,508 people have recovered from the illness so far," Jha told The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon said that since the past three days more number of patients were recovering from the disease compared to the number of new patients. "But the number of deaths due to Covid remains more or less the same.  As of now, 230 people have died due to Covid in various hospitals of the city.  Of these, 204 were from East Singhbhum district and the rest were from other districts," the civil surgeon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||With no orders, Kolaghat Durga idol makers skip steel city visit||With the Covid pandemic reducing Durga Puja to a low-key affair, artisans from Kolaghat in Bengal will not be coming to the steel city this time, as they have received no orders. It is for the first time in over five decades that the artisans will not be coming to Jamshedpur. “There is no reason to come to Jamshedpur since we have no orders to make idols. We feel disappointed but such is the situation,” said chief artisan Ajay Chakravarty. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Kolaghat, Chakravarty said that his late father Shaktipado Chakravarty started making Durga and Kali idols in the steel city idols in 1963. “I started crafting idols from 1970 onwards. That time we used to make Durga idols at New Baradwari near Sakchi,” he added. Apart from the imposing Durga idol at Beldih Kalibari, the artisans from Kolaghat make idols for New Baradwari, Rajendranagar, Sonari, Telco, Bengal Club and Kadma. Puja committees of these areas have not given any orders to Chakravarty, who works with a 20-member team. Chakravarty rued missing the opportunity to make the idol for Beldih Kalibari. “I had taken over the responsibility of drawing eyes of the goddess at Beldih Kalibari after my father passed away,” he said, adding that he learnt the art of making eyes of the goddess from his father. “The eyes are a reflection of the soul. So, I always take special care to etch them on clay. Durga’s eyes must reflect a mix of traditional beliefs and modern art,” the master artisan explained. According to him, they may make one or two idols for puja organisers in Calcutta. “We are waiting for a word from organisers in Calcutta,” Chakravarty said, adding that Covid has severely affected their income. Meanwhile, the lack of usual excitement and has already made its presence felt in Jamshedpur. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) and Purvi Singhbhum Central Durga Puja Samity (PSCDPS) have said the celebrations would be low-key this year. There would be no big budget pandals and puja will take place in a simple manner with a few number of people. The JDPKS has asked puja organisers to restrict the height of idols to 5ft while pandals will be simple and small.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Industrial pollution causing more Covid deaths in East Singhbhum||Years of exposure to industrial pollution has weakened the lungs of East Singhbhum residents and made them more susceptible to severe symptoms of Covid-19 virus and fatalities caused by lung dysfunction, health experts said on Thursday to explain the high Covid-19 mortality figures in the district. As per government data, East Singhbhum alone accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 370-odd Covid deaths reported in Jharkhand so far. On an average, the district has reported nearly half the number of  Covid deaths occurring  every day in Jharkhand since July-end, health officials said. The latest figures released by the health department on Thursday morning stated that at least 159 of Jharkhand’s 367 Covid casualties were reported from East Singhbhum. “When a person is exposed to industrial pollution for a long period of time, his lungs become weak. In the present situation, we should ideally consider them (residents living close to industrial areas) as susceptible to Covid death as a person with a comorbid condition would be,” said the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr. Ajay Kumar Singh. The SARS-COV-2 virus attacks the respiratory system of an infected person, and chances of fatality are higher if the patient’s lungs are already “compromised”, said Singh. “The mucus membranes in the lungs of a person, who has been exposed to pollution over a period of time, will not function as effectively as that of a healthy person. Patients with weak lungs are likely to suffer from more complications and severe symptoms of the viral infection,” Singh added. Jamshedpur, in East Singhbhum, is  home to Tata Steel and Tata Motors. A few kilometers away from the steel city is the Adityapur Industrial Area, in neighboring Seraikela-Kharsawan, also among the most polluted districts of Jharkhand. An independent survey in 2013 found inflated levels of Sulphur Dioxide, Carbon Dioxide, Carbon Monoxide, Nitrogen Oxide and Particulate Matter in the air in Jamshedpur – the largest city in East Singhbhum. “Several surveys and studies have pointed out the high level of industrial pollution in Jamshedpur. The lungs of many people staying in these polluted areas could be as weak as that of chain smokers,” said Nitish Priyadarshi, a Ranchi-based environmentalist and researcher. Priyadarshi said that people living close to the urban industrial areas of Jamshedpur have inhaled air laced with dust particles and pollutants since several decades. “The dust particles cause respiratory disorders in several residents of these areas. Industrial pollution is also the reason for extreme humidity and heat in Jamshedpur during summers,” he said. As per figures with the health department, as many as 5,654 people have been infected by Novel Coronavirus in East Singhbhum so far and 2,284 of them were yet to recover from the infection. Ranchi has reported more Covid-19 cases than East Singhbhum, but the count of fatalities here was a third of that in East SInghbhum. Out of 6,411 Covid cases reported here till date, 56 patients have died and 3,552 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad sets up telemedicine studio to help Covid patients||A woman being treated for coronavirus infection pleads with the doctor to allow her to return home as she has to look after her children. The doctor tells her about the virus and explains why it is best for her family if she returned home only after she was totally cured. The woman is satisfied and says she will abide the norms. This conversation played on Thursday at the inauguration of a telemedicine studio set up at Circuit House to help patients undergoing treatment at the various Covid care centres of the district. It is equipped with three computers and a high-speed internet connectivity so that doctors can advise patients at all the seven Covid treatment facilities, together accounting for as many as 775 beds. Separate time slots and doctors have been allotted for patients of all the seven treatment facilities. The centre is under the supervision of Dr Apurba Gupta, who is the nodal officer. After consultations, the centre emails medical records of each patient to the respective Covid treatment centre. These can be shared with doctors during future consultations. During Thursday’s inaugural, Dr P. P. Pandey attended to patients of Regional Hospital-Bhuli, while Dr Naresh Prasad and Dr Munshi Prasad Saha provided medical advice to patients of Zonal Training Institute of the railways and Nirsa Polytechnic Institute, respectively. Dr Asha Rosaline Kujur, one of doctors at the telemedicine studio, said, “Besides providing medical advice, doctors are also carrying out psychological counselling of patients. This helps dispel any apprehensions about the virus and ultimately facilitates early cure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Parents shamed and tonsured after girl marries boy from another caste||Elders of the Ghatwar community publicly tonsured the parents of an 18-year-old girl for marrying a boy from the Bhuiyan caste in the Fulwaria village, 2km from the Koderma police station, sub divisional police officer Rajendra Prasad said on Thursday. The incident, the police officer said, occurred three weeks ago, but they received information about it only now. The father and mother, 50 and 46-years-old respectively, were also forced to a mock performance for their daughter’s last rights with an effigy of her. However, the panicked couple refused to complain to the police when they visited them this afternoon. Local Congress leader Syed Nasim tweeted the matter, tagging chief minister Hemant Soren and state officials, demanding stern action. The girl and the boy had run away together on August 6, following which the girl’s parents asked police to look for her and take action against the boy. The police tracked them in two days and asked the girl to go back to her parents. She refused, claiming that both of them were married adults. So the police allowed her to stay with the boy. This angered community elders, who called a meeting and accused her parents of being unable to control their daughter. Then they tonsured the parents in public. “The matter came to light in the first week of August when the boy and girl eloped. But we had no other option but to send her with the boy whom she was in love with, as neither are minors," Prasad told The Telegraph Online. “I am not in a position to confirm what happened with the couple. But I have asked officer-in-charge of Koderma police station to investigate the matter,” the sub-divisional police officer said, adding that the culprits would not be spared. Police also came to know that a panchayat meeting was to take place again in the village to force the couple not to lodge a complaint. Prasad said the police have been asked to keep an eye on all movements in the village and to inform him if any such meeting takes place there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two days of heavy rain floods low-lying areas of steel city||There was a flash-flood-like situation in several low-lying areas of the steel city since Wednesday night caused by two days of incessant rain coupled with the opening of sluice gates of Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha. The heavy rain also prompted the state water resources department to open two sluice gates at Chandil dam. Jhinkpani in West Singhbhum district also become an island, cut off from all sides. Koel river in West Singhbhum, Subernarekha in Mango and Kharkai in Adityapur were flowing close to the danger mark on Thursday. Water entered houses in several low-lying areas of Mango, Bagbera, Jugsalai and Kadma. The worst hit areas were Naya Buster at Bagbera, Sankosai and Daiguttu in Mango, Shastrinagar in Kadma and Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai. Water from overflowing drains also entered several houses at Birsanagar, a slum. The district administration also alerted residents. It made announcements using public address systems, asking people in low-lying areas to shift to higher ground. Sub-divisional officer (Dhalbhum) Chandan Kumar said: “We are monitoring the situation and have appealed to NGOs and social bodies to assist us in relief operations.” However, the weather is likely to improve from Friday, indicated the Met department. “The low-pressure, which originated from the Bay of Bengal and resulted in heavy rains especially in southern Jharkhand since Tuesday has moved  towards northwest. It is gradually becoming weak,” said S.D Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The low-pressure resulted in heavy rain in several districts of Jharkhand since the last two days. Jamshedpur, Seraikela, Khunti, Simdega and several places in West Singhbhum recorded a rainfall of over 100mm during the past two days. Weather experts were hopeful that this year, rainfall in the steel city, which is in East Singhbhum, would cross the average normal of 1,100mm by end of the monsoon season. So far, East Singhbhum district has recorded 1,039.2 mm rain against a normal of 824.8 mm, which works out to a surplus of 26 per cent. On Thursday, the state’s deficit stood at six per cent. Jharkhand as a whole has so far experienced 743.7mm of rain against a normal of 787.5 mm. “The monsoon trough is active and is expected to result in more rain over Jharkhand later this month,” said a duty officer at IMD's Patna Met Centre. Met statistics revealed that around mid-June in 2008, the local meteorological office had recorded 338.1mm, the highest ever in Jamshedpur — prompting the state government to call in the army to help in relief and rescue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Most traffic cameras not working, complains Dhanbad MLA||Over 130 CCTV cameras installed at major intersections of the district to ensure better traffic surveillance over three years ago are not helping as theft and poor maintenance have rendered most of them useless Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha whose aide, Satish Singh, was recently killed by unidentified persons in broad daylight met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday and stressed on the need for proper maintenance of the installed CCTV cameras. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) installed the cameras at a cost of Rs 3.80 crore. These include button cameras, PTZ (pan tilt zoom) cameras and ANPR (automatic number plate recognition cameras. While poor maintenance is one of the reasons behind their erratic functioning, local sources said, the optical fibre cables used to connect these were being stolen regularly. Jamshedpur-based agency Maple PC and Peripherals that installed the cameras on behalf of DMC is also responsible for maintaining them, sources added. Former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta demanded that the authorities ensure proper maintenance of CCTV cameras. “It is the need of the hour now as criminal acts are expected to rise when lockdown restrictions are gradually eased,” he said. Gupta, who is president of book sellers association Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, said, “The installation of cameras was a crucial step to improve the security of the district. But poor maintenance due to lack of coordination and proper planning has negated the entire effort.” Echoing his sentiments, Mohammed Sohrab, President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Although crime can’t be controlled, CCTV surveillance can ensure early detection. Also, sometimes cameras work as a deterrent for criminals.” ANPR cameras that can read number plates of moving vehicles had been installed at 16 entry and exit points of the district, while PTZ cameras, which can rotate up to 360 degrees, had been installed at 27 places along with bullet cameras. Last year, DMC had plans to install more surveillance cameras, but could do so due to lack of funds. DMC commissioner Satyenda Kumar said, “Law enforcement agencies like police that are using cameras should have informed us that some of these were not working. We could have then taken up the issue with the agency responsible for its maintenance.” Manager (technical marketing) of Maple PC and Peripherals Hemant Kumar blamed it on prolonged power cuts. “The cameras can’t function after long power cuts as the UPS can provide power up to an hour only. Besides, repeated thefts of optical fibre cables also render the cameras useless. However, we will look into the matter in the light of the recent complaints made by the Dhanbad MLA,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in ISL winning left-back Ricky Lallawmawma||Continuing with the process of squad formation, Jamshedpur FC on Thursday announced the signing of left-back Ricky Lallawmawma on a two-year deal. The defender, who hails from Mizoram was a part of ATK's Indian Super League (ISL) winning squad in 2019-20. “I am so happy to be joining Jamshedpur FC, a club with a great head coach, loud and proud supporters and fantastic facilities. The club has a plan along with a big ambition to do well in the ISL and to be consistently successful. I share the same ideologies for myself and hope to contribute in the best ways possible under an expert like Owen Coyle,” Ricky said. Ricky began his footballing career with I-League champions Aizawl FC, where he went on to become the captain later. He played for other clubs of the Mizoram Premier League like Chanmari FC, and Zo United. He moved back to his childhood club Aizawl FC in 2015 when they got promoted to the I-League. Ricky later played for DSK Shivajians and Mohun Bagan before making his move to ATK and amassed a total of 57 top-tier appearances across all clubs. Head coach Coyle said Ricky comes with a lot of good experience and will add great value to the team. “Ricky is a very focussed individual who can play well and keep the ball. Also, he is fast and agile – the two being important charactersticks for a defender in modern football. Even though primarily a left-back, his versatility helps him play in any position across the backline. I am glad to have him joining us,” he added. The Mizo defender’s addition will bolster a backline consisting of Joyner Lourenco, Narender Gehlot, Sandip Mandi and Jitendra Singh. Ricky will wear jersey no.16 for the upcoming cash-rich tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Thieves targeting locked schools, warn Palamau police  ||Palamau police have alerted managers of schools which have been locked during the Covid pandemic as thieves are on the prowl. “A daylight theft was committed in Westfield Public School at Bhawandee on August 19,” said SDPO Sadar Sandip Kumar Gupta on Wednesday. Gupta said the private school’s director Awadesh Pandey lodged an FIR on August 20. The Chainpur police caught and jailed two thieves, Azad Ansari and Ashraf Qureishi, on Tuesday. Stolen electrical goods were recovered, including a motor pump, a stabilizer, 2 ceiling fans and 4 changer boards. “All government and private schools are shut during this pandemic. Some schools have security guards. Many have no such facility. We have asked school managements to keep a watch on school property,” said the SDPO. Pandey said there were more stolen goods that were yet to be recovered. “These include more than 200 switches and bathroom fittings. Three bundles of wires too are missing,” he said. Officer in charge of Chainpur police station Sunit Kumar said, “A person had taken pictures of the thieves in the school on August 19. These pictures helped us trace, track and nab the thieves.” Director Pandey said the person in question was the wife of the school’s security guard. “She showed the courage to take photographs of thieves. Our guard was not present then and this woman showed discretion by not making any sound while clicking pictures,” he said, adding that the pictures were given to the Chainpur police. Sunit Kumar said they matched these pictures with CCTV footage to nab the thieves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||JSCA on course to organise T20 tournament next month||Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA)’s international stadium complex in Dhurwa is gearing up to host a domestic T20 tournament next month following a nod from the state government on Wednesday night, officials informed on Thursday. JSCA mandarins added that they have now sent a proposal to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) for hosting its domestic T20 meet from September 10-27. If the BCCI allows, JSCA will arguably be the first cricketing body in the country to kick-off the game after about five months since nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus. JSCA’s secretary Sanjay Sahay on Thursday confirmed about the approval. “The state government has okayed our proposal for hosting the T20 tournament next month. We have started preparations and sent a formal communiqué to BCCI for its nod too. We shall be adhering to all the safety norms prescribed by BCCI, and those that are issued from the state and central governments in regard to sporting activities,” he said. Another JSCA official said that the annual T20 event, represented by over half a dozen teams from different district affiliates, will be sans any spectators. “We plan to keep all players and technical officials in the stadium complex all through the tournament and no outsider will be allowed to enter the stadium. As per the norms, Each and every player and staff will get the . During the period of tournament, we shall suspend all other works/activities at the stadium to plug any unwanted human movements,” said another official. Notably, on June 25, state government had allowed opening of all stadiums allowing sporting activities sans any spectators. It also prescribed hosts of dos and donts. However, with majority of the stadiums at mega sports complex in Hotwar converted as covid care centres, all sporting activities there remains suspended. Other stadiums too owned by the state government remains sans any action as the sports department hasn’t come up with detailed standard operating procedures for the sports bodies to allow them to resume the games. However, any player is free to individually resume practice/training.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 1137 cases take tally to 33311||As many as 1137 cases of Covid infection took the tally in Jharkhand to 33311 on Wednesday, while the number of casualties jumped to 362 as 10 more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) at 10.45pm on Wednesday, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum crossed the 150 mark as six of the 10 casualties reported in the day were from the district. East Singhbhum alone accounts for over 40 per cent of Covid fatalities in the state so far, and has reported 152 deaths. With 174 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Ranchi on Wednesday, the tally in the capital reached 6584. As many as 2876 people were still battling the viral infection in Ranchi, while 3652 have recovered, government data stated. Ranchi has account for 57 Covid deaths, the second highest in state after East Singhbhum. Of the 10 Covid casualties reported on Wednesday, two were from Bokaro, six from East SInghbhum and one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad. Wednesday’s findings take the Covid mortality in state to 1.08 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.85 per cent. East Singhbhum reported 132 fresh cases on Wednesday, while 164 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the district during the same period. As least 167 people were found infected in Hazaribag and only 12 patients recovered in the district on Wednesday, while Dhanbad reported 133 fresh cases and 42 recoveries, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 736 people recovered from the infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries in state to 22,486. However, there were as many as 10,463 active cases of Covid infection in Jharkhand by the time this report was filed. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand is 67.50 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 75.27 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of 6.47 lakh people and tested 6.43 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 40,786 people and 39,649 of them came negative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's historic rail line to witness faster trains||Dhanbad Chandrapura Railway Line will witness trains plying at a speed of 75 km an hour from its present 50 km an hour. The historic line of the Dhanbad Railway Division remained closed for more than 18 months due to underground fire. The line was also closed between February, 2013 and June 2017 owing to subsidence threat. Infrastructure development work is being carried out at the Kusunda and Katras railway station. A footbridge and a parking lot are being developed at Katras, one of the most important stations of the Chandrapura line. Talking at a news video conference, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Anil Kumar Mishra said, “the non operation of trains during lockdown in Coal India Chord section provided them opportunity to develop the necessary infrastructure for increasing the speed of train and work is likely to be completed within a couple of months”. A 600 meter long double lane road aimed at decongesting the main station complex of Dhanbad is being carried out. The construction began began on October 20 last year at a cost of Rs 2 crore. The new approach road is likely to ease the traffic situation at Bank More area. The south side extension complex which has a waiting hall, an enquiry counter, an unreserved ticketing counter, catering complex and a portico was  inaugurated by the then General Manager of East Central Railway, Madhuresh Kumar on February 23, 2014. The facility has remained unused till date as the existing approach road for the newly developed complex is too narrow and faces encroachment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Woman who was sold for marriage rescued by Garhwa police||Garhwa police have rescued a 30-year-old woman and her two children who were allegedly being sold for marriage in Muskura in Uttar Pradesh’s Hamirpur. Two persons, including a woman, have been arrested, the police said. According to the FIR, the 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son from Jarhi village in Dandai police station area were sold by her cousin for Rs 30,000. “The police raided the home of Mahesh Vishwakarma at Mahuabandh in the Ajanar police station area in Mahoba district, Uttar Pradesh, after a tip-off,” Garhwa subdivisional police officer Brahman Tuti said. They arrested the two of three accused, Tuti said. On a complaint by the woman’s husband, the police had lodged an FIR against three persons, including cousin Mamta Devi, under Sections 363/370(A) and 371 of the Indian Penal Code on August 22. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had reportedly learnt of the matter and asked the police to take quick action in the case. Nemra, a village in Gola block situated 25km from Ramgarh district headquarters, is not unknown to the people of Jharkhand. It is the native village of chief minister Hemant Soren. However, it is better known as the place where his father, former chief minister Shibu Soren, started his political career. Relatives and other villagers have begun praying for their Baba, as they call Shibu, after the news of his illness due to which he was shifted to a Delhi hospital. Shibu,76, tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Ranchi’s Medanta. “We want him to recover soon and continue guiding this state for better development,” said Kasinath Bedia, a retired government teacher and a friend. Shibu’s cousin Rekha Soren said they all are worried about his health. “Baba fighter hain aur jeetkar aayenge (Baba is a fighter and he will return victorious),” she said. “We all are waiting for his visit here again.” “Shibu came here in May when his sister-in-law passed away,” said the villagers. “Shibu is the pride of Nemra, apart from being an important personality in Indian politics. Baba’s fight against the mahajani pratha (moneylenders) for the people’s rights is inspiring,” the villagers added. An 11-year-old Dalit boy died in a mud wall collapse at Bakhari village in Kouriya panchayat in Palamau on Wednesday. P.P. Thakur, the panchayat mukhiya, said: “The collapse happened this morning during torrential rain.” The child was playing at the time of the accident. Thakur said the boy was taken to the medical college and hospital in Daltonganj but was declared dead on arrival. “A nine-year-old girl was also injured, and is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” Thakur said. The Dhanbad administration has established a studio at the town’s circuit house to offer telemedicine facility to patients at various Covid-19 treatment centres in the district. Time slots have been allocated to the patients for consultation through videoconferencing. The patients of the railway zonal training institute at Bhuli, Nirsa Polytechnic and Cath Lab will be provided advice from 10am to noon, while those at Nirsa Polytechnic, Tata Central Hospital, the dedicated Covid-19 centre at the central hospital and the regional hospital at Bhuli can seek medical attention from noon to 2pm. Patients at Sadar hospital, Dhanbad, and Nirsa Polytechnic can contact the doctors between 2.15pm and 4.15pm while those at the regional hospital at Bhuli and Sadar hospital have been allotted the 4.15pm-6.15 pm slot. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the doctors at the studio will follow up with patients within two-three days of the initial consultation. “At least 120 patients will be provided the telemedicine facility everyday,” said Singh. Forty-two patients were discharged on Wednesday from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad after testing. Nineteen patients were discharged from the Sadar hospital-based dedicated Covid-19 health centre; 13 from the BCCL regional hospital at Bhuli; seven from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar; and three from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab. All those discharged will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha on Wednesday met deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and discussed with him the issue of non-functional surveillance cameras installed a couple of years ago. Sinha also raised the issue of traffic congestion and emphasised the need for the construction of another railway subway near the Gaya Bridge. He highlighted the need for a weeks-long drive against vehicles with tinted glasses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
