28-08-2020||Calcutta||Bengal looking to hold final year college, varsity exams before Puja: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that her government was weighing the pros and cons of holding final-year college and university exams before Durga Puja in October. She slammed the Centre over its decision to conduct JEE and NEET exams in September, and said the Union government's "adamant approach" will add to the Covid-19 woes. "I have told our education minister to look into the possibility of conducting the final-year exams in universities and colleges before Durga Puja in October. The options of both online and offline exams should be looked into. "We are not against any exam; we are just saying that a pandemic is on, and it could put lives of students at risk," Banerjee said while addressing a virtual rally of Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad (TMCP). The Supreme Court ruled earlier in the day that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final-year exams by September 30. The court said if any state feels it can't conduct exams by September 30, it must approach the UGC for new dates. Criticising the Centre over its decision to hold JEE- NEET exams in September, Banerjee said, "We asked the Union government to defer the process due to the pandemic. But the Union government is adamant... It is busy issuing sermons instead of listening to Mann ki Baat of students." Ministers of six opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE entrance exams this year, amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Fishing on New Town road||Police officers in New Town collect nets with which some people caught fish off Major Arterial Road on Thursday morning. Water overflowed from a fishery in the township after a spell of heavy rain and partially inundated a smaller road. Along with the water came fish. Police said they had been alerted about a group of men violating the lockdown. On inquiry, they came to know that residents of villages in the Rajarhat-New Town area had gathered at the spot, near Eco Park, and were fishing. The group fled on seeing cops, leaving behind the nets and the fish they had caught. They were later prosecuted and the fish seized. “They violated the lockdown by stepping out of their homes. They were not wearing masks. They have been prosecuted,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather: 24 hours late, it pours and floods||It rained heavily on Thursday, more than 24 hours after it was supposed to according to the weather office, leading to several roads being waterlogged. Strong southerly winds from the Bay and the monsoon trough passing over Digha led to the formation of many small shells that brought the rain, a Met official said. Citing the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay, the Met office had predicted heavy rain in the city from Monday. The latest forecast on Tuesday evening warned of heavy rain in the city after midnight by when the system was expected to pass over Calcutta’s outskirts. But a drizzle or two was all the city received throughout Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. The system deviated from the path it was supposed to take and took a northwesterly direction, past Odisha and adjoining regions, leading to heavy rain in those areas, the Met official said. “It was too far from Calcutta to have an impact. On Thursday afternoon, the system was in south Jharkhand. The rain that came down on South and North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah and Hooghly from Wednesday night was triggered by the formation of local clouds because of strong southerly winds,” G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta, said. The monsoon trough, which was passing over Digha, contributed to the cloud formation, he said. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from Friday, Das said. It was hot and dry for the better part of Wednesday, like the previous two days. A light drizzle started in the night. As the night progressed, the rain became stronger. In phases, the showers lasted well into the early hours of Thursday. After a gap in the morning, the city saw intermittent showers in the afternoon. The Met office recorded around 50mm of rain in Alipore between Tuesday night and Thursday afternoon. Santoshpur Jora bridge was among the wettest areas, registering 74mm of rain between 4pm on Wednesday and 4pm on Thursday, according to data collected from the civic body’s pumping station. Patuli and New Market received 70mm each, Cossipore 50mm and Dum Dum 48mm in the same period, the civic body’s data showed. The soft targets in the city were not spared. Around 11am on Thursday, several stretches of Amherst Street, Thanthania and Muktaram Babu Street in the north had ankle-deep water. In the south, some areas in Kidderpore and Tangra were waterlogged. But there were no traffic snarls as it was a complete lockdown on Thursday. “The showers coincided with high tide in the Hooghly. The lock gates were shut and the water flooded some low-lying areas. But portable pumps were used and the water was cleared within a few hours,” Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of drainage, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||House collapse kills 70-year-old in Calcutta||A portion of an old house on Beleghata Main Road collapsed early on Thursday while it was raining heavily, killing a 70-year-old woman and injuring her son. Around 4.30am, the front portion of the house’s roof that is supported by iron beams and mounted on old pillars came crashing down, police said. Pratima Saha and her son Rajesh were trapped in the debris. Some residents of the area alerted Beleghata police station and a team of cops and Disaster Management Group personnel reached and rescued the two. They were taken to NRS Medical College and Hospital where Saha was declared dead. Rajesh, who had received severe injuries on the head and arms, was admitted to the orthopaedic ward. “The house is nearly 150 years old. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has served several notices to the family asking them to pull down the structure,” a civic official said. “Even a board declaring the house to be a dangerous building had been put up.” Rajesh lived in the house with his mother, wife and son. His wife had recently gone to her father’s place. His son was asleep in a room at the rear side of the house when the front portion collapsed. “The family members will be asked to vacate the house as soon as they can because we are not sure about the structural stability of the remaining part,” an officer said. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, called up senior officials of the civic body early in the morning and instructed them to help the police in removing the debris.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Prescription not needed for test at CMC camp||One can now walk into a camp organised by the civic body and give swab samples for an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 without a doctor’s prescription, officials said on Thursday. So far, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has been organising such camps to collect swab samples from those who were identified as possible coronavirus-infected persons during a surveillance by health workers of the civic body or others mobilised by the local ward coordinator. And those turning up to get tested needed to show a doctor’s prescription. The RT-PCR test is the most reliable method to find out whether a person has been infected by the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), which causes Covid-19. The samples collected in the camps are sent to SSKM Hospital for testing. CMC officials said a decline in the turnout at the camps had prompted them to do away with the condition that one needed to show a doctor’s prescription. “So many people would come to the camps from May to July that resources would be overstretched to collect their swab samples. But the turnout this month is quite low,” said a CMC official. To ensure a better turnout, the CMC is updating its Facebook page every night with information about the wards where such camps will be held the next day. “We have been publishing this information on our Facebook page for the last couple of days. We want more people to know whether swab samples will be collected near their home the next day,” said Sandipan Saha, advisor (information technology), CMC. Saha, who is also coordinator of Ward 52, said that only 30 people gave their samples at a camp in his ward on Wednesday. “The team was prepared to collect many more samples. We had made announcements about the camp, yet the turnout was low,” he said. “Laboratories are conducting the RT-PCR test if someone has a doctor’s prescription. But someone who has failed to consult a doctor but has symptoms of the disease can come to any of our camps and give swab samples for a test,” said a CMC official. The camps are conducted in six wards of the Calcutta municipal area every day. The CMC Facebook page is only naming the wards where the camps will be held and not the venue because locations are often changed at the last minute, Saha said. “Those who want to be tested should contact the ward coordinator or the ward health clinic of the CMC to know the venue,” he said. CMC officials said they were aiming to collect swab samples from about 500 people for the RT-PCR tests daily. The CMC is also conducting rapid antigen tests — another type of diagnostic test for Covid-19 — in highrises and other locations. “We have a target of doing about 1,600 tests, RT-PCR and antigen, every day,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Anti-fraud card curbs and headache ||Rising instances of fraudulent online transactions have prompted banks to disable many debit and credit cards by default. Customers have to go through a “tedious” process of reactivating the cards through Net or mobile banking, or through relationship managers with an option to deactivate them when they are not needed. Bank officials said customers could use deactivated cards to make payments at retail outlets or withdraw cash from ATMs. But a customer has to get such a card reactivated if he or she wants to use it to make an online payment. Banks — public and private — are disabling cards to prevent fraudulent online transactions or contactless payment. Once a card is disabled, alerts are sent through SMS and email to the account holder. According to Reserve Bank of India’s January 15 circular, cards that have not been used for online or international transactions will be mandatorily disabled. In other cases, banks will take a decision based on risk perception of cardholders. Bank officials and financial technology experts concede that the process to get a card reactivated is tedious but they say allowing customers the freedom to switch on and off their debit or credit card is crucial, and the best option available globally, to prevent fraud. RBI data shows the number of reported fraud cases for card and Internet-based transactions has increased from 1,866 in 2018-19 to 2,678 in 2019-20. The amount involved has risen from Rs 71 crore to Rs 195 crore. The first quarter of the current fiscal (April to June), much of which coincided with the nationwide lockdown, saw a rise in the dependence on online transactions. The number of reported fraud cases stood at 530 during the period, involving Rs 27 crore. “The decision (to deactivate cards) is based on an RBI directive in January. Banks are gradually rolling this out…. What we have seen in many European countries is that transactions are not OTP-based and payments can be made by simply swiping the card or in a contact-less manner through Near Field Communications technology. Even if there is a two-factor authentication, it is not difficult for fraudsters to secure OTP through skimming and cloning or simply misleading the customer,” said a State Bank of India official. “If a fraud is committed in India, it is easy for banks and RBI to track it and take action. But, if the card is used overseas without the knowledge of the cardholder, it becomes difficult to track. So the RBI’s move to allow a manual toggle for online and international transactions is a preventive measure,” said an HDFC Bank official. “On the face of it, this seems to be an inconvenience to customers but, through this, they are in complete control of the security of their cards. RBI nowhere has said that the liability is now on the customer to manage the fraud. They are only bringing this as an additional security feature. The process will be made easier going forward with technology,” said Rajesh Mirjankar, MD and CEO, Infrasoft Technologies, a Mumbai-headquartered firm that has partnered with banks to offer application-based solutions for this purpose. Several banks such as SBI, Axis, ICICI and HDFC have rolled out this option to easily toggle between activating and deactivating a card. More banks are set to follow. “The idea is to be omnichannel when it comes to security. In the next phase chatbots and voicebots (such as Alexa)-based solutions are being rolled out. Artificial intelligence will also be used in future to validate digital transactions based on past mandates of the customer,” said Mirjankar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Funds cloud on Jadavpur University alumni noble goal||The Jadavpur University Alumni Association is usually flush with funds, thanks to its well-established alumni around the world. But it is now reeling under a financial crunch. So acute is the crisis that it is finding it difficult to pay salaries to the people it employs in its office on the university campus. Donations have dried up and an end to the problems is not in sight, according to several association members. They are unsure how they can keep supporting the poor but meritorious students. The earnings by letting out the association’s auditorium and guest rooms on the university campus have stopped as the campus has been closed since March. Hiren Ghosh, the president of the alumni association, shared with JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das the scale of support the association has been providing to students amid the pandemic. “The financial status of the alumni association is not at all favourable now,” he said in a letter to Das. All donations from the usage of auditorium and guest rooms have stopped since March 2020 because of the closure. Foreign donations for students’ funds and other causes have stopped, he said. “We have been somehow paying wages to our 10 employees… till July. Do not know how long we can continue. But these are issues for the alumni association to handle. This is for your information only.” Ghosh had graduated in mechanical engineering in 1961. The main earnings come from generous contributions of the alumni based in the US and the UK and in other parts of the globe, he said. “While renewing the membership they make generous contributions. At times some make hefty endowments. All these contributions are converted into fixed deposits and we pay scholarships to hundreds of students from the interest on the FDs. But we are not receiving that support from March,” Ghosh said. Also, interest rates on fixed deposits have been dwindling, another office bearer said. So, the association looks forward to a sustained support to continue with its activities. “The interest rate on a fixed deposit was 9.5 per cent three years ago. Now, it is 5.5 per cent. On the other hand, the list of recipients is shooting up. So, we try to keep the coffer slush with funds… that has gone dry.” The association, which has 4,000-odd members, has informed the vice-chancellor that it has helped 338 needy students; Rs 10, 37,800 was distributed to them. The money was transferred to their accounts last week. Additionally, more than Rs 10 lakh was distributed to an equal number of students in February. The association told Das about the figures to let him know that this support ensured the students could buy smartphones or high-speed data packs, which helped them attend classes through distance digital mode. Das had on August 16 wrote to the association, seeking its support for 800-odd students encountering Net connectivity problems. “We could provide substantial support based on the donations we had received till February. We don’t know how we can sustain the move in future. The members are reluctant to donate as everyone is facing financial troubles,” Ghosh said. The association runs the Dr Triguna Sen auditorium on the ground floor of its building and lets it out for any kind of programme other than political. The upper floors have five double bed AC guest rooms, which can be hired. “But earnings have stopped because of the pandemic. We are struggling to pay the monthly wages to the employees of the association,” a member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Schedule for 6-city flights to Calcutta||Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays in the first two of weeks in September and Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays after that, civil aviation ministry officials have said. The dates have been fixed keeping in mind the three lockdown days chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on Wednesday — September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). “Between September 1 and 13, flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The airlines have been informed about the days,” an official in the civil aviation ministry said. The Centre had on July 6 suspended flights between the six cities and Calcutta, following a request from the Bengal government, because of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases there. The chief minister announced on Wednesday that the flights could operate three days a week from September 1. Soon after Mamata’s announcement, the state government wrote a letter to the civil aviation ministry, formally informing the Centre about the decision. Officials of private airlines said they would start filing applications for slots. The civil aviation minis-try guidelines allow 45 per cent of domestic flights on respective routes compared with the pre-Covid times. Initially, the ministry was allowing 33 per cent of the flights. Airlines had been operating 25-odd flights from the six cities to Calcutta daily since the resumption of domestic flights till the ban kicked in on July 6. “It was 33 per cent of the flights that used to operate on these routes before Covid-19 struck. Now, under the revised guidelines, more flights can operate but that would depend on the airlines,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. Tour operators said they had started getting queries from passengers. “Many Calcuttans are still stuck in places who are unable to come back because the flights were stalled. They can now come to Delhi or Mumbai on these days and take a connecting flight to Calcutta,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The Centre has relaxed quarantine norms and a passenger taking an international evacuation flight to India need not go for quarantine at the entry point. The passen-ger has to test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the journey to become eligible to board an evacuation flight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown worry for CLAT aspirants||At least 10,000 students set to appear in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) from Bengal have no clue if they will be allowed to go to an exam centre and take the test during a complete lockdown on September 7. They have been writing emails to the authorities conducting the examinations and the state government and also calling up local police stations for help since the government announced the fresh lockdown dates on Wednesday evening. CLAT will be held online this year but students have to take the test sitting at various centres. A St James’ School student said his first choice for a centre was Calcutta and the second Howrah. He is worried whether he will have to travel to Howrah in the middle of the pandemic. None of the students has yet been told where their centre will be. There are students who have recovered from Covid-19 and are worried about taking public transport and the gathering at their centres. “Nine members of our family had Covid and we are all negative now. But yes, my family and I are worried about exposing ourselves to a gathering,” said a student. Students set to appear for CLAT said the number of examinees was less than JEE-Main and NEET but it still exposed them to the same risks. Apart from Calcutta and Howrah, the exam will also be held in Barasat, Barrackpore, Hooghly, Asansol, Kalyani and Siliguri. Unlike other all-India entrance examinations, such as JEE and NEET, CLAT has fewer centres and students often have to travel long distances to reach their respective centres. While many students have their own transport, there are quite a few who depend on public transport. “If so many students have to go out on a lockdown day, the entire purpose of a lockdown is defeated,” said a student. Several students said they did not know whether the centres would be properly sanitised. “We will be sitting on desks, using the mouse. Even one cough in the exam centre could be a cause of fear and stress,” said Samya Amir. Samya’s first centre preference is Calcutta,  second Barrackpore and the third Barasat. The high prevalence of coronavirus cases in North 24-Parganas is also a cause of concern for students like Samya. “I am worried about my parents’ health and the risk I will be exposing them to. A home proctored test will be a safer option,” she said. St James’ student Shlok Saha, who lives in Ballygunge, said:  “My first preference for centre is Calcutta and the second is Howrah because that is the closest to my place. If I get a centre in Howrah, I will have to travel that far. We have been hearing about so many Covid cases there. My family is worried but CLAT is very important for me.” Devansh Murmuria, another student of St James’, said that since Wednesday evening he had called several people but there was no definite answer. “What if we are stopped on the road? Will the admit card suffice?” wondered Shashank Jain, from St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Another all-India entrance test, conducted by IIM-Indore for a five-year integrated management course, is scheduled for September 7. Students who will appear in the test and their guardians requested the state government to change the lockdown date. “Kindly change announced lockdown on 7th September, as there’s Pan India admission test for IIM Indore,” the father of a candidate tweeted and tagged the chief minister’s office. An official of IIM-Indore told Metro: “As of now there has been no change in the examination date.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
28-08-2020||Business||Fed ups inflation goal ||The Federal Reserve on Thursday rolled out a sweeping rewrite of its approach to monetary policy, putting new weight on bolstering the US labour market and less on worries about too-high inflation. The Fed’s new monetary policy strategy, unveiled at the start of an annual central banking conference, pledges to address “shortfalls” from the “broad-based and inclusive goal” of full employment, a nod to racial equity and its role in promoting economic growth. The US central bank also promises to seek to achieve inflation that averages 2 per cent over time, offsetting periods when it is running below that level with periods when it is moderately higher. The change suggests the Fed’s key overnight interest rate, already near zero, will stay there for potentially years to come as policymakers woo higher inflation. The policy shift is arguably the biggest for the Fed since Paul Volcker remade the central bank into an inflation-slaying force four decades ago, when prices were spiraling higher. Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s new policy blueprint, designed for a world where weak inflation, low interest rates, and slow economic growth appear to be here to stay, puts the labour market front and center. The changes acknowledge that “downward risks to employment and inflation have increased”. All 17 Fed policymakers signed on to the new strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Honda all Jazz-ed up for BS-VI||Honda Cars India Ltd (HCIL) is betting big on its new BS-VI Jazz to lure first time buyers. While car makers are launching SUVs to revive a market that is on a tailspin, Honda is relying on its premium hatchback to tap first time buyers. “The Jazz was up for a model changeover with the BS-VI regimen kicking in. We were caught up in the midst of a BS-VI change when the lockdown happened. So, we launched the BS-VI Jazz now and are hoping that it will attract first-time buyers as past sales data shows that 22 per cent of the Jazz buyers were first-time car buyers,” said Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, sales and marketing, HCIL. The premium hatch is priced at Rs 7.5 lakh (base model). “The customers are a mix of young and old people. About 95 per cent of the Jazz buyers opted for the petrol model (under the BS-IV regime), 32 per cent of the buyers are women and for 45 per cent of the buyers, the Jazz was an additional car,” said Goel. The Japanese manufacturer is offering the electric sunroof in its top range of Jazz, which is a first in the segment and hopes that it will pull customers in the Covid era. “People are scared of closed space in these Covid times The sunroof is a much sought after feature in cars for Indian customers. We are hoping that in such times, the sunroof will pull even more customers,” said Goel. Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India Pvt Limited made an entry into the 180-200cc category of motorbikes with the launch of the Hornet 2.0. The Japanese company is going in for a big portfolio expansion before the festive season with new models in new segments, Atsushi Ogata, managing director, president and CEO of HMSI, said at the launch of the Hornet on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Tata sons to go digital||Tata Sons Private Limited (Tata Sons), the principal holding company of the over $110-billion Tata group, on Thursday held its annual general meeting where the conglomerate’s emerging digital strategy was one of the key themes that was discussed. The meeting comes at a time most of the group companies are feeling the heat of the Covid-19 pandemic. Close to 66 per cent of Tata Sons is held by Tata Trusts. While Tata Sons officials did not comment on what transpired at the meeting, it is understood that the group’s emerging digital strategy was one of the key issues that was discussed. The group is set to launch a ‘super app’ that reportedly combines various services and products offered (by its firms) under a single umbrella which includes consumer durables, food and grocery and financial services, among others. The key objective of this major digital effort is to offer products and services of all its consumer facing business apart from other online services on a single platform. In doing so, the conglomerate will take on Reliance Industries and Amazon Inc. The platform may be launched in December or early next year. The group has the fashion shopping app Tata Cliq and StarQuik, on which customers in Mumbai, Pune and Bangalore can order groceries. Croma is its online electronics platform. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, e-commerce sites have reported a spike in customer orders. Earlier this month, N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, had said that while every pandemic presents a big opportunity of change for the better, Covid-19 can be a catalyst towards the adoption of digital technologies in segments like health and education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Consensus challenge in debt recast||Lenders may face the challenge of building a consensus over the restructuring of advances that the RBI has permitted as part of the resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress. Some bankers anticipate that lenders with smaller exposure may opt out of the scheme instead of signing the inter-creditor agreement (ICA) that will kickstart the restructuring of the advances. The RBI in its August 6, 2020 framework on restructuring of advances has said that if there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to a borrower, the resolution process shall be treated as invoked in respect of any borrower if lending institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities and not less than 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number come to an agreement. If an ICA is not signed within 30 days from the invocation, it will be treated as lapsed and the resolution cannot be triggered again under this framework for the account. “Our experience is that getting these numbers and subsequently signing the ICA is a big challenge and banks with a smaller share may try to exit,” Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD and CEO of Indian Overseas Bank, said at a CII organised session on Wednesday. “But banks need to revisit their plans. They need to have one aim to support the corporates where they have already taken exposure and where the accounts are viable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Stay on Anil insolvency action||The Delhi high court has put on hold the insolvency resolution process (IRP) launched by SBI against Reliance Communications (R-Com) chairman Anil Ambani seeking the enforcement of a Rs 1,200-crore personal guarantee of Anil Ambani. The Ambani scion has also been restrained from selling or transferring his personal assets. The stay has implications for the AGR dues case currently before the apex court which has reserved its judgment. Anil Ambani had given personal guarantees for the Rs 565 crore and Rs 635 crore SBI loans to R-Com and Reliance Infratel (RITL), respectively, in August 2016. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar also issued a notice to the Centre, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and SBI seeking their stand on the plea by October 6, the next date of hearing. The court also said that the proceedings would continue in relation to the corporate debtor (the companies), and while dealing with those proceedings, the liability of the petitioner-personal guarantor (Ambani) may also be examined by the IRP. The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would examine whether the assets of a company which have been attached by the authorities following legal proceedings can be considered for liquidation to settle financial liabilities. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran was informed by advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for Vijay Mallya’s UBHL, that the company’s assets in totality are far greater than its liabilities. UBHL has challenged the March 6 order of the Karnataka high court upholding a wind-up order The finance ministry has asked public sector banks to monitor cases where insolvency proceedings could be initiated against individuals who are guarantors of corporate debtors that have defaulted on loans. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) provides for a time-bound and market-linked resolution of stressed assets. The code also provides for initiation of insolvency proceedings against personal guarantors of corporate debtors, even though the provision has not been used much by lenders to recover dues. In an advisory, the department of financial services has asked public sector banks to consider putting in place a mechanism to monitor the cases which may require the initiation of individual insolvency process before the National Company Law Tribunal against personal guarantors to corporate debtors. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Stocks pare gains, rupee up 48 paise||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty pared most of their intra-day gains to end marginally higher on Thursday as monthly derivative contracts expired amid lacklustre global cues. After touching a high of 39326.98 during the session, the BSE Sensex succumbed to selling pressure in the last hour of trade. It finally finished at 39113.47, up 39.55 points or 0.10 per cent. The NSE Nifty inched up 9.65 points or 0.08 per cent to close at 11559.25. The Sensex has now gained 893.08 points in five sessions, while the Nifty has climbed 247.05 points. IndusInd was the top gainer in the Sensex pack on Thursday, rallying 6.59 per cent The rupee vaulted 48 paise to end at 73.82 against the dollar on Thursday after RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank has not exhausted its ammunition to deal with the pandemic-induced stress. Sustained foreign fund inflows, positive domestic equities and a weak  dollar boosted the rupee, forex traders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Das raps banks for risk aversion||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday warned banks that being overly risk averse would be “self-defeating”, even as he said that the new debt restructuring scheme will provide more durable relief to borrowers affected by the pandemic. Das also disclosed that the central bank was not unwinding the Covid-19 steps now and that once the pandemic is contained, the measures will be unwound in an orderly manner. “Unwinding of the Covid-19 measures must be calibrated and cautious. We will have a non-disruptive exit plan for these steps,” the governor said, adding that the length and intensity of the pandemic is uncertain. The RBI governor was speaking at a webinar organised by a financial daily. Though the central bank has brought down the policy repo rate by 135 points since March, the fear of rising bad loans has prompted banks to be extremely selective in disbursing fresh loans and they are instead buying government securities despite a robust growth in deposit mobilisation. Latest data from the RBI show that for the fortnight ended July 31, bank credit was at 5.5 per cent, while the growth in aggregate deposits was 11 per cent. “Extreme risk aversion can be self-defeating, banks will not be able to win their bread,” Das said amid the sharp slowdown in credit growth in the system, which is essential to push up the economy. He told banks that remaining overly risk-averse may seem to be a measure of self-immunisation, but it will affect their bottomlines adversely. According to the RBI governor, rather than turning averse to lending, banks have to improve their risk management and governance frameworks and also build sufficient resilience. Besides, the risk propensity should be in alignment with the individual bank’s measured risk appetite. Further, the risk management system should be sophisticated enough to smell the vulnerabilities brewing within the various businesses well in advance. It should also be dynamic enough to capture the looming risks in sync with the changes in external environment and best practices. To enable borrowers to cope with Covid-19 challenges, the RBI had earlier announced a loan moratorium that will end this month. The central bank has now come up with a one-time restructuring scheme under which customers can also avail take a loan holiday. “While the moratorium on loans was a temporary solution in the context of the lockdown, the resolution framework is expected to give durable relief to borrowers facing Covid-related stress,” he said. Senior bankers across the country have taken umbrage against the RBI governor’s remarks of risk aversion. Soon after the governor spoke, Aditya Puri — MD & CEO of HDFC Bank — said, “There is no risk aversion but there is prudent banking. If we give money, we expect to get it back. If somebody gives loan now then someone can say later that it was imprudent lending,” he said. At another webinar, Punjab National Bank MD and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said, “I can categorically say there is no risk aversion at all. The real problem is lack of demand.” “What we are doing is trying to get business from the right customers while ensuring we aren’t throwing good money after the bad money,” Axis Bank MD and CEO Amitabh Chaudhry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||India||Congress MP dies of Covid-19||The Congress MP from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, H. Vasanthakumar, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Chennai on Friday, the party said. The 70-year-old first-time MP, who was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals on August 10 after he tested positive for the coronavirus, died of the illness, a party spokesperson told PTI. Earlier in a statement, Apollo Hospitals said the MP was in a critical condition and was being treated by a team of doctors for severe Covid-19 pneumonia. Vasanthakumar was a two-time MLA and elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of Vasanthakumar and said his efforts in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. "Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu's progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Centre issues rules for J&K administration||The Centre has issued rules for a smooth functioning of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, specifying that the police, the all-India services and the anti-corruption bureau will be under the direct control of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) of the Union Territory. The rules, notified by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, also made it clear that in case of a difference of opinion between the LG and the council of ministers (when it is formed) with regard to any matter, the former shall refer it to the Centre for the decision of the president and shall act according to that decision. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) notification said there will be 39 departments in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, including agriculture, school education, higher education, horticulture, floriculture, election, general administration, home, mining, power, PWD, transport and tribal affairs. Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, was abrogated on August 5, 2019 and subsequently, the state was bifurcated into Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Union territories came into existence on October 31 last year. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 55 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, read with the Proclamation dated 31st October, 2019 issued under section 73 of the said Act, the President hereby makes the following rules...," the notification said. It said the LG shall, in respect of matters connected with "public order", "police", "All India Services" and "Anti Corruption Bureau", exercise his executive functions in his discretion under the Act. The LG, on the advice of the chief minister (when elected), shall allot the business of the government among the ministers by assigning one or more departments to a minister. The council (of ministers) shall be collectively responsible for all the executive orders issued by any department in the name of the LG and contracts made in the name of the president in connection with the administration of the Union Territory, whether such orders or contracts are authorised by a minister with respect to a matter pertaining to a department under his charge or as a result of discussions at a meeting of the council. The notification said all communications received from the Centre, including those from the prime minister and other ministers, other than those of a routine or unimportant character, shall, as soon as possible after their receipt, be submitted by the secretary to the chief secretary, the minister in-charge, the chief minister and the LG for information. Any matter, which is likely to bring the government of the Union Territory into a controversy with the Centre or a state government, shall, as soon as possible, be brought to the notice of the LG and the chief minister by the secretary concerned through the chief secretary. In case of a difference of opinion between the LG and a minister with regard to any matter, the former shall endeavour by discussion within two weeks from the date of such disagreement to settle any point on which the difference of opinion has arisen. Should the difference of opinion persist, the LG may direct that the matter be referred to the council, which shall consider it at its next scheduled meeting and convey its decision, but not later than 15 days from the date of such reference. In case no such decision is received within 15 days from the date of such reference, the LG's decision shall be deemed to have been accepted by the council of ministers. In case of a difference of opinion between the LG and the council with regard to any matter, the former shall refer it to the Centre for the decision of the president and shall act according to that decision, the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Covid not a ground for postponing Bihar polls, says SC||Stating that Covid-19 cannot be a ground for postponing elections, the Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a PIL seeking to defer the Bihar assembly polls till the state is free of the novel coronavirus. The Election Commission of India will consider everything, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said. The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said it is a premature petition as no notification for the assembly polls has been issued till now. The petitioner, Avinash Thakur, had sought a direction to the Chief Election Commissioner to postpone the polls due to the COVID-19 pandemic on the ground that the Representation of the People Act provides for the deferment of polls in extraordinary situations. How can we ask the Election Commission of India (ECI) to not hold elections? Covid cannot be a valid ground for postponement of elections, the bench stated. The petitioner's counsel said the RP Act provides for the deferment of polls due to an extraordinary situation. To this the bench said it is for the ECI to decide and the court cannot direct the poll panel to not hold elections. The petitioner's counsel also argued that elections are not paramount but human life is, and even MLAs and common people are suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench said it cannot pass orders for the deferment of polls and the ECI will take into account every situation. It said no writ can be applied like this and dismissed the PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Varsities cannot promote students without conducting final year exams: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30. Upholding the UGC decision to hold final year exams, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said if any state feels they can't conduct exams by that date, they must approach the UGC for new dates to hold the exam. Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, is one of the petitioners in the apex court and has questioned the UGC's directive to hold examinations amid the coronavirus pandemic. The UGC had earlier said that the July 6 guidelines are based on recommendations of experts and have been made after due deliberation and it is wrong to claim that it will not be possible to conduct the final examinations in terms of the guidelines. Assailing the decisions of some states like Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel final year examinations, the UGC had said that such decisions directly affect standards of higher education and will be an encroachment on the legislative field of coordinating and determining the standards of higher education that is exclusively reserved for Parliament under Schedule VII of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Covid: Govt's guideline for airlines||The government has permitted the airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights, according to an official order. Moreover, any passenger who refuses to wear a face mask in a flight can be put on the no-fly list by the airline, said a senior official of the aviation regulator DGCA. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, in-flight meal service was not permitted on domestic flights since their resumption on May 25. On international flights, only pre-packed cold meals and snacks were being served depending on the flight duration since May this year. In an order issued on Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, "Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight." Airlines and charter flight operators can "serve hot meals and limited beverages" on international flights "as per the standard practices", it added. The ministry said only single-use disposable trays, plates and cutlery should be used while serving food or beverages in domestic and international flights. "Crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service," it noted. The ministry also permitted the aircraft operators to let passengers use the in-flight entertainment system on international as well as domestic flights wherever available. "Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers at the start of the journey," it noted. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, "A passenger who refuses to wear a face mask can be put on no-fly list by the airline." The official said no new order has been passed in this regard as the airline and its cabin crew are sufficiently empowered under the existing DGCA rules to take action. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can choose to put an unruly passenger on its no-fly list after internal deliberations. Subsequently, other airlines may follow suit in putting that passenger on their no-fly lists. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the 'Vande Bharat Mission' and bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with various countries. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months in view of the pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate 45 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Orissa HC allows same-sex couple to live together||The Orissa High Court has allowed a same-sex couple to continue a live-in relationship, stating that human beings, irrespective of gender identities, are entitled to full enjoyment of their rights. A division bench of Justice S.K. Mishra and Justice Savitri Ratho, while hearing the habeaus corpus plea of a 24-year-old transman earlier this week, said “the state shall provide all kinds of protection to them, including right to life, right to equality before law and equal protection of law”. The petitioner, who identifies himself as a man, said the mother and the uncle of his partner forcibly took her home in Jajpur, and arranged her marriage with another person, prompting him to approach the court. Justice Mishra, who headed the bench, ruled that the duo has the right to decide on their sexual preference, and directed the Jajpur superintendent of police to ensure that the partner gets to join the petitioner in Bhubaneswar. The mother, a widow, and the sister would be allowed to visit the woman at the petitioner’s house, he said. Justice Ratho said that freedom of choice was available to the two, who have decided to live together. The bench also observed that although the woman will join the company of the petitioner on account of a judicial intervention, there is no bar on her in case she wants to part ways with the petitioner or go back to her mother. “The society should support their decision. We hope and trust that the duo will lead a happy and harmonious life,” Justice Ratho added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Naveen seeks Modi intervention over NEET and JEE||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone seeking his intervention for the postponement of NEET and JEE (Main) exams scheduled next month in view of the Covid pandemic and the flood havoc in parts of the state. Naveen’s conversation comes a day after his letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ seeking deferment of these exams till normalcy is restored in the pandemic-hit country. Around 90,000 students from Odisha will be taking these exams for admission into medical and other technical courses. In his missive to the minister, Naveen said that given the situation in the wake of the pandemic it would be unsafe for students to visit the test centres physically. He had also argued that students may face transportation problems considering that the number of centres were very few and several examinees would be coming from far off areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Left parties to join forces with Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar||The Left parties have decided to join forces with the Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar to counter the ruling NDA in the upcoming Assembly elections. The decision came after meetings with Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which leads the Grand Alliance. The Congress, the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) are its other constituents.  The development comes on the heels of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) quitting the alliance. Leaders of the three main Left parties — the CPI, the CPM and the CPI-ML — said that the decision was taken after they felt the necessity to check the division of secular votes in the bid to defeat the BJP and its allies — chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) — in the state. “The CPI and the CPM leaders met RJD state president Jagdanand Singh on Wednesday for around two hours to discuss the modalities of a broad-based alliance to overthrow the NDA government in Bihar. The differences among the parties in the past have weakened the fight against the BJP and its allies,” CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey told The Telegraph. Pandey pointed out that an “in principle” agreement has been reached that the Left will be with the Grand Alliance on all 243 Assembly seats in the state. He also said the CPI and the RJD had contested the polls together in 1995 in which the former had won 26 out of the 55 seats it had fought on. Pandey said the aim was to “bring all secular powers together” to defeat the communal forces. He added that the RJD has assured the Left of a honourable seat-sharing arrangement. Apart from the CPI, the CPM and the CPI-ML, All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) and Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) are the other Left parties active in the state. All the six Left parties contested the 2015 Assembly elections in a bid to provide a third option to voters away from the Grand Alliance and the NDA, but were rejected. They could muster only around 3.5 per cent votes in the state, and only the CPI-ML managed to win three seats. However, it is also a known fact that the Left parties have an extensive presence across Bihar and have the ability to influence results on at least 50 seats. The CPI-ML has held a few meetings with the RJD and its state secretary Kunal said that their essence was to contest the polls together to defeat the NDA. “There should be an honourable seat-sharing deal if the alliance or the agreement has to work out smoothly. The Left parties are ready to put their entire strength to defeat the communal forces endangering our country, state and the Constitution,” Kunal told this newspaper. Meanwhile, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has authorised Jagadanand Singh to proceed with the talks with the Left parties to take them on board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||States shocked at Centre's GST compensation turnaround||The spirit of cooperative federalism lay in tatters at the altar of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Thursday after the Centre disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate states for any annual shortfall in tax collections this year. The GST regime had transformed the country into a single common market in July 2017 and the states had agreed to subsume all their levies under a single tax. The Centre had promised to compensate them if collections failed to record a 14 per cent annual increment in revenues over the base year of 2015-16. At the end of a stormy five-and-a-half-hour meeting, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman left the states with two stark and disagreeable options: either borrow Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The Centre hopes to collect just Rs 65,000 crore this year from the GST compensation cess, which is levied on a handful of “demerit goods” like luxury vehicles, aerated drinks and tobacco products. The states, which had hoped to join forces and persuade the Centre to borrow money and pay them for the GST shortfall, were in for a shock when Sitharaman circulated a note prepared by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that essentially said that any compensation to be paid could only come out of the cess corpus, which has been turned bone dry this year because of the large payout in 2019-20. The government then added salt to the wounds by parcelling out the uncovered GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore into two components: a sum of Rs 97,000 crore that it claimed was attributable to what it termed “GST implementation”, and a larger share of Rs 138,000 crore that was ascribed to what it called Covid-related factors. The government argued that it was under no obligation to pay the Covid-related shortfall since there was no express provision in the legislation for a pandemic or crisis-related situation. It wasn’t immediately clear on what basis the Centre had divided the uncovered GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore into these two streams —and the Union finance minister did not elucidate either at the virtual meeting with the state finance ministers or in her interaction with the media later. Sitharaman firmly stated that the Centre was in no position to borrow the amount on to its books and then defray the sum as the states had hoped. The states, which have received no GST compensation in this fiscal, have been struggling to raise revenues from the few taxes they still levy and were obviously furious when presented with this virtual fait accompli. “The government’s refusal to pay GST compensation to the states is the biggest betrayal in the history of federalism in India.… The states are feeling cheated,” said Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister of Delhi. An irate Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said the AG’s note ought to have been circulated before the meeting. “Why was this note kept under wraps till the last minute?” he asked. “Clearly, the 41st meeting of the GST Council was not a healthy one. The Government of India has thrust a decision on us and this is not in the spirit of the GST regime. The solution that was arrived at is not satisfactory. But we have no choice. We have seven days to take this to our cabinet, where we will discuss the future course of action,” Badal told a virtual media conference later. Sitharaman, who described the pandemic as an “act of God”, did not place the options on the table until the fag end of the meeting, sources said, thereby precluding any discussion. The states asked the Centre to send them a detailed note on the two options so that they could pore over the fine print before deciding which way to vote. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said: “Most of the states are against the idea of borrowing on their books. There was hardly any time for a discussion on the options. So, the states asked for details in writing; we will respond accordingly.” Mitra added: “But as I mentioned in my letter on Wednesday, the Union finance minister had gone on record during the 39th GST Council meeting to say that the Centre was duty bound to compensate the states. This obligation is enshrined in Section 18 of the 101st Constitution Amendment Act, which led to the creation of the GST regime.” “Just because they (the BJP) are in a majority, it doesn’t mean that they can force a decision upon us,” said T.S. Singh Deo, cabinet minister in the Chhattisgarh government. “The Centre, as mentioned in the GST Act, is bound to pay compensation in case of losses. Instead of asking the 31 states to borrow, why can’t the Centre borrow and distribute the amount among the states?” Sitharaman said the Centre, in consultation with the RBI, would provide a special window to the states to borrow Rs 97,000 crore at a “reasonable” rate of interest. This money could be repaid after five years from the collection of cess. Under the second option, the states can borrow the entire uncovered GST compensation shortfall of Rs 235,000 crore through the special window. The Union finance minister said the Centre would facilitate discussions between the states and the RBI to ensure they get a cheap rate on the loans that would be linked to the yield on the government security depending on the maturity period. “All states will roughly get the same rate of interest,” Sitharaman added. Most states are likely to opt for a 10-year loan with a moratorium on repayment. But there was no assurance that it would be granted. “This effectively implies that the RBI will have to inject a huge amount of liquidity -- or it will have to crank up its money supply. In other words, either directly or indirectly there will be monetisation of this part of the deficit, which will have its own implication on the economy as a whole,” said M. Govinda Rao, economist and a member of the 14th finance commission. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that most states do not have the head room to borrow because of the limits that are placed on them under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Sitharaman offered to get round this problem by relaxing the limit. “I have offered states a 0.5 per cent relaxation on their FRBM limit if they decide to borrow on their own without fulfilling the conditions of completing the tasks under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme,” she said. In May, the Centre had raised the borrowing limits of the states to 5 per cent of their gross domestic product for 2020-21 granting them access to an extra resource pool of Rs 4.28 lakh crore. A part of this was linked to specific reforms to be implemented in terms of the Atmanirbhar Bharat stimulus package. It was not immediately clear if the relaxation was being made within the 5 per cent limit or if the borrowing cap was being effectively raised to 5.5 per cent. Revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said a sum of only Rs 97,000 crore was attributable to the implementation of the GST, while the rest was on account of the coronavirus pandemic hitting the economy. “We do not know whether they have run an economic model to separate out the two streams to determine which part of the shortfall is attributable to GST implementation and which portion relates to Covid-related issues,” said Mukesh Bhutani, managing partner of BMR Legal. Sitharaman insisted that the states would be able to repay the borrowings based on the compensation cess collections in future years. Although she did not state this explicitly, there is a view among pundits that the cess may be extended beyond the original five-year term till June 2022 -- which means that the consumers will eventually end up bearing the burden. “History tells us that when a cess is imposed in this country, it continues forever. A cess, which is an exception, is increasingly becoming the norm,” said Pratik Jain, partner and national tax leader at PwC. “Intuitively, I think the states will opt to borrow the full Rs 2.35 lakh crore this year itself. But we will have to wait and see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||SC stays off order on  Muharram||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to pass any directive to permit the annual Muharram processions this year across the country, saying it would “create chaos and a particular community will be targeted for spreading Covid-19”. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian rejected the petitioner’s contention that the Muharram processions should be allowed as the court had earlier permitted this year’s Rath Yatra in Puri and worship at two Jain temples in Maharashtra amid the pandemic. Justice Bobde told the petitioner: “It is not possible to give general directions. It will create chaos and a particular community will be targeted for spreading Covid. We will not pass orders that could risk the health of so many people.” The PIL had been filed by a Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh, Syed Kalbe Jawad, who wanted a directive to all the states and Union Territories to permit Muharram processions. “You’re asking for vague directions for the whole country for this community. The Jagannath Puri case was one specific place where the rath was to go from point A to B. If it was for one specific place, we can assess the danger and pass orders. We cannot pass general orders,” CJI Bobde observed. The Supreme Court allowed Jawad to approach Allahabad High Court for permission to observe Muharram in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Pune doctor volunteers for second phase of Oxford vaccine trial ||A 48-year-old doctor, who was administered the Oxford Covid-19 candidate vaccine on Wednesday, said he was inspired by immunology greats Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner to volunteer for the second phase of the trial in Pune. The man, who was administered the vaccine candidate dose, said his vital signs were normal and he had resumed routine work. “As I work in healthcare sector, I know vaccines have made a huge difference in the quality of human life. When I read the history of vaccination, I got inspired by pioneers Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner who performed the trials on themselves. They inspired me to volunteer,” he said. Louis Pasteur (1822-1895) was a French chemist who proved that germs cause disease, and developed vaccines for anthrax and rabies. Edward Jenner (1749-1823) was an English doctor and discoverer of vaccination for smallpox. The volunteer said he had also volunteered 10 years ago for clinical trials for a vaccine against the H1N1 (swine flu) virus. The phase-II clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India started at the Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday, with two volunteers being administered the Covishield vaccine. Hospital authorities said the identity of the volunteers couldn’t be revealed. The doctor said his 21-year-old daughter had also volunteered during the trial of a vaccine on cervical cancer in 2014. “My daughter, who is pursuing a BTech degree, has volunteered and become eligible for the (Covishield) trial as her reports of Covid-19 and antibody came negative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||UP BJP MLA warns against using upper caste title in molest complaint||A man bearing the name of a BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh can be heard in an audiotape warning a local leader against uttering the word “Thakur” while complaining against alleged molesters and also not to make it evident in the police case that the accused belong to the upper caste. Opposition parties in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh often accuse the Yogi Adityanath government of pampering Thakur castemen while victimising others, particularly the Brahmins. The caller in the audiotape of a purported phone conversation identifies himself as Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city. He addresses the person he calls as “vidhayakji” (MLA). The person who receives the call identifies himself as Radha Mohan. The four-time MLA of Gorakhpur Urban is Radha Mohan Das Agrawal. When The Telegraph contacted Agrawal on Thursday, he said: “I am fighting against a scam in the construction of an embankment and four MLAs of my own party are supporting the corrupt officers of the public works department. May be my enemies are floating such an audio to harm me. I don’t remember talking to anybody about this case of molestation.” Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city, didn’t receive calls from this newspaper. A BJP source said the conversation dates back to May. Chief minister Adityanath, a Thakur, had represented Gorakhpur for long in Parliament. Excerpts from the purported telephone conversation: Receiver: Radha Mohan speaking.  Caller: Vidhayakji, pranam. Receiver: Ji, pranam. Caller: I am Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city. Vidhayakji, I had a request. Receiver: Why don’t you talk to the MLA of your area (Gorakhpur Rural)? Caller: No, no, it is a matter of the Gorakhnath police station area, so I was compelled to call you. RK (name changed by this newspaper) lives in Alinagar. I know him well. His relative SK (name changed)  lives in Ram Nagar…. Receiver: Okay. Caller: SK has young daughters in his family. A Thakur family also lives in the area. Receiver: Thakur parivar nahin rehte hain, parivar rehte hain (Not a Thakur family, a family lives there). Caller: Yes, a Thakur family lives there. Receiver: Bhajpa mein hain, Thakuron ki sarkar chal rahi hai aur aap Thakur parivar ki baat kar rahe hain (You are in the BJP. The government is of the Thakurs, and you are talking about a Thakur family). What wrong have they done? Do Baniyas ever run the government? Behave properly with the Thakurs. Don’t say they are a Thakur family.   Caller: Sir, SK has young daughters in the family. For two, three, four months, these people are misbehaving with the girls. The day before yesterday, RK and his son, since they are relatives (of SK), went (to the accused) around 8pm to make them see sense. They fought during which MK (RK’s son) son, suffered face and head injuries. The other side has also suffered injuries, but the SO (station officer) of Gorakhnath accepted the application of only one side and is conducting a one-sided investigation. Receiver: Who is the SO there? Caller: Sir, I don’t know the name of the SO. (Someone from behind tells him the name of the SO) Receiver: What is the proof that there has been molestation? Caller: They are girls and whatever the family would say should be taken into consideration. Receiver: Have you lodged any complaint about the molestation before today? Caller: Sir, the honour of the family….   Receiver: This has been going on for four months. Who will believe if you level such allegations now? How old are the girls? Caller: They are 24-25 years old, sir. Receiver: Will they give a statement? Caller: Yes, sir, they will give a statement. Receiver: How many girls are there? Caller: They are two girls, sir. Receiver: Will both of them testify that they were molested? Caller: Yes, sir, they will. Receiver: Ask both the girls to write a statement addressed to the senior superintendent of police. You go to the SSP’s gate. Send me the statement on WhatsApp. Let me read it, then only call the SSP.  Caller: Okay sir, okay sir. Pranam, sir. Receiver: I have been seeing the theatrics of you people in BJP. It’s in your blood to be servile. Do what I have said. Prepare two separate letters. The allegations will be made in writing. Who all, and since when, have been molesting the girls. Then mention such and such SO. Just mention the names. You don’t need to spell out the obvious that the accused are Singhs (Thakurs) and the SO is also a Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||AAP leaders tongue-tied at Kejriwal’s silence on Bhushan conviction||Arvind Kejriwal and the senior leadership of his Aam Aadmi Party have maintained a conspicuous silence on the Supreme Court’s conviction of advocate Prashant Bhushan, a co-founder of the party who stands expelled, for criminal contempt. Even the Congress, which lost the 2014 Lok Sabha elections largely because of the graft allegations levelled by Bhushan, Kejriwal and their India Against Corruption movement, has expressed concern over the judgment. Second-rung AAP leaders have tweeted in Bhushan’s favour and shared his statement in court refusing to apologise. However, no AAP leader has signed any of the multiple statements issued in Bhushan’s support. Several Opposition leaders, including the Congress’s Digvijaya Singh and Shashi Tharoor, have lent their names to the statements. An AAP source told The Telegraph: “Prashant never came to our support when false cases were foisted on our leaders. Within the party, they (Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav, another expelled leader) are seen as ungrateful, considering the stature that common workers had elevated them to. They (Bhushan and Yadav) damaged our prospects solely to the benefit of the BJP in the 2017 Delhi municipal polls. However, they took a positive stand towards us in the Assembly polls earlier this year. So opinion within the party on whether or not we should stick our neck out for them is divided.” He added: “Some finality is awaited in his case, and the party’s official stand on his case will take shape, if at all, after the sentencing.” Kejriwal’s silence stands out in contrast to his activist avatar, like the time he had called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a “psychopath” after the CBI raided his office in 2015. The Delhi chief minister began to pipe down after AAP’s poor debut in the 2017 municipal polls. However, even as late as last year, Kejriwal had exclaimed after the Supreme Court verdict did not go completely in favour of his government in his tussle with the Centre: “What democracy is this?” Another AAP functionary told this paper on Wednesday: “The party’s general sentiment on this (Bhushan’s case) has been expressed by leaders like Ajoy Kumar, Ankit Lal, Preeti Menon and Jasmine Shah. The question is what stake do we have in this case? Does it benefit or harm us in any way? The case itself looks like a work in progress. Arvind does not need to constantly comment on everything.” An article being shared within AAP circles is journalist and former party leader Ashish Khetan’s recent profile of Bhushan in The Print web portal. The unease within AAP over taking a stand for a rebel, sources said, has been explained by Khetan who wrote: “The Bhushans’ (Prashant and his father Shanti Bhushan) tacit support to the misuse of agencies by the Centre against AAP smacks of double standard…. When the AAP government’s powers were whittled away illegally by an authoritarian central government, P. Chidambaram, casting away his trenchant political opposition to AAP, represented the Delhi government before the Supreme Court in 2017 and argued against the Centre’s unconstitutional assault on the elected government in Delhi.” Kejriwal’s silence is more telling at a time he has been accused by activists of playing second fiddle to the BJP by appearing to remain a bystander during the February riots in Delhi, then doing precious little for rehabilitation, and echoing the BJP’s propaganda that the protests against the new citizenship regime at Shaheen Bagh had led to the flare-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi sets up Congress group to look after parliamentary work||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday set up a 10-member group to look after parliamentary work, with five members each from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Although no formal announcement was made, sources said the committee would include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Ahmed Patel, K.C. Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh from the Rajya Sabha and Adhir Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K. Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu from the Lok Sabha. Gogoi has been named deputy leader of the Lok Sabha. Bittu, a young MP from Punjab, has been appointed a whip along with Tagore. Azad, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote a controversial letter to Sonia on the drift in the party, on Thursday repeated his demand for elections to appoint a party president and Congress Working Committee members. He told the news agency ANI that a nominated president would not have even one per cent legitimacy under the present circumstances and therefore an election was  necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Arm-twist charge on GST compensation||The Congress on Thursday expressed deep anguish over the Narendra Modi government’s attitude of using brute majority in Parliament and the GST Council to arm-twist states into submission over the payment of compensation. Stressing that the Modi government had scant regard for the Constitution and its own commitments, the Congress also warned of a situation when states will think of walking out of the GST regime. The Congress-ruled states are upset because the Centre tried to create an impression that it was legally not bound to pay compensation even when the Constitution was amended to give a sovereign commitment to pay for the losses for five years. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said after the GST Council meeting on Thursday, “An impression was sought to be created that there is no legal commitment to pay compensation. The opinion given by the attorney-general was read out at the meeting. There is a clear trust deficit. An outcome has been thrust upon us. States will have to borrow. Though the issue of compensation is still open, we are not happy with the outcome. But the states have no option.” Indicating the possibility of a conflict, Badal said, “We have asked for seven days’ time to respond. We have to consult our cabinet. But in case a state is not agreeable, we demand that the dispute resolution mechanism should be activated. States can take legal recourse. The IGST (integrated GST) money of Rs 54,000 crore that the Centre appropriated should also be returned. We would have preferred one-third of the dues be paid from the Consolidated Fund of India and the rest could have been borrowed.” Chhattisgarh finance minister T.S. Singhdeo said, “Compensation was the basis on which the states gave their consent to the GST regime. Now the Modi government is trying to arm-twist the states because it has majority in Parliament and GST Council. They say compensation is not a legal obligation and are coercing the states to surrender. States’ rights to levy taxes were snatched and now we are told to fend for ourselves. Why is the Centre violating the Constitution and its own commitments?” Singhdeo added, “There were serious reservations among the states about the GST regime. The financial independence of states was at stake. But the Centre gave assurances. Now there is a crisis and the Centre is backing out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Government asks central universities to freeze teacher recruitment||The government has asked central universities to freeze teacher recruitment until "complete lifting" of the lockdown, a move welcomed by JNU teachers who have long been accusing varsity authorities of irregularities in faculty appointments. In a letter on Tuesday to the vice-chancellors of all the central universities, the education ministry said that filling “general posts including teaching and non-teaching posts in central universities may be deferred till complete lifting of lockdown”. The universities were recruiting teachers entirely through online interviews because of the Covid crisis. The JNU teachers’ association had written several times to the government during the pandemic, alleging large-scale “illegalities” in the faculty appointments and laying the blame on vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. The teachers’ association has long been making the same allegation and several teachers have petitioned Delhi High Court against particular appointments over the past several years. But the government has hardly ever acted on the teachers’ and students’ multiple complaints against the VC, who is perceived to be close to the ruling dispensation. A teachers’ association member described Tuesday’s ministry letter — which cited no explanations for the directive — as a “relief, at least for the time being”. According to the association, the JNU administration has been interfering in the teacher appointment process in various ways, for instance, by changing the advertised eligibility criteria just before the selection. The teachers’ main complaint is that Kumar has been violating rules by inviting subject experts of his own choice as members of the selection committees that interview the candidates. Under JNU’s rules and statutes, each of its centres or schools recommends a panel of experts for possible inclusion in its teacher selection committee. Once statutory bodies like the university’s academic council and executive council have approved the names, the VC invites any three of them to join the selection committee. However, the current dispensation has invoked a 1997 executive council resolution that authorised the VC to add names to the list of recommended experts and get them approved by the executive council. The teachers say this resolution applied only to the year 1997. Last year, Delhi High Court passed an interim order allowing the VC to add names to the list but requiring their approval from the academic council and the executive council. Since most of the members of both councils are nominated by the VC, deans and chairpersons, the VC gets all his agendas approved, a teachers’ association member said. “The VC calls experts of his choice these days. He does not include anybody from the list recommended by the centre or the school. Some of these experts have hardly published any paper in peer-reviewed journals,” the teacher said. Rajeev Kumar, a computer science teacher at JNU, said faculty recruitment was not urgent enough to be conducted during the pandemic. “Faculty recruitment should not be short-circuited, as is currently being done,” he said. “A faculty member, once appointed, stays on for the next two to four decades. Any compromise with faculty selection may therefore severely affect the academic environment.” Rajeev Kumar said that although the National Education Policy had recommended abolition of the MPhil course, JNU was recruiting teachers on the basis of the posts sanctioned for its integrated MPhil-PhD course rather than recalculating the number of required teachers after excluding the MPhil-related posts. “Instead of faculty recruitment, a VC’s time may be more meaningfully devoted to higher-priority tasks such as improving the infrastructure for online teaching and assessment, rescheduling the academic calendar, conducting admissions and calling the students back to the campus,” he said. An email sent to the JNU vice-chancellor and registrar seeking their reaction to the allegations of illegalities in teacher appointment has remained unanswered. The Central University of Rajasthan had sought permission for an online interview to recruit teachers. The ministry has advised it to wait for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Relook at quota preference within SC/ST||A five-judge constitution bench on Thursday ruled that there can be classification and preferential treatment within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so that the more backward among them have better access to reservation in education and jobs. The relatively better-off members appear to have “usurped” the benefits, defeating the very purpose of reservation to remove the disparities, the court said. The bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, however, referred the matter to a seven-judge or still larger bench for laying down the law on the subject as another five-judge bench of the apex court had in 2005 taken a contrary view that no such classification can be done. The apex court bench said on Thursday: “In our opinion, it would be permissible… to make such sub-classification to provide benefit to all to bring equality, and it would not amount to exclusion from the list as no class (caste) is deprived of reservation in totality.” The court noted that if the quota benefits are “permitted to be usurped by a few who are adequately represented, have advanced and belong to the creamy layer”, then it would “tantamount to creating inequality, whereas in case of hunger every person is required to be fed and provided bread”. “The entire basket of fruits cannot be given to the mighty at the cost of others under the guise of forming a homogenous class.” In 2014, a three-judge bench had referred the matter to a larger bench as it felt that the 2005 five-judge bench verdict needed to be revisited as it did not properly interpret a nine-judge bench ruling in 1992 on the issue. If there is a conflict of opinion between benches of similar strength, only a larger bench can overrule it. On Thursday, the bench that also had Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose said: “The million-dollar question is how to trickle down the benefit to the bottom rung; reports indicate that the benefit is being usurped by those castes who have come up and (have been) adequately represented. It is clear that caste, occupation and poverty are interwoven. “The State cannot be deprived of the power to take care of the qualitative and quantitative difference between different classes to take ameliorative measures.” The bench relied on the nine-judge bench ruling in 1992 that said the “creamy layer concept” for exclusion of benefit can be applied to the SCs and STs and it does not in any manner tinker with the presidential list under Articles 341 or 342 of the Constitution. The Articles mandate that only Parliament can include or exclude any caste/communities from the list of SC/STs by bringing a notified list. “The caste or group or sub­group continued exactly as before in the list. It is only those persons within that group or sub­group, who have come out of untouchability or backwardness by virtue of belonging to the creamy layer, who are excluded from the benefit of reservation,” the bench said. “Reservation was not contemplated for all the time by the framers of the Constitution. On the one hand, there is no exclusion of those who have come up, on the other hand, if sub­classification is denied, it would defeat right to equality by treating unequal as equal…. “The scavenger class given the name of Balmikis remains more or less where it was, and so on, disparity within the Scheduled Caste is writ large from various reports,” Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||West Bengal||CLAT clashes with Bengal lockdown on September 7||The national entrance test for admission to law schools is scheduled on September 7, when Bengal is to be under a complete lockdown. Students and parents are worried how they would reach the exam centres and whether they would be allowed to step out of home at all. A senior official of the Consortium of National Law Universities that conducts the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) told The Telegraph on Thursday afternoon that the exam was still on schedule but they had yet to take the final decision on whether separate arrangements would be made for Bengal. The Bengal government’s lockdown calendar for next month, announced on Wednesday, includes September 7, a Monday. Only emergency and essential services are allowed during a complete lockdown, and facilitating exams is not part of either. “We came to know about the Bengal government’s decision last (Wednesday) evening. A meeting of the executive committee of the consortium will soon be held to decide whether it will be possible to conduct the CLAT on September 7 (in Bengal). The decision will be conveyed to the students accordingly,” Faizan Mustafa, vice-chancellor of the NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, and a member of the executive committee of the consortium, said. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee told The Telegraph: “Our stand on the law school admission test is the same as that on JEE and NEET.” Bengal, like several other states, has opposed the engineering and medical entrance tests (scheduled from next week) in the middle of the pandemic. The CLAT is held to admit students to 22 national law universities across the country. The National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) in Calcutta is one of them. IIM Indore too is to conduct the entrance test for its five-year integrated management course on September 7. An IIM Indore official said the entrance test would be held as scheduled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Antigen tests for lockdown violators||Around 80 people who had come out defying Thursday’s statewide lockdown at Kaliachak in Malda were intercepted by policemen and escorted to a centre for their antigen tests. This move made many loitering around rush home and helped the health department get random samples for the antigen test to know the extent of Covid-19 transmission. Following a steady spike in Covid-19 cases in Kaliachak, the health department opened a camp in Chowringhee, a prominent crossing in Kaliachak. Till afternoon, technicians at the camp collected  samples from 250-odd persons, one-third of them lockdown violators. A police officer said that among lockdown violators, one tested positive for Covid. “It was learnt that he is from Ratua (also in Malda district) and had come to Kaliachak during the lockdown without any reason,” the policeman said. In Alipurduar, a patient at the Covid hospital in Tapshikhata on the town’s outskirts fled and hid in a bush nearby. People who spotted him gave him food and told the police. Policemen and a doctor tried to persuade him to return to the hospital, but the man refused, citing poor services at the hospital. The police informed his family who took him home. He was advised home isolation. “He is comorbid, hence was in hospital,” said a health department source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Driver of ATM cash van flees with lakhs||Police are on the look out for a driver of an ATM cash management firm who has fled with Rs 86 lakh meant for ATM kiosks of a nationalised bank. The police said the accused, Raj Sardar, 35, sped with the cash in the vehicle on Wednesday around 4.30pm when an employee of the firm was busy filling cash at a kiosk of Punjab National Bank in Atpur area of Jagaddal and a security guard was guarding the ATM. An official of the firm said that the team was carrying around Rs 90 lakh to refill cash at ATM kiosks of which Rs 4 lakh was taken by the cash custodian to load. Sardar fled with the balance amount of Rs 86 lakh. An eyewitness said: “The security guard tried to chase the van but in vain. The vehicle sped fast towards Naihati.” The police on Thursday morning traced the vehicle, a Maruti Eeco van, in Bijpur, around 25km from the ATM kiosk where it was last seen, and found the empty cash trunk. Ajay Kumar Thakur, DC, (Zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate said hunt was on for Sardar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Arrests after Arambagh prod||Four large police teams headed by Hooghly (rural) police chief Tathagata Basu raided at least two dozen villages in Khanakul block, Arambagh subdivision, to recover firearms and bombs, and arrested six criminals on Wednesday night, after chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 24 pulled up the police for its failure to rein in violence in Arambagh. The police recovered 72 bombs, six firearms, 30 bullets. All six persons who were arrested had criminal backgrounds. During her district review meeting through videoconferencing on August 24, Mamata had questioned the regular clashes in Arambagh, Hooghly district, and asked “SP Tathagata” to take control of the situation. “SP Tathagata…tomar okhane prai prai gondogol hoi keno? Samlate paro na naki? Ar jeno kono gondogol na hoi, take care (SP Tathagata, why disturbances are frequently reported in your area? You can’t control the situation? Take care there are no further disturbances),” Mamata had said. Police sources said Mamata had pointed to incidents of violence and political clashes in Arambagh in August that claimed the lives of two persons. On August 6, a Trinamul worker was killed as crude bombs were hurled on him allegedly during a clash with another faction of the party. On August 15, a BJP worker was killed in a clash between BJP and Trinamul workers over Independence Day celebrations at the same venue. Sources said had the police intervened sooner the clash could have been avoided. Trinamul leaders said the chief minister wanted to rein in violence in the run up to Bengal Assembly polls in Hooghly district where the BJP has managed to build its organisation. Khanakul, Jangipara and Arambagh in Hooghly have always been in the news for political violence since the time of the Left Front. “The BJP has made inroads in the district and violence gives the saffron camp an opportunity to launch protests. These incidents have to stop,” said a Trinamul leader. Police sources said they arrested one Hemanta Samanta from Durgapur village of Khanakul and recovered four one-shutter improvised pistols from him. Of the other five arrested, arms were recovered from two more criminals. “We selected pockets in violence-prone police stations, including Khanakul, Jangipara and Arambagh. We started with Khanakul on Wednesday night and our raids will continue for seven consecutive days, and then we will move to other areas,” said Basu. Asked if his action came after Mamata’s order, Basu said: “We always take action when a clash or incident takes place. But we launched a bigger drive after the chief minister pointed it out at the review meeting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Landslide debris cuts NH10 link for 18 hours||Road connectivity between Siliguri and Sikkim-Kalimpong was snapped for around 18 hours after a landslide on NH10 in the 29thMile area of Kalimpong, some 40km from here, in the wee hours of Thursday. The debris from the hills buried a truck parked off the highway, and damaged four houses. Excavators worked throughout Thursday to remove the rubble and create room for vehicles to move in a single file by evening. Kalimpong had experienced heavy downpour that might have triggered the slide, said sources. “Because of the statewide lockdown, vehicles are few on Thursday. But as NH10 connects Sikkim and Kalimpong, we started restoration work,” said Krishna Gupta, a contractor who is assigned with the maintenance work of NH 10 by the state PWD (NH division). Residents, who feared fresh debris could fall in the highway if it rained again, raised the demand for early completion of the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project and the widening of an alternative road to Sikkim via Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Rain-fed rivers flood 50 Bengal villages ||Over 50 villages in West Midnapore’s Ghatal were inundated since Tuesday night after rivers Parang and Shilabati overflowed in the wake of heavy rainfall in the region. Over 40,000 persons in the region have been affected by floods in the district’s Daspur-I block, where sources say broken embankments have led to stagnant floodwater in farmlands and residential areas. Residents of Rajnagar and Narajal gram panchayat areas said on Thursday that almost all farmlands in the area were destroyed, though damage to residential settlements had been minimal owing to construction norms that specify homes on stilts. “Panchayat officials have been distributing hundreds of tarpaulins and dry food packets,” said Narajal panchayat pradhan Gagan Samanta, adding that 25 mud homes suffered severe damage and those families had sought shelter at a school in Rajnagar. Among them, Danikola’s Balaram Bhunia, 60, cried for his lost crops. “We got low rainfall at the start of monsoon because of which our crops suffered. Now floods took away whatever little we were left with. Initially, low rainfall had prompted most farmers to spend extra on hiring pumps (to irrigate fields),” he said, pointing out the irony. Rajkundu resident Manab Bakra, 64, said water was “waist-high”. “People can move around only on boats,” he said. Daspur I panchayat samiti chief Arun Dolai said officials were “keeping an eye” on the broken embankments and promised repairs soon. At Arambagh’s Khanakul subdivision in Hooghly district, five low-lying villages were inundated after heavy rain since Wednesday night. Teams led by Hooghly SP (rural) Tataghata Basu took part in relief work on Thursday. District magistrate Y. Ratnakara Rao inspected flooded sites and told residents that officials with life jackets on speedboats would be sent for relief work. Ferries in Khanakul did not ply. The administration used drones to monitor the situation. In East Burdwan’s Kalna, the overflowing Bhagirathi led SDO Suman Mohanty’s office to start a helpline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Officials survey Birbhum mining site||A team of senior Birbhum district administration and police officials headed by Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu and police chief Shyam Singh visited Chanda of Mohammedbazar on Thursday to identify 40 acres of government land where work on the Deocha-Pachami mining project would start. “We visited the area to make a ground report on the site. We have marked a stretch of 40 acres from where mining can start. The approach road to the plot will be ready soon,” Basu said. Sources said the visit came after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had referred to the project at the district review meeting. Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, spreads over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, said sources. Senior officials said the state government was keen to start the mining project before the 2021 Assembly polls to showcase it as an engine of economic growth in south Bengal. Sources have said the state government doesn’t want to go in for any confrontation with the local people to purchase land as was assured by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha during a meeting with landowners and other stakeholders in Deocha on July 9. “If we could start the project on government land, there would be no burden of acquisition or purchasing at all. As soon as the project will start, we will start talking to local people about compensation and other issues,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Central officials test positive||Two members of a team sent by the Union ministry of rural development to study the progress of different projects tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. They had undergone tests upon their arrival here on Monday. The team was sent to review the progress of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The four senior officials arrived in Bengal from Delhi on August 24. While two went to Birbhum, others reached Bankura. Senior state government officials said they had asked the team not to visit districts because of the pandemic and told them that conducting the survey would be a problem. “As the team members said it was mandatory for them to inspect the projects, we advised them to undergo tests first before they set out to visit the sites,” said a senior district official. A senior official in Birbhum said the two officials from Delhi had undergone a rapid antigen test first and one of them was detected with the novel coronavirus. “After that, we sent their samples again and asked them to be in quarantine at a Bolpur hotel. Reports for the duo came positive today (Thursday) and we have asked them to be at the same hotel for at least 10 days,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. In Bankura, the two officials underwent a test and they were allowed to move after the report came negative. “We did not allow them to move out till their reports came. However, they were tested negative for Covid,” said a senior official in Bankura. One of the officials, who had been sent to Birbhum, said: “We have been verbally informed about our Covid report. We have no symptoms.” “We will take a final decision after discussing with our bosses in Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Overall toll past 3,000, but active cases fall in Bengal||Bengal’s overall Covid-19 toll crossed 3,000 on Thursday but the state also achieved three significant positives, a 24-hour high in daily Covid-19 testing with 42,474, crossing 17 lakh tests in all and surpassing the 80 per cent recovery rate. Also, with 3,189 recoveries in 24 hours till 9am on Thursday, which outweighed the 2,997 new infections in the same window, the total number of active cases fell for the fourth consecutive day. On Sunday, the total number of active cases was 28,069; on Thursday the figure fell to 26,709. The state crossed 1.5 lakh in the total number of cases, of which over 1.21 lakh are recoveries and 3,017 are deaths. Fifty-three persons died on Thursday. Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Exactly 100 days later, the state crossed 17 lakh in tests. A month ago, the state was conducting 17,000 tests a day, at 9,325 tests per million. Now it conducts over 42,000 a day, at 19,073 per million. “The (state’s) achievements in testing are the brightest of these silver linings in the pandemic cloud. Having begun testing in early February, we were at 8,39,211 tests till a month ago. In these 30 days, we conducted 8,77,396 tests,” said a minister. Another welcome trend is the dip in active Covid-19 cases in the most high-incidence districts of Bengal. On Thursday, yet again, the five most high-incidence states of Bengal in terms of the novel coronavirus infection — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 354 in active cases. These districts have been logging more recoveries than new cases fairly consistently now since August 9. “The most high-incidence district of Calcutta had 7,041 active cases on August 9. Now, this number has fallen to 5,311. Today, it reported 770 recoveries and 571 new cases,” said the minister. Owing to the spike in cases, however, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.78 per cent, which was 7.86 per cent even at the beginning of the month. Of Bengal’s 53 Covid-related deaths on Thursday, 16 were reported from Calcutta. Of the 3,017 deaths in total, 2,628 or 87.1 per cent were reported as comorbid by the government. Comorbidities include hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, kidney and pulmonary diseases, tuberculosis and cancer. The overall mortality rate of Bengal also stayed put at 2 per cent, while the national rate is now 1.82 per cent. The minister iterated that chief minister Mamata Banerjee wanted priority on lowering the state’s mortality rate. “There are several measures being put in place to that end in the next few weeks,” he said. Bengal reported 34.69 per cent occupancy in the 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 dedicated hospitals, and 14.74 per cent in the 11,507 beds in 200 safe homes across the state. Telemedicine services have been given to over 1.32 lakh, 4,558 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati e-meeting on ‘present situation’||Visva-Bharati called two back-to-back meetings, for at least 1,100 teaching and non-teaching employees, on Friday to discuss the “present situation” of the varsity grappling with the Pous Mela ground boundary wall controversy. The meetings will be held online in view of Covid-19 protocol of physical distancing, varsity authorities announced on Thursday night, deviating from their earlier plan of holding two separate physical meetings for teaching and non-teaching staff at the Bangladesh Bhavan. Visva-Bharati officiating registrar Asha Chakrabarty had earlier in the day given two notices to this effect, raising eyebrows of varsity employees and the district administration. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had asked the SDO Bolpur to tell Visva-Bharati authorities not to hold such a huge gathering amid the pandemic. “I have come to know about the meetings and the SDO has sent a letter to the varsity authorities alerting them to the Covid protocol. If there is any violation of Covid protocol, we will take stern action,” Basu had said. Sources said that this stern stand had prompted Visva-Bharati authorities to go for online meetings. A senior varsity official had tried to justify the physical meetings, saying: “We will allow 200 people inside the auditorium and rest will sit in the passages and other halls at Bangladesh Bhavan by adhering to the Covid protocol. We will scan all participants with thermal scanners and give them sanitisers.” A senior health department official had said that allowing an assembly of 200 people was not possible as the permissible limit was 50. Birbhum reported 1,617 Covid positive cases so far, 135 persons were infected on Thursday, the state health department report said. Twelve people have died of Covid in the district so far. At the meetings, vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is expected to seek the support of the varsity fraternity against the campus vandalism on August 17, said sources. The central varsity has already blamed a Trinamul MLA and other party leaders for it. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 17 had said that walls went against Tagore’s philosophy. Many alumni, faculty members, students and residents have spoken out against walls that to them symbolise the lack of communication between the varsity authorities and larger Santiniketan ecosystem, and alleged bids to saffronise the varsity under VC Chakrabarty’s tenure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre asks states to ‘refine’ Covid fight||The Centre on Thursday nudged 10 states, including Bengal, to “refine and strengthen” their testing, contact tracing and containment efforts and improve their ambulance and treatment services to help lower mortality among patients with coronavirus disease. The Union health ministry, while iterating the need for the states to focus on “effective containment, contact tracing, and surveillance”, also advised them to “place in the public domain” the availability of beds and ambulances across Covid-19 hospitals. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a video conference called by the Union cabinet secretary, described the Covid-19 epidemic in the 10 states — Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. These states or Union territories accounted for around 89 per cent of India’s Covid-19 deaths over the past two weeks. Five of them have case fatality rates higher than the national average of 1.8 per cent — Gujarat (3.3), Maharashtra (3.2), Punjab (2.6), Bengal (2.0) and Jammu and Kashmir (1.9). The health ministry has also advised the states and Union territories to make public the status of bed and ambulance availability in Covid-19 hospitals, reduce ambulance response times and ensure that patients receive effective clinical management. Health officials have also asked the states to monitor weekly mortality among Covid-19 patients in each hospital with a special focus on patients with underlying illnesses or those aged 60 years or older and at risk for severe disease. Weekly measurements of the mortality among hospitalised Covid-19 patients — also called hospital fatality rate — will allow health authorities to track and assess the efficacy of clinical management of patients and take steps to improve management if required, according to medical experts. In states where the numbers of new daily cases detected run into several hundreds or thousands, public health experts say the task of contact tracing will be challenging. The daily new cases on Wednesday, for instance, ranged from over 14,000 in Maharashtra to 8,580 in Karnataka and 2,974 in Bengal. Field staff with India’s nationwide disease surveillance units assigned contact tracing need to determine who was likely exposed to each new positive case detected over the two days prior to the diagnosis. “This is a mammoth task — if there are enough feet on the ground, if there is a robust fully operational workforce, then this could be done,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Across India, health authorities on Thursday recorded 75,760 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh single-day high, raising the total number of infections to over 3.31 million, of whom over 2.52 million patients have recovered, 725,991 are under medical supervision and 60,472 have died. The epidemic’s continued growth, medical experts say, is nothing surprising. “This was bound to happen —there’s nothing we could have done about it,” said a senior epidemiologist who is a member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert panel on surveillance. “Now, we see it spreading into smaller towns.” The health ministry also urged state officials to focus on promoting behavioural change to get people to adopt physical distancing, masks and hand hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Delhi pats Bengal bid to arrest Covid spread ||Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba praised some of the initiatives of the Bengal government in containing the spread of Covid-19 during a video conference he had with the chief secretaries and the health secretaries of major states on Thursday, said a source. “The cabinet secretary praised the state for initiating several innovative steps, including introduction of critical covid patient management system, telemedicine facilities for all patients and safe homes to decongest hospital beds for serious patients. He also appreciated the decision to carry out surveys to find out patients with severe acute respiratory illness and influenza like illness,” said the source. Gauba, however, asked the Bengal authorities to focus on measures to bring down the Covid death rate, added the source. Sources at Nabanna have said that as of now, Bengal has a Covid death rate of 2 per cent with 2,909 fatalities and a total of 1,47,775 positive cases. “The Centre wants us to bring down the death rate to below 1 per cent at the earliest. We have already brought down the death rate from 4.5 per cent to 2 per cent in the past one month,” said a senior official. Sources in the Bengal health department said the latest initiative to identify people with comorbidities and take special care of them could help the state bring down the death rate soon. “The Niti Ayog member, V. K. Paul, who was present at the meeting praised the initiative to identify people with comorbidities. He said that this is the first such initiative in the country and it could be a game changer as 86 per cent of the Covid deaths are attributed to comorbidities,” said a senior official. The survey to find out people with serious comorbidities has already started in Calcutta and it will begin across the state from Monday. “It is expected that by September third week, we will have the details of all people with serious comorbidities in the state. In case of Calcutta, the list could be prepared much before that. Once we get the details, we would implement a strategy on how to monitor their health conditions on a regular basis,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Caste bias’ stalls resettlement||Members of five Scheduled Caste families whose homes were either washed away or face threat from the swirling waters of the Hooghly in Nadia couldn’t settle on the land allotted by the local panchayat because of opposition from upper caste people. However, a member of the Chanduria 1 gram panchayat run by the Trinamul Congress denied that caste bias had stalled the rehabilitation of the five families belonging to the Dom caste at Mathpara village. “Our only fault is that we belong to the Dom community,” said Bijoy Chaudhuri, whose house can be gobbled by the Hooghly at Gournagar any time. As the village is prone to erosion, the Nadia district administration had drawn up a plan last year to rehabilitate 13 families at the nearby Mathpara, which is away from the Hooghly. Both Gournagar and Mathpara are in the Chanduria 1 gram panchayat. The 13 families were subsequently given government-vested land for living at Mathpara. The river devoured 12 homes and the families moved to the new settlement in March. Although eight families, all belonging to upper castes, could be rehabilitated, four Dom families faced objections from the residents of Mathpara. The four families have been forced to live along a village road in tarpaulin tents since March. The fifth family of Bijoy and his wife Bina Chaudhuri continues to live on the riverbank as they await rehabilitation. Bijoy is a trolley van driver. A Mathpara resident who was opposed to the rehabilitation of the Dom families said: “We cannot compromise with our culture and lifestyle. We have asked Trinamul to allot land at a different place for the Dom people to avoid any conflict.” Dom is listed as a Scheduled Caste in Bengal and its members are generally known as corpse burners. But members of all the five Dom families at Gournagar are into other occupations. According to the 2011 Census, 10.7 per cent of the country’s SC population lives in Bengal. Admitting that caste bias had come in the way of the resettlement of the five families at Mathpara, Nadia zilla parishad member and Trinamul’s Chakdah block president Tibrajyoti Das said: “I was shocked to learn about the objections raised by some people. In 2020 Bengal, such a mindset is unacceptable. The incident is inhuman. I am against such discrimination and will convince the people to come out of such mindset.” The panchayat authorities pressed a pause button on the resettlement of the Dom families as a section of the locality’s upper caste residents remained adamant. Asked what the administration had done to ensure that the Dom families did not face ostracism, Kalyani subdivisional officer Dhiman Barai said: “I had sent Chakdah BDO Debjit Dutta to Gournagar to conduct an inquiry. He spoke to the residents. We will take up the matter with the land department and do whatever is necessary to rehabilitate the families.” Sociologist Surajit Mukhopadhyay has said though caste bias doesn’t exist in Bengal in absolute terms, it would be wrong to perceive that it is not prevalent. “That perception of caste does not exist in Bengal is a myth that always gets torn apart when the society is faced with exigencies like the one in Nadia. Yes, it is not of the kind that exists in the cow-belt states. Caste is a primordial affiliation in India that has political utility, like racism is in the enlightened West. ” Kalpana Chowdhury, a member of one of the isolated families, said: “I had heard caste hatred existed outside Bengal, but never imagined that we could become victims of such discrimination.” “My husband Gurudas and I run a tea stall where people from various classes and communities come. They are never bothered about our caste,” she added. Gurudas said he had been issued the patta (land deed) at Mathpara, but the local Trinamul leadership had ignored his plight. Denying the charge of caste bias, Minati Biswas, a Trinamul member at Chanduria 1 gram panchayat, said: “There was no land to accommodate the five families. There is congestion (at Mathpara).”Told that the five families had been allotted land at Mathpara and two of them issued pattas, Biswas declined comments. Bijoy said he didn’t know where to move since the panchayat officials had expressed their helplessness. “It is all because of our caste. I had appealed to local Trinamul leaders for help, but they didn’t pay heed to our request. They asked us to live on a piece of land under an electric transformer. But we did not move there as it is too dangerous to live there.” Badal Halder, a Trinamul leader at Gournagar, said: “We don’t have any prejudice over caste.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||North East||Assam folk singer Archana Mahanta dies||One of Assam’s legendary singers, Archana Mahanta, who was at home in both the traditional and modern genres and belonged to a committed generation of singers for whom singing was a “devotional” act, died at a hospital here on Thursday. In her seventies, Mahanta was ailing for sometime and her condition aggravated after suffered a brain stroke in July. She was one of half of the famous Archana Mahanta-Khagen Mahanta duo that  travelled the state for their immensely popular stage shows showcasing the best of folk and modern songs. She had her own following despite being the wife of the legendary Khagen Mahanta, a man who was referred to as the Bihu Samrat. He passed away in 2014. The singer was cremated with full state honours in the afternoon with son, popular singer-composer Angaraag Papon Mahanta, lighting the funeral pyre. Filmmaker and critic Utpal Borpujari in a tweet said that Assam has lost a legend. With her husband, “the legendary #KhagenMahanta, gave so many moments of joy to so many generations”, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
28-08-2020||North East||AGP meet held despite court bar||AGP president and Assam minister Atul Bora was on Thursday unanimously re-elected party chief for a second straight term of three years but the entire exercise has come under judicial scrutiny. On Wednesday evening, a local court here had passed an order restraining the holding of the AGP’s general council meeting as it prima facie violated the party constitution as well as Covid-19 guidelines. The court has ordered the AGP to maintain status quo till the case comes up for hearing on November 11. Besides the legal tangle, the AGP brass will also have to deal with intra-party differences over the manner in which the new panel was elected. The meeting has vested in Bora the responsibility to form the new team. Working president Keshav Mahanta would continue in his post as he was re-nominated by Bora. Soon after Bora’s election, a group of senior members and leaders from across the state met former AGP president Prafulla Kumar Mahanta and other senior leaders “seeking the ouster” of the party top brass and strengthening it from within. Sources said a section in the party wanted the formation of a new regional outfit because the AGP brass has sided with the ruling party (BJP) in supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act, which is widely opposed in the Brahmaputra Valley. Those opposed to the CAA say it is a threat to Assam’s culture and identity. Bora, who is also a cabinet minister in the BJP-led coalition government, told The Telegraph, “This will be my second straight full term after 2016. I was re-elected unanimously. I plan to take the party forward by turning it into a progressive regional force in run up to the Assembly polls and try to win more seats this time round.” In the 2016 Assembly elections, the AGP, born out of the six-year-long Assam Agitation against influx, had won 14 of the 24 seats it had contested. On the court order, Bora said they had not received anything during the meeting. “But I heard the office has received something from the court after the meeting but I have not seen it,” he said. Asked about the AGP’s stand on the CAA, he said it was the “same as before”. The party brass had said in December last year it will continue the legal fight against the CAA in the Supreme Court and will also try to get Clause 6 of the Assam Accord implemented, which ensures constitutional safeguards to the Assamese people, by “staying within the government”. Girin Talukdar, a senior AGP member and one of the three petitioners in the case against the party general council meeting, said on Thursday that they will continue their legal fight. “Usually, a general council meeting continues for a whole day but today it got over in about 45 minutes. We will apprise the court about today’s developments despite its restraining order. We will wait and watch and continue with our legal fight,” Talukdar said. Former chief minister and AGP founder president Mahanta said the court had passed a restraining order which he had received while entering the party’s Ambari headquarters. It is a sub judice issue now, he said. Mahanta said he will not speak against any individual but made his displeasure known against the party leadership. He said the people wanted a strong regional party, not one which has submitted to a national party. Bora had become president after Mahanta had stepped down following the AGP’s debacle in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Mahanta also said he was firm against CAA and will not accept anything that dilutes the 1985 Assam Accord which has fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners. The CAA, on the other hand, provides Indian citizenship to non-Muslims who have entered India from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan till December 2014. The AGP general council meeting was scheduled for December last year but had to be deferred because of the anti-CAA agitation and the Covid-induced lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
28-08-2020||Opinion||Many Flavours: Parochial imposition of Hindi||One of the most crucial aspects about the study of language is, perhaps, the ability to read between the lines. This skill would come in handy while deciphering the recent comments made by the Union education minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, on the country’s new National Education Policy. While providing assurance that all of the 22 languages listed as official under the Constitution would be given importance by the NEP, the minister also managed to quietly slip in a telling remark. India’s linguistic identity in the world, Mr Pokhriyal believes, has been shaped by Hindi. This interjection, in spite of the loftier assertion about the new educational model giving equal importance to multiple languages, is not surprising: it is in keeping with the Narendra Modi-led government’s alleged zeal to impose the ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ principle on a nation known across the world for its many diversities, including those of language. This problematic vision seems to be contagious: it has been reported that a secretary in the ministry of Ayush had instructed participants of a virtual training session to leave if they are not conversant in Hindi. Such sentiments, along with changes in policy — a parliamentary panel’s recommendation to make Hindi a mandatory subject in Kendriya Vidyalayas and other schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education had received presidential assent — reveal that in spite of the claim of the NEP being geared towards preserving linguistic diversity in education, the institutional push towards imposing Hindi would endure. Perhaps the Bharatiya Janata Party is not really aware of public sentiments in this matter. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in India to offer English as the medium of education in government schools. The growing preference for English-medium schools has also been borne out by the latest all-India survey by the National Statistical Office. The BJP’s policy of cultural homogeneity — the preference for Hindi is one manifestation — runs the risk of coming undone on account of a new, aspirational India’s pragmatic attitude towards English as the lingua franca. The pursuit of linguistic hegemony runs other risks. Language politics can have deleterious consequences. The fierce resistance to the imposition of Hindi in the southern states is only one example of the pain it can inflict. The desire to bring an essentially pluralistic polity under an authoritarian — majoritarian? — umbrella — the principle of ‘one language, one India’ — is, ironically, antithetical to the cause of Indian unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
28-08-2020||Opinion||Common vision: Opposition meet||Timing is the key in politics. Sadly, members of India’s Opposition did not, for so long, believe in this wisdom. Seven chief ministers of states ruled by parties in the Opposition may have now met and deliberated on a number of critical issues, but there is a convincing case to argue that this mobilization — an important gesture of unity among a fragmented constituency — has come quite a bit late in the day. The principal duty of the Opposition in a democracy is to hold the government of the day accountable to the people. India’s present Opposition has not been able to discharge its primary responsibility effectively. This explains the commanding position that Narendra Modi and his government occupy in spite of their spectacular failures on a number of fronts. India’s economy has nosedived; the deceleration in growth was evident even before the onset of the pandemic. The Covid-19 burden, too, is getting heavier — the nation has the third-highest number of cases in the world. China has gobbled up Indian territory. These facts are testaments to the failures in governance. Yet, the lapses committed by the Centre have not been politically exploited by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s opponents. This can be attributed to the inertia in the Opposition camp. Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister of Maharashtra and one of the participants in the meeting, made a telling point about the Opposition meeting only during crises. But what is heartening is the Opposition’s — albeit belated — acknowledgement of the need to take the battle to Mr Modi in a united manner. The list of complaints against the Centre is rather long. It includes, among other concerns, the Centre’s parsimonious attitude towards the disbursal of legitimate dues of the goods and services tax to the states, the BJP’s propensity to topple elected governments formed by Opposition parties, the alleged misuse of investigative agencies and, equally worryingly, the agenda to alter the character of the republic. At the heart of these disputes lies the unprecedented strain on the federal edifice. The demise of federalism at the hands of populist authoritarianism would, effectively, signify the death of democracy. The Opposition, thus, has its task cut out to save India’s democratic charter and itself. But it must remember to speak unitedly, meet frequently, and get its timing right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
28-08-2020||Opinion|| A virulent language: Reinforcing casteism||The human vocabulary is constantly expanding with new words and with old words being used in new ways. In the Covid-19 era, phrases like ‘social distancing’, ‘handwashing’, ‘be kind’, ‘be humble’ and so on have become bywords for practices to contain the virus. However, a study of prejudice and bigotry shows that these terms can represent discrimination too. The call to ‘wash hands’ assumes everyone has equal access to water. In India, an estimated 163 million people do not have access to clean water. One of the major causes of this is a myriad forms of ‘social distancing’ put in place by racism and casteism. Historically, one reason for communities being kept at the fringes was to limit their access to common resources; it ensured their subservience. This attitude continues in various permutations today. In modern India, the caste system remains deeply entrenched. Although a crime, caste prejudice plays out daily in a variety of ways. In rural India, ancient tradition and modern-day enforcement prevent lower castes from accessing water from community sources. In urban areas, socialization of bigotry translates into official apathy. A statistical compendium, published by the ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation, found that in urban areas the population of scheduled castes in slums was higher than of those not living in slums. It correlates to the fact that inhabitants of slums have limited access to water, sanitation and sewerage. Similar issues are faced by the Black people in the United States of America. A report from the Thurgood Marshall Institute at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund titled, Water/Colour: A Study of Race and the Water Affordability Crisis in America’s Cities, found “a clear connection between racial residential segregation and Black access to water systems.” A consequence of rising water supply prices for communities of colour is the loss of their homes. Religious infusions give discrimination credibility and proselytize its praxis. The belief in the divine origins of the caste system and the concepts of rebirth and karma justified prejudices and ensured victims accepted their situation without a murmur. Slave traders and owners selectively quoted the Bible to validate their inhuman practices. Later, the prejudices from these narrow interpretations were fortified with illegitimate science and the economics of exploitation. It transubstantiated into laws that aided the transmission of racism through the community. Over time these were reinforced, socialized and institutionalized, so much so that their vestiges continue to exist even after the abolishment and the criminalization of their practice. Paradoxically, acts of kindness and humility — integral to socio-religious obligation — never hindered bigotry. Thus, such edicts as ‘be kind’ and ‘be humble’ could not cross the boundaries of race and caste. Generosity, kindness and other forms of altruism were limited to the tangible and directed towards saving the self. Temples in India were, and still are, recipients of large donations. The social walls of the caste system prevented the lower castes from receiving the charity of the upper castes. Humility, viewed as a character trait, enhanced one’s standing amongst peers. Hence, it was restricted to those of higher or similar castes. However, humility translating into respectful treatment of lower castes could lead to lowering of one’s social standing. The Christian belief that ‘god made man in his own image’ did not extend to slaves and people of colour. Displays of respect, chivalry, kindness were contained within White society. Attempts to protect this way of life led to Christian fanaticism and white nationalism. Their followers were further emboldened by segregationist laws. By the time these laws were abolished, racism had been institutionalized. Society had not only been inoculated to the horrors of racism but had been afflicted by unconscious biases. Today, Donald Trump has re-invigorated racists. In India, the ‘community transmission’ of discrimination was incremental, growing from inside out. In Indian Cultures as Heritage, the historian, Romila Thapar, suggests that the division of society into castes was an outcome of early families setting up an organizational structure. She also indicates that skin colour and difference of language led to some communities being kept at bay. Such segregations would have perforce influenced interactions. Later, the attribution of these units’ creation to the divine and birth becoming the arbiter of inclusion in a unit made this compartmentalization inviolate. Development of religious rituals, the introduction of social behaviour and customs, and the use of violence ensured normalization and adherence. The ‘herd immunity’ achieved through centuries of practise of, and indoctrination to, casteism makes it par for the course today. Covid-19 reiterates the fact that deeply embedded prejudices impede the delivery of healthcare to minorities. If the virus provided an opportunity for a dialogue about the many cascading consequences of racism and bigotry it was lost to discussing the calamitous decisions of national leaders bumbling through varied virus containment strategies. The terms that define actions to protect us from the virus should serve as a reminder of the need to prevent bigotry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
28-08-2020||Opinion||Learning cooperation||In his magnificent and deeply moving essay, “What the Great Pandemic Novels Teach Us”, published in The New York Times exactly a month after Lockdown 1.0 was imposed in India, Orhan Pamuk ends his analysis with these words: “For a better world to emerge after this pandemic, we must embrace and nourish the feelings of humility and solidarity engendered by the current moment.” Such humility and solidarity lay at the heart of what both Rabindranath Tagore and Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi saw as the best way forward, especially when it came to education. “Basic education”, nai talim or buniyadi siksha — most fully articulated by Gandhi at the Wardha Education Conference of 1937 — envisioned school as a space where young people would be taught (in addition to the three Rs, social studies, music, painting, and so on) the values and virtues of cooperative work, whether through growing vegetables, spinning cotton, or other productive manual activities suited to local conditions. The teachers of such a school would work alongside their wards, fostering a spirit of kinship and fellow-feeling among individuals from disparate backgrounds, be these social, economic, cultural, or otherwise. The income generated from such activities would pay for the upkeep of the school, and help in paying the salaries of teachers and other staff. Critics of this scheme of education pointed to the potentially deleterious effects of making young children perform manual labour, and the danger of such income-generating activities overturning the essential pedagogic function of a school. These were valid criticisms and probably paid a significant role when the Gandhian scheme of basic education was quietly buried after the implementation of the National Policy on Education of 1968. Yet, despite its drawbacks, Gandhi’s insistence that education is a cooperative endeavour, in which both students and teachers must participate, still resonates. Unlike Gandhi, Tagore did not see education, especially school education, as needing to equip students with income-earning skills but he, too, stressed the need for education to combine the dry theory of the classroom with the rich lived experience of engaging with the real world outside a school’s walls. Not for nothing were classes in his school held, whenever possible, in the open air. Like Gandhiji, Rabindranath saw education as a cooperative enterprise, one where students and teachers alike would be engaged in the joyful pursuit of understanding and knowledge, leading, if the endeavour was successful, to something akin to wisdom. Rabindranath had much greater experience than the Mahatma when it came to matters educational, having started a school in rural Bengal in 1901, where he was, in his own words, “fortunate in having almost all the naughty boys of the neighbourhood and even from different parts of the country… only the most intractable boys came so that I had an interesting gathering of just those children who are most preached against in the Sunday-school books.” In the same lecture, delivered in Japan in 1924, Rabindranath goes on say how “I became the playmate of my students and shared their life completely” and how he tried “to let them realise that though we have our difference of age, yet, like wayfarers, we are travelling the same path together — old and young, we are working for the same goal.” In his lectures, talks with students and teachers, essays, and compositions in both prose and verse, Rabindranath kept harping on the vital importance of “the cooperative principle” in every sphere of human activity, especially education. Sadly, however, what passes for education in our country today is predicated less on cooperation and far more on what the iconoclastic Brazilian educator and philosopher, Paulo Freire, famously described as the “banking concept” of education, where “Instead of communicating, the teacher issues communiqués and makes deposits which the students patiently receive, memorize, and repeat… in which the scope of action allowed to students extends only as far as receiving, filing, and storing the deposits… [where] knowledge is a gift bestowed by those who consider themselves knowledgeable upon those whom they consider to know nothing... [where] the teacher presents himself to his students as their necessary opposite; by considering their ignorance absolute, he justifies his own existence.” A few lines later, Friere makes the same point made by Tagore, and Gandhi, decades earlier, “Education must begin with the solution of the teacher-student contradiction, by reconciling the poles of the contradiction so that both are simultaneously teachers and students.” We humans are intensely social animals, and cooperation is as much a part of our essential selves as competition. Any student can tell you that cooperation does exist, even in the most hidebound and reactionary educational establishment, but this cooperation is typically confined within the two broad groups of students and teachers: students cooperate with students, and teachers with teachers (though, I suspect, less so) — cooperation across the student-teacher divide, between those who teach and those who are taught, is rarely to be found, even though this is what Rabindranath, Gandhiji, and Friere saw as a consummation devoutly to be wished. This is where the unprecedented situation created by Covid-19 offers us an opportunity to challenge old ways of being and doing when it comes to the realm of education. Deprived of access to libraries, books, laboratories, equipment, and all the paraphernalia of the pedagogic process, and dependent on electronic means to carry out academic activities and transactions, teachers and students are discovering that perhaps the only way to continue academic activity is through cooperative action — with not just students coming to each others’ aid but by joining hands with their teachers to keep educational institutions functioning in this strangely isolating time. This may not always be the case in schools, but for institutions of higher education this is a daily lived reality. Speaking from personal experience, students have helped to locate and download texts, set up virtual meetings, collected and collated questions to be put to the teacher (me), and assisted in a hundred other ways to keep our interaction alive. Teachers, in turn, have perforce become more democratic, more consultative, more interactive, when it comes to such transactions. We all miss the give-and-take of the classroom or lecture theatre, everyone is irritated by the vagaries of internet connectivity, and the tricks played on us at the most inopportune moments by our magic electronic devices; yet all of us are now aware that we are travelling the same path, trying to overcome the same obstacles, striving towards the same goal. Hierarchies are being challenged, with students contributing as much, if not more, to the conducting of classes, locating online resources, distribution of study material, the list goes on. Cooperation, not competition; a journey undertaken together, not separately; a partnership of students and teachers predicated on mutual trust, not casual suspicion; humility and solidarity instead of arrogance and divisiveness. Of course this is not true for every student or every teacher; of course old habits sometimes resurface, but things seem to be changing, to be moving in the direction envisaged by the great humanitarian thinkers whose words have been quoted earlier. Will this last once things start limping back to something resembling ‘normal’? I have no idea, but, as always, it is up to us to make that choice. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Minor orphan girl raped in Chatra||A minor orphan girl was allegedly raped by a drunk youth in Domsitwa village under the Sadar police station in Chatra on Friday. The youth, part of a group of four, would go every day to a house to drink illicit country liquor. Opposite this house was where the girl lived. When the youth noticed that she was alone, he raped her. The youth fled after the incident. An FIR was lodged and the girl sent to the Chatra Sadar hospital for a medical test. A mass Covid-19 testing campaign was kickstarted in various parts of Garhwa on Wednesday. After two days of the campaign, 181 new Covid-19 cases were reported following the testing of 15,678 samples. The total number of positive cases in the district is 1,073 and active cases 287, while 780 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals. Six persons have lost their lives due to the disease. The testing campaign will continue till September 5. Around 200 health workers are involved in the campaign, Garhwa civil surgeon N.K. Rajak said. An alleged scamster who had promised railway jobs to more than half a dozen residents of Karso village in the Chainpur police station area in Palamau in exchange for money was detained by villagers and handed over to police. Niranjan Kumar, a resident of Ramna police station area in Garhwa, was allegedly in the village to dupe more people when he was caught. He had reportedly amassed more than Rs 1,32,000 from the unsuspecting villagers. Kumar, who the police said confessed to his crime, was charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 420. Chandankyari BJP MLA Amar Bauri on Friday met governor Draupadi Murmu to ask her to intervene and prevent the state government from establishing a law college at Ghodagada in place of an engineering institute. The proposal for an engineering college spread over 20 acres had been approved by the BJP government in March 2019. The JMM government, however, decided to establish a law college at the site. Bauri said he had told the governor that the JMM government’s decision was unjustified. “The government should rethink its position. This decision is against the development of tribal, backward and rural youths,” he added. He said the governor had assured him that she would discuss the matter with chief minister Hemant Soren. Police on Friday arrested four persons for allegedly opening fire during a clash over a land dispute at Kuwar Singh Colony in the Chas police station area. There were no casualties in the incident. One of the men involved was caught and thrashed by the rival party. He is undergoing treatment at the Sadar hospital in police custody. The mutilated dead body of a labourer who had returned from Gujarat during the coronavirus-induced lockdown was found in a well 200m from his home on Friday morning. Chandrakant Tuddu was a resident of Daldali village in the Rajganj police station area, about 30km from the Dhanbad district headquarters. Tuddu was reported missing by his wife on Thursday. A team of officials of the East Central Railway’s Dhanbad division, led by senior divisional engineer (special) Kunal Kumar on Friday conducted a drive to evict encroachers at Matkuria rail colony. Several cowsheds and makeshift shanties were removed from an area of around 2000sq. ft. Public relations officer P.K. Mishra said the drive was part of a similar initiative by the division at other stations and rail colonies. Chatra police arrested an opium smuggler on Friday. Vinod Oraon, a resident of Kalyanpur village in Piparwar of Chatra, had 600gm opium on him. Officer in charge Shiv Prakash Kumar said police had received a tip-off that Oraon was on his way to deliver the consignment. He was caught in Delho Ghati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Special Olympics honour for Satbir Singh Sahota  ||Steel city-based Satbir Singh Sahota has become the first person in Jharkhand  to be awarded Leader III certificate by Special Olympics International (SOI). The certificate is awarded for hardwork and dedication, with the aim of promoting excellence in leadership at Special Olympics. Sahota is assistant area director of Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) and a former international cyclist. He had attended and completed a Leader III module during a workshop organised by SOI in Calcutta between January 20 and 23 last year. In all, 24 participants from Pakistan, Philippines, Bangladesh, Nepal and hosts India attended the event. . Sahota completed Leader I and II modules during the workshop in New Delhi in 2017 and 2018. During the workshops, each individual is provided various topics on which they have to give their output, strategic planning and methods of implementation. Participants are later given homework which they have to implement in their respective states and are required to show the results before the merit certificate is issued by SOI. “It is a proud feeling for me to have received the certificate from the SOI.  I would continue to contribute towards spreading wings of Special Olympics in Jharkhand and also towards promoting the intellectually impaired,” Sahota told The Telegraph Online. Sahota, who has been active in the Special Olympics movement in Jharkhand for over a decade, has been instrumental in spreading the activities involving intellectually impaired across Jharkhand. He has also played a lead role in forming a pool of qualified coaches (men and women) who are trying hard to shepherd the special athletes to mainstream. SOJ has spread the wings of Special Olympics movement by joining hands with Jharkhand Education Project (JEP). Barring Palamu, Godda, Sahebgunj and Jamtara, the SOJ has channelised activities in rest of the districts. It has also successfully organised State Games in Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The activities also involved successfully starting training projects for coaches who play a key role in promoting special athletes. The coaches are given study material and required to make a presentation and evaluation report. “It is a tough job but we managed to create a pool of coaches,” Sahota said. “Our activities were earlier restricted to Jamshedpur and Ranchi but now things have changed for the better. It is largely due to our tie-up with JEP that our wings have been spread to almost all the districts of Jharkhand,” Sahota, a resource person (for cycling) at Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which works for the promotion of intellectually impaired, added. According to Sahota, there is a need to develop a second line of officials so that activities of SOJ can be conducted in the same pattern. SOJ area director Bailey Bodhanwala has congratulated Sahota for his achievement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Complaints pile up against Bokaro General Hospital ||Politicians and residents are up in arms against Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), alleging it is unable to provide proper care to Covid-19 patients, their sentiments finding support among members of a local trade union who held a demonstration on Friday at the main gate of Bokaro Steel, the PSU that manages the hospital. Members of Krantikari Ispat Majdoor Sangh (KIMS) also registered complaints with BSL department heads and told them about how BGH staff were delaying attending to patients. Sangh general secretary Sangram Singh said, “BGH is unable to manage after a few of its doctors tested positive for the coronavirus. Workers are complaining about poor services and treatment.” BGH, which is a dedicated Covid hospital managed by BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), is considered to be the lifeline for residents. More than a dozen doctors, including the director, and health workers have tested positive. Barring four doctors who are under treatment, the rest have got cured. A BGH official, however, defended those working in the hospital, saying they were doing so against all odds. “Doctors and staff members of the hospital are trying their best. Doctors’ rounds are monitored more closely now,” he said. Of the 1,120 patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bokaro district as of now, as many as 210 were admitted to the BGH Covid ward. More than two dozen positive cases have recovered from critical condition. Of the 13 Covid deaths registered in the district, six were at BGH. BSL employee P.K. Pandey spoke of how his daughter, who was suffering breathing problems, was left unattended for half an hour. “On Tuesday, I took my daughter to BGH for treatment at 9.00pm. No doctor or nurse came to see her till 9.30pm. Later, when I informed senior officials, a nurse came and provided oxygen to her and vanished,” he said. Bokaro MLA Viranchi Narayan said that despite its huge infrastructure, medical equipment and doctors, BGH was unable to function satisfactorily. “Treatment and care of Covid patients is not up to the mark. What exactly are BGH doctors doing when Covid patients are being referred to elsewhere?” he said. JMM city president Mantu Yadav seconded Narayan, saying health services at BGH had deteriorated in the past one month. “Doctors have started neglecting patients. Instead of treating them they find it easy to refer them to other hospitals,” he said, adding that he would request chief minister Hemant Soren to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against Tej Pratap for lockdown violations in Ranchi||An FIR was lodged against Tej Pratap, son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, on Friday for coming to Ranchi without the mandatory permission during a lockdown and then leaving without spending 14-days in quarantine as per the state government’s Covid protocol. Earlier, police lodged an FIR against the owner and manager of a prominent city hotel for providing a room to Tej Pratap, who had come to see his ailing father, in violation of lockdown norms on Thursday. Tej Pratap visited Ranchi from Patna with a cavalcade of 60 vehicles, comprising his security men and party workers. He came to meet Lalu, serving a jail term after his conviction in fodder scam cases, at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he is undergoing treatment for various ailments under police custody. Speaking briefly to reporters on Thursday, Tej Pratap said he had come to Ranchi to check on his ailing father. However, RJD sources in Ranchi, said he had been summoned by his father to discuss party affairs in view of the coming Bihar elections. Police have booked Tej Pratap under IPC sections 269/270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 184 (violation of speed limit) and 34 (criminal act by several persons in furtherance of the common intention of all). Officer in-charge of Chutia police station Ravi Thakur said at the behest of the circle officer Prakash Kumar, an FIR was also filed against the owner (he wasn’t named) and manager Dushyant Kumar Samath of Capitol Residency for providing a room (507) to Tej Pratap during a lockdown. “The FIR was filed late on Thursday night. We will proceed accordingly after further probe,” said Thakur, clarifying that lockdown norms prevent hotels from renting out rooms to anyone. BJP criticised the Ranchi district administration for making a scapegoat out of the hotel’s owner and manager after having violated lockdown norms. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “He (Tej Pratap) came to Ranchi in a cavalcade in the wee hours of Thursday, underwent a Covid-19 test and then forcefully checked into a hotel using his clout. He met Lalu with hordes of supporters in the afternoon, blocking Bariatu Road. Why should a case be slapped only on the poor hotel owner and staffer? Shouldn’t Ranchi police officials, RIMS management and district authorities be pulled up for allowing social distancing norms to be violated? Even he (Tej) should face an FIR for booking a hotel room.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad water supply scheme as revenue source  ||Cash-strapped Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), the oldest civic body of the district, is preparing a proposal to take over a Rs 365-crore scheme to distribute Damodar river water to suburban areas of the coal capital. The proposal, which caters to supplying water to areas not covered either by JMADA’s existing arrangement or by the Maithon water supply scheme of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, is likely to be submitted to the state urban development department next week. Secretary cum technical member of JMADA Indresh Shukla, said, “As the water supply project executed for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation by the drinking water and sanitation department through L&T Infrastructure Engineering is almost complete, we can take over the project.” Shukla reasoned that although the project used Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission funds, routed through DMC, two agencies like JMADA and DMC operating two water supply schemes would lead to operational problems, particularly in Katras, Moonidih and Putki. “Hence, we will try to take over the Rs 365-crore project. Besides ensuring operational convenience, it will also ensure better financial health for us,” Shukla said, adding that JMADA’s income was solely dependent on revenue from water supply. He said the state Assembly had also passed a resolution in 2015 to hand over water supply of the entire district to JMADA which has over 50 years of expertise in the matter. Notably, the ambitious water supply project of 2011, conceptualised under JNNURM millennium city project, was scheduled to be completed in 2014. However, it was delayed by more than six years due to several procedural issues including the lack of NoCs from Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) and railways for establishing overhand tanks in underground fire affected areas and for laying pipes near railway tracks. JMADA was established in 1984 as per an act of the then Bihar government following the merger of the water board and the mines board to manage sanitation, health and water supply in suburban areas of Dhanbad. Tonnnage cess, royalty cess, stamp duty, water supply tax and sanitation tax were the main sources for its fund during its early days. But most of these taxes were withdrawn one of the one by the government. Now, water tax is the only source of revenue for JMADA which has an employee strength of about 800. JMADA suffered its biggest blow in 2004 when the state government withdrew the stamp duty collected by it on account of registry of land. This led to a loss in revenue to the tune of Rs 16 crore per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||62-year-old doctor at PMCH succumbs to Covid-19 in Ranchi   ||A 62-year-old doctor of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad, died battling Covid in Ranchi on Friday morning, the news coming as a shock to her colleagues who were with her barely 20 days ago. Dr Venu Chaudhary, wife of a senior doctor of Central Hospital, Dhanbad, was admitted to Samford Multispecialty Hospital in Ranchi after testing Covid positive about a fortnight ago. Chaudhary was put on a ventilator two days ago after developing a lung infection. She died at 4 am on Friday. Her colleagues and friends in Dhanbad were in a state of shock. “I joined work under her two decades ago. Her death is a personal loss for me. I cannot believe that somebody who was with me till 20 days ago is no more,” said Dr Leena Singh, the warden of a girls’ hostel at PMCH. “She was a thorough professional and never compromised with duty. At the same time, she was very accommodative of her colleagues and juniors,” said Singh Secretary of district unit of Indian Medical Association Dr Sushil Kumar, who was felicitated on Independence Day by the district administration for his service while treating Covid patients, said, “The death of a senior serving doctor of a government medical college and hospital at a time when the district is facing shortage of doctors is very tragic.” Both Kumar and Singh said they would like to use this opportunity to urge the government to make special arrangements for the treatment of elderly doctors while engaging them on Covid duty. “Dr Singh was not on Covid duty. But she was serving in the preventive and social medicine department of PMCH. But we would like to demand that the government make special arrangements for the treatment of doctors and health workers, including nurses and para medical staff, at the district level itself. After all, their survival is crucial for ensuring better treatment for those affected by the pandemic,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Workers challenge to Incab liquidation in NCLAT||The New Delhi-based National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has admitted an appeal filed by workers of Incab Industries, challenging the liquidation order passed earlier by the Calcutta-bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). During a virtual hearing on Thursday, NCLAT took note of the workers’ appeal and issued notices to all the concerned parties. Around 300 workers of the company, led by Bhagwati Prasad Singh, had appealed to the NCLAT on March 19 asking that the NCLT liquidation order be rejected. The hearing was supposed to take place on March 24. But because of the nationwide lockdown, the hearing could not take place. Supreme Court advocate S. K. Mohanty, who is representing the workers in NCLAT, said they were hopeful of a positive outcome. "The next hearing will take place on September 28 when the workers’ appeal will be clubbed with another similar appeal made by Jayanta Banerjee, an Incab official based at its Calcutta head office, " he said. Aakash Sharma, an advocate of NCLT who is taking care of the case on behalf of the workers, said they had also submitted an application with NCLAT about the Jharkhand government showing interest in taking over the company. "The government has already directed the deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  to prepare and submit a report on Incab that has been closed for about two decades,” he said, adding that Thursday’s virtual hearing was also attended by Akhilesh Srivastava, the counsel representing the workers. The Calcutta bench of NCLT had on February 7 ordered the dissolution of ailing Incab Industries under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The order was passed under Section 33 of the code by the bench comprising judges M.B. Gosavi and V.K. Gupta. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers and their union in Jamshedpur as well in Calcutta, where Incab is headquartered. Former state minister and local legislator Saryu Roy had also conducted a couple of meetings at the Incab township, hearing the grievances of the employees. He had also taken up Incab's case with the state government. Once considered a blue-chip company, Incab's Jamshedpur plant had over 2,000 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: 1365 infected, the highest in a single day||Jharkhand reported the highest single-day-spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday as 1365 people were found infected, taking the Covid tally in the state close to 35,000, figures released by the health department stated. East Singhbhum, a district that has accounted for nearly 50 per cent of Jharkhand’s Covid fatalities, reported six of 10 deaths in the state on Thursday. As many as 165 Covid patients have died in the district during treatment so far. The Covid toll in the state jumped to 377 in 24 hours, taking the Covid mortality rate to 1.08 per cent, highlighted a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) at 10.45pm on Thursday. Thursday’s findings also took the number of active cases in the state above 11,000 as only 633 people recovered from the virus, while 1365 were found infected. The tally in Jharkhand, as reported on Thursday night, was 34,676 and 23,119 patients had recovered. As many as 328 people were found infected in Ranchi on Thursday, taking the tally in the district close to 7000. Only 61 patients recovered from the infection here in 24 hours and the count of active cases in the district leaped to 3,142, government data revealed. With 6,851 cases reported in the district so far, it is the worst-affected among 24 districts in Jharkhand. The government has so far collected swab samples of 6.79 lakh people and tested 6.73 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 25,123 people and 23,758 tested negative for Covid-19. While cases have witnessed an unprecedented increase in Jharkhand in the month of August, the recovery rate too has improved. The state’s Covid recovery rate, as per government figures, was 66.67 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 75.27 per cent. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad are among the worst-affected districts in the state. These three districts account for nearly half of Covid cases in Jharkhand. However, these three districts have also recorded the best recovery rate among Jharkhand districts so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar opened for public||Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar opened for public on Thursday morning after a gap of five months. The temple remained closed for devotees ever since the lockdown was imposed in March-end. The state government had also cancelled the annual, month-long Shravani Mela that was supposed to begin from July 6 to check the spread of the coronavirus. In view of a Supreme Court order, the temple, however, opened for a few hours on Rakhi Purnima on August 3 when 301 devotees were allowed to have a darshan. The home, prison and disaster management department of the state government issued an order on Wednesday evening, allowing opening of both the Deoghar temple and Basukinath temple in adjoining Dumka district under certain conditions. Both the temples will be open for four hours every day. While 50 devotees will be allowed every hour at the Deoghar temple, 40 people can enter Basukinath temple provided they wear mask, sanitise their hands and maintain social distancing, the government order said. It also recommended the entry of devotees “preferably on the basis of online entry passes”. “While rest of the conditions have been fulfilled, the provision of issuing online entry passes will be made within a day or two,” a senior officer informed from Deoghar, adding around 200 devotees had a darshan on Thursday. Godda BJP MP Nishikant Dubey had challenged the state government’s decision to cancel the Shravani Mela in Jharkhand High Court. Though the court did not allow Shravani Mela, it directed the government to arrange for virtual darshan, which was done. Not satisfied with the order, Dubey moved the Supreme Court, which in its order on July 31 questioned the logic behind keeping the places of worship closed even after lockdown. It also requested the Jharkhand government to allow worshippers on a limited basis so that there was no large congregation and devotees could maintain social distance. Accordingly, the Baidyanathdham temple was opened for a few hours on Rakhi Purnima, the last day of Shravan as per Vikram Samvat calendar, when 301 devoted visited the temple. The state government’s Wednesday order paved the way for regular opening of both Baidyanathdham and Basukinath temples, albeit with restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Extortion calls to Jharkhand MLA ||Former Jharkhand deputy chief minister and Silli legislator Sudesh Mahato has lodged a police complaint against anonymous callers demanding Rs 15 lakh. According to the complaint lodged by Mahendra Sharma, a close aide of the MLA, at Gonda police station in Ranchi on Wednesday evening, two calls came from anonymous phone numbers on August 14 night at the Kanke Road residence of the All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu) national president Mahato. “We received the complaint and had detained a youth. But during investigation it was found that the calls were made using the name of the person appearing in the caller ID. In fact the detained youth was unaware of the call being made using his phone. Our cyber cell is looking into the case and will nab the real culprits,” said Ranchi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Jha. Sources said the detained youth, a resident of Jamshedpur in East Singhbhum district, had told the police that he had lodged a missing report about his mobile phone in Jamshedpur. “It is the first time that we have detected spoofing calls being made to anyone in Ranchi and it seems that the callers were technologically savvy,” said an officer of Gonda police station, who is part of the team probing the incident. Caller ID spoofing is the practice of causing the telephone network to indicate to the receiver of a call that the originator of the call is different from the true caller. This can lead to a caller ID display showing a phone number different from that of the telephone from which the call was placed. Using a spoofed call service is banned in India by the telecom ministry. Himanshu Kumar, personal assistant to Mahato, said the MLA who had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days back but has now tested negative, is under home quarantine. He said they had lodged the police complaint after the MLA received the extortion calls. “The caller had threatened to shoot Sudeshji to death if the demand for Rs 15 lakh was not met. We lodged a complaint at the police station concerned and also gave a copy of the complaint to the Ranchi SSP and other senior police officers,” Kumar said. In July, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had also received two anonymous threat emails asking him to mend his ways or face dire consequences. A case had been lodged at the cyber police station in Ranchi in connection with the emails. However, nobody has been arrested in the case so far. Jharkhand police spokesperson Suman Gupta did not reveal any information when asked about the probe into the threat emails to the chief minister. “Any information to the media in this case will be communicated at a suitable time,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
