29-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid safe house nod for Greenwood Sonata||Greenwood Sonata became the first housing complex in Bengal to receive government permission for initiation of a safe house for asymptomatic or mild Covid cases. The order, dated August 19, has been issued by the chief medical officer of health, North 24-Parganas. In the cover story titled ‘New Town complex sets up Covid centre’, The Telegraph (Salt Lake) had reported on July 24 that the housing complex had received satisfactory comments verbally from the government team that came for inspection. Sudipta Mukherjee, president of Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners’ Association, said they had further done up the five-bedded facility. “We purchased semi Fowler beds with bedside tables, foldable mattreses, medicine trolley and stethoscope as well as created space for caregivers to stay.” While two residential doctors had volunteered to oversee neighbours who might be checking in with Covid-19, three more have since volunteered help if needed. Having in-house medical help is a key condition for setting up safe houses in residential complexes, according to the standard operating procedure issued by the central government for residents’ welfare associations to run Covid safe houses. “We are receiving queries from other housing complexes like Uttara Tritiya on how to set up a safe house,” said Mukherjee. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Duttabad councillor tests positive for Covid-19||Nirmal Dutta, councillor of Ward 38, comprising a portion of Duttabad, has tested positive for Covid-19. This makes him the second councillor under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to be infected. Subhas Bose, councillor of Ward 6 that comprises places like Chinar Park and Kaikhali, succumbed to it.  Dutta was down with fever since August 23 and the doctor advised him a Covid test. “I took the test on August 25 and my report has come positive. I am staying in home isolation now,” he said. Duttabad is reeling under Covid cases and Dutta himself admitted that many were not following proper social distancing and hygiene protocol in his ward. “More than 80 cases have been reported from Duttabad,” he said. “I have been organising testing camps and was also helping people reach government-run quarantine centres and safe houses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Relief for non-insurance patients: Panel||The state health regulatory commission on Friday clarified that its advisory to private hospitals on offering discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables would only be applicable to Covid-19 patients without any medical insurance policy. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had earlier fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables for Covid-19 patients who would buy those from the hospital’s pharmacy. After a meeting with representatives of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said the advisory on the discount would not be applicable to patients with personal or corporate medical insurance. “They (private hospitals) raised issues about the 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables, because they have issues about corporate and insurance patients. We clarified that for corporate and insurance clients this advisory will not be applicable,” Banerjee said on Friday. “For some medicines they said discounts are not available (from pharmaceutical companies). We told them to inform us about these on a case-to-case basis and we will speak to the manufacturers.” Later, officials of some private hospitals and insurance companies said patients with insurance policies were given a 5-10 per cent discount on their bills during discharge. “We have tie-ups with hospitals by which 5-10 per cent discounts are given on the final bill of a patient admitted with cashless facility. The non-admissible amount is calculated separately,” said an official of an insurance company. The CEO of a private hospital said such discounts were allowed as part of the agreement. Last Saturday, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the MRP of medicines and consumables to lessen the bill burden. If hospitals are unable to offer a discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside. At Friday’s meeting, private hospitals pleaded for withdrawal of the advisory that bed charges be capped at the rates prevailing on March 1. “We had said the bed rates of March 1 will prevail. They said the financial year in a corporate hospital starts on April 1 and they revised the bed charges that day. So they are finding it difficult to return to the earlier bed charges…. We told them that the March 1 date was fixed keeping in mind the non-Covid period charges and requested them to wait for some time till we get out of this pandemic situation. After that we will definitely reconsider this,” said Banerjee. Sources said the hospitals had been asked to charge the old rates till December. “We had a fruitful meeting on Friday. Since this was the first meeting between the AHEI and the commission, we presented our concerns before him (the chairman) and he gave us a patient hearing. He clarified that the discount is only for cash patients,” said Rupak Barua, president, AHEI and Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “In regard to bed charges, he urged us to continue with it (the March 1 rates) till December 31, after which the commission will reconsider.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Report nails goods carrier role in pollution||Goods vehicles are responsible for the bulk of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah and the proportionate share is more in Howrah, a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) reveals. Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had on August 18 handed the report — PM10 & PM2.5 Source Apportionment and Development of Emission Inventory of Twin Cities of Kolkata and Howrah — to the National Green Tribunal in connection with a petition filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta on air pollution. NEERI had carried out the study from April 2017 to December 2019, following an assignment from the state pollution control board. The report said that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of the PM10 in the ambient air generated by vehicular emission. For PM2.5, the contribution of goods vehicles was estimated at 49.5 per cent. In Howrah, goods vehicles accounted for 67 per cent of both PM10 and PM2.5 in the ambient air generated by automobile emission. PM10 and PM2.5 are fine and ultra-fine particles that are major air pollutants in Calcutta and Howrah. Both types of particles can penetrate the respiratory system — the reach of PM2.5 is more because they are smaller than PM10 — and trigger a range of serious respiratory ailments, including cancer. In comparison, buses were found to account for 24 per cent of the total load of PM10 and PM2.5 emitted by automobiles in Calcutta. The corresponding figure for Howrah was about 13 per cent. The study found the contribution of private vehicles, both petrol and diesel variants, marginal. In Calcutta’s overall pollution mix, all types of vehicles together spewed 22 per cent of PM10 and PM2.5 in ambient air in summer. In winter, the figure stood at 25 per cent for PM2.5. In Howrah, vehicles were found to be responsible for 31 per cent of PM2.5 during both summer and winter. “The report underlines the importance of immediately undertaking strong actions against polluting and old goods vehicles in both Calcutta and Howrah,” said petitioner Dutta, who stressed the need to bring the environment-friendly Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) to Calcutta at the earliest and replace petrol and diesel with it. “The results of the study are on expected lines as most goods vehicles run on diesel and they are generally ill-maintained. Most of them hardly undertake the mandatory pollution check,” said emission expert S.M. Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Options for Bengal, post-SC order||The education department may explore the option of holding exams in common service centres, set up by the state JEE board to enable engineering aspirants to attend counselling, for the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, sources in the department said. The Supreme Court’s order on Friday upholding the UGC’s July 6 directive on conducting exams for the final-year batches has forced the department to consider ways to evaluate the students. The apex court set aside the pleas of several states, including Bengal, that students be assessed based on the results of previous semesters and internal assessment amid the pandemic. “Using the 17,000-odd common service centres, which the state JEE board has created across the state for students without Internet connectivity at home to upload documents and take part in online counselling, might be an option for writing tests online,” said an official of the department. “It will not be prudent for students to travel to colleges and universities to write pen-and-paper tests in October, given that Covid-19 cases are likely to rise before Puja. We are wondering whether these centres can double as venues where the final-year college and university students can write tests online.” The state panchayat and rural development department runs Sahaj Tathya Mitra Kendra across the state to promote e-governance among rural people. “These facilities, too, have Internet connectivity. They, too, can be thought of as venues for writing exams that would be bare minimum in nature, as the chief minister has suggested,” said a vice-chancellor. But one VC warned that a vast section of the students are not conversant with writing any online test and they need to be trained if these facilities are to be hired as venues for writing the tests. “The state JEE board had uploaded manuals in Bengali to guide engineering aspirants on how to take part in the process for several days. A similar kind of exhaustive training has to be started for college and university students at the earliest,” said a VC. Education minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to hold a meeting with the VCs soon to decide on the possible options. A principal said if the situation marginally improved by the first week of October, the option of holding pen-and-paper tests at colleges could be considered. Another principal said the state government should file a review petition as it has done in the case of NEET and JEE-Main. “The state government has become a party to a review petition the Punjab government has filed in the apex court, seeking deferment of JEE Main and NEET. The government should ask if the IITs can publish results without holding the exams, why not the state universities?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to four hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked four hospitals to return various sums that it feels the hospitals had wrongfully taken from Covid-19 patients, the chairperson of the panel said on Friday. The commission as an interim measure asked R Flemming Hospital in Topsia to return Rs 1.45 lakh of the Rs 3.45 lakh it had taken from a patient, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. BP Poddar Hospital in New Alipore has been asked to return over Rs 60,000 to a patient, while Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Mukundapur and ILS Hospital in Dum Dum have been asked to return Rs 27,000 and Rs 15,000, respectively. Unlike the order for the Topsia hospital, the ones for the other three are not interim. “The patient who was admitted to R Flemming Hospital complained that he underwent dialysis twice during his six-day stay there. No other procedures were done. They complained that the Rs 3.45-lakh bill was not justified,” said Banerjee. “We examined the bill and asked the hospital to return Rs 1.45 lakh immediately…. If the hospital is able to justify the bill, it will get back the money. If we find other lapses… we will ask the hospital to refund more money to the patient.” Repeated calls to the phone number mentioned on the hospital’s website throughout Friday evening elicited the same response — that it was busy. About the order to BP Poddar Hospital, Banerjee said the patient had stayed there for four days and was billed Rs 1.51 lakh. “After analysing the bill, we directed the hospital to keep Rs 90,000 and return the rest to the patient,” he said. The Telegraph reached out to the hospital for a comment but no one responded till late on Friday. The complaint against Medica was about Rs 27,000 it had charged a patient for “consumables”. The insurance company whose policy the patient had bought refused to pay the amount. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica, said the patient was not overcharged. “There are certain items that no insurance policy covers, but that does not mean we overcharged the patient. We were perfectly within the legal frame to charge this money. However, we agreed to refund the money with due respect to the proposal from the chair,” said Roy. The complaint against ILS Hospital was that it had overcharged a patient Rs 15,000 for PPE. “The hospital agreed to return Rs 15,000. They said the complaint was from a period when PPE rates were not capped,” said Banerjee. An ILS official, when contacted by this newspaper, promised to call back but did not do so till late on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Petrol on stove for not squealing||A taxi driver poured petrol on a stove at a roadside tea stall on Narkeldanga Main Road early on Friday over a dispute, leaving the tea stall owner with severe burns, police said. The driver, Sujit Yadav, 33, was arrested later in the day from his home in Duttabad on the charge of attempt to murder. The tea stall owner, Vinod Yadav, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital’s burn ward. Preliminary investigation has suggested the taxi driver was angry with the tea stall owner for failing to share with him the addresses of two of his clients who apparently picked a fight with the driver at the tea stall, the police said. The two were later identified as Saheb Yadav and Arjun Yadav. All three were at the stall to have tea around 5am when they got into a fight over shares from a profit they had made, an officer of Phoolbagan police station said. “The two fled the spot after the fight. The driver got to know they and the tea stall owner were from the same village. He wanted to confront the two and he kept asking the owner for their addresses,” the officer said. When Vinod Yadav failed to give him their addresses, the driver lost his cool and fetched a can of petrol from his taxi, which he had parked nearby, the officer said. Before anyone could react, he apparently emptied the can on the stove, on which Vinod Yadav was preparing tea for customers, the police have found after speaking to people who were present at the stall at that time. “As soon as he poured the petrol, a huge flame leapt up and burned the tea stall owner’s hands, chest and shoulders. He was admitted to the burn ward of SSKM. The taxi driver fled the spot,” the officer said. Cops will question the taxi driver to find the exact cause of dispute between him and the other two, another officer said. “It could be that they are party to some other offence and hence the dispute over the share of money. We will question Saheb Yadav and Arjun Yadav, too, in connection with the case,” the officer said. Four men were arrested on Thursday in connection with an illegal deal involving a rare species of lizard. Two men had taken money for the delivery of the lizard but failed to do so, police said. The buyer and one of his associates kept the two locked in a house to recover the money. Cops got to know of the matter after both parties filed complaints with Lake police station, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Cops to help transport patients to safe house||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will ask police to accompany health workers and ambulances to transport “unwilling” Covid patients from slums to a government safe house for isolation. The decision to take the help of cops was taken after civic workers faced a steady resistance from Covid patients living in slums in Duttabad, Mongalganthi and in parts of Baguiati and Rajarhat, a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation health official said. All these places are densely populated and those living here have little or no option to go for self-isolation as their single or two-room houses do not have toilets. They use public toilets and community taps for water. The living areas are cramped. A single entry to slums in these areas lead to narrow passageways lined with rooms on either side, a civic official said. It is impossible for a Covid patient to self-isolate himself/herself without risking the spread of infection among others, the civic official said. Earlier this week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her concern regarding the Covid situation in North 24-Parganas, especially because of the congested pockets in several places. Duttabad, a slum bordering Salt Lake; Mongalganthi and Atghara near Baguiati; and several areas in Rajarhat and Narayanpur are among the places under civic scanner. It was a challenge to transport patients from these areas to a safe house as they feel they are better off at their homes, a civic health department official said. “Many are refusing to move to the government safe house… they pose a serious risk to the spread of Covid. No amount of persuasion has worked… so, we decided to take the help of cops,” the official said. Civic officials are coordinating with officers of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, mayor Krishna Chakraborty said. “We will take the support of the police whenever necessary.” A safe house near Sector V is operational to help Covid patients from these areas to self-isolate themselves. But there have been several instances when health teams could not find patients at their homes or faced resistance from families when they went there to pick up such patients. “I have had to play cat and mouse with residents of my ward. There have been more than a dozen instances of Covid positive people refusing to go to the safe house,” Nirmal Dutta, the councillor of Ward 38, said. Duttabad is part of the ward. Dutta himself has tested positive for the coronavirus and is in isolation. Another civic official said there had been a couple of instances of men resuming work and stepping out of their houses even after knowing they had tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Need women leaders to change lives||Modern High School alumna Anita Bhatia, the UN Women deputy executive director, stressed the need for women leaders in decision-making roles, influencing policy and changing lives while speaking from New York with students of her school. “The problems that the world faces today, the existential threats of climate change, the erosion of democracy, the erosion of liberal values, and the erosion of secularism require a new kind of leadership. Is it any surprise that the countries that have done the best job in dealing with this pandemic are countries run by women — Germany, New Zealand, Finland, Taiwan among others,” she said while speaking to the students early this week. Bhatia is the assistant secretary-general for resource management, sustainability and partnerships and the deputy executive director of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of women (UN Women). The girl from the Class of 1979 said: “We need more female leaders. We need women at the table, making decisions, influencing policy and changing lives. And I am so proud to be part of the family of Modern High School because every day Modern High School produces leaders who are capable of doing just that.” Bhatia has been working with women globally, addressing gender rights and issues of discrimination. The school recognised her as the “distinguished alumna” of 2020 during a webinar attended by present and past students and teachers joining from various time zones. Bhatia said the world has “turned upside down” during the pandemic and “women are at the centre of this crisis” but still underrepresented in leadership roles. “The frontline health workers during the pandemic are women, 72 per cent of the nurses in the world are women and still women continue to be underrepresented in all aspects of leadership,” she said. “Less than 10 per cent of the heads of state in the world are women, less than 10 per cent of the heads of government are women... and women continue to face discrimination in pay.” Head girl Mayukhi Ghosh introduced Bhatia as one who was not only academically brilliant and keenly interested in public speaking, debating and dramatics but also remembered by batchmates as “fun-loving and vivacious” with varied interests. “While many of us maybe very privileged and never face any sexism or discrimination we know that actually women can suffer a great deal when they are not given equal opportunity and most importantly when they are not given an education,” Bhatia said. In the midst of the pandemic Modern High kept its annual tradition of felicitating distinguished alumni in their chosen fields. “It is generally accepted that it is what students do after they leave the safe haven of the school that establishes the value of the institution where they were nurtured. On their part, the students say it was their school, which had shaped and inspired them,” director Devi Kar said. Bhatia does not miss a chance to visit her father in Calcutta and even in her schedule finds time to grow herbs in her garden, cook and visit the opera. “What I love about Modern High School and what I think is so important about an all girls and single gender education is that girls in all girls’ schools leave with models of strong female leadership,” she said. It is not for nothing that principal Damayanti Mukherjee said that this felicitation by the alma mater would remain “tucked into a very special, warm corner of your heart”. “You have made a choice to make a difference to the world, to communities and issues beyond your immediate and familiar. And therefore you are a role model to our gender and for Modernites — past, present and future,” Mukherjee said. The school authorities said they had received requests from people across the world to have online programmes. “We had people joining from various parts of the world… it generated a feeling of togetherness, which was unlimiting,” Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||No exams in September, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that Bengal would not have college and university examinations in September. While delivering a virtual address, Mamata asked education minister Partha Chatterjee, who was seated next to her, to inform students by next week how they could be evaluated before Puja. The chief minister’s comment came hours after the Supreme Court upheld the University Grants Commission’s decision to assess students through offline or online exams or a blend of the two. About 7.5 lakh final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students in Bengal will have to take their exams because of the UGC’s directive on July 6, which has set September 30 as the deadline for the tests. At least six universities in Bengal had distributed results to their students in July based on internal assessments and results of previous semesters. An official of the education department said the assessment was done based on a UGC directive in April that left it to the respective state governments to decide on the mode of assessment. In her address on the occasion of the foundation day of her party’s students’ wing, Mamata said: “I can tell you this much that examinations will not be held in September. That question does not  arise. If the examinations are to be held, I will urge the education minister to look into the possibility of holding the exams before Puja, through online or offline mode, so that the students are not inconvenienced.” The UGC notification on July 6 said the examinations would have to be held by September 30. Mamata said: “I will urge minister Chatterjee to explore whether those enjoying the facilities can write the test online from home and those without the facilities can write the test offline from a place close to his or her home without requiring to travel far. Just do what is bare minimum. We need not go for the maximum. You consult with the colleges and the universities and follow the rules and inform the students about what you have decided by next week.” The chief minister took a dig at the Centre for not holding a formal exam to evaluate the graduating batches at the IITs. “Have you held examinations at the IITs? Examinations have not been held there. So the IITs are the best of institutions. We respect them. So at some of the institutions exams are not being held. At some institutions exams are being held,” said Mamata. IIT Kharagpur had assessed students in the spring (end) semester on the basis of grades of mid-semester exams, assignments, class tests and viva voce and cancelled the end semester exams because of Covid-19. The results were announced in early July. The chief minister suggested that her government could invoke the Disaster Management Act to hold the exams after September 30, a provision that was mentioned in the apex court’s judgment. “In the guidelines that have been given today about UGC, it has been stated that the examinations can be held later following the Disaster Management Act. The state government can decide on that. So we could hold the tests after 15 days or after 30 days. But apparently we have to hold the examinations,” she said. An official of the higher education department said the chief minister, while suggesting that her government could invoke the Disaster Management Act, was referring to what the court had said on the final page of the judgment. “The order says that if any state or Union Territory in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has taken a decision that it is not possible to conduct the final year/terminal exams by September 30, they are at liberty to make an application to the UGC for extending the deadline for them,” the official said. “The appeal shall be considered by UGC and rescheduled dates be communicated at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Wedding amid a pandemic||Arnab Kumar Bhattacharya had always dreamt of welcoming guests to his wedding with the auspicious haldi, chandan and rose. Alas, his guests at AA Block community hall were welcomed with hand sanitiser. Priyanka Chakraborty of AB Block, New Town, had planned a big, fat Indian wedding spanning seven days. “I was to have many foreign nationals coming in and would have shown them every Indian ritual in the book,” she says wistfully. Alas, her social marriage was skipped and the registration had 25 guests with the foreigners watched the proceedings on Zoom! Namrata Roy Poddar had to shift her wedding out of BA Block community hall and into her own home. The groom sat on the terrace, adorned in topor and mask, while she sat in her study that had been transformed into a wedding hall by decorators. Welcome to wedding season 2020, where no more than 50 guests are allowed, where the priest chants mantras from behind a mask and where dinner is served in packets to be relished after a guest reaches home. While most weddings slotted this season are getting postponed, a few bravehearts-cum-romantics are taking the plunge anyway. Some are doing it as they have unwell relatives who want to see the wedding solomnised, others because there’s no telling how long they would have to wait for the pandemic to end. But in the bargain, they are facing and tackling unprecedented hurdles. Priyanka had wanted to buy her wedding sari directly from weavers in Benaras but since that didn’t happen, she wore her mother’s wedding sari. When Namrata got married, in mid June, shops had barely opened. “I booked a Benarasi sari online but also bought one from CA Market, just in case the former didn’t land up. Lata Poddar, who runs a boutique in BA Block, supplied saris for the tatwo and did my make-up. But what really drove me up the wall was getting the blouses stitched,” she recalls. With no reputable tailoring shop open, Namrata had to resort to a footpath tailor in GC Block to alter her wedding blouse. “As for the blouses for gaaye holud and aiburo bhat, I myself had to thread a needle and do the needful the night before the wedding,” says the the NIFT alumni, who works as a merchandiser. In fact, when no invitation card shops could be found open, Namrata painted herself and her groom and took 25 printouts to invite guests. Designer Namitha R. Dalmia, who runs Ssidhh Studio in Kankurgachhi, has created outfits for five or six weddings this season. “Some are negotiating the price, citing the poor economy or claiming that only 50 people would witness the wedding but I’m reasoning that since every other department has got trimmed down, the families have more to spend on the lehengas,” says the AJ Block resident. The outfits come with matching masks.  “Many are placing orders now for winter weddings.” Previously Namitha’s clients would celebrate sangeets, mehendis, pool parties, Sufi nights, poker nights and casino nights in the run-up to the big day but now she’s only designing for the basics — mehendi and wedding. When Arnab got hitched on July 2, he had to give the police in writing that there would be no more than 25 attendees, including himself and his bride. “A day before the wedding, the government extended the limit to 50 guests so I had to rush to invite 25 more people,” he recalls. At the venue, they erected a barricade in front of themselves, forcing a distance between themselves and guests. To avoid awkward situations among friends, some couples are inviting only family. “Eighteen guests were invited to my engagement, all of whom were immediate family. My fiance and I have a large group of friends whom we couldn’t invite but my cousins set up a Zoom link for them to watch,” said Anant Banka, who got engaged to Rashi Agarwal at an open ground in New Town, hoping it would allow better air circulation. Arnab’s bride Rituparna’s family had booked the hall for their July wedding by standing in queue from 3am on January 1. “That’s how coveted that hall near Dum Dum cantonment is and we didn’t have the heart to cancel this the venue. The reception took place at AA Block community hall after thorough sensitisation,” he says. While Priyanka and Sombit Chowdhury settled for a registry, they performed a Narayan puja at her New Town home beforehand. “It was there that we realised social distancing was impossible at home, even with 25 guests,” says the lawyer, who then chose Ibis hotel. “We book the 150-capacity hall for 25 people.” Sumanta Maity, general manager of Golden Tulip hotel, says they have hosted over 10 weddings this season. “Previously our priority would be good food and quick service but now it’s safety! While most weddings have been postponed, some are spreading their festivities over several days so as to break the guest list up somewhat and invite as many as possible,” he says. Ritu Agarwal, who runs a wedding planning company called Ritvan Events, said she had organised three weddings between June and August. “Most people are opting for hotels as hotels are following all norms. The workers setting up the stage, lights and sound are working in different shifts and that too not more than four workers are allowed in the venue at a time,” she says. Given the challenges of commuting, couples are trying to wrap out proceedings early. “The logno of our wedding was at 8.35pm so we couldn’t help it but the reception was held in the afternoon. It was an unusual hour but back then, a curfew would come into force at 9pm. How would guests get home after that?” says Namrata. Priyanka too had to wrap up early as the next day had been declared a state lockdown. “We stayed the night at my New Town house and left for my in-law’s place in the morning. Since my husband is a doctor his car has a doctor’s sticker and the police did not stop us,” she says. But nothing beats a wedding party that came to Baisakhi Abasan from Chhattisgarh in early June. In fact, they caused ample consternation among residents when they launched themselves into the proceedings without the 14-day quarantine that was supposed to have been followed after inter-state travel. Another wedding at Baisakhi took place on the first day of the weekly state lockdown — on July 29. “The estate officer cancelled permission to use the community hall and we had to seek the MLA’s intervention to hold the wedding,” said Sukhendu Khamaru, secretary, Baisakhi Abasan Samity. Numerous theories have surfaced as to the safest way to treat guests to dinner this season. Arnab had a sit-and-eat as the caterer said a buffet would have people piling on top of one another for helpings. Namrata had the pulao-mangsho-chingri malai curry packed into boxes and handed out for guests to eat in the safety of their own homes. Asparagus Hospitality, an event management group, prefers buffet as it does it not require waiters to go up close to guests and serve. “And we are serving only five diners at a time,” says Pritam Dutta of the CA Block firm. In fact, they are going a step ahead and allotting separate time slots for friends and relatives to prevent crowding. And even though the guest list may be miniscule, they are packing dinner for relatives who did not come. “In case no one showed up from a particularly family, we are delivering food home so the average number of heads we cook for is 70,” says Pritam. Dasgupta Caterers of Chinar Park has stopped cooking at the wedding venue and only delivers now. “Because of this, starters like kebabs have disappeared from the menu. Kebabs need to be served hot but without a live counter that’s not possible,” says manager Narayan Kundu. “Besides, catering for 40 people is not cost effective for us so we aren’t too eager to cater to weddings now.” Swade o Ahare, that has kitchens in AE Block and Sector V, has delivered food for a handful of weddings this season. “Most are at homes and we are not staying back to serve unless expressly requested,” says Subhrajit Boral, who runs the unit. “In case some guest gets Covid later, no one will blame their own family members. Fingers will point at us outsiders and we don’t want to take the chance.” When Studio Manorama got an offer to shoot a wedding in July, they jumped at the offer. “Safety and precautions we would manage later. But during such a lean period we need to embrace whatever business comes our way,” says Dwaipayan Chakraborty of the CF Block studio. In the pre-Covid era they would have got 15 to 20 contracts in this period. While they usually sent six to seven still and video photographers to weddings, they have trimmed it down to three now. “It’s working out fine as the number of guests, rituals, and of course, budget have all got slashed,” Chakraborty says. Indrajit Bhattacharya, partner at a photography agency called Wedding Bells, would even use drones to capture moments back in the day. “But now weddings are a subdued, compulsory celebration. All that jazz and bling are gone,” he says. At a wedding they covered recently, Indrajit says almost everyone began the day wearing a mask but let their guard down as the day progressed. “And for photos, everyone would take off their masks to show off their happy faces for the record,” says the CL Block resident. Social distancing has also sent for a toss the customary group photo of guests with the couple on the stage. “People from the same family were eager to be clicked together but there was a lack of trust, and rightly so, when it comes to clicking with people living in different houses or from different families. The shooting experience was odd,” Indrajit says. Incidentally, the couple his company clicked stays in Hyderabad. They reached Calcutta a fortnight ahead of the wedding and stayed in quarantine to avoid any mishap. Priest Nilratan Mukhopadhyay, who has officiated weddings in both Salt Lake and New Town this season, says he has been sanitising flowers, plates and pidis before offering the couple. “And if they cannot make out the mantras through my mask I’m removing it,” says the priest who is being ferried to the venue on his son’s bike. The son is helping out with rituals in the absence of his assistants. Marriage registrars are in a fix. “The legal procedure requires us registrars to be photographed along with the couple. If the bride, groom and registrar stand apart as per social distancing norms how are they to fit in one photo frame? How are they to fit in the small offices that many registrars work out of?” asks Susmita Chakraborty of BF Block. “And of course, masks have to be removed for the pictures, making it all the more unsafe.” Banasree Chatterjee, general secretary of the Progressive Marriage Officer’s Association, proposes that this photo requirement be removed till the pandemic lasts. Chatterjee, whose jurisdiction includes Salt Lake and New Town, says 50-60 weddings on her calendar this season have been put on hold. “There is online provision now for certain steps of the registration but the site is down half the time,” says Chatterjee. “Couples have been trying to register online during the pandemic, failing to do so and blaming us for it!” Despite the hiccups, a BC Block youth is rather envious of those getting married now. “Think of how much money they are saving,” he laughs. Too bad he doesn’t have a lady in mind to take his vows now. Priyanka says the pandemic has meant zero interference from pesky neighbours. Her husband Sombit says they were spared from visiting unending relatives post wedding and were instead able to set up a mini bar at home in the time they saved. “Everyone should get married in the lockdown,” he laughs. With foreign destinations out of the fray, the couple took off for Diamond Harbour for their honeymoon and almost had the near-empty resort to themselves. “We went to Mandarmoni again on August 15 but it so crowded we stayed indoors,” says Sombit. “Either way, I’m glad I lived up to my promise to Priyanka: ‘lockdown or no lockdown, dilwale dulhaniye le jayenge!’” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Focus on New Town||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Ode to freedom on the Net||August 15 has always seen the grandest celebrations at Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education as it marks the birth anniversary of Sri Aurobindo, is the school’s foundation day and of course, is also India’s Independence Day. And students weren’t about to let the pandemic change that. They released a slew of videos of their performances on YouTube starting with the principal’s address on August 15. “We never imagined the school in complete silence, without any children playing in the field, without assembly or classes. Covid-19 has shattered our lives but has not been able to stop students from expressing themselves,” said principal Debleena Bhatatcharya. Teachers and students, she said, had used technology this year to reach out and their performances too spoke of solidarity. So a Hindi play depicted a typical home in the lockdown scenario, where the parents are now working from home and kids are itching to go out. But ultimately they realise they are better off being able to spend time together and learning new skills. United, they now look forward to freedom from Covid. The play was shot at homes of different students and edited to look like the same. An audio drama showed a girl getting irritated when her grandparents repeatedly ask for help to use their smart phones and remote controls. “She also looks down on an uncle who limps, only to be reminded that he had lost his legs in a war,” said Sagnik Banik, a Class X student who wrote the script. The protagonist is taught at the end to see the sacrifice of her grandparents and not to discriminate between age and ability. There were dances too. Dance teacher Susmita Nandi Sethia choreographed dances for the tots by sending them videos of herself doing the moves. “Then I had to send another video teaching parents how to upload the kids’ videos to Google Drive. Even then, there were challenges of poor resolution and it was difficult to correct the movements over video call.” Her students danced to songs like Aao bachho tumhe dikhaye. Nandi Sethia would later be part of a dance collage by teachers too. “I have been a part of this school for the last 15 years and never has a function passed without me dancing on stage,” said head girl Anushka Bose. “So this year too, I have shot my dance video at home and sent.” Most of the videos were edited by Jyotirmoy Sanyal of Class XII. “This is our last year of school and we’re spending it on online classes without living it up with friends,” lamented the boy who took part in some plays. “Even if different, this year’s celebration shall be memorable,” said head boy Saptarshi Dutta, who handled much of the show’s co-ordination. Brinda Sarkar Salt Lake School uploaded two videos on its social media sites to mark Independence Day. One was created by the students of Class VII and the other by those of Class XII. Performing to editing, it was an all-student show all the way. “Most classes have unit tests going on. Usually exams are over by now but this year classes started late. The Class VII batch was very enthusiastic to do something for August 15, so we asked them to go ahead,” said principal Sugata D’Souza. The Class VII video had 13 students taking part to give lip to the Roja song Bharat hum ko jaan se pyara. “There were 12 of us initially. So we divided the song amongst ourselves and recorded  giving lip to the section given to us. The clips were sent to me and my father helped me put it together. He is used to editing cooking videos for my mother’s YouTube channel,” said Ishita Samanta, one of the participating students. This meant Drittriksha Chakraborty had to give lip to the male voice of Hariharan. But she did her best to make up for the incongruity with her expressions. The number became 13 when another student, Aryabrata Samaddar, wanted to join. “We had run out of lines in the song, so we added a bit of Main rahoon ya na rahoon to accommodate him,” said Ishita, who loved the experience of being part of the video. “If we were going to school in normal times, there would be no guarantee that our class would have been chosen to perform in the I-Day show. It was because we discussed doing something and our friend Arka Mitra took the request to our class teacher that we got to do this.” The video created by Class XI was a haunting collage of able performances, captured in black and white. The suggestion to do away with colour came from English teacher and cultural co-ordinator Payel Das. “I wanted the video to have a pre-independence feel,” she explained. The Class XI students were asked on Monday if they could produce something in time for I-Day on Saturday. Pratiti Majumder and her namesake Prateeti Parida were put in charge of editing the video. They were also among the five participants. While Pratiti recited Amitabha Dasgupta’s hard-hitting poem Amar naam Bharatbarsha, Prateeti sang Ebar tor mora gangey. Asked about the challenges they faced, Pratiti said receiving a clip of Vande Mataram shot vertically from Srijata Pramanik had caused them a headache. “We had forgotten to ask her to shoot horizontally. Prateeti too had not noticed the problem when she converted the colour clip to black and white. Later she suggested changing the ratio of the picture. The video editing software took care of the rest,” Pratiti smiled. Then it became a race against time. Sagnik Sikdar’s flute piece, which was to conclude the video with the national anthem, finally landed at 10pm on August 13. Both videos were uploaded on Saturday. “We will do a more elaborate Teachers’ Day programme,” D’Souza promised. Sudeshna Banerjee The 33-minute video prepared by Hariyana Vidya Mandir on Independence Day started with photographs of the school officials hoisting the national flag on campus. There was not a single student present. But some of them did their bit at home, in advance, by recording performances.  “The students are missing school but at least they should stay involved. So we have taken the entire co-curricular calendar online. This was perhaps the seventh occasion they contributed from home for since April after Janmastami, Gurupurnima, Rabindra Jayanti, Rakhi, Premchand Jayanti and World Yoga Day,” said principal Sanghamitra Banerjee. The programme started with a spiritual discussion on staying healthy and stress-free amid the pandemic. “Start the morning with thanksgiving to the Creator, your body and mind, nature and your family. Take a resolution to be strong, to be at peace and to be fearless. Do not waste energy in arguments and by being irritable. Banish the thought of what would happen if you or your loved ones fall ill,” said B.K. Shivani, spiritual adviser, Brahma Kumaris, in a recorded address. Class X students Titas Ray, Ditisa Mondal and Anusha Bhattacharjee got the show rolling with the Dwijendralal Ray song Dhanadhanyo pushpo bhora, dressed in white sari with red border, on their respective rooftops. Shreyan Dey recited Kalidas Ray’s poem Annapurna. But Class XII student Sankalp Singh’s recitation was an in-house special as the poem in tribute to Kshudiram Bose was composed by the school’s Hindi teacher Sangeeta Agarwal. “August 11 was the martyr’s death anniversary. I wanted to make the students remember him on this occasion,” said the lady, who has been teaching at the school for 23 years. “I gave an offer to the students, sending them a few lines to recite as test. Sankalp was chosen from those who submitted recordings,” she added. Sankalp’s elder sister Akanksha prepared the video clip with the recitation, with visual material sourced from the Net. Soumyajit Chakraborty of Class IX played a piece on the guitar, Bipasha Dey, Aditi Singh and Godhulika Dasgupta danced, Snehaparna Saha recited while Anushka Chakraborty and Archisman Dutta presented solo songs. Another highlight was Debasmita Bisay performing karate moves with Nanna munna rahi hoon playing in the background. The girl studying in Class VII, who is just a step away from black belt, would have preferred attending school on the day but felt she would have been nervous if asked to perform on stage. “At home, space was a problem but I had the option to record again. The one submitted was my third take,” she said, adding that her kicks were not high enough due to lack of practice. The last segment of the video, edited by the co-curricular activity co-ordinators of the school’s two shifts — Satarupa Hore and Sanjukta Sengupta — comprised dance pieces by Mouma Pal, Disha Gupta and Asmita Mandal, with the latter performing to the lesser-known fourth verse of Janaganamana Adhinayaka. The last shot was of the three doing a salute with Sare jahan se achchha playing in the background. Sudeshna Banerjee When Rohan Khanna, head boy of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, said that it “feels strange to celebrate Independence Day away from school”, he was echoing the sentiments of pretty much everyone from the school watching him speak on the school’s YouTube page on August 15. “I missed the unfurling of the national flag and us singing our national anthem together. But even though we are not together, nothing can stop us from honouring the most important day in our national calendar,” the head boy continued in his address. With students and teachers away from the campus, the school took the celebration online by creating and posting a video to mark Independence Day on its YouTube page. The 45-minute video had both primary and secondary section students singing, dancing, reciting and playing different instruments from home. All the participating students did their best to do up their background with suitable tricolour motifs. Flag in hand, Diptangshu Bhattacharya stood against orange and white balloons on the wall as he sang Chol re chol shobe Bharat-santan with five others from the primary section. Shirshannita Majumdar had balloons arranged in a triangle behind her. Aendri Basu wore tricolour wrist bands. Each student sang a part of the song and in the end all their voices were played together to give a choric effect. “This virtual celebration was a new experience for me as was practising at home. Our teachers helped us a lot. They would regularly do online practice with us and we also had the chance to record again if something went wrong,” said Aendri, a Class V student. “I wanted to have a virtual background and edited my recording but I was not happy with the result. So I sang and recorded again in front of the flag,” she added. The primary section also staged a dance to the song Vande mataram, with the four dancers sitting in poses of worship of different religions at one point and thereby delivering a message of communal harmony. “Our teachers had asked us to create a similar Tricolour-themed background, so I took three of my mother’s saris to hang. My father helped set them up. It looked colourful and bright. The most difficult part was all of us dancers having to wear the sari in a similar way, with one leg sticking out of the folds. In school, our teachers would assist us to get dressed but here we had to do it on our own,” said Ayushi Ray of Class V. A special part of the programme was an instrumental section where senior section students Soumyajit Pal, Souradeep De and Paulasta Ghosh played musical instruments like the violin, the keyboard and the flute respectively. But it was Souryadeepta Majumdar’s playing Ae mere watan ke logon on the melodica that caught the eye. “I chose to play an unusual instrument. It’s a very old model of the melodica that we had at home and I’ve been playing it for six years,” said the Class XII boy, who also can play the keyboard. The video carried another student’s name during his performance but he chose to play down the glitch, which was later rectified. Drawings of several students were showcased during the instrumental performances. The senior section students also presented a medley of patriotic songs and dance. While some of the eight dancers recorded their part indoors others used their rooftop, lending some variety to the ambience. “It was difficult to make the students practise through recorded videos and online calls but we tried our best. I had divided the song lines among the participants and sent them the steps on only those lines as it was not necessary to make them dance to the complete song as it would be edited,” said Dipanwita  Dutta, dance co-ordinator. “We did not want to miss this occasion. The students sent us video clips of their performances which we edited and created a complete video. Everything was done beforehand except the flag-hoisting held on our school premises. That footage was added to the video at the end,” said cultural co-ordinator Mohua Kundu. Arun Dasgupta, the vice-principal, pointed out how tough it was to create a choric effect in the song, using individual recordings of singers.  Sneha Das of Class XII not only participated in the secondary section’s dance performance to the song Bharat anokha raag hai, but she also edited the group’s dance video. “I like video editing and happily agreed when our teachers asked if I could edit our performance. Getting to perform was exciting and that too, in these times when we are locked down at home.” Head girl Siddhi Agarwal tried to be positive in her speech, referring to India’s scientific efforts in the space programme and the coronavirus vaccine race. She also referred to capability to think freely and freedom of opinion being prerequisites of a successful democracy. Head teacher Ranu Biswas reminded everyone that India was “passing through a period of crisis” and this was “not the time to quarrel over petty issues. We must stay strong and united…and bond irrespective of religion, caste and creed,” she said. Principal Sujata Ghosh put up a mirror to the state of the nation.  “The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in India has unveiled the actual condition of a large section of our countrymen. Poverty, oppression, illiteracy, hunger, a health system that is unreachable for many, inexplicable misery of lakhs of migrant labourers.... Is this condition desirable in a country 73 years after its independence?” She urged students to work harder as “you have a lot more to do for the country”. “A lucrative job and a life of luxury cannot be your only aim,” she summed up. Shatadipa Bhattacharya saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
29-08-2020||Business||Ambani’s Reliance buys stake in Future Group for Rs 24,713cr||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd on Saturday announced the acquisition of Future Group businesses for Rs 24,713 crore to add to its fast-expanding retail business and bolster e-commerce capabilities to take on competition from Amazon.com. “Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, will acquire the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business from the Future Group as going concerns on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of INR 24,713 crore,” the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Rupee at 6-month closing high||The rupee on Friday surged 43 paise to close at 73.39 against the dollar, its best closing level in nearly six months, buoyed by sustained foreign fund inflows and weaker greenback against key rivals. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened on a flat note but soon gained strength and finally ended 43 paise higher at 73.39 against the American currency — the best closing level since March 5. During the day, the local unit touched an intra-day high of 73.29 and a low of 73.87. Also, this was the third consecutive day of gains for the rupee, during which it advanced 94 paise. On a weekly basis, the Indian currency appreciated 145 paise against the dollar. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,004.11 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.72 per cent to 92.33. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.33 per cent to $44.94 per barrel. A sharp appreciation has been witnessed in the rupee amid persistent portfolio inflows and as the domestic currency was eventually seen mirroring the decline in the dollar index, said Sugandha Sachdeva of Religare Broking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Ways to reduce friction||States can consider three options to enable them to tide themselves over the deficit caused by the shortfall in GST revenues. According to a report from the economic research wing of the SBI, one option is RBI monetising state debt. While the central bank does not invest  in state government loans either in primary issues or in the secondary market, the Centre can monetise the debt or the shortfall which can then be given to the states. “The RBI will also be comfortable in dealing with the Centre rather than the close to 30 sub-national entities’’, the report added. The second measure could be more relaxation in ways and means advances (WMA) where the RBI provides temporary loan facilities to states for a tenure of 90 days to enable them to meet mismatches in their payments and receipts. In April, the RBI had increased the WMA limit to Rs 51,560 crore which was 60 per cent over and above the level as on March 31, 2020. This increased limit will be available till September 30 this year. The third option is recourse to NSSF. The Centre has set up the NSSF to provide an autonomous source of finance to the governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Dinesh Khara to lead SBI||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) on Friday recommended Dinesh Kumar Khara as the next chairman of State Bank of India (SBI). At present, Khara is the managing director of the country’s largest lender in charge of global banking and subsidiaries. He will replace Rajnish Kumar whose tenure will end on October 7. The ball is now in the appointments committee of the cabinet which will have to give its green signal. In a statement, the bureau said that it interfaced with four managing directors of the bank —Arijit Basu, C. S. Setty, Ashwani Bhatia and Khara. Incidentally, earlier this week, Bhatia was elevated as the managing director. Khara is the senior most managing director at SBI. He applied for the chairman’s post for the second time. In 2017, he was among the four contenders for the post to replace Arundhati Bhattacharya. While there was buzz of Rajnish Kumar getting a one-year extension, the bureau’s decision will mean that he will demit office in October. The head hunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions added that it has also recommended Setty as the candidate on the “reserve list” for the vacancy. BBB is headed by former secretary in the department of personnel and training  Bhanu Pratap Sharma. Khara, did his masters in Business Administration from FMS New Delhi and is a post-graduate in commerce. He joined SBI as a probationary officer in 1984 and has experience in all areas of commercial banking, including corporate and SME credit, international banking operations and retail credit. He was also a key figure behind the merging five associate banks and Bhartiya Mahila Bank with SBI. Khara’s selection is now a formality and  he is the second high-profile bank appointment this month after Sashidhar Jagdishan, who was picked as the next managing director and CEO of HDFC Bank. He will replace Aditya Puri who is due to retire on October 26. Both these bank heads will have the task cut out for them to not only contain a spike in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal but also kickstart credit growth which has taken a hit because of the risk aversion among banks. On Thursday, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das criticised banks for being excessively risk averse, saying this approach was “self-defeating” and  the lenders will not be able to win their bread. For the first quarter ended June 30, bad loans at SBI in absolute terms stood at Rs 1,29,661 crore, lower than Rs 1,49,092 crore in the preceding three months while the percentage of gross NPAs also fell to 5.44 per cent. However, it is feared that once the relaxation given by the RBI on recognition of bad loans ends, banks may see a rise in their NPAs. Khara will also have to look at boosting the bank’s credit growth which stood at 6.58 per cent during the first quarter of this fiscal. At the same time, he may also have to contend with an aggressive Jagdishan who is set to increase the private sector bank’s footprint in the rural and semi-urban areas of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Moratorium extension plea at Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to hear a fresh plea seeking an extension of the loan moratorium scheme till the end of December. The scheme, which was devised to help borrowers tide over the crisis precipitated by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, is due to end on Monday (August 31). Borrowers had been permitted to defer loan repayments for a period of six months. The court is currently hearing a petition challenging the levy of interest during the moratorium period — which became a contentious after the RBI issued a notification that made no mention of an interest waiver while granting the moratorium. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, in a hearing conducted through video conferencing, ordered tagging of the fresh plea filed by lawyer Vishal Tiwari with the earlier pending petition on the issue. The RBI had come out with the notification in March after the nation-wide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic and had given the facility of deferred payment of instalments to borrowers and now the scheme is ending on August 31. The lawyer told the bench, which also comprised Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M. R. Shah, that the adverse impact of the pandemic over the financial situation was still there and, hence, the moratorium scheme needed to be extended further till year-end. Now, the plea will be heard alongside the one filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma, which is scheduled for hearing on September 1. On August 26, the apex court had heard Sharma’s plea and had observed that the Centre was “hiding behind the RBI” and had asked it to reply within a week on the issue of interest being charged on instalments which have been deferred under the central bank’s scheme during the moratorium period amid Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Birla Tyres to raise Rs 1100cr||The board of Birla Tyres has approved raising up to Rs 1,100 crore through a mix of equity and debt to infuse much needed liquidity to save the business. The company is going through a bumpy ride in part because of a drop in demand for tyres during the Covid-19 pandemic and also because it does not have enough cash to run its operations efficiently. Birla Tyres is now a separate listed entity following a demerger from Kesoram Industries — the flagship of Basant K Birla group. Though the company has a net liability of Rs 928.53 crore as on June 30, 2020, and has defaulted on loan liabilities, the management may consider arranging fresh debt to stabilise it. “The priority is to infuse liquidity and operate the business efficiently. We are unable to do so now. Balancing between debt and equity can always be looked at later,” an official of the BK Birla group, said. A committee of the board has been constituted to explore the modalities of fund raising, which may include a rights issue or non-convertible debenture. The fund raising decision comes after years of unsuccessful attempts to rope in an overseas investor to jumpstart the business. Intermittent talks have happened with a manufacturer from Europe and China. Birla Tyres makes tyres for two- and three-wheelers, commercial vehicles, tractors and mining and industrial vehicles. The company is not present in the lucrative passenger car segment. A project to build such a facility has remained unfinished because of want of cash for years. According to the last account, the company still needs Rs 700 crore to complete the project. The proposed liquidity injection would mainly focus on funding day-to-day operations of the plant at Balasore, Odisha. A scan through of the past three quarters of revenue generation may explain why the management is not averse to debt, despite failing to meet debt obligations of Rs 130.64 crore in the first quarter  and Rs 146.06 crore in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. Revenue from operation slid to Rs 28.80 crore in the first quarter from Rs 81.28 crore revenue in the third quarter of the last fiscal. It posted a net loss of Rs 88.57 crore in the last quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Business ease claims in tatters||The Modi government’s spiel about why India was an attractive destination for FDI lay in shreds with the World Bank pausing publication of its “Doing Business” report to probe data collection irregularities. The World Bank said in a statement that it would conduct a systematic review of data changes in the last five Doing Business reports, and independent auditors will probe data collection and review processes. According to the “Doing Business” 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position on the ease of doing business ranking. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19), with the government targeting a top-50 position in the coveted list by this year. “This is the third year in a row that India has made it to the top 10 (improvers) in doing business, a success that very few countries have done over the 20 years of the project,” Simeon Djankov, director of development economics at the World Bank, had said last year of India’s sharp jump. “The publication of the Doing Business report will be paused as we conduct our assessment,” the bank said. The Doing Business report has long been controversial because it ranks countries based on indicators of how their government bureaucracies and regulations affect —and often limit — their attractiveness as destinations for business investment. It came under fire in early 2018 when the World Bank’s then-chief economist, Paul Romer, said methodological changes to the report may have been biased against Chile’s socialist president at the time, Michelle Bachelet. The report published in 2017 dropped Chile to 55th from 34th in 2014, when Bachelet took office. Romer resigned over the controversy, in which he said in a Wall Street Journal interview that the report "conveyed the wrong impression" about Chile's business environment under Bachelet. The World Bank said on Thursday there were “a number of irregularities” reported regarding data changes to the Doing Business reports published in 2017 and 2019, but did not identify them. “The changes in the data were inconsistent with the Doing Business methodology,” the bank said, adding that it would “correct the data of countries that were most affected by the irregularities.” The most recent Doing Business report published in October 2019 (for 2020), showed that West Asian countries sharply improved their rankings, with Saudi Arabia climbing 30 places to rank 62nd and Jordan jumping 29 places to 75th. New Zealand was ranked highest for the fourth year in a row, followed by perennial high-rankers Singapore and Hong Kong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Kerala, Punjab and Delhi reject GST payout options||Opposition-ruled states appear to be hardening their stand against the Centre as the row over the payment of GST compensation threatens to rip the fabric of India’s federal polity. Punjab, Kerala and Delhi have spurned the two unpalatable choices that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman placed on the table on Thursday — both of which require the states to borrow up to 40 per cent of their anticipated Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India. Former finance minister P. Chidmabaram of the Congress said the states should reject both the options. “The latest assault on the states is part of an elaborate design of the Modi government to financially cripple the states and reduce them to beg for money from the Centre,” he tweeted. The three states chose not to wait for the letter outlining the two options that Sitharaman had promised to send on Thursday but still hasn’t as the Centre works over the fine print that the states are expected to pore over the next seven days before deciding their course of action. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said the state had decided to reject both options. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac also told a news channel that neither option was acceptable. Delhi deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia said: “The states are feeling cheated right now.” Sitharaman placed two borrowing options before the states. First, they could borrow a sum of Rs 97,000  crore — the sum that the Centre through some opaque process determined as the uncovered amount arising from the implementation of the GST — at a reasonable rate of interest. Most states do not have a borrowing headroom which is why the Centre offered to raise the limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management (FRBM) Act by 0.5 per cent of their gross state domestic product(GSDP). The second option was to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, including Rs 1,38,000 crore ascribed to Covid-19 factors, and therefore outside the purview of the GST obligations, through the same special window. The principal and the interest in either option can be repaid after 2022 when the five-year tenure for the compensation cess is supposed to end but there is a possibility that this might be extended. Meanwhile, legal experts said the Centre cannot force the states to borrow to cover the shortfall in compensation cess collections. “The central government cannot instruct states to borrow. At the same time, the Centre is under no obligation to pay any sum in excess of what is collected through the cess,” says Pradeep Kumar Jain of Singhania & Co. Shareen Gupta of  J. Sagar Associates said much the same thing. “There is no doubt that states are entitled to compensation from the Centre for the loss of revenue on account of implementing GST. Given the unprecedented crisis, the options appear to be a step towards achieving a resolution with limited resources at hand. The states and the Centre, therefore, have the stupendous task of arriving at a middle ground.”  to manage the financial situation of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4 guidelines: Metro trains, political gatherings allowed||The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.  However, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.  In a significant directive, the home ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.  The ministry said that states and union territories may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work.  Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.  This will be subject to the written consent of their parents or guardians, according to the guidelines.  Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from September 7 in a graded manner, by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), the Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with the MHA.  In this regard, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the MOHUA.  Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from September 21.  However, such limited gatherings can be held with the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer, the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||Amit Shah cured, to be discharged from hospital||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS here on August 18 for post-COVID care, has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time, hospital authorities said on Saturday.  "Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-Covid care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time," the AIIMS said in a statement.  On August 2, Shah, 55, had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He had undergone treatment for the coronavirus infection at Medanta Hospital and was discharged after he tested negative for the disease.  According to an earlier statement by AIIMS, he was admitted to the hospital on August 18 following complaints of fatigue and body aches, days after his discharge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition slightly improves||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, but his renal parameters have improved, the hospital said on Saturday. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said he remains haemodynamically stable and is being treated for lung infection. A patient is haemodynamically stable when his blood circulation parameters -- blood pressure, heart and pulse rate -- are stable and normal, doctors say. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain the same day. He later developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction, the doctors said. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters have improved. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support. He remains haemodynamically stable," a statement from the hospital said. The former President had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012-2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||India's Covid-19 tally past 34 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally raced past 34 lakh with a single-day spike of 76,472 cases, while the number of recoveries surged to 26,48,998, pushing the recovery rate to 76.47 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. The total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 34,63,972, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 62,550 with 1,021 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.81 per cent in the country. There are 7,52,424 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for 21.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and the 30-lakh mark on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 4,04,066,09 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to August 28, including 9,28,761 on Friday. Of the 1,021 fresh deaths, 331 were in Maharashtra, 136 in Karnataka, 102 in Tamil Nadu, 81 in Andhra Pradesh, 77 in Uttar Pradesh, 56 in West Bengal, 51 in Punjab, 20 each in Bihar and Delhi, 17 in Madhya Pradesh, 15 in Haryana, 14 in Gujarat, 12 in Rajasthan, 11 in Uttarakhand. Nine fatalities each were reported from Puducherry and Telangana, eight each from Assam, Jharkhand and Odisha, seven each from Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala, six from Chhattisgarh, five from Tripura, four from Goa, two each from Chandigarh, Manipur and Meghalaya, while Ladakh registered one death. Of the total 62,550 deaths, Maharashtra has accounted for the maximum of 23,775, followed by Tamil Nadu (7,050), Karnataka (5,368), Delhi (4,389), Andhra Pradesh (3,714), Uttar Pradesh (3,294), West Bengal (3,073), Gujarat (2,976) and Madhya Pradesh (1,323). So far, 1,307 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab, 1,017 in Rajasthan, 808 in Telangana, 678 in Jammu and Kashmir, 661 in Haryana, 558 in Bihar, 456 in Odisha, 381 in Jharkhand, 286 in Assam, 274 in Kerala, 251 in Chhattisgarh and 239 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 199 Covid-19 fatalities, Goa 175, Tripura 94, Chandigarh 45, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 42, Himachal Pradesh 33, Ladakh 28, Manipur 27, Meghalaya 10, Nagaland nine, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||‘Minority’ plea on Hindus in 9 states||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union ministries of law and minority welfare on a petition seeking the declaration of Hindus as minorities in nine states to enable them to run and manage their own educational institutions. Muslims, Christians and other minority communities enjoy the benefit at the national level under Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution. The court posted the matter for further hearing after six weeks. While Article 29 relates to the protection of the interests of minorities, Article 30 grants minorities the right to establish and administer their own educational institutions without much government interference. The petition, filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, has challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004, “for not only giving unbridled power to the Centre but also being manifestly arbitrary, irrational” and offending Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 21 (life and liberty), 29 and 30 of the Constitution of India” with regard to Hindus in the nine states where they are said to be in minority. According to the petition, the Act arbitrarily empowers the Centre to notify five communities — Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees — as minority at the national level. Upadhyay has submitted that Hindus make up 1 per cent of the population of Ladakh, 2.75 per cent in Mizoram, 2.77 per cent in Lakshadweep, 4 per cent in Kashmir, 8.74 per cent in Nagaland, 11.52 per cent in Meghalaya, 29 per cent in Arunachal Pradesh, 38.49 per cent in Punjab and 41.29 per cent in Manipur, but the Centre has not declared them as “minority”, because of which the community cannot establish and administer educational institution of its choice. “…Till date followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism; who are real minorities in Ladakh, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, cannot establish and administer educational institutions of their choice because of non-identification of ‘minority’ at the state level, thus jeopardising their basic rights guaranteed under Articles 29 and 30,” the petition said. “Their right under Articles 29 and 30 is being siphoned off illegally to the majority community in the states because the Centre has not notified them as ‘minority’ under the NCMEI Act,” it added. Senior advocate Vikas Singh appeared for the petitioner. According to the petition, while followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism are being deprived of their “basic right” to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, Muslims, who are in majority in Lakshadweep (96.58 per cent) and Kashmir (96 per cent) and are present in significant numbers in Ladakh (44 per cent), Assam (34.20 per cent), Bengal (27.5 per cent), Kerala (26.60 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (19.30 per cent) and Bihar (18 per cent), can do so. Similarly, the petition said, Christians who are the majority in Nagaland (88.10 per cent), Mizoram (87.16 per cent) and Meghalaya (74.59 per cent) and are present in significant numbers in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, Manipur, Tamil Nadu and Bengal, can also establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Likewise, Sikhs are in majority in Punjab and there is a significant presence of the community in Delhi, Chandigarh and Haryana, but they can establish and administer educational institutions. Buddists, the petition pointed out, are in majority in Ladakh but enjoy the right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||CLAT put off to September 28||The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for entry to national law schools has been rescheduled to September 28 because of the complete lockdown in Bengal on September 7. The Consortium of National Law Universities met on Friday and discussed for over three hours the clash of dates and the inconvenience that thousands of examinees in Bengal could face in reaching centres. A notification issued at the end of the meeting said: “The Executive Committee assessed the prevailing lockdown situation in various parts of the country and, in particular, took into consideration the lockdown announced in the state of West Bengal for 7th September, and the continued lockdown in the state of Bihar until 6th September. On this basis, the Consortium has taken the following decision. The CLAT 2020 examination for both UG and PG candidates scheduled for 7th September, 2020, has been postponed to Monday the 28th September, 2020, from 2 to 4pm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Kerala gold scam: BJP’s turn to face music||The Kerala gold scandal has blown up in the face of the BJP. A statement attributed to a key accused claims that a pro-BJP television journalist had “requested the help” of the UAE consulate in the state capital to support the party in 2018. The statement also says the journalist offered the suspect advice to defuse the scandal through the consulate. The purported advice has a striking similarity with a claim made by a Union minister three days later. The scandal has taken the dramatic turn at a time the Opposition Congress and BJP have been seeking the scalp of chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan. On Friday, Anil Nambiar, the coordinating editor of the pro-BJP Janam TV, stepped down, pending an investigation, after the claims made in a handwritten statement attributed to Swapna Suresh became public. “In 2018, he (Nambiar) invited me for a dinner at Taj Hotel and had a couple of drinks together. He enquired about UAE investments in India and requested the help of consulate to support BJP,” said the statement that Swapna purportedly made before a central agency. Swapna is under arrest on the charge of helping smugglers bring in gold using “diplomatic baggage” in the name of the UAE consulate. An influential IAS officer in the Kerala chief minister’s office has already been suspended because of his links with Swapna. The BJP has not yet responded to the specific claim that Nambiar wanted the consulate to help the party. The nature of the help he allegedly sought is not clear. The UAE enjoys a special relationship with the Narendra Modi government and honoured the Indian Prime Minister with its highest civilian award last year. There had been reports in the western media that Indian security forces had helped capture and return the Dubai ruler’s runaway daughter off Goa in 2018. Nambiar, whose channel had played a key role in whipping up sentiments against the Vijayan government for implementing the Supreme Court order allowing women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple, has denied the claims in the handwritten statement. Earlier, call records had suggested that Nambiar was the last person Swapna had called up before switching off her phone and escaping to Bangalore after the smuggled 30kg gold consignment was caught. She was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Bangalore. Nambiar had then said he was in touch with her as part of his job as a journalist. But the statement attributed to Swapna says Nambiar had suggested that she advise “His Excellency”, a possible reference to the UAE consul-general, to issue a statement mentioning that the gold-filled parcel seized by customs officials at the airport on July 5 was a personal cargo and not diplomatic baggage. Three days later, on July 8, V. Muraleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs and a BJP leader from Kerala, had said: “We cannot call it diplomatic baggage. It’s a personal cargo that came for a diplomat. A diplomatic baggage is an official package sent from any country in official manner. Here some person had sent a parcel to a person with diplomatic immunity. On the airway bill, it was written diplomatic baggage. The person who came to receive the package was not having requisite papers.” However, the NIA later told a court in Kochi that fake stickers and insignia had been used to make the parcel, addressed to the attaché of the UAE consulate, look like a diplomatic baggage. On August 2, it was reported that Union minister Muraleedharan observed a one-day fast at his official residence in New Delhi, seeking the resignation of chief minister Vijayan over the gold scandal. According to Swapna's purported statement, she called up Nambiar to inform him that "His Excellency" wanted him to draft the statement. "Anil Nambiar agreed to send me the draft letter for this purpose," the statement attributed to Swapna says. "By then I was prantic (possibly 'frantic') about my own safety and was not in a position to follow this up further," the statement says. The consul-general, Jamal Hussein Al Zaabi, had left India shortly before the first round of nationwide lockdown had been announced on March 24. After news leaked earlier this week that Nambiar would be questioned by customs officials, Kerala BJP president K. Surendran had sought to distance himself from Janam TV.  However, Netizens soon dug up a 2015 Facebook post in which he had hailed the launch of Janam TV. Statements such as those attributed to arrested persons like Swapna can sometimes be made under coercion but what has landed the BJP in a quandary is that all the three agencies probing the gold scandal — the NIA, customs and the Enforcement Directorate — report to the Centre now run by the party’s leadership. Swapna's purported statement is unlikely to win plaudits for the UAE consulate. "Anil Nambiar had a cheating case in Dubai. And therefore could not visit Dubai for fear of arrest. At that time he wanted to go to Dubai to conduct a formal interview with (a jeweller who was in jail)." "He (Nambiar) wanted to get the issue cleared and thus contacted Sarith (another accused in the gold case and a former consulate employee) about two years back. Sarith in turn contacted me and I took up the matter with the consulate-general who cleared the issue using his influence in Dubai," the statement attributed to Swapna claims. It adds that "His Excellency" had been gifted a MacBook in keeping with his wish after he inaugurated a tile shop owned by a friend of Nambiar. In a Facebook post on Friday, Nambiar claimed he had called up Swapna only for an explanation from the consulate on the smuggled baggage. "In the last one year, I have called this woman only once. The intent of that call was to get the UAE consulate's explanation," Nambiar wrote. He said he didn't know Swapna had left the consulate last year. "While I had called her to check about the diplomatic baggage, I don't understand the reason for her statement that I had asked her to say it is not (a diplomatic baggage)," Nambiar added. "It is not my job to advise or give directions to Swapna." He said customs officials had during Thursday's questioning asked him about the calls he had exchanged with Swapna on July 5. "As the investigating agency, they fulfilled their duty. I said what I wanted to say. I fully cooperated with the investigation," Nambiar wrote. "I understand that my presence is becoming an impediment to news flow (at Janam TV). Hence I am stepping aside until the doubts surrounding me are cleared," he added. The CPM demanded on Friday that the BJP make its stand clear on the case. "It is clear that the BJP has something to hide as they have distanced themselves from Nambiar after the interrogation," the CPM said in a statement. The state secretary of CPM youth wing DYFI, A.A. Rahim, termed Nambiar a "small fish." "Anil Nambiar is only a small fish. Big sharks are in the ministry of external affairs," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Six states appeal to SC to put off NEET, JEE Main||Ministers from six Opposition-ruled states, led by Bengal law and labour minister Moloy Ghatak, on Friday urged the Supreme Court to postpone by six to eight weeks this year’s all-India engineering and medical entrance tests keeping in mind the Covid crisis. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental courses is scheduled on September 13; and the JEE Main for engineering courses from September 1 to 6. Some 25 lakh students are expected to take these exams. The IIT-conducted JEE Advanced, which the best 2.5 lakh performers in the JEE Main can take, is scheduled on September 27. Besides the pandemic, which the petitioners say is having a psychological effect on the students apart from its threat to physical health and constraints on studying, the petition also cites the floods in various states to seek postponement of the exams. The joint petition, expected to be heard on Monday, seeks a review of the Supreme Court’s August 17 judgment that upheld the authorities’ decision to conduct the NEET. Hearing a batch of petitions from students seeking postponement of the exam or its conduct in the online mode, the court had ruled that cancellation or postponement would force the students to lose an academic year and affect their future careers. While the court had passed the judgment only on the conduct of the NEET, the petitioners have now also sought postponement of the JEE. “If the Impugned order dated 17.08.2020 is not reviewed then grave and irreparable harm and injury would befall on the student community of our country and not only will the health, welfare and safety of the students/ candidates appearing for the NEET/JEE examinations would stand imperilled but also the public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid-19 pandemic times,” the petition says. “The Union government has created an unfortunate situation whereby the students/candidates may become vectors and carry the infection back to their homes and put their parents, grandparents, family, relatives and friends at risk of infection. This multiplier effect will be disastrous for the health of the nation.” Apart from Ghatak, the petitioners include Rajasthan finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, Jharkhand health and family welfare minister Raghu Sharma, Chhattisgarh food and civil supplies minister Amarjeet Bhagat, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, and Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Ravindra Samant. Filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, the petition seeks the postponement of the exams “in a manner that achieves the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students (2020-2021) is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised”. “The Union government must ensure that the present dates of the examinations are postponed at least by 6 to 8 weeks and ensure that the academic session commencing by January 2021 and the academic year of the students are not lost,” Fernandes said. “Postponing the examination by 6 to 8 weeks would give adequate time to the Union government to make adequate transportation i.e. special buses, trains and flights in consultation with the state governments so that the students have a hassle-free and safe access to their examinations centre.” The petitioners have also cited logistical difficulties: “Such large movement of people (25 lakh examinees travelling to the exam centres and back) will prove a serious health hazard and defeat the twin present-day solutions we have of combating the Covid-19 pandemic i.e. social distancing and avoidance of large public gatherings.” They find it “ironical” that the exams were postponed in early summer when the number of the Covid-infected was much smaller “and now, when the daily spread of the virus is at its peak, the examinations are directed to be conducted forthwith”. “Now the Union government has suddenly woken up to realise that their inertia (in combating the pandemic) is going to cost lakhs of students their academic year and therefore as a knee-jerk reaction, (it) has haphazardly and hurriedly fixed the dates of the examinations, which remedy will prove worse than the disease itself,” the petition says. It argues the students are in no frame of mind “to appear in probably their most important and life-defining examination”. “It is of utmost importance that the correct and healthy mental and psychological environment is created so that the students can give their best performance,” it says. The petition also highlights the floods in “Bihar, As-sam, Arunachal Pradesh and parts of Meghalaya in July; Mumbai, Konkan and Karnataka in the first week of August; and flash floods in parts of Rajasthan on August 15”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Lives of lakhs of students at risk: Teachers||Holding university exams in September, as sanctioned by the Supreme Court on Friday, would “risk the lives of lakhs of students” considering the challenges of ensuring social distancing at the centres and in public transport, segments of teachers and state government officials have suggested. The apex court has upheld the University Grants Commission (UGC) directive that mandates exams in September for the country’s more than one crore final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. Some academics have, however, welcomed the elbow room the court has given to state governments to postpone — in consultation with the UGC — the exams in universities within their borders if they believe the pandemic situation requires such a step. UGC officials said that about 200 universities had already conducted final-year exams while 370 had informed the commission they planned to do so. Over 300 universities had been undecided till Friday, when the court delivered its verdict. Arun Kumar, general secretary of the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations, a body of teachers from state government-run institutions, hoped the states would be able to have the exams postponed. “The state government-run universities have mostly not held exams. Students, parents and teachers have been opposing the holding of exams,” he said. “Now the judgment has come (but) the states can still ask for deferment. I feel that the lives of lakhs of students will be at risk if the exams are held now.” India’s 260-odd state government-run universities boast more affiliated colleges and more students than any other category of varsity, and could account for well above half the country’s final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, a UGC official said. While the UGC has allowed the exams to be held online, most of the major universities are not even considering the option given the lack of reliable Internet connectivity and lack of devices among the poorer and rural students. According to the UGC’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for holding the exams, the states must instruct local authorities to issue movement passes to the invigilators and other teachers, officials and staff engaged in the conduct of the exams. The students can use their admit cards to travel between the exam centre and home. Students who have a cough, fever or cold should be made to sit in a separate room or allowed to take the exams on a different set of dates, the SOP says. The rooms at the centres can accommodate no more than 12 students each. The examinees and the examination staff are required to download the Aarogya Setu app. Several state governments, like those of Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra and Delhi, have openly opposed September exams. “The college rooms don’t provide much space for social distancing,” a senior civil servant from Andhra Pradesh said. “Besides, the students will have to travel by public transport, where too social distancing would be a big challenge.” Delhi University executive council member Rajesh Jha, however, said the apex court had “tried to check the centralisation of decision-making in higher education” by giving the states a say. He said the UGC was insisting that its decision on September exams be implemented but “the message in the Supreme Court judgment is that the states’ and universities’ concerns must be accommodated”. The all-India engineering (JEE Main) and medical (NEET) entrance tests — as well as the IIT-conducted JEE Advanced — are also scheduled in September. A combined pool of 25 lakh students is expected to take these exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||NEET and JEE: Congress protests on streets and online||The Congress on Friday held protests across the country and online against the government’s decision to conduct NEET and JEE examinations from September 1, alleging that it would put millions of students and their families at the risk of getting infected at a time Covid cases were rising sharply. While the Youth Congress held demonstrations in the national capital and several major cities, most senior leaders joined a campaign on social media with the hashtag “SpeakUpForStudentsSafety”. Members of Congress students’ wing NSUI are organising a hunger strike at their he-adquarters to press for the demand to postpone the exams. Referring to the distress that the government’s decision had caused to the millions of students and their families, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in a statement: “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding your future, it is important that the decision is taken with your concurrence. I hope the government listens to you and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government.” Rahul Gandhi said: “Everybody understands what has happened in the past three-four months, the devastation it has caused. The economic destruction, the pain this country had to bear. I don’t understand why you (students) should be held responsible, why further pain should be imposed on you. “I can clearly see the government has been incompetent. But why should the government force anything on you? The government should listen to you. The decision should be made after a conversation, on the basis of a consensus.” Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas, who along with many other workers was detained by Delhi police for holding demonstrations, said: “The home minister of India, several chief ministers, governors are infected with the coronavirus. Does this government think students are corona-proof? When so many other exams have been put off, why not JEE-NEET?” A large number of Congress leaders posted video messages asking whether the lives of students were less precious than MPs as Parliament had not been convened for months. Congress leaders recalled the plight of millions of migrant workers who had braved police atrocities and hunger to return home, alleging that similar mismanagement was being demonstrated in the case of students now. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “The travel of 25 lakh students from villages and small towns at a time when the transport system is functioning barely at 35 to 40 per cent is difficult. Where will they stay? In Bihar, for example, only two of the 38 districts have exam centres for NEET and seven districts for JEE. Apart from logistical issues, there are psychological issues caused by the lockdown. What will happen if the students get infected? Apart from inefficiency, this is a government of apathy and arrogance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Kashmir judge calls for withrawal of Article 370 please||A former high court chief justice from Jammu and Kashmir on Friday called for the withdrawal of all petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370, adding an uncommon appeal: “Please don’t invite a judgment which may close the chapter forever.” Kashmir-born Bilal Nazki, who retired as chief justice of Orissa High Court in 2009 and later served as chairman of the Jammu and Kashmir human rights commission, tweeted: “All petitions related to Art 370 should be withdrawn, let this fight be political (and) please don’t invite a judgment which may close the chapter forever.” The tweet came amid a debate about the judiciary in the country, which gained traction after lawyer Prashant Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt for two of his tweets on past and present Chief Justices of India. On Friday, asked about his tweet, Nazki told The Telegraph in a light-hearted manner: “You can deduce a meaning or write you did not understand. A tweet is not a statement. It is crisp, just to generate a discussion and know each other’s opinion.” Later during the conversation, the former judge said a “change” had been perceptible in the judiciary over the past few years. He attributed it to the “ideology” of the judges. “In my 15 years’ experience as a judge, no government ever tried to influence any judge, but ideologically sometimes a person is different. Every judge… is a human being after all,” Nazki said. The Supreme Court is hearing a slew of petitions challenging the constitutionality of last year’s abrogation of Article 370 that stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. The Nazki-headed human rights commission too was abolished last year after the central government cancelled the special status and bifurcated the state into two Union Territories. The Centre has since shown zero tolerance towards any opposition to the August 5, 2019, decisions, arresting thousands during the clampdown that followed. Top political parties in the Valley, whose key leaders had spent months in jail, last week joined hands and vowed to fight for the restoration of Article 370. Asked why he was calling for the withdrawal of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370, the former judge said it was because “if something is decided in the court then all will say it is concluded. Otherwise, other options are open.” “Two results are always possible (in court), so why take the risk of a negative decision?” Nazki said. Asked whether this was not possible in all cases and whether nobody should approach the courts then, Nazki said he was only expressing “my opinion”. The former chief justice said the courts were sound in India but regretted that some important cases were not being heard. “You take (the cases challenging the abrogation of) Article 370. Similarly, habeas corpus petitions are the most important cases. We have learnt there are many habeas corpus petitions pending in the Supreme Court. Even Mehbooba Mufti’s case is pending there,” he said. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba has been under arrest since August 5 last year, and her daughter Iltija Mufti has challenged her detention in the Supreme Court. A habeas corpus is a writ requiring a person to be brought before a judge or into court, especially to secure that person’s release from arrest unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention. “It should not happen. Every judge knows and every lawyer knows that the court has to give preference to habeas corpus. (As a judge) in Hyderabad, we had decided to decide these matters in three months,” Nazki said. The former judge said that ups and downs were expected as courts in India were evolving. “When a child grows, sometimes it falls ill, sometimes it suffers from typhoid but that does not mean the child is gone…. Our system is evolving,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Another BJP-linked skeleton in Facebook’s hate-post closet||Facebook allowed a hate post by a BJP lawmaker in Assam to remain on its pages for more than a year despite an alert from an NGO, the New York-based Time magazine has reported. Earlier this month, The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook had condoned violence-inciting posts by the Hindutva ecosystem, including a BJP legislator from Telangana, on the advice of Ankhi Das, its public policy director for South and Central Asia. Time reported that despite complaints from the NGO Avaaz in 2019, Facebook had for over a year failed to remove a post by Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev that blamed Bangladeshi Muslims for rapes. “But halfway through the hour-long meeting (with Avaaz in July last year), Shivnath Thukral, the most senior Facebook official on the call, got up and walked out of the room, Zoyab [a former Avaaz official] says, saying he had other important things to do,” the Time report says. “Among the posts was one by Shiladitya Dev, a lawmaker in the state of Assam for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” the report says. The report added: “He had shared a news report about a girl being allegedly drugged and raped by a Muslim man, and added his own comment: ‘This is how Bangladeshi Muslims target our [native people] in 2019.’ “But rather than removing it, Facebook allowed the post to remain online for more than a year after the meeting until Time contacted Facebook to ask about it on Aug. 21.” Like Das, who has been linked to the BJP and Trinamul, Thukral — a former journalist like Das — formerly ran an Internet campaign linked to the BJP. “Before joining Facebook, Thukral had worked in the past on behalf of the BJP. Despite this, he was involved in making decisions about how to deal with politicians’ posts that moderators flagged as violations of hate speech rules during the 2019 elections, the former employees tell Time,” the Time report says. “In 2013, during the BJP’s eventually successful campaign to win national power at the 2014 elections, Thukral worked with senior party officials to help run a pro-BJP website and Facebook page. The site, called Mera Bharosa (‘My Trust’ in Hindi) also hosted events, including a project aimed at getting students to sign up to vote, according to interviews with people involved and documents seen by Time.” The site changed its name to “Modi Bharosa” in 2014. Thukral and Dev were yet to respond to phone calls, text messages and emails from this newspaper. A Facebook spokesperson on Friday afternoon asked for time to reply to the queries but had not done so when this report was filed. After the WSJ report, Facebook had said its policies prohibited hate speech and incitement irrespective of political affiliation. But it did not explain why anti-Muslim posts in the name of the leader of the BJP’s legislature party in Telangana, T. Raja Singh, were allowed. The Delhi Assembly has since begun an inquiry into whether Facebook had any role in the February communal riots that killed 53 people. Time quoted a Facebook spokesperson as saying: “We failed to remove (Dev’s post) upon initial review, which was a mistake on our part…. Our understanding is that Shivnath’s volunteering (at Mera Bharosa) at the time focused on the themes of governance within India and are not related to the content questions you have raised.” Thukral is currently public policy director with WhatsApp, owned by Facebook. “But WhatsApp’s future as a payments application in India depends on final approval from the national payments regulator, which is still pending,” Time reported. “Facebook’s hopes for expansion in India have been quashed by a national regulator before, in 2016, when the country’s telecoms watchdog said Free Basics, Facebook’s plan to provide free Internet access for only some sites, including its own, violated Net neutrality rules. One of Thukral’s priorities in his new role is ensuring that a similar problem doesn’t strike down Facebook’s big ambitions for WhatsApp Pay.” Several police complaints had been lodged against Dev this month after he called late Assamese author Syed Abdul Malik an “intellectual jihadi”. Avaaz’s report in 2019 cited several hate posts by Dev on Facebook, including two interviews to TV channels in which he blamed Bangladeshi Muslims for rape and other crimes. Titled “Megaphone for Hate”, the Avaaz report had said: “Despite repeated calls from Avaaz to Facebook to proactively enforce with human content moderators its Community Standards on hate speech in Assamese, Bengali and Hindi with a team that understands the issues specific to Assam, Facebook has not yet committed to doing so. “The 213 examples that Avaaz flagged as hate speech to Facebook were shared over 99,650 times. Facebook has taken down 96 of the posts, pages and comments we reported to them. These were at least viewed 5.4 million times.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds UGC exams directive||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the University Grants Commission’s directive to universities to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30 but left the door ajar for state governments to seek Covid-related postponements. The court rejected the stand taken by some states and other petitioners that the exams must be cancelled in view of the pandemic and the students awarded degrees on the basis of internal-assessment marks. It, however, ruled that the states are empowered under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to seek postponement of the exams “in consultation” with the UGC, the higher education regulator. Bengal was among the states that had opposed the September exams, contending that the examinees would be at risk of catching the coronavirus infection. Such states must now seek UGC approval to postpone the exams in universities located within their borders. On Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I can tell you this much that examinations will not be held in September. That question does not arise. If the examinations are to be held, I will urge the education minister to look into the possibility of holding the exams before the Puja, through online or offline mode, so that the students are not inconvenienced.” The country is estimated to have more than 1 crore final-year students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Other states like Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra and Delhi too have opposed the September exams. On Friday, the Supreme Court bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said: “Final year/ terminal-semester examinations are... the only way to figure out what students know... (and allow) the students to improve upon their overall score.” While the UGC has allowed the exams to be held online, most universities are not considering the option given the lack of reliable Internet connectivity and devices among students from poor or rural families, and the impossibility of invigilation. The apex court passed its verdict after hearing a batch of petitions and cross-petitions. While some states, students and organisations had sought cancellation of the exams, other petitioners had questioned the decision by some states to scrap the exams and award degrees on the basis of internal assessment. “Final year/ terminal-semester examinations are important because the learning process is a dynamic interaction where the only way to figure out what students know is to seek evidence of their knowledge and to evaluate it. Performance in examination, especially final year/ terminal-semester examination, (is a) reflection of the competence of the students,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, wrote. “Terminal-semester/ final-year examination also provides an opportunity to the students to improve upon their overall score/ marks which are very crucial for academic excellence and opportunities of employment.” The court interpreted provisions of the UGC Act 1956 and the National Disaster Management Act 2005, under which the State Disaster Management Authority is constituted, to rule that the UGC guidelines overrode the states’ say on the conduct of the examinations. Exam cancellations do “not fall within the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and shall have no protection of Section 72 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005”, the court said. Section 72 has an overriding effect over any law inconsistent with the Disaster Management Act. But this special power cannot be a fetter on the UGC’s powers to issue directives on higher education, such as the mandatory conduct of exams, the court ruled. However, a state government cannot compromise on the health of its people, either — so the UGC guidelines shall not “fetter” the state’s powers “to take appropriate measures to contain the disaster”. “The state authorities are competent to assess the situation in a particular state regarding (the) possibility of holding of examinations,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: Bombay HC refuses bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant bail to lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case being probed by the National Investigation Agency. A bench led by Justice R.D. Dhanuka rejected an appeal filed by Bharadwaj in June, whereby she had challenged a special court’s order that denied her bail on health grounds. Bharadwaj, 58, had approached the high court seeking bail, saying that she suffered from diabetes and hypertension, which put her at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus at the Byculla women’s prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Court nod with riders for Mumbai Muharram ritual   ||Bombay High Court on Friday granted permission for a Muharram procession in the city under stringent restrictions because of the pandemic. A bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar gave permission after the Maharashtra government granted hearing to a local Shia Muslim organisation that had petitioned the court seeking permission for a symbolic procession for Muharram. The state government and the petitioner, the All India Idaara-e-Tahafuz-e-Hussainiyat, reached an agreement and informed the court on Friday, following which permission was granted. As per the court’s order, participants will be permitted to bring out the procession on August 30 (Sunday) between 4.30pm and 5.30pm on a pre-determined route only on trucks and not on foot. A maximum of five persons will be allowed on each truck and only five will be permitted to walk with the Tazia symbol for the last 100 metres, the order stated. The five will have to give their home addresses to police beforehand, the court said. The All India Idaara-e-Tahafuz-e-Hussainiyat had argued that if the state government had permitted Ganesh idol immersions with health safeguards, it must also permit the Muharram procession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||UP panchayat chief threatens to convert in 'land grab' protest||A village panchayat chief in Aligarh district has threatened to convert to some other religion along with his family, accusing a BJP MP of going back on his promise of “protecting Hindus” and “grabbing our land”. “We had supported (Hathras MP) Rajvir Singh Diller in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections because he had promised to protect the rights of Hindus. He had told us that his entire political life was dedicated to the Hindus. But now, he is victimising us and grabbing our land. My entire family is disillusioned and we are planning to convert to some other religion soon,” said Ashok Azad, the elected chief of the Daurau-Chandpur village panchayat in Aligarh district, from where the MP hails. Hathras is an adjoining district. “Rajvir’s wife Rajni Diller had contested the 2015 panchayat election against me and lost. Although he never showed any anger against me and sought my help in the Lok Sabha elections, he changed after winning and became vindictive against me and my family,” Azad said. “Four months ago, the authorities demolished a portion of my house on the orders of the MP. They claimed that the constructions had been made on gram panchayat land. Later, he constructed a boundary wall on my land, claiming it was his property. I have moved court against the demolition and encroachment but the police are warning me against pursuing the case,” he added. “There are 20 members in our family and all of us have moved an application before the local administration requesting that we be allowed to relinquish Hinduism and adopt some other religion,” Azad told reporters. Diller, the MP, rubbished the allegations. “The panchayat chief had constructed a room on the land of the gram panchayat. The villagers had submitted a complaint with me and I had forwarded it to the local authorities. My wife never contested a panchayat election. Whatever he is saying is a lie,” Diller said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
29-08-2020||India||Not act of God but mismanagement by Modi government: Congress||The Congress has described as a “lie” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking to blame God for the economic crisis, arguing that mismanagement by the Narendra Modi government had derailed growth much before the pandemic struck. The Centre on Thursday disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate states for any annual shortfall in GST collections this year, with Sitharaman calling the pandemic an “act of God” that had left the government in no position to borrow the amount on to its books and then defray the sum as the states had hoped. “...We are facing an act of God which might even result in a contraction of the economy, to what per cent I am not getting into that,” Sitharaman had said after a meeting of the GST Council. Several Congress leaders, however, pointed out that six successive quarters had witnessed decline in the GDP growth rate, the worst phase in 23 years. Responding to the “act of God” excuse, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “India’s economy has been destroyed by three actions: Demonetisation, flawed GST and failed lockdown. Anything else is a lie.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Quarterly GDP growth rates: Q2 2018-19 — 7.1%, Q3 2018-19 — 6.6%, Q4 2018-19 — 5.8%, Q1 2019-20 — 5.0%, Q2 2019-20 — 4.5%, Q3 2019-20 — 4.7%, Q4 2019-20 — 3.1%. Was this also an ‘Act of God’ or Act of Master Actor, Madam Finance Minister?” The “master actor” quip appeared to be a reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who the Congress often ridicules for his perceived theatrical skills. Asked whether he was contesting the government’s claim that the corona-induced lockdown had hurt the economy, Ramesh told The Telegraph: “Economic deceleration was very much in evidence even before Covid-19 struck. Six consecutive quarters of declining growth. Two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth is the widely accepted definition of recession. Covid-19 and the manner in which it has been managed have worsened the economic situation.” On social media, Ramesh said: “Parliament passed a law that the Centre will compensate states for GST shdortfalls for five years. The Centre is now passing the buck to states, telling them they should borrow to make up shortfalls. This is abdicating the Centre’s legal obligations. Pathetic! States should oppose tooth and nail.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate asked whether the pre-pandemic economic decline and the 45-year-high unemployment rate were also acts of God.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
29-08-2020||India||Uddhav asks officials to see if Metro site can shift out of Aarey Colony||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked the Mumbai Metro and MMRDA officials to examine whether the proposed Metro car-shed in Aarey Colony can be shifted to Pahadi Goregaon area near Oshiwara. An official in the Urban Development department said the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had already sought a 200-acre plot in Pahadi Goregaon for Metro line 6 (Lokhandwala-Jogeshwari-Vikhroli-Kanjur Marg). The Metro line 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) passes through Aarey Colony and the car shed was also supposed to come up in this forested area. There were huge protests as the project involved felling of over 2,000 trees in Aarey Colony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Ally questions BJP ‘coalition dharma’||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction) has accused long-time ally BJP of deviating from “coalition dharma” by trying to eat into the party’s base in the hills. On Friday, general secretary of the Morcha (Gurung faction) Roshan Giri posted a news release on social media, saying the BJP had taken up a membership drive across the hills and foothills, which the Morcha considers its traditional base. “The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and the BJP has a decade-old coalition and the Morcha has always upheld its coalition ‘dharma.’ It is a known truth that from 2009 to 2019, the Morcha has helped the BJP candidates to win but today, our feeling is that certain BJP leaders are not taking this coalition seriously,” says the release issued by Giri. Back in 2009, the Morcha joined hands with the BJP, which helped the BJP secure the Darjeeling consecutively in three Lok Sabha elections. The release mentioned Jaswant Singh and S.S. Ahluwalia, who won the seat in 2009 and 2014. “These two leaders never tried to extend their support base in the hills because at that time we were in control of the hills, Terai and adjoining areas and our leaders were also on ground. But today, as our leaders are forced to live a life in exile, it seems that the BJP is taking advantage of this situation, or for any other reason has started a membership drive in these areas. Our present MP (Raju Bista) is very enthusiastically involved in this drive.” The Morcha (Gurung faction) added that the MP should meet the demands of the hill people, which include Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities, and come up with a permanent political solution for the hills. Such assertions from the Bimal Gurung faction — the other faction led by Binay Tamang allies with Trinamul — has triggered speculation on what lies ahead. “It’s evident they want the BJP to abandon the membership drive. As most leaders of the faction are not public for over three years now, there is a chance that some of their supporters may join the BJP,” said a political watcher. MP Bista said the Morcha (Gurung faction) could always voice its concerns in public. He said his party’s membership drive in Bengal was not limited to the hills, Terai and the Dooars. “Ours is a democratic alliance, and every partner has equal say...” Bista said. “As a party worker, I have my set of duties and responsibilities to fulfil. Our alliance partners are well aware of these facts, and they have every right to put forward their concerns,” Bista said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Elephant dead  near live wires||The carcass of a wild elephant was recovered from a farmland in Banarhat, Jalpaiguri district, on Friday. Binnaguri Wildlife Squad officials suspect electrocution as they found live wires near the spot, said a source. A post-mortem report is awaited. With this, in the past two months, seven wild elephants have died in Jalpaiguri, mostly of electrocution. One died from infighting. Residents of Dudumaribusty in Banarhat near the Khunia forest on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary noticed the carcass early on Friday and told foresters. They said an elephant herd entered the village on Thursday night and ravaged farmland. “If electrocution is established, those involved in laying live wires (to electrocute elephants) would be traced and arrested,” a senior forester said. The forester added that herds of elephants were often found roaming around Malbazar, Nagrakata, Banarhat and Binnaguri, and entered human habitats, damaging crops and hutments. Almost every day, wildlife squads and foresters steer herds back to the forests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Entrance exam help||The reputable Siliguri Boys’ High School will introduce coaching facilities for students for state and national level competitive exams. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, also the president of the school’s managing committee, said it would start coaching students in Classes XI and XII for exams such as NEET, JEE and others, as well as hone their skills to face interviews. As of now, the coaching classes will be held online, Deb said. “Once school reopens, the coaching classes would be held like any regular class. For lower classes, we will introduce Abacus and mental maths,” added the minister. The managing committee, sources said, has planned infrastructure upgrade in the school, including installation of CCTV cameras and solar panels, a new shed for serving midday meals to students, a new hall and an activity room. “Also, the school’s auditorium would be refurbished and new rooms will come up for the headmaster, other staff and for the school office,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Going the extra mile, with books and pills||Two young couples from Siliguri and Malda are literally going the extra mile amid the pandemic to bring education and healthcare to those who are economically disadvantaged. In Siliguri, Anirban Nandy and wife Poulami Chaki Nandy, a researcher and a research assistant at IIT-Kharagpur, now at home because of the pandemic, regularly visit villages and tea gardens with books stacked in their car as a “mobile library”. In Malda, doctor couple Jahangir Alam and S.R. Nasrin host free health camps on their own in remote areas of the district. Alam, a child specialist, and Nasrin, a gynaecologist and obstetrician, are posted at Malda Medical College & Hospital (MMCH). Anirban and Poulami, while doing a survey on development and economy in rural areas, came to know first-hand the problems of the poor amid the Covid lockdown. Anirban said Poulami and he realised that education for the poor had taken a beating. “Poor students can’t afford online classes with smartphone or laptop and Internet. So we launched a mobile library.” The couple approached friends and acquaintances for books and gathered over 6,000. “We piled books in our car and visited tea gardens and villages, asking students to keep the book they need for three months,” said Poulami. So far, the couple said, they covered 30 villages and 16 tea gardens in north Bengal, and around 1,580 students are linked to their mobile library. Eighty per cent of them are girls, Poulami said. Anirban added that he and his wife also introduced “Dosh Takar Tuition (tuition for Rs 10)” for English, computer, economics, geography, and political science. “Yes, we maintain social distancing during all of this,” he added. Malda’s Alam and Nasrin also started free health camps  for needy families during the pandemic for the same reason. “Healthcare for the poor gets hit the hardest when there’s a crisis,” said Alam. So far, the couple has held over 25 free health check-up camps across the district. “Brick kiln workers and bidi binders or rollers in Malda are very poor, and can’t afford doctors’ fees or medicines, Nasrin pointed out. “There are hundreds in Kaliachak I, II and III blocks. Their helplessness moved us,” Alam said. Alam said he was born in a village and had seen all his life how the poor face problems in accessing healthcare. “Covid-19 makes it worse. That is why we thought of organising medical camps for the poor, particularly now. We also make them aware of health safety protocols to help them avoid catching the coronavirus,” said Alam. Nasrin, who is from Rezinagar of Murshidabad, said she had faced poverty in her early life. “When Alam told me we should take some initiative to serve people with less or no money, I immediately agreed,” she said. He added that only he and his wife could not alone address the problem of healthcare for the very poor in Malda district. “We hope social organisations come forward for such camps, we will definitely serve at those camps,” Alam said. MMCH authorities have appreciated the efforts of Alam and Nasrin. “It is great to see that the two doctors, after doing their daily duty in these stressful days of the pandemic, are volunteering their services in villages,” said Amit Dan, MMCH vice-principal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati ‘sorry’ on Tagore, soft on mela||Visva-Bharati on Friday said it was “sorry” and “wounded at heart” if anyone was hurt by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s comment that Rabindranath Tagore was an “outsider” to Santiniketan. The central varsity also toned down its stand against the Pous Mela. It said the Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan Trust were “not opposed” to Pous Mela and its place in the Bengali sentiment. Sources said pressure from the Centre and the BJP, which do not want to hurt sentiments attached to the fair head of the Assembly elections, made the varsity change its mind. The construction of a wall on the mela grounds had triggered the latest controversy. The expression of regret was made in a news release issued by the central university’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar. The release followed an online meeting the varsity officials held with teaching and non-teaching staff over the institution’s “current situation” in the wake of protests against a proposed wall on Pous Mela grounds. The release sought to explain the context of the “outsider” comment. “Tagore was an outsider — many people were hurt by this comment published in the news media. If anyone is hurt by this comment — we are sorry and wounded at heart,” the release said. “We are wounded at heart as we can’t accept the distorted explanation of this universal truth. The summary of our comment is that Gurudev and his father Maharshi Debendranath Tagore were not residents of Bolpur or Birbhum. They spent much of their time in Calcutta. They are outsiders in that sense of the term.” The VC in his “special missive” on the central university’s website on August 22 had said: “Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore was an outsider himself; had he not taken a liking to the area, Visva-Bharati wouldn’t have evolved. Besides Gurudev Tagore, his colleagues — who paved the way for Visva-Bharati to develop as a hub of knowledge creation and dissemination — all came from outside Bolpur.” The description of Tagore as an “outsider” had ruffled many feathers in the varsity’s fraternity and led to a wave of criticism on social media. Some politicians, including a few from the BJP, also condemned Chakrabarty’s comment. Many teachers, staff and old timers associated with Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati did not buy the latest apology and explanation of the central university. “I don’t know what his (the vice-chancellor’s) vision and logic are. I can only say that Tagore can’t be identified as an outsider by any logic,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendant of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavana principal. Some also criticised the VC for not apologising publicly but choosing to say sorry and justify his logic to brand Tagore as an outsider through a news release issued by an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||CM’s call to end tandav||Mamata Banerjee on Friday exhorted students to fight to end the Narendra Modi government’s tandav (rampage) across India and said Bengal would restore freedom across the country if they stood by her in the 2021 Assembly elections. Picking up from where she had left off at the meeting of some non-BJP chief ministers on Wednesday, the Trinamul Congress supremo pulled no punches in her attack on the Prime Minister and the BJP while addressing a virtual rally at the foundation day of her party’s student wing. “If, in this fight, students stand by us, Bengal will restore freedom across the country…. That will be the real fight of 2021,” the Bengal chief minister said in the virtual address at the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad event. “How will we do that? By speaking for the people, fearlessly. What if they send us to jail? We will go, we do not fear even death. No, we are not cowards. ‘Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once’,” she added, quoting William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, in Bengali. Mamata also addressed pressing issues such as the JEE/NEET exams, the confusion over UGC exams, the New Education Policy and the saffron camp’s attacks on campuses. She also broached the alleged general atmosphere of fear and gloom in the country, the controversial citizenship matrix, the “divided” nation, curbs on freedom of speech and “draconian” laws. “This pandemic has come, it will eventually go. But more than that, using the excuse of the pandemic, the political pandemic that the BJP government has created for the nation, its tandav (rampage) across the country… is something we must also fight to end,” said Mamata. Sources in Trinamul have said the 18-35 age group forms a crucial chunk of the Bengal electorate. According to internal estimates, a sizeable portion in that age group had favoured the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls last year, enabling its unprecedented victories in 18 out of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. “An illusion is being created, through fake news…. Crores and crores being spent, but not even a paisa for the poor…. When elections come, they will come with bags of money to buy votes. Take their money, if you must, don’t give them the votes. You were deceived once, in the Lok Sabha polls, you saw for yourselves how that turned out,” said Mamata. “The sky of India stands shrouded, dark, in a sheet of lies…. That sheet of darkness, you take it down. Overcome all obstacles, my beloved students, come forward… and take this pledge,” she added. Lambasting Modi and the Centre for allegedly rash decision-making and forcible imposition even on students, Mamata said whatever the state government controlled, such as school education, there would be no “endangering” of the student community. “The Centre, which seems to have washed its hands, even feet, of all responsibilities now and point at the court — which I will say nothing against — for everything…. Will you be able to answer the people when the time arrives?” she asked. “Now we are hearing of this NEP also… without discussion with anybody…. We are moving towards a frightful India,” she added. Mamata then directly challenged Modi, albeit without taking his name. “We are in such a fix. Such is our Centre, they do nothing but deliver lectures. From morning till night, only lectures are being delivered… Mann Ki Baat,” she said, referring to Modi’s radio programme aired on all outlets of India’s public service broadcaster. “So, on your Mann Ki Baat, just once, ask real students what they want, let them speak their mind, not staged, scripted interactions… ask them what they really want. Whatever they want, let’s accept,” she added. She also attacked the Centre, yet again, for withholding its dues to the states, including by way of GST compensation, allegedly gagging the national media, and using “draconian” laws to crush democratic dissent. “This nation, built on the ideals of the likes of Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose…. Now go and try to have even a cup of tea, they will demand every detail of your entire ancestry. Or else, you are rejected, summarily dismissed. The NRC-CAA-NPR, all of that will be imposed by them, now there’s a lull only because of the pandemic,” she said. “The time has come for a decision. Hoy lorbeyn, naholey morbeyn. Konta korbeyn (You will either fight, or die. Which one will you do)? We will fight, we will survive, we will show them. The students… they will tear away the BJP’s mask of darkness,” she added. Mamata said Trinamul’s farmers’ wing would conduct a protest across the state on September 16 against the allegedly anti-farmer, anti-people policies of the Centre, standing on dykes in agricultural fields. She said she would try to join one of the programmes in an agricultural field close to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Rivals slam TMCP over ‘distance norm flout’||Opposition parties in Bengal criticised the Trinamul Congress on Friday for allegedly flouting social distancing protocol while observing the foundation day of its student wing. Members of the Trinamul Congress Chhatra Parishat gathered in large numbers in different parts of the state to listen to party chief Mamata Banerjee’s virtual address. “The chief minister is using Covid-19 to silence the voice of the Opposition by not allowing any gathering. But her party is organising meetings, where social distancing norms are violated. This is a double standard,” CPM lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty said. TMCP president Trinankur Bhattacharya, however, said all social distancing norms had been maintained at its gatherings. “In some of the larger spaces, about 500 people gathered, while the crowd was not more than that of 50 persons each at smaller points.” Friday was also the 68th foundation day of the students’ wing of the Congress. However, in view of the pandemic, the administration denied permission for an event the party had planned. “While the TMCP can be allowed to gather hundreds of members inside a single auditorium to listen to the chief minister’s virtual rally, the Congress didn’t get permission to observe its event as planned,” read a statement by the Congress. The BJP has been alleging that the total lockdown on August 28 had been withdrawn to allow the TMCP to observe its foundation day. “Multiple cases have been registered against me and my colleagues accusing us of violating social distancing norms. What was the police doing today?” asked BJP leader Sayantan Basu. The Opposition parties alleged that the TMCP event was not the only one where social distancing norms were violated. “At a Trinamul event on Sunday, around 1,600 people turned out at an auditorium with a seating capacity of close to 1,400 in East Burdwan,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid mortality rate falls below 2%||Bengal could finally lower its mortality rate in the Covid-19 pandemic to less than 2 per cent on Friday as the state reported 56 deaths and 3,286 recoveries. The mortality rate came down to 1.99 per cent on a day when the toll from the novel coronavirus reached 3,073. The state logged its first Covid-19 case on March 17 and the first death from the pathogen on March 23. On Friday, the state reported 3,286 recoveries and 2,982 new cases, resulting in a fall in the total number of active patients for the fifth consecutive day. On Sunday, the state’s total active cases were 28,069. The figure was 26,349 on Friday. Bengal now has 1.53 lakh cases, including over 1.24 lakh recoveries and the 3,073 deaths. The recovery rate continued to climb, at 80.86 now, far ahead of the national rate of 76.42 per cent. “There are many positives, but let’s keep the rest aside today. It is a momentous occasion for us, now that we finally have our mortality rate at below 2,” said a Bengal minister. The state’s mortality rate was 2.25 till July 31, 3.59 till June 30, 5.76 till May 31, and 12.86 per cent on April 30. The national mortality rate in the pandemic now is 1.81, with Gujarat and Maharashrta at the top of the pile, with 3.2 each. The others in the top five are Punjab and Delhi, with 2.6 each, and Madhya Pradesh, with 2.2. “We are in the sixth position in the country and our aim is to drop out of the top 10 states on this list. Our next goal is to take the rate to below 1 per cent,” said the minister. Of the 3,073 deaths, 2,674 (87 per cent) were classified as comorbid by the state government. The state reported 42,121 tests on Friday, taking the total to over 17.58 lakh, at 19,541 per million people. With the surge in testing – along with relatively less new cases found – over the past few days, the positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 on August 22 to 8.74 on Friday. On Friday, yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal – Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly – collectively recorded a fall of 719 in their total of active cases, logging more recoveries than new cases fairly consistently since August 9. “Calcutta, which is the most high-incidence district, has 7,041 active cases on August 9. Today, with 593 recoveries and 427 new cases, it has improved to 5,134,” said the minister. Bengal reported 33.55 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 15.29 on the 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.36 lakh, 4,361 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Social media test for TMCP members||The Trinamul Chhatra Parishad used its foundation day event on Friday to test how social media savvy its members were as it felt having the skill was necessary to take on the BJP’s IT cell engaged in spreading “fake news” about the Mamata Banerjee government and her party. As chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually addressed the Trinamul’s students’ organisation on its foundation day, the party leaders had asked its workers across Bengal to share, comment and like the speech to test the social media skills of the youths. Trinamul insiders said all district presidents of the TMCP had been given specific targets to share, comment and like Mamata’s speech that went live on the party’s official Facebook page. “After the programme was fixed last week, all the TMCP leaders were asked to direct their juniors in various blocks, villages and towns to reach out to a significant number of people through social media platforms. As it was a virtual meet, the party wanted to know how many people would listen to Mamata’s speech,” a senior Trinamul leader said. Trinamul insiders say the BJP’s IT cell was busy maligning the state government to create an anti-Mamata narrative in the state. “We need to counter the BJP and this is where the social media skills of our workers will help,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. Party sources said the effort wielded result as three lakh viewers commented on Mamata’s speech on Facebook while there were 56,000 shares. This is way above Mamata’s July 21 speech that drew 1.6 lakh comments and 15,000 shares on Facebook. “The statistics clearly show that the move worked. However, we need to make our young party workers even more social media savvy,” said a party leader. “The BJP is trying to misguide people by posting photographs and videos from Bihar, Rajasthan and Bangladesh to distort facts and circulating those through social media to malign the state. I believe that such moves to distort fact will not work at all as my force of youths and students is there on the ground,” said Mamata in her speech referring to the BJP’s IT cell and the need to counter it. Gopal Roy, the TMCP president in Hooghly, said: “We had a target to generate 40,000 shares and comments. I am yet to get reports from all blocks but it would be no less than a lakh.” Kiriti Acharya, the president of the youth wing in Purulia, said: “Our target was one lakh shares and comments and we did achieve it.” MLA from Bankura’s Bishnupur Tusharkanti Bhattacharya, who had left Trinamul to join the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, returned to Trinamul on Friday. Battacharya had won from Bishnupur seat on a Congress ticket and later joined Trinamul. However, he had switched over to the BJP in the presence of party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
29-08-2020||Opinion||Break the rule: Sonu Sood to the rescue, again||Sir — The actor, Sonu Sood, has once again warmed hearts by offering accommodation as well as jobs in garment factories to 20,000 migrant workers in Noida. Sood had earlier been in the limelight for helping migrant workers find transportation home at a time when the Centre and some state governments were doing precious little on that front. It is heartening to see celebrities use their resources for the greater good instead of only indulging themselves. Unfortunately, such celebrities are the exception to the rule. Aftab Khan,Lucknow Dark hour Sir — Hunger and poverty are at the root of the bulk of India’s most pressing problems, all of which have been exacerbated many times over by the Covid-19 pandemic. It was heartbreaking to read about the five-year-old girl in the Nagla Vidhichand village in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block who died of starvation after her family had to go without food for a month. Her 40-year-old mother had been looking for a job to no avail in order to be able to feed her family. The young girl finally passed away after having been sick for a few days towards the end. One shudders to think about the grief of the parents over having to lose their child. It is no secret that the Centre as well as a number of state governments have made a mess of handling the coronavirus crisis, including the effect it has had on the livelihoods of vast swathes of the country’s population. Migrant workers across the country lost their jobs and had no food or transportation to get back home to their towns and villages; many of them died of hunger and exhaustion — and also of the disease — while trying to trudge their way back home on foot. How can a democratically elected government take the plight of citizens so lightly during a global contagion? Why has citizens’ access to food not been made a top priority by the Centre at this time? It is clearly in denial about the realities on the ground; the Union railways minister, Piyush Goyal, had recently said that the government had ensured that no Indian starved during the pandemic. One wonders what he would have to say in the case of the young girl from Agra. Amrita Basu,Calcutta Sir — It is a matter of concern that a vast majority of the Indian population still lives in poverty. India is one of the poorest countries in the world, and women and children, who form the most vulnerable sections of society, are invariably the worst affected. A tragedy unfolded in Agra recently when a five-year-old girl from an impoverished family in the Nagla Vidhichand village died after her family had to go without food for a month. While poverty and the resultant hunger have indeed been the country’s biggest challenges, the coronavirus pandemic has only deepened the crisis and worsened the economic inequality in India. This has blighted our democracy even in this postcolonial era. Policy interventions for the short-term, such as food provisions, are not going to be enough to solve the problem. For example, poor hygiene conditions vastly aggravate diseases such as cholera, typhoid and dysentery. The basic indices of daily life for all citizens need to be improved.N.R. Salam,Jammu Sir — The family of the little girl who died in Agra deserves justice. The government must be taken to task for ordinary people having to go through such suffering. Shilpa Kapur,Delhi  Big help Sir — It was heartening to hear that the artist, Banksy, has reportedly funded a yacht to rescue refugees attempting to reach Europe from North Africa. While the anonymous British artist is usually known for his subversive street art, he has of late caught people’s attention for his humanitarian gestures. He recently created a portrait depicting a health worker at the forefront of the coronavirus crisis as a superhero; now, he is helping people escape persecution and suffering by facilitating their relocation. It is often said that art has the power to change the world. It is even better when artists, alongside creating relevant work, also contribute directly to helping others.Iqra Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Out, damned spot: Gen Z and the 'full stop'||It is a brave new world that never wants to stop. Its denizens speed through the day with short text messages and WhatsApp effusions on the go, liberally scattering exclamation marks and ellipses as one message runs into the next, producing fresh codes of communication that linguists must decipher. And linguists have found that the one thing that hits the sensitive nerve of millennials and the Gen Z is the full stop. It may be just a dot in English — some languages have a vertical or slanted line or more dots — but the load it can carry is amazing. Someone who uses a full stop in a social media message must be angry, weird, mean or aggressive, even — horrors — passive-aggressive. In vain do old fogies of 40 and above say, pleadingly, anxiously, or in bewilderment, that it is a part of grammar, a punctuation mark: a sentence is not complete without it. It is not a secretive little emoji conveying the sender’s negative feelings towards the recipient; it is just saying that the message has ended. But for the young in the age of instant communication and lightning change endings cannot be allowed to threaten finality. Everything is ever moving on. An ellipse images this perfectly, or a question mark that softens the blow of a statement by imitating the upward lilt of a friendly suggestion. A full stop is like a repulse, deadening and cold. So the generation gap now nestles in a full stop. Not that linguists of the baby boomer generation are all of the same opinion. They agree about the vanishing little dot, but some of them feel it is no big deal. Headlines never had full stops, did they? Or itemized lists? The short social media message signals its end by being sent; why burden it with a full stop that makes it bottom heavy? It makes the tone enigmatic, hinting at something left unsaid that can frighten the recipient with dark forebodings. Just as the calling bell is unnecessarily alarming for the millennial and her younger siblings. There are apps to alert them to deliveries at the door and the warm exclamatory SMS to announce the friend on the threshold. Life is peacefully lived via the screen. But some linguists and quite a number of teachers are less enthusiastic about the new code. A full stop is indispensable as a punctuation mark, they feel, and constant messaging on social media is gradually eroding the awareness of what formal writing demands. Dropping full stops in formal communication will render it unintelligible, and dropping other punctuation marks, such as the closing quotation marks, will simply make it incorrect. But such concerns may only be relevant as long as pre-millennials are still around. Language can and will change. And if full stops inflict such suffering on the delicate young, can the intense agonies of decoding a semicolon be imagined?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Art for good: BLM in NBA and Hollywood||Like in most cities in the United States of America, protests filled the streets of Los Angeles; specifically, the famous Hollywood Boulevard. An estimated 40,000 people marched to protest against racism. Now, a permanent Black Lives Matter graffiti will be on display across the entire Walk of Fame block, with installations beginning since August 24. The original, temporary graffiti was completed with the help of hundreds of volunteers walking down on Hollywood Boulevard on June 13 to paint the words “All Black Lives Matter” in the colours of the transgender, non-binary and pride flags. The graffiti will sit on Hollywood Boulevard between Orange Drive and Highland Avenue. It is a project in partnership with Black LGBTQ+ Activists for Change, StreetsLA and the Los Angeles Department of Transportation. The installation includes a new street sign in honour of the march. The LA city council member, Mitch O’Farrell, told reporters that it is a fitting place, as it is the same location of LA’s first official gay pride parade, which took place 50 years ago. In addition to Hollywood, the NBA also kicked off the season with an acknowledgement of the Black Lives Matter movement. Every NBA player kneeled during the national anthem. The league also had the BLM slogan prominently printed on the court itself in prominence. The player’s jerseys also featured messages instead of their names, such as ‘I Can’t Breathe’, ‘Say Their Names’, ‘How Many More’ and ‘Enough’. Great buzz August 15 was not only India’s Independence Day, but also National Honey Bee Day in the US. People celebrate this day by catching up on their bee knowledge and playing their part in helping conserve the bee population. National Honey Bee Day was started 11 years ago by passionate beekeepers, and was officially established by the US secretary of agriculture to raise awareness about the benefits of honey bees to the environment and life on earth, and to promote the value of honey. The National Honey Board and Project APIs m. joined forces last year to establish the Bee Health Collective website. It is a platform to gather and share content and credible information about honey bee health, scientific research, the beekeeping industry and how these relate to agriculture, resource management and the food supply. The NHB was appointed by the US secretary of agriculture. Project APIs m. is a Utah-based non-profit that funds research on honey bee health and forage programmes. The DC-based Earth Day Network also updated its Earth Challenge 2020 on this day in a push to help preserve honey bees. Its app now uses artificial intelligence to identify bugs and other creatures that people photograph. It offers opportunities each time to sign a petition, support legislation or just find out more about what citizen scientists capture on their smartphone cameras. The work is being done in partnership with the US state department and the Wilson Center, a non-partisan policy forum chartered by Congress in 1968.Empty plates As colleges open up for fall, universities are scrambling to make sure they cover all their bases — enforcement of social distancing, wearing masks and also making sure international students are quarantining on arrival. One aspect of the typical freshman life that has been almost comically overlooked by New York University is its meal plan. Hundreds of TikTok videos went viral, illustrating the dismal state of the meals given to students who are bound to their dorm rooms. According to NYU’s website, students who have travelled from certain states where coronavirus cases are still spiking are required to enter quarantine before attending classes in person. The school promised to provide three daily meals and a snack. The videos showed that the university was unprepared to provide adequate meals to its 2,600 quarantined students. The food site, Eater, and the videos described how the school sent “prepackaged salads, granola bars, pieces of fruit, and bags of potato chips”. Students also kept track of “meals that arrived hours late, meals that never arrived, of eating breakfast for dinner, and eating leftover dinner for breakfast.” NYU later acknowledged its failure and promised to issue each student a $100 gift card. The New York Times also reported the University of Georgia experiencing similar food scarcity because of a lack of preparation. It is not uncommon for students, especially at universities like NYU, with high fees, to be experiencing food insecurity.Distant expression Every year around this time, about 80,000 people gather near Gerlach, Nevada to celebrate the ‘Burning Man’, a large-scale event described by its organizers as a “crucible of creativity” that is “dedicated to community, art, self-expression and self-reliance”. This year, Burning Man is being planned as a virtual event. While the main event is eight days long, the set-up crew takes a month before and after to transform the area into an event site and then restore it to its original state; ‘leaving no trace’ behind is one of the 10 principles of Burning Man culture. The virtual Burning Man will feature theme camps, art projects, live performances; a virtual temple; and a version of the most anticipated big burn, which involves setting fire to a 40-foot wooden structure of a man outlined in neon and stuffed with fireworks. Programmers, designers and game developers are known to attend it. The Google co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and the Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, have attended in the past. Footnote Lori Loughlin — ‘Aunt Beckie’ on Full House — and her husband have been sentenced to a few months in prison after a judge ruled them guilty of having paid $5,00,000 to secure their daughters’ admission to the University of Southern California by presenting them as fake athletic recruits. But they are not the first famous, wealthy parents to be found guilty for using their privilege to bribe or lie to get their children into college. Felicity Huffman has already served time over a college admissions scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Aural pleasure||When the pandemic began gathering pace in April, there were fears that this would be the first summer in England since the end of the Second World War in which no cricket would be played. Fortunately, it has turned out otherwise. Conditions improved enough for there to be six Test matches, three against the West Indies and three against Pakistan, played in oddly empty stadiums but telecast live around the world. With millions of other cricket fans, I partook of an intense spell of binge-watching in this time of panic and suffering, seeking refuge and consolation in my favourite sport. Although in the end, England won both series comfortably, the matches were not without competitive interest. And the summer ended, cricketing-wise, on the happiest of notes, with the great Jimmy Anderson getting his six hundredth Test wicket, the first new-ball bowler to join a club hitherto reserved for spinners alone. Among the joys of following Test cricket in England is that one can do so without guilt. I am a morning person anyway, so can get in several hours of focused reading or writing before the cricket begins at 3:30 pm. The forty-minute lunch break can be used for work as well, and so too the sometimes extended breaks for rain that pepper a match in England. Unlike in India, where Test cricket clashes directly with my hours of work, or in Australia, where it clashes with my hours of sleep as well as of work, here I can combine professional obligation and the pursuit of passion with painless ease. I now watch Tests in England on the telly, but when I was young I had to hear rather than see them ‘live’. I belong to the ever diminishing number of Indian fans whose cricketing education was shaped and nurtured by the radio. The first series I have aural memories of was played in the summer of 1966, when I was eight. The West Indies comfortably beat England 3-1, powered along by the batting, bowling, and fielding of their captain, the greatest cricketer who ever lived, Garfield St. Aubrun Sobers. I have followed cricket in England every summer since, via radio or on the television. The only exception was 1986, a year I spent in the United States of America with no access to radio or TV, and thus missed listening to or viewing Kapil’s Devils hand England a comprehensive two-nil defeat in a three-Test series. It is always nice watching Test cricket in England, and even nicer when India are not playing. For then one can be strictly non-partisan, watching the cricket for purely aesthetic reasons, devoid of the poisonous feelings of national pride. That there are no Indian commentators adds to the pleasure even more. It may be that Hindi or Tamil or Marathi commentators are exciting to listen to, but those Indians working in the English language lack subtlety and discrimination, adding little value to what one is seeing anyway. They talk too much and talk over the action, all the while making it shamelessly obvious that all they want from a Test match is that their side should win. My favourite commentators on television come from three different countries. They are (in alphabetical order) Michael Atherton of England, Michael Holding of the West Indies, and Shane Warne of Australia. They were all present in the box this summer, Atherton and Holding from the beginning, with Warne joining halfway. Atherton was an outstanding Test cricketer, Holding even better, and Warne the best of all. Yet Atherton never speaks of his own playing days, while Holding does so rarely. His endearingly open character and staggering feats with the cricket ball mean that Warne is occasionally self-referential, but not in a crude or boastful way. This trio beautifully complement one another. They come from different countries and did different things on the cricket field. So Atherton can speak most knowledgeably about batting, Holding about fast bowling, and Warne about spin bowling. Holding made his Test debut in 1975; Warne was playing in the Indian Premier League as late as 2011, so they collectively bring to the table almost four decades of playing experience. Holding and Warne both played in world-beating sides, and can thus speak with a well merited (if usually understated) pride about their time at the top. Atherton’s England never dominated the game when he played; fortunately, this lack of collective achievement suits the self-deprecatory character of the man himself. Their personalities are also quite dissimilar, with Warne’s exuberance a contrast both to Holding’s quiet intensity and Atherton’s laconic matter-of-factness. And yet, for all their differences in character and cultural background, these three commentators share two qualities; a profound understanding of the game’s history and techniques, and the ability (as well as desire) to transcend national partisanship. When I shared this list of three personal favourites with my friend and fellow cricket nut, Rajdeep Sardesai, he said that, on his part, he would make it a quartet by adding Nasser Hussain. I like Hussain too, for his blunt and forthright manner. Besides, like Atherton, he is absolutely without a trace of parochialism, whether racial or national or religious or any other. Such was not always the case with English cricket commentators. Consider Brian Johnston, a fixture in BBC’s Test Match Special when I was growing up, and the most popular radio commentator with British audiences themselves. I have vivid memories of hearing ‘Johnners’ during the 1976 West Indies tour of England, when a short ball from Wayne Daniel or Andy Roberts would be described disparagingly as “a nasty one, a really nasty one”, while one from Bob Willis or Chris Old was spoken admiringly of as “a splendid bouncer”. The impression sought to be conveyed was that the vicious West Indians bounced in order to hurt and injure the batsman, whereas the sporting Englishmen did so merely to get him out. The previous year, when Javed Miandad toured England as part of the Pakistani squad for the inaugural World Cup, Johnston only referred to him as “Mum and I” (as distinct from Me-and-Dad), a joke which he (and many of his home listeners) found uproariously funny, but even back then grated on my teenage ears for its crudity and its ethnocentrism. India’s captain in the World Cup that year was S. Venkataraghavan, whom this Englishman thought fit to call “Rent-A-Caravan”, chuckling to himself as he did, and doubtless prompting even louder chuckles in his British listeners. While not as crudely chauvinist as Johnston, the other members of the Test Match Special commentary team in the 1970s were Little Englanders as well. The one exception was John Arlott, a man of culture and cosmopolitanism and a lifelong opponent of racism on and off the field. Atherton and Hussain are both a decade younger than me. I don’t know whether they heard Johnston when they were growing up or what they thought of him. Fortunately, their own character and life experience have oriented them towards the legacy of Arlott rather than that of Johnston. That one has married a West Indian and that the other’s father is a native of Madras has surely shaped how they think in this regard. Meanwhile British society itself has become far more heterogeneous and accommodative of cultural difference than it once was. I much enjoyed these past weeks of cricket watching, which I did not (given the pandemic) expect to experience. The cricket notwithstanding, the highlight of the commentary this summer was moral and political rather than sporting. The Black Lives Matter movement prompted a white anchor to ask Michael Holding about his own experiences with racial discrimination, which he recounted with both passion and eloquence. The videos of his moving testimonies will last forever, longer even than the replays of Anderson’s six hundredth Test wicket. Postscript: In a rain-break during one of the Tests, I went to YouTube and chanced upon a fabulous one-hour conversation between Michael Atherton and Shane Warne. In this conversation, Atherton comfortably held his own, which he so rarely did in their playing days, when he had the bat and Warne had the ball. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Maoist-police gun battle near Hazaribagh-Chatra border ||Police and Maoist rebels were locked in a gun battle in the forest on the border of Keredari (Hazaribagh) and Simaria (Chatra) on Saturday. The rebels, including zonal commander Mithilesh and area commander Anil Bhuiyan, were in the forest when a combined force of the police and CRPF reached the area. The Maoists opened fire and a gun battle ensued. The Maoists soon fled. Police officers claimed that two-three women Maoists had suffered bullet injuries. Members of the district unit of the Congress, led by All India Congress Committee member Santosh Singh, on Saturday staged a demonstration at BCCL’s Rajapur Colliery in Jharia. The agitators protested mining by Dhansar Engineering Company Limited, a private contractor working on behalf of BCCL, while allegedly disregarding environmental norms and other rules laid down by the Directorate General of Mines Safety. Motorcycle-borne miscreants opened fire at BCCL’s Ena Colliey in Jharia on Saturday. The incident took place around 1.15pm when unidentified persons on four-five motorcycles went to the colliery and fired shots in the air. Jharia police said the incident could be the result of rivalry among various groups vying to establish their supremacy in the colliery. The colliery is traditionally dominated by Janta Mazdoor Sangh, which is led by jailed former legislator Sanjeev Singh. A rival group is trying to gain a foothold at the colliery. Nikki Pandey, a 21-year-old whose dead body was found at his village in Katkmasandi block of Hazaribagh, was murdered at the instance of the local mukhiya with whom he was allegedly having an affair, his father Banaras Pandey has claimed. Nikki’s mother Sushma Devi said that he and the mukhiya, Sarita Devi, were in a relationship for the past year. There had been objections from family members. On Saturday, members of the Antarashtriy Brahmin Samaj visited Nikki's village and met his family. Residents of Hazaribagh, Chatra, Lohardagga, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma and Latehar visited the Katkamsandi police station and threatened an agitation if the killers were not arrested by September 2. Karma festival celebrations on Saturday gave way to grief after 22-year-old Shambhu Kumar who climbed a tree to cut a karam tree branch for worship came in contact with a high-voltage electric wire and died on the spot. The incident took place at Purnadih village in Bahera panchayat in Chouparan block of Hazaribagh district. Villagers took him to a local health centre but he was declared dead on arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||In time of unlock, bus operators talk of steep fare hikes||Bus operators, who have been allowed to resume operations within the state, have indicated they would increase fares, substantially in certain routes, to make up for the losses they suffered during the five-month-long lockdown since March. Jharkhand Bus Owners Association chief Arun Budhiya said on Saturday that the lockdown months had seen a hike in diesel prices and the state government had allowed only 50 per cent occupancy. “Considering all these aspects, there is no way other than increasing rates to sustain ourselves,” he said, adding that many vehicles had suffered wear and tear. Asked about the nature of hikes, Budhiya said they would decide soon. “Operators will take a call according to routes, taking all options into consideration,” he said. Many operators started running some buses from Saturday. One operator, who was plying buses between Ranchi and Khunti, said that he had increased the fare by about Rs 20. “The Ranchi-Khunti fare is now about Rs 60. The association will decide on the final rates,” he said. The state transport department also issued detailed SOPs for bus operators, mandating thermal scanning of every passenger before boarding, sufficient distance between passengers, and regular sanitisation of seats. “Buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will only be allowed to ply on the streets,” said state transport secretary K. Ravikumar. The driver’s cabin should also be covered with plastic sheets. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be covered by a plastic sheet and bus staff on-board are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said, adding that spitting or consuming tobacco in public would attract fines and/or punishment. Also, bus operators have been advised to download the Arogya Setu app and told to keep detailed records of passengers. District administrations and civic bodies have been asked to ensure that bus stands are cleaned and sanitised. Officials of the district transport departments have been asked to conduct regular inspections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih officials enforce 14-day quarantine norm on Sakshi Maharaj||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj, who came to his ashram in Giridh on Saturday morning to see his ailing mother, was asked to stay back there in quarantine for 14 days as per the state government’s Covid norms, the SDO’s order coming in for severe criticism from senior party leaders of Jharkhand. A team of district officials headed by Giridih SDO Prerna Dixit stopped the MP’s car near Pirtand police station while he was going to Dhanbad to board the Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said anyone can come to Jharkhand but has to stay quarantined for 14 days. “As per government guidelines, Sakshi Maharaj has been quarantined for the next 14 days at Shanti Bhawan Ashram where he had come,” Sinha said, adding that he was following instructions of the state’s chief secretary and secretary of the disaster management department. Sources said Sakshi Maharaj, or Swami Sachchidanand Hari Sakshi Ji Maharaj, the BJP’s MP from Unnao, came to the ashram in Giridih from Delhi via Dhanbad by the Rajdhani Express on Saturday morning. He spent about two hours there and was returning when he was stopped. The MP was livid. “I reached here (Giridih) at 10.30am and left at 12.30 pm, spending two hours in my ashram. I came to meet my ailing mother who is 97 years old. Before coming here on Thursday, I had sent a fax to the state chief secretary and DGP, and to the SP and deputy commissioner of Giridih informing them about my visit. They did not object. Nor did they inform me about such guidelines,” he said. Sakshi Maharaj said he would have to return to Delhi in two days to attend a high-level meeting of the Parliament standing committee where an important bill was to be discussed. “I told the DC how important it was for me to return, but he is not listening. Jharkhand is also a part of the country. The JMM government has quarantined me intentionally because I am an MP of the BJP,” he alleged. BJP leaders in the state also condemned the “high-handedness” of the JMM-led state government. MP of Dhanbad P.N. Singh said the Giridih district administration was politically motivated. “The JMM government is double-faced. Whenever it gets a chance, it quarantines BJP leaders. But the government never touches the Congress or JMM leaders. Umang Singhar, co-in-charge of Jharkhand Pradesh Congress, had visited Giridih recently. Why was he not quarantined by the administration?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dronacharya award for Tata Archery Academy coach||Dharmendra Tiwary was a highly satisfied man on finally becoming a Dronacharya awardee, the third archery coach from Jamshedpur to be bestowed with the honour. Tiwary, the chief coach at Tata Archery Academy, was at the Sports Authority of India office of Salt Lake, Calcutta on Thursday to attend the virtual award ceremony on the occasion of National Sports Day. The ceremony was streamed live from New Delhi in the presence of President Ram Nath Govind who watched the awardees from Rashtrapati Bhavan. The awards ceremony coincides with the birth anniversary of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. The highly experienced trainer has been honoured with the Dronacharya award (lifetime category) 2020 for playing a key role in producing top-notch archers like Deepika Kumari, Atanu Das and Jayanta Talukdar,  all Olympians and graduates of Tata Archery Academy (TAA). He has received the certificate and will get the bronze statuette of  Dronacharya and cash prize of Rs 10 lakh later. “Aakhir 26 varsho ki meri mehnat rang layee ( After all, 26 years of my hard work has paid off),” Tiwary told The Telegraph Online on phone from Calcutta. The 47-year-old thanked his parents, wife, Tata Steel, state sports department, Jharkhand Archery Association, Archery Association of India and Sports Authority of India for the support extended to his career as a mentor. Tiwary, who joined the Tata archery cradle as assistant coach in 1998, has represented undivided Bihar as an archer from 1985 to 1993. He was recommended for the Dronacharya by his employers Tata Steel and the state government. He is into coaching for over two decades now and was also one of the mentors of the national side in the 2016 Rio Olympics. Tiwary has accompanied Indian archery outfits for international competitions on more than one occasion. Former Tata Steel sports wing chief and Olympian Sanjeeva Singh and ex-national archery champion and now a mentor at Tata archery cradle Purnima Mahto are the other sports personalities from Jamshedpur who have been conferred with Dronacharya award. Archery Association of India (AAI) president Arjun Munda, his wife and Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association president Meera Munda, secretary Sumanta Chandra Mohanty and coaches have congratulated Tiwary for the honour. “Tiwary richly deserved the Dronacharya award. He has produced several international archers, including Deepika, Atanu Das and Jayanta Talukdar to name a few,” said Mohanty, also joint secretary of the AAI. A soft-spoken man who believes in keeping to his work, Tiwary has been instrumental in helping Deepika overcome bouts of nervousness during her stay in Jamshedpur. The highly experienced mentor has been a guide to the celebrity archer and an ex-cadet of the Tata cradle. Nervousness affected Deepika’s performance in the beginning but she regained her confidence and composure after working with Tiwary who put her into yoga and meditation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||On National Sports Day, a pledge of fitness||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Popular Durga Puja pandal in steel city to issue e-passes||A popular Durga Puja pandal hosted by Jairam Youth Sporting Club at Adityapur has decided to issue online e-passes to visitors this year to prevent a rush, due to the coronavirus pandemic that is set to celebrations to be held this year into a low-key affair. Former Ichagarh legislator Arvind Singh, who is also a club patron told The Telegraph Online that the organising body of the puja had discussed this issue. "The nitty-gritties of issuing e-passes will be finalised soon," former Ichagarh legislator Arvind Singh, who is also a club patron told The Telegraph Online, adding that the puja will not be a big-budget affair. Social distancing norms and all other Covid protocols suggested by the Ministry of Home Affairs will be strictly followed during the five days of festivity. Singh said the pandal will be simple and no artisans are coming from outside the state this year. The club is known for its lighting decorations and private electrical agencies are hired from Howrah and other places of Bengal for elaborate illumination work along the 2km Tata-Kandra Road stretch starting from the Adityapur bridge. Pandal hoppers in large numbers gather every year from Jamshedpur and neighbouring districts panchami onwards to get a glimpse of the artwork. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS) general secretary Ram Babu Singh said the club has also sought permission to make the idol of Goddess Durga beyond a height of 5ft. The apex body, which monitors the Puja, had earlier restricted the height of idols to 5 feet for facilitating smooth immersion with a limited number of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Govt working on app to link patients with plasma donors||The Ranchi district administration is planning to launch a mobile application to connect Covid-19 patients with plasma donors by putting out a list of those who are eligible with their blood groups, officials said on Saturday. “A private company has been roped in to design the app. The platform, however, will be entirely run and monitored by the government,” said Ranchi deputy development commissioner (DDC) Ananya Mittal. “We should be ready to roll out the app next week,” he added. The mobile application will also be accessible through a web browser for facilitating usage through desktops and laptops, said Mittal, adding that the platform will also provide details about the health condition of eligible donors and their current location. “Doctors and patients will be able to see the list of donors in their localities. The idea behind launching this platform is to ensure there is no crisis of plasma for therapy of patients,” Mittal said. The state government is yet to decide a name for the platform, sources said. It will be announced a day before the app launch. The only plasma bank in Jharkhand is at the state capital’s premiere hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). It was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on July 28 in a bid to kickstart plasma therapy, a treatment that is claimed to be one of the most effective ways of helping symptomatic Covid patients recover from the infection. As a part of the plasma therapy, blood plasma of a Covid survivor is injected into the body of an infected patient. It is believed that the person who survived the virus has developed antibodies in response to the Covid-19 antigen, and the survivor’s blood plasma may help the infected patient beat the virus, doctors said. Any Covid survivor, who has recovered from the infection at least 28 days ago, is eligible to donate plasma. However, Covid survivors who have recovered more than four months ago cannot donate plasma, health officials said. The donor should fall in the age bracket of 18 to 60 years and should not have cardiac ailments, diabetes or thyroid malfunctions. “The mobile application will only enlist people who are fit for plasma donation,” said Ranchi civil surgeon, Dr V.B. Prasad. “People can also volunteer for plasma donation and get listed in the app,” he added. While the plasma bank at RIMS has found several donors, the facility has been facing hiccups due to shortage of manpower after at least three of its technicians tested positive for the coronavirus. The government is also working on measures to increase manpower at the plasma bank, health officials said. Even though plasma therapy has been touted as the best treatment for Covid patients, some infected patients in Jharkhand could not survive despite undergoing the therapy. Ranchi’s first Covid patient to undergo plasma therapy died on August 2 at a private hospital in Ranchi. Renowned doctor Sujit Pal, the owner of Ranchi X Ray, had also undergone plasma therapy before he breathed his last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||At government school, students use a ladder to get to classrooms ||Students have to climb a risky bamboo ladder to get to their classrooms on the upper floor of the newly constructed Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya in Belgada village of Kedli panchayat in Huntergunj, Chatra. The building was constructed without stairs and never properly finished. A two-member team has been formed to inquire and report on the situation. Records also stated that the government school’s principal, Sushil Singh, was seen beating two youths mercilessly in a video for their involvement in a mobile phone theft. Singh, who was secretary and principal of this school before he was transferred last year, had constructed the building with Rs 10.21 lakh. Education department officials said the entire fund has been used to construct this building, which is clearly incomplete. Neither has the plastering been done nor any windows fitted. There are no stairs to go up to the first floor. Parents, on condition of anonymity, said that Singh had threatened them against speaking out when he was posted there. Hence, no one had dared to raise their voice against him even after his transfer. So, 150 students of the school regularly use a bamboo ladder to reach classrooms on the first floor. “Once schools reopen, students will have to follow this practice again,” said a parent. One Naveen Singh, an engineer who was given the task to look after the construction work, had resigned from the job last year. Assistant engineer Shyam Narayan Singh of the Jharkhand Education Project Council who visited the school to inquire about the misuse of funds admitted that the work was substandard. He expressed his surprise on finding that stairs were missing. “I am waiting for a report from my team and the guilty will not be spared,” said Chatra district education officer Jitendra Kumar Sinha. He promised to check whether any funds were left in the school account so as to use them to build stairs for the building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||With JEE-NEET in mind, state allows public transport to ply; hotels, lodges to open ||Jharkhand has allowed public transport to ply within the state and given the go-ahead for hotels, lodges and restaurants to open for a month till September 30 in view of the JEE-NEET examinations scheduled next month. In an order issued late on Friday night, the Hemant Soren government also allowed reopening of malls and salons outside containment zones with immediate effect. But all religious places will remain closed, except Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar and Basukinath temple in Dumka that were allowed to open in view of a Supreme Court order. The ban on the movement of inter-state buses will, however, remain in place. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is among several chief ministers of Opposition-ruled states protesting against the timing of holding JEE-NEET in view of the rising number of Covid cases, shared a copy of the latest unlock orders on his twitter handle and appealed to people to follow all safety norms. Hemant said examinees living in containment zones would be allowed to move out to appear for the exams. “Their admit cards will be deemed as movement permits. They will not need to take any separate permission from local authorities,” he said. During the time of JEE-NEET, examinees who travel to and from other states will be exempted from the 14-day mandatory quarantine period, the order, signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, noted. An official of the state disaster management department said, “The order is effective till September 30, after which the government will review the situation and take a fresh call about exemptions. All hotels, lodges that have been allowed to reopen will have to follow the standard operating procedures notified by both the Centre and state.” He said the state transport department norm of allowing only 50 per cent occupancy in buses was still in force. “That will have to be followed in toto,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
