30-08-2020||Calcutta||Student targeted over use of road||A college student from Belghoria has alleged that a group of youths harassed her and thrashed her friend when she went out with him on a scooter looking for chapatis on Friday night. In her complaint to police, the second-year BSc student has said a group of youths were fighting among themselves on the road near 17-Pally in Belghoria on Friday night. Trouble started when she tried to get past the group and some of them asked her to take a different route. It was around 10pm and when she refused, the youths threatened her and her friend. When they insisted on taking the road, some of them hurled abuses at the two, she said in her complaint. One of the youths took the scooter’s keys while another slapped her, she said. “She has said that when her friend tried to help her, some of the youths assaulted him,” an officer of Belghoria police station said. “He somehow managed to run away and alerted her mother.” The college student said she tried calling the police helpline but the call didn’t go through. Some of the youths then snatched her phone and asked her to delete the video she had recorded of the incident, she said in her complaint. Her mother reached the spot by then and alerted the police. By the time a team reached, the youths had fled. The woman then went to Belghoria police station to file the complaint. The police have started a case of outraging a woman’s modesty, forcibly stopping her on the way and assaulting her and her friend against a group of “unknown youths”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||You can be fined if you refuse to clean up after your pet||The civic body can now fine a pet owner for not cleaning the pet’s poop, a civic official said on Saturday. The civic body has been empowered to impose spot fines on pet owners and a gazette notification regarding this has been published, an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said on Saturday. The power to impose such fines came into effect on July 13. The fine amounts have been fixed at Rs 200 for the first offence, Rs 300 for the second offence and Rs 400 for every subsequent offence, the official said. Arguments between pet owners and people over who is responsible for cleaning the pet’s poop or if an owner has the right to dirty the road is common in Calcutta. The civic body could not do much as it did not have the legal right to impose spot fines even if waste cleaners or other civic officials were sure of the pet owner’s identity, a CMC official said. “We had to issue a notice to someone who would not clean the pet’s poop from the street. The matter used to come up for hearing at the municipal magistrate’s court, which had the sole power to impose fines,” the official said. The lengthy process meant a few people could be penalised. The recent change has given the CMC the power to fine a pet owner on the spot for not cleaning the pet’s poop. “The commissioner of the CMC will delegate the power to junior officials in wards or boroughs... they can fine an offender,” the official said. The fine amounts have been introduced under the CMC’s solid waste management rules. Civic waste cleaners often refuse to collect a pet’s poop till the time it gets dry because they say the poop gets stuck in the shovel, the official said. The poop left for a day or more on the street attracts insects and flies and can pose a health hazard for people living nearby. The CMC will upload the rules on its website, the official said. “We will give some time for people to get acquainted with the new rules and change their behaviour. We will start imposing fines after some time.” The new rules will not bring a blanket change, though, according to many civic officials. It will be very difficult to identify a pet owner unless the animal is found to defecate on the road when a CMC official is present, an official said. In most instances, owners take their pets out for a walk early in the morning or in the evening when CMC officials or cleaners are unlikely to be there. Also, arguments can break out if a pet owner refuses to pay the fine. Many owners act responsibly and carry poop pickers when they take their pets out for a walk, a pet owner said. Poop pickers or poop scoopers are available for Rs 495-Rs 599 on some e-commerce websites. Such fines have been allowed only in the Calcutta municipal area, an official of the government’s municipal affairs department said. But the government is thinking of extending the provision for fines to other municipal areas, at least the ones around Calcutta where keeping a pet is more common than faraway municipal areas where pets are a rarity, the official said. The new rules allow the CMC to impose fines on people who throw waste on roads. “The person can be fined Rs 1,000 for the first offence, Rs 1,500 for the second offence and Rs 2,000 for every subsequent offence,” a CMC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta kids demotivated in online class: Teachers||Teachers of several schools have reported that students have become “more subdued” in class and the energy level is much less than before. Months of being on the screen has made students “fatigued” and “demotivated”, psychiatrists and teachers said. Even students who are academically strong have not been responding like they used to, teachers of senior classes said. The “mischievous” ones who would always be up to something in classrooms have become “quiet and subdued”, a teacher said. “There are very few questions in classes now. It cannot be that all of them are following the lecture and have no doubts at all. Even when the devices are not on mute, there is hardly any conversation or noise. The students are quiet,” Joseph Chacko, who teaches English in the senior section at St James’ School, said. “It is a robotic experience for teachers and on many occasions, a faceless interaction.” Earlier, students would talk to a friendly teacher about their weekend plans or a web series they were watching; now, they respond to such questions with a yes or no, a teacher said. Students are attending online classes because they have to and not because they want to. “Online class for my daughter is more like a task. The excitement or interest is not there,” the father of a Class XII student said. Schools give breaks in between classes but because of connectivity issues, students have started logging in earlier, eating into the breaks, a parent said. “In the first month, things were fine but with time students are losing interest and a kind of boredom is setting in even for the bright kids,” Anil Jha, who teaches accounts in The Heritage School, said. “For students in senior classes or those who will appear for board exams there is pressure from teachers and parents.... which is taxing.” After attending classes online, often children are sitting for online tuition classes. “Teachers are trying but online classes are not the same as what school was for children. No wonder they are feeling demotivated and fatigued,” psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram said. “They have to attend continuous classes on the screen, at times not on laptops but on phones. All this while there is monotony of the same environment. It’s difficult to maintain a sense of well-being.” In an online class the “nuances of non-verbal communication is completely lost”, Ram said. This is something that has been disturbing teachers. “The connection in an online class is lost. In a classroom, there was unification; now, the student and the teacher are in two worlds,” Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School, said. In several classes, most children answer in monosyllables. “In a physical classroom, I would discuss things not related to academics and they would eagerly share their experiences; now, they hardly respond. Maybe they don’t have anything to share because they are not going out, or they are not interested,” Chacko said. Mischievous students, too, have grown quiet. “Mischief is a group activity and it would happen because they could interact with one another,” Basu said. There should be a “more creative” solution, Ram said. “There should be more light-hearted activities at home and physical exercise to break the monotony of the cycle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Partha to Centre: Defer JEE and NEET||Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday asked Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank why he wanted to “jeopardise” the future of students by forcing them to write the JEE-Main and NEET exams during the pandemic. In a tweet three days before the start of JEE-Main, Chatterjee said: “Amid this global pandemic, @ Dr RP Nishank can you guarantee the safety of nearly 30 lakh students who have registered for JEE and NEET exams? With the transport system not fully operational, why do you want to jeopardise their future so desperately? Immediately postpone the exams!” The JEE-Main exams, through which most engineering colleges admit undergraduate students, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges admit undergraduate students, is scheduled for September 13. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and Tuesday that the exams should be postponed, education minister Chatterjee made a fresh appeal before the Union minister. Pokhriyal on Wednesday justified holding the examinations during the pandemic and said the central government was under pressure from parents and students to conduct the tests. Travelling to exam centres at a time when transport is scarce is bound to pose a serious threat, an official of the state education department said. “Besides, health risk stemmed from the fact that students will have to turn up at centres to write the tests at a time when any kind of phy-sical assembly is being discouraged as a precaution against Covid,” the official said. Although the authorities that conduct the exams have issued guidelines on the precautionary measures to be taken by the students and others, any sort of assembly can pose a risk, he said. Minister Chatterjee has convened a virtual meeting with vice-chancellors on Monday afternoon to discuss when and how the examinations will be held for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. The apex court had ordered on Friday that graduating students would have to write exams. The court had upheld a directive of the UGC issued on July 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Brother death rap on siblings in Calcutta||Police on Saturday arrested two brothers — Apu and Tapu Seal — on charges of murdering their brother Nipu six years ago. The brothers had dug up a part of the balcony of their house in Shyamnagar, 40km north of Calcutta, and dumped the body. A team from Jaggadal police station dug up the spot and recovered the skeletal remains after the two brothers admitted to have killed Nipu over a property dispute, the police said. The two brothers have claimed they used to live in Bangalore and that they had returned to their Shyamnagar house a month-and-a-half ago, an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: brothers in arms fight stigma||Some people in Calcutta and neighbouring areas are trying to fight, literally on the streets, the stigma attached to Covid by preventing attempts to barricade a patient’s house. They are taking pulse oximeters to an infected person to check the oxygen level in his/her blood and organising street plays to make people aware of the misconceptions regarding Covid. Earlier this week, a convention was arranged at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas where representatives of political parties, voluntary organisations, local clubs, and many doctors were present. They discussed how to allay the fear of Covid among people. A group comprising young people of the neighbourhood has been formed. They provide Covid patients with pulse oximeters to check if the level of oxygen in their blood is satisfactory. “Several months after the outbreak of the pandemic, there is still an illogical panic and misconception in many people’s minds… often that leads to ostracisation of Covid patients and their relatives. But there are many others who have been coming forward to help such patients and their families,” Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert, said. Chowdhury is the mentor of Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, government officials and people who have recovered from Covid. “We are trying to bring such people under one umbrella. The battle is not only against the disease but also against this social problem. To fight the battle, people’s participation is required and government alone cannot do this,” Chowdhury said. He and members of Covid Care Network have been conducting meetings and conventions in Calcutta and neighbouring areas with a high prevalence of the coronavirus. At Ashoknagar, a group of volunteers, mostly members of local clubs, have been motorcycling with pulse oximeters to Covid patients in home isolation to check the level of oxygen in their blood. Doctors have been asking people in home isolation to check their oxygen level and to get admitted to hospital if it is below the prescribed level because they would need oxygen support. “We are getting calls on our helpline from people with fever… we are arranging doctors from our panel to provide them with consultancy. Many of these people are scared to get Covid tests done. We are counselling them and helping them get the tests done,” Pradyut Karmakar, convener of Covid Care Network at Ashoknagar and a member of a local club, said. Volunteers are busy dissuading people from barricading the house of a Covid patient, he said. “Still there is lack of awareness… people think barricading a house will prevent the spread of the virus.” Another member of the network said there was panic among people regarding hospital admission and treatment cost. Last week, several street plays were organised by a theatre group in Jadavpur and Garia to make people aware of the misconceptions regarding Covid-19. “Lot of misinformation about Covid is being shared on social media… it is creating confusion and panic among people. Through our play, we are trying to make people more aware,” Saikat Ghosh, director of Uncurtained, a theater group, said. The group has collaborated with Covid Care Network. “Many people are not wearing masks but they force a Covid patient in home isolation in their area to go to a hospital. Our message is we should maintain distancing rules but not socially abandon anyone because of the virus,” Ghosh said. There are a few people who stand on the road and watch the play, Ghosh said. “Many can relate to the problems… they say similar things have happened in their neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||MAKAUT extends fee deadline due to Covid impact ||Students selected for professional courses of the state technology university are struggling to pay their semester and admission fees, even in instalments, because of financial difficulties during the pandemic, a university official said on Saturday. So, the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology has extended the deadline for payment of the first instalment till September 4, the official said. All private engineering and management colleges in the state are affiliated to the university. Till last year a student had to pay Rs 32,000 in full for the BBA or the BCA course during admission. This year, students had to pay Rs 15,000 as the first instalment by August 26. Last year, an MBA student had to pay Rs 35,000 in full during admission. This year, it was Rs 15,000 as the first instalment by August 26. “This shows the financial constraints the students and their families are grappling with,” the official said. “Considering the pandemic situation and the requests from different quarters, the university is pleased to announce that the admission process through CET-I (Common Entrance Test) & JEMAT-I (Management Aptitude Test) is being extended for another 10 more days,” according to a notice signed by the university’s registrar Partha Pratim Lahiri. “The candidates informed the colleges about the financial constraints they have been facing in paying the first instalment. After the colleges requested us, we decided to extend the deadline,” Lahiri told Metro. The remaining amount for every course has to be paid by October 15. Many students have told colleges that earning members in their families have had their salaries slashed during the lockdown. Some have said their family members don’t have jobs anymore. The Telegraph had on August 20 reported that an estimated 1.89 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July in the country. July had recorded huge job losses after a partial recovery in June. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt Ltd has estimated that close to 1.77 crore salaried people lost their jobs in April immediately after the lockdown. Another 100,000 lost theirs in May. The impact has been so severe that students are struggling to pay even in instalments, another university official said. “If they don’t clear the payments in time, colleges will struggle to pay their teachers. If this crisis continues we wonder if students would be able to pay the rest on time.” The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester. A meeting of the NIT’s deans’ council has decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fees of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30 and the rest by December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||WFH snips demand for formalwear||Crisp shirts stacked up on shelves. A neatly pleated trouser has a sole taker — the mannequin near the entrance. Sale of formal clothes has nose-dived at apparel stores across the city. Retailers attributed the plunge to “work from home (WFH)” — the new normal in the wake of the pandemic. Occasionally, for a virtual appraisal or a client pitch, the odd white shirt makes it out of the cupboard. It is paired with shorts, which passes off unnoticed on a screen. Sumit Khemani, who works at a south Calcutta store of a menswear brand, has been calling up people who were regular patrons before the pandemic to inform them of new arrivals. The stock response he gets: “What is the use? I am not stepping out for work. Let me know if there are new shorts and tees.” Kunal Kapasi, of another premium menswear brand’s Shakespeare Sarani store, used to sell “over 300 formal shirts” a month on average earlier. Since April, he has been selling “much less than 100”. Trouser sales have gone down sharply, Kapasi said. Usually, three to four shirts sell for every trouser, retailers said. Apparel brands, like most other segments, are trying to jump the safety-first wagon to tide the Covid crisis, said marketers. Many brands have started promoting “anti-bacterial” and “anti-viral” shirts. “This shirt kills 99 per cent of the Covid-19 virus,” reads a pamphlet at a store near Camac Street. “Inhibits virus and bacteria growth,” reads another poster on the glass wall of a premium apparel store at a Lake Gardens mall. “The pandemic has made everybody insecure. The brands are trying to capitalise on this insecurity. An added layer of perceived safety is the USP of a host of products — from switchboards to mattress covers. Apparel is no different,” said an advertising professional in Bangalore, who has handled the campaigns of leading lifestyle retail chains. The formal womenswear corner at an international retailer’s store in a city mall had one person on Saturday afternoon — a sales executive brushing a series of striped blazers. “A weekend two months before Puja there used to be a mad rush. But there is hardly anyone now,” he said. Womenswear has been the major driver of growth in the formal clothing segment for the past several years, in keeping with the growing role of women in the workplace, said advertisers and officials of apparel companies. The pandemic has put brakes on this as well. Officials of leading apparel brands said the plunge in sales was not without reason. “I work for a formalwear brand. I have not worn a formal shirt more than once or twice in the past four months,” said a senior official of a leading Indian fashion brand. The “anti-bacterial range”, he said, was targeted at people who still had to step out — bankers, sales professionals and so on. “Apparel companies are now concentrating on homewear — shorts, t-shirts. That is the only segment that has been getting some traction. Buttoned waistlines in trousers are being replaced by elastic waistlines and joggers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Business||Drug firm Wockhardt reports Rs 760 crore profit||Drug firm Wockhardt on Saturday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 760 crore for the June quarter, mainly on account of exceptional items in connection with the transfer of a business comprising 62 products and the Baddi facility to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. The company had suffered a net loss of Rs 36.88 crore for April-June 2019-20, Wockhardt said in a filing to the BSE. Total income stood at Rs 606 crore during the quarter under review. It was Rs 734 crore in the year-ago period, the filing added. Wockhardt launched a chemical entity (NCE) during the quarter in the Indian pharma market. Products have been launched under the tablet and injection category under the brand name “Emrock O and Emrock”, the filing said. The focus on strategic R&D initiatives of the company in the global arena continued to remain one of the key priorities, it added. The divestment of business undertakings to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories was accomplished during the quarter and the company received Rs 1,483 crore as part of the deal. “Rs 43 crore out of the Rs 67 crore deposited by the purchaser in an escrow account, towards adjustments for, inter alia, net working capital, employee liabilities and certain other contractual and statutory liabilities etc has since been settled and received,” it added. Suzlon Energy on Saturday reported the widening of its consolidated net loss to Rs 398.86 crore in the April-June quarter compared with a net loss of Rs 336.88 crore in the year-ago period mainly because of lower revenues.The total consolidated income of the company declined to Rs 528.22 crore in the quarter under review from Rs 851.09 crore in the same period last year. On the Covid-19 situation in the country, the company stated that the group’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its financial obligations in the foreseeable future could be impacted by the circumstances arising from the pandemic. Suzlon Energy chief operating officer V. R. Tanti said the pandemic and the implementation of the debt restructuring, which was completed on June 30, 2020, impacted the wind turbine generator business in the first quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||NMDC approves demerger of Chhattisgarh steel plant||The board of directors of  NMDC Ltd has approved the demerger of its upcoming three-million-tonne steel plant in Chhattisgarh, the PSU has said. “The board of directors of the company at its meeting held on Thursday, August 27, 2020, inter-alia, have accorded an in-principle approval to the proposal to demerge its NMDC Iron and Steel Plant (NISP), Nagarnar, Chhattisgarh,” NMDC said in a filing. Recently, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had urged the Centre not to privatise the greenfield steel plant. NMDC officials had earlier said the plant is likely to be commissioned next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||Adani Ports pledge shares to raise Rs 430 crore||The promoters of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) have pledged 206.09 lakh shares of the company in favour of Credit Suisse AG to raise Rs 430 crore for a group company, according to a regulatory filing. The shares were held by Gautam S. Adani and Rajesh S. Adani on behalf of SB Adani Family Trust and it comprised 1.01 per cent of the APSEZ share capital. In a separate filing, APSEZ informed the bourses that the pledge was against the security for the borrowing by Adani Rail Infra Pvt Ltd amounting to Rs 430 crore. The value of shares being encumbered amounted to over Rs 742.03 crore. According to the shareholding data of the company, for the period ended June 30, the promoters held 63.57 per cent. Of this, over 37 crore shares, or 28.70 per cent, were pledged or encumbered. Earlier this week, the same promoters had released a pledge on 78,000 shares of APSEZ. The pledge was removed from JM Financial Credit Solutions Ltd and JM Financial Products Ltd. The SB Adani Family Trust holds a 39.34 per cent stake in APSEZ. APSEZ is the largest commercial ports operator in India. According to its website, it accounts for nearly one-fourth of the cargo movement in the country apart from having integrated services across ports, logistics and special economic zones (SEZ). It has a presence across 10 domestic ports in six maritime states — Gujarat, Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. Its assets include the Mundra Economic Hub, which spans over 8,000 hectares and it offers investment options as the largest multi-product SEZ, free trade and warehousing zone and domestic industrial zone. During the first quarter ended June 30, APSEZ saw its net profit dropping to Rs 758 crore from Rs 1,029 crore in the same period of the previous year. This came after its topline fell to Rs 2,293 crore from Rs 2,794 crore in the year-ago quarter as cargo throughput declined 27 per cent during the nationwide lockdown. The company said during the period, Mundra port became the largest container handling port in India  by handling 0.97 million twenty-foot equivalent units. The pledge comes at a time when there are reports of the group engaged in talks to buy out GVK and some of its partners in the Mumbai airport as it set sight to become India's biggest private airport operator. PTI recently reported that the group is in talks to acquire a 50.5 per cent stake held by GVK Group in Mumbai International Airport (MIAL) and another 23.5 per cent of minority partners, Airports Company South Africa (ACSA), and Bidvest Group. The Adani group had in March 2019 agreed to acquire 13.5 per cent stake of South African company, Bidvest for over Rs 1200 crore. However, the GVK Group blocked the deal claiming the right of first refusal. But it could not buy Bidvest stake and the matter went to court. The Adani group which is betting big on the airports sector has won the bids to run six Airport Authority-built non-metro airports in Lucknow, Jaipur, Guwahati, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||Consumers to pay for government’s GST mess||Consumers of luxury cars, cigarettes and colas will have to bear the cost of the GST mess. That is the message that went out on Saturday after the Centre came out with a detailed note explaining the two disagreeable options that were foisted on the states at Thursday’s GST Council meeting without prior discussion. The states have been pressing the Centre for payment for the shortfall in tax collections under the goods and services tax (GST) regime, which is expected to balloon to Rs 3 lakh crore this year. This shortfall ought to have been covered by the cess on demerit goods that runs till June 2022. The promise of compensation was the clinching factor that had driven the consensus on GST, which the Narendra Modi government is now trying to wriggle out of. In its note, the Centre said: “The compensation cess will be continued after the transition period until such times as all arrears of compensation for the transition period are paid to the states. “The only practical way forward is... by borrowing and then repaying the borrowing by extension of the cess beyond the fifth year.” The government expects to collect only Rs 65,000 crore under the compensation cess this year, which leaves a huge uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre, which carved this sum into two components, one of Rs 97,000 crore that it attributed to the “implementation of GST” and the other of Rs 1.38 lakh crore that it ascribed to pandemic-related factors, has refused to borrow on its books to meet these claims. It has argued that the Rs 1.38-lakh-crore component does not qualify for the compensation protection mechanism under the GST regime since it has arisen because of an unanticipated “exogenous” factor. Instead, it has given the states two options: borrow Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India or borrow the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The government has given the states seven days to decide which option they would prefer while the states have indicated their opposition to what they see as a preposterous idea. The government said it would schedule a secretary-level meeting on Tuesday (September 1) where they could seek clarifications on the government’s proposal. The Centre has tried to sweeten its offer by saying that it would endeavour to keep the cost of borrowing at — or close to — the yield on the government security of relevant maturity. If this cost is higher, it has promised to pay a subsidy to bear the cost of the margin between the government security (G-Sec) and the state development loan yields to the extent of 0.5 per cent. The Centre said the borrowing under the special window will not be treated as a debt of the state under any norms that may be prescribed by the Finance Commission, which is currently preparing a report on the new formula that will govern Centre-state fund devolution from April 1 next year till the end of March 2026. The final report is to be submitted on October 30. The note said the interest on the borrowing under the special window would be paid out of the cess proceeds as and when it arises until the end of the transition period, which is June 2022. “After the transition period, the principal and the interest will also be paid from the proceeds of the cess,” the note said. The problem will arise for the states if they choose the second option and decide to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The note said the entire amount would have to be raised as market debt and only the principal sum would be paid out of the proceeds of the cess. The states will have to pay the interest out of their own proceeds. But even in this case, the cess will be extended beyond June 2022 — which means the consumers will bear the burden. “The first charge on the future cess would be the principal repayment. The remaining arrears of compensation accrued during the transition period would be paid after the principal is paid,” the note said. The note marks a significant variance from what finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had told reporters after the GST Council meeting. While talking about the second option, she had said: “We shall facilitate a discussion with the RBI and get the loan at a G-sec linked rate for all states so that each state doesn’t have to face different situations.” She had assured all the states that they would be able to secure the loans at roughly the same interest rate, which now looks decidedly dicey. The Centre came up with a long-winded justification of why it would not borrow from the RBI and then pass on the proceeds to the states. “The question arises of who should borrow,” the note said. “The notion of borrowing by the GST Council is not practically or legally feasible or desirable. This leaves the options of central or state borrowing.” The note said that the Centre had a “very large borrowing requirement this year” and any additional borrowing on account of the GST compensation payment would “influence the yields on the government securities” and have other macro-economic repercussions. In May, the Centre suddenly jacked up its gross borrowing for this year by 53 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore from a budgeted Rs 7.8 lakh crore in order to meet the costs of an economic stimulus response to the pandemic. That did not impact the G-Sec yields. The benchmark 10-year G-Sec yield is currently hovering at just over 6 per cent, sharply down from an average 6.7 per cent in 2019-20 and 7.7 per cent in 2018-19 as quoted in the RBI’s recent annual report. This down drift in G-Sec yields has largely been possible because of the shift in the RBI’s monetary stance to an accommodative policy, leading to a surplus liquidity in the financial system rather than to any policy initiative by the Modi government. “The yield on G-Secs acts as a benchmark for state borrowing as well as private-sector borrowing. Hence any rise in central borrowing costs ipso facto drives up borrowing costs for all borrowers, including not only the states but also the entire private sector,” the note said. “On the other hand, the yields on state government securities do not directly influence other yields and do not have the same type of macroeconomic repercussions. Hence, it is in the collective interest of (the) Centre and (the) states, and in the interest of the nation and of all economic entities including the private sector, not to do any avoidable borrowing at the central level when it could be done at the state level.” Care Ratings said in a research note: “So far in the current fiscal year, 26 states and one Union Territory have cumulatively raised Rs.2.70 lakh crore via market borrowings, which is a 53 per cent increase from the borrowings in the corresponding period of 2019-20 (Rs 1.76 lakh crore from April 9-Aug 27, 2019). As per the proposed market borrowings calendar, the state government borrowings in the first half of 2020-21 at Rs 3.45 lakh crore are likely to be 53 per cent more than that in the corresponding period of 2019-20.” The yield on the 10-year state development loans (SDLs) has risen 24 basis points so far in August, to a range of 6.66-6.68 per cent. Yields on the three-year SDLs have jumped 35 basis points to 5.09 per cent this month. This is expected to go up further if the states pick the second option. In the past two weeks, the benchmark 10-year government bond yield had hardened to a six-month high of 6.22 per cent from 5.8 per cent but cooled to a 6.10-6.15 per cent level after the RBI on Monday announced two open market operations (OMOs). If the yield on the state loans rise — as they probably will — the subsidy of 0.5 per cent that is being offered will not be enough to cover the full amount, raising the interest payment burden for the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
30-08-2020||Business||Reliance buys Future brands||Mukesh Ambani on Saturday tightened his grip on India’s organised retail sector by acquiring the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division from Future Group for a lumpsum consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. The acquisition, which has been in the works for quite some time, will bring retail formats such as Big Bazaar, fbb, Foodhall, Easyday, Nilgiris, Central and Brand Factory within the Reliance fold.  The acquisition cost includes certain borrowings and current liabilities of Future Group. The estimated debt of Future Group was nearly Rs 13,000 crore as on September 30, 2019. The transaction will see Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd (RRFLL), a subsidiary of Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), acquiring 6.09 per cent of the post merger equity of Future Enterprises Ltd (FEL) and investing another Rs 400 crore in preferential issue of equity warrants, which after conversion will see its stake going up by another 7.05 per cent in the company. RRVL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries. To begin with, the Future Group is merging close to five companies carrying the formats or the businesses that will go into the Reliance fold into Future Enterprises. The retail and wholesale undertaking of Future Group is being transferred to RRFLL, while the logistics & warehousing undertaking will go to RRVL. A Future Group statement said after this transaction, FEL will retain the manufacturing and distribution of FMCG goods and the integrated fashion sourcing and manufacturing business and its joint ventures with Generali and NTC Mills. “With this transaction, we are pleased to provide a home to the renowned formats and brands of Future Group as well as preserve its business ecosystem, which have played an important role in the evolution of modern retail in India,’’ said Isha Ambani, director of RRVL. “As a result of this reorganisation, Future Group will achieve a holistic solution to the challenges that have been caused by Covid and the macro economic environment. “This transaction takes into account the interest of all its stakeholders, including lenders, shareholders, creditors, suppliers and employees. We are pleased that our strong retail franchise and brands, that we have created over time, are going into stronger hands and will continue to grow and delight Indian shoppers,’’ Kishore Biyani, group CEO of Future Group, said. He feels after the transaction, FEL will emerge stronger as its manufacturing and distribution of FMCG products and integrated fashion sourcing and merchandising will benefit from supply agreements with RRFLL. This deal, Biyani observed, will also enable FEL to focus on the creation of new age fashion brands apart from having a stronger balancesheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
30-08-2020||India||JEE Advanced 2020: Architecture Aptitude Test on October 8||The Architecture Aptitude Test (JEE Advanced AAT 2020) will be held on October 8. The Indian Institute of Delhi, conducting body of JEE Advanced 2020, has announced the AAT 2020 date in the JEE Advanced brochure. The Joint Entrance Examination Main, or JEE Main 2020, will be conducted from September 1-6, 2020. JEE Advanced AAT 2020 will be conducted in 23 IITs across the country. The registration portal, according to official information, will be available from October 5 (10 am) to October 6 (5 pm). Candidates seeking admission to BArch programme in IIT (BHU) Varanasi, IIT Kharagpur and IIT Roorkee will be required to qualify AAT 2020. The registration form will be available on the official website of JEE Advanced, jeeadv.ac.in. Only those candidates who qualify in JEE Advanced 2020 will be eligible to sit for JEE Advanced AAT. The exam will be conducted from 9 am to 12 pm. Candidates will be required to reach the AAT 2020 examination venue by 8:30 am. JEE Advanced 2020, for admission to IITs, will be conducted on September 27. JEE Advanced registration will begin on September 11. In the JEE Advanced brochure, IIT Delhi has also mentioned the dates for JoSSA counselling. The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) is going to start the registrations for counselling, for BTech admissions IITs, NITs and GFTIs tentatively on October 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Galwan: Indian Navy deployed warship in South China sea post clash||Following the Galwan valley clash on June 15 in Eastern Ladakh, the Indian Navy sailed out its frontline warship for deployment in the South China Sea reported ANI. The deployment is said to have displeased the Chinese who raised objections during diplomatic talks between the two sides. The Chinese have been objecting to the presence of Indian Navy ships in the region where it has significantly expanded its presence since 2009 through artificial islands and military presence. "Soon after the Galwan clash broke out in which 20 of our soldiers were killed, the Indian Navy deployed one of its frontline warship to the South China Sea where the People's Liberation Army's Navy objects to the presence of any other force claiming the majority of the waters as part of its territory," government sources told ANI. The immediate deployment of the Indian Navy warship in the South China Sea had a desired effect on the Chinese Navy and security establishment as they complained to the Indian side about the Indian warship's presence there during the diplomatic level talks with the Indian side, the sources said. During the deployment in the South China Sea, where the American Navy had also deployed its destroyers and frigates, the Indian warship was continuously maintaining contact with their American counterparts over secure communication systems, the sources informed. As part of the routine drills, the Indian warship was being constantly updated about the status of the movement of military vessels of other countries there, they said adding that the entire mission was carried out in a very hush-hush manner to avoid any public glare on Navy's activities. Around the same time, the Indian Navy had deployed its frontline vessels along the Malacca Straits near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the route from where the Chinese Navy enters the Indian Ocean Region to keep a check on any activity of the Chinese Navy. A number of Chinese vessels also pass through the Malacca Straits while returning with oil or taking merchant shipments towards other continents. The sources said the Indian Navy is fully capable of checking any misadventure by the adversaries on either the eastern or the western front and the mission-based deployments have helped it to control the emerging situations effectively in and around the Indian Ocean Region. The Navy also has plans to urgently acquire and deploy autonomous underwater vessels and other unmanned systems and sensors to keep a close eye on the movement of PLAN from Malacca Straits towards the Indian Ocean Region, the sources said. The Navy is also taking care of the Chinese vessels present around the Djibouti area and has deployed its assets in the vicinity for protecting national interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Masks, smart cards essential for travelling in Delhi Metro ||Wearing masks and the use of smart cards have been made mandatory for travelling in the Delhi Metro, which resumes services next month after a five-month hiatus. The new guidelines issued by the Delhi government on Sunday listed severe restrictions, including a ban on tokens, and limiting the number of passengers in each coach. The authorities, however, have not shared any figures in this regard. Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the air conditioning system will be "renovated" to ensure circulation of fresh air inside coaches. NDTV quoted the minister saying, "We will renovate the air conditioning system in such a way that ensures that maximum fresh air comes in. We are yet to take a decision about what should be the optimum temperature inside the metro trains." The minister also said that trains will not stop at all metro stations and there are plans to open stations in phases - social distancing, thermal checking, and proviing hand sanitiser will be maintaines across stations. "The token system will be completely shut because it can increase the spread (of coronavirus). Moreover, it won't be possible to sanitise a token every time. People will use smart cards or other recharge mediums to travel," Gahlot said. "All stations will not be opened. Those in containment zones will remain shut. Other than those, there are more stations which will remain shut, the list for the same will be prepared and people will be informed about it," he further informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||India can become world's toy hub, says PM||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being "vocal about local toys".  He said the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India's share is very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it.  Modi called upon start-up entrepreneurs to 'team up for toys' and said it is time to get vocal for local toys.  In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, the prime minister also said people have shown an unprecedented restraint and simplicity in their festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic.  He also hailed farmers for an increase in sowing area for different grains.  "This is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation...There is a close link between nature and our festivals," Modi said.  He also asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and also about India.  In his address, Modi also noted that India will complete its 75 years of Independence in 2022 and suggested a host of measures to teachers to help bring to light contributions of thousands and lakhs of "unsung heroes" of the freedom struggle.  It is important that our youngsters are aware of them, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Sushant case: Rhea called for questioning by CBI for third day||The CBI called actress Rhea Chakraborty for the third consecutive day on Sunday for questioning in the case of death of her boyfriend and filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput, a police official said.  The 28-year-old actress is accused of abetting Rajput's suicide.  Her brother Showik Chakraborty was also called by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the fourth day in a row for questioning in the case, the official said.  Rhea Chakraborty and her brother reached the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, around 10.30 am, he said.  A Mumbai Police vehicle escorted the car in which the two arrived at the guest house, he said.  Rajput's manager Samual Miranda and domestic help Keshav also reached the guest house in the morning.  Earlier, Rhea Chakraborty was questioned for nearly 10 hours on Friday and allowed to return home under police escort as a large number of media personnel were present outside her building. She was quizzed for around seven hours on Saturday.  Her brother is being questioned by the CBI since Thursday.  On Saturday, the CBI also questioned Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and accountant Rajat Mewati at the guest house.  Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.  Rhea Chakraborty had been earlier questioned by the Mumbai Police in the case. The Enforcement Directorate has also quizzed her in a related money laundering case.  The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against the actress and others for allegedly abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 35-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past 35 lakh, just a week after it crossed the 30-lakh mark, with a record single-day spike of 78,761 cases, while recoveries surged to 27,13,933 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry data.  The total coronavirus cases rose to 35,42,733, while the death toll climbed to 63,498 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The recovery rate has increased to 76.61 per cent while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.79 per cent.  There are 7,65,302 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 cases rose from 20 lakh to 30 lakh in 16 days, 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days while it had taken 59 days for the cases to cross the 10 lakh-mark.  It took 110 days for Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while just 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23.  According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,14,61,636 samples have been tested up to August 29 with 10,55,027 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Influence of autocracy on democracy is increasing: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said the country’s founding fathers would never have imagined that democracy would be in peril at a time when the 75th anniversary of Independence was not too distant. Without mentioning the Narendra Modi government, Sonia referred to the attack on institutions, attempts to silence voices of discontent, and the spread of hatred and violence in society, regretting that regressive thinking had clouded progressive vision. Speaking at a videoconference on the occasion of the foundation-laying ceremony of the new Assembly building in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Sonia said: “Regressive thinking is dominating good thinking. The influence of autocracy on democracy is increasing.” Alleging that democratic institutions were being systematically demolished, the Congress president said: “After two years, we will complete 75 years of Independence. Our founding fathers and nation-builders wouldn’t have imagined we would face such a difficult phase after 75 years of freedom when our democracy and Constitution would come under threat.” Prime Minister Modi never misses an opportunity to refer to the 75th anniversary of Independence, viewing that milestone in terms of development targets such as a doubling of farmers’ income and improving cleanliness. He has never referred to the occasion in the context of the strengthening of democracy, constitutional culture or the freedoms guaranteed to citizens. Sonia made it clear that the threat to democracy was among her overriding concerns. “Hamara samvidhan bhavano se nahin, bhaavnaon se bachega (Our Constitution will be saved not by buildings but by feelings),” she said. Modi plans to build a new Parliament under the Central Vista project that has drawn criticism. Sonia said: “We have achieved a lot of success in the last seven decades but much is yet to be done to fulfil the vision of the founding fathers of our democracy. For some time now, there has been an attempt to derail the country. Our democracy is grappling with new challenges. The anti-poor, anti-national forces have captured power by instigating people to fight among themselves and by spreading hate and violence in society.” She added: “What do they want? They want to silence the people of India; they want to silence our youths, our tribals, our farmers, our small traders, our women, our soldiers…. They want to shut this nation up. They want everybody to keep their mouths shut.” Sonia, grappling with discontent within her party, understands that the Congress can regain its political space by sharpening the ideological battle lines through a reaffirmation of its commitment to secularism and constitutionalism. Unlike many other Congress leaders, she has been exceptionally forceful and forthright in her averments on ideological issues, which helped her dislodge the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2004.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Covid spurs diabetes alert ||An expert group on diabetes has urged doctors to stay vigilant against several “scenarios” during the coronavirus epidemic that could increase the risk of uncontrolled blood sugar in diabetes patients and others. The Diabetes Expert Group, a panel of doctors from public and private institutions, has said that while diabetes can raise the risk of severe Covid-19, the infection itself or corticosteroid therapy could also cause blood sugar levels to rise. The doctors have cautioned that high blood sugar might be detected in hospitalised Covid-19 patients even if they had not been previously diagnosed with diabetes. They have said this can occur either because of weight gain during the lockdowns or because of disordered diet, poor exercise, mental stress and even the unwarranted use of the corticosteroid dexamethasone in mild Covid-19 infections. Around 70 endocrinologists and other senior doctors from institutions across the country have signed the statement, published last week in the journal Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research and Reviews. “Our call for action emphasises very strict control of blood sugar in patients with diabetes and in those not known to have diabetes,” said Anoop Misra, chairman of the Fortis-Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol, New Delhi, who led the effort. Misra and his collaborators have also cautioned that several factors can singly or together trigger high blood pressure among hospitalised Covid-19 patients. These include an inflammatory condition called a cytokine storm, the frequent use of dexamethasone and health staff’s failure to monitor blood sugar regularly. The doctors have underlined that the molecular gateways the virus uses to enter human cells are also present on pancreatic cells, and at a greater density compared with lung cells. A study from Wuhan, China, had earlier found that 17 per cent of Covid-19 patients with severe disease had developed pancreatic injury, suggesting the virus might be attacking pancreatic cells in addition to lung cells. Any additional injury to pancreatic cells already under attack by the cytokine storm could suppress the secretion of insulin, the expert group said, urging that any blood sugar abnormalities observed should be corrected aggressively. The expert group includes doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi, and hospitals in Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Jaipur and other cities. The doctors have also expressed concern that blood sugar levels may have increased among diabetes patients and those in pre-diabetes phases who could not contact doctors during the lockdown or did not visit doctors fearing that clinics and hospitals were Covid-19 hotspots. Lack of money during the lockdown may have prevented some patients from buying medications or insulin. Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, Haryana, had last month reported that the non-availability of insulin and poor diet control during the lockdown had worsened patients’ blood sugar levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||High school baby step; lockdown condition||Unlock 4 has put the onus on parents of pupils from Classes 9 to 12 to decide if they want to send their children to school outside Covid containment zones from September 21 to seek guidance from teachers. The new guidelines issued by the Union home ministry say the states should not impose any local lockdowns outside containment zones without consulting the Centre. This condition will necessitate clarity on the staggered total lockdowns in Bengal. Metro trains can operate in a graded manner from September 7. (See chart above) Unlike Unlock 3, the guidelines for Unlock 4 have dropped bars from the prohibited list, which has been interpreted by a section of the hospitality industry as a nod to serve liquor. On schools, the new guidelines say: “Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers (from September 21). This will be subject to written consent of their parents/ guardians.” Lockdowns outside containment zones have been tied to “prior consultations” with the Centre. “State/Union Territory governments shall not impose any local lockdown (state/ district/ sub-division/ city/ village level) outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government,” the guidelines say. Bengal has been observing occasional total lockdowns across the state. The next total lockdown is scheduled on Monday, and three more are lined up in the first half of September. The new guidelines do not refer to bars. The guidelines for the previous round, Unlock 3, had said: “All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones” and specifically mentioned bars, Metro trains and congregations besides facilities such as cinemas and swimming pools. The Unlock 4 guidelines have specifically exempted the Metro and congregations from the prohibited list. But the guidelines do not mention bars in the list of activities not permitted even outside containment zones. “All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones,” Saturday’s guidelines say and list “cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (excluding open-air theatre) and similar places”. A reference to bars either way would have cleared the confusion. Bengal excise officials said they were “evaluating” the guidelines and waiting for clear instructions from the state government. Bars in the state have been told to keep 15 days’ stock, the officials added. Metro officials in Calcutta said their “infrastructure is ready”. “We will have to depend on the state government for crowd control,” a Metro official said. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry has called a meeting of all managing directors of Metro rail corporations on September 1 to finalise the standard operating procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan contempt sentence on Monday||A three-judge Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra will on Monday pronounce its sentence on advocate Prashant Bhushan, who was held guilty of criminal contempt of court on August 14 for two tweets on the judiciary. The judgment is expected to be delivered between 10.45am and 11am. The court had reserved its verdict on August 25 after extensive arguments on the quantum of sentence. Monday’s verdict could have a crucial impact on the citizens’ fundamental right to free speech vis-à-vis the judiciary’s own immunity from perceived contemptuous remarks that could lower its image in the eyes of the public and damage the majesty of law. A large number of former judges, including ex-Chief Justice of India R.M. Lodha and Justice Kurian Joseph, civil liberties activist and various others have urged the apex court not to punish Bhushan for the tweets. Attorneygeneral K.K. Venugopal has advised the court to let Bhushan off with a reprimand or warning. Bhushan has refused to tender an unconditional apology, as sought by the court, and defended his tweets as his “bona fide belief”. He has told the court that apologising would amount to committing “contempt of his conscience”. Constitutional expert and Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhavan had during the hearings persisted with the plea for a lenient view, cautioning that the court would make a “martyr” out of Bhushan if it punished him for the social media posts. Dhavan had pointed out that the court should be open to criticism and said the judges’ “shoulders are broad enough”. However, the bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Muraria, wondering “what is to be done”, had asked what would be the purpose of warning Bhushan if he believed he had done no wrong, observed that he had made several disparaging remarks against the judiciary and pointed to Bhushan’s stature and standing of 30 years, adding that his comments would have an impact on people. Criminal contempt of court invites a maximum punishment of six months’ imprisonment and/or a fine. Initially, advocate Mahek Maheshwari had filed a criminal contempt case against Bhushan over one of the tweets. However, on the basis of another tweet reported in the media, the Supreme Court converted the proceedings into a suo motu case by invoking its powers under Article 129 of the Constitution. During the hearings, Bhushan had invoked Mahatma Gandhi and submitted that he would not seek any “magnanimity” or “mercy” from the court and was willing to submit himself to any punishment to uphold his bona fide beliefs. He had argued that he was neither a “cheerleader” nor a “courtier” of the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Youth Congress launches protest for jobs||The Youth Congress on Saturday launched the second phase of its nationwide “Rozgar Do (Give Employment)” campaign. The Youth Congress will mobilise jobless youths, hold demonstrations, run signature campaigns and approach even BJP legislators to ensure that real concerns like unemployment and the economic crisis dominate the public discourse. Youth Congress in-charge Krishna Allavaru said the situation had worsened because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mishandling of the economy and the unplanned lockdown. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas said: “Modi wore German goggles worth Rs 2.5 lakh to watch the solar eclipse. We will give him any spectacles, even if it is worth Rs 10 lakh, with which he can see jobless youths. He is enjoying his life — shooting for hours for a one-minute video with peacocks, changing clothes six times. But he can’t see the rising unemployment. We will force him to address this pressing problem.” The Youth Congress also released songs and posters to be used during the campaign. One song said: “Bhashan se pet nahin bharta, rozgar do/Pet bhi khali, jeb bhi khali/Bata do koi sarkar ko rozgar do (One can’t fill one’s stomach with speeches, give employment/ Our stomachs are empty, as are our pockets. Someone tell the government to give us employment.)”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Bihar: BJP eyes more seats in Assembly polls||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday chaired a meeting of senior Bihar leaders amid indications of the party driving a hard bargain with ally Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United for a larger share of seats in the upcoming polls. The BJP has taken the lead over the two other allies of the NDA in Bihar, the JDU and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, in launching aggressive preparations for the polls, indicating intentions to demand a bigger share of the election pie. The party has already held rallies through the virtual mode, organisational meetings and on Saturday Nadda held a meeting with BJP MPs from Bihar. Among the main items on the agenda was a discussion on the seat-sharing arrangement, sources said. During last year’s Lok Sabha polls, JDU boss and Bihar chief minister Nitish had driven a hard bargain with then BJP chief Amit Shah and the two parties contested 17 seats each, leaving the remaining 6 for the LJP. The BJP, riding Modi’s popularity, wanted to be the big brother in Bihar but Nitish managed to restrict it and strike an equal seat-sharing arrangement. Using the same formula, the BJP could demand equal seat sharing for the Assembly polls, party leaders indicated. “Seat sharing talks with allies haven’t yet started but the BJP is determined to get a bigger role in Bihar,” one Bihar MP said. “The BJP’s support base has widened,” the MP added. The BJP had always been a junior ally to the JDU in Bihar before Nitish snapped the 17-year-old ties with the saffron party over the projection of Modi as the Prime Minister candidate in 2013. When the Bihar leader returned to the alliance in 2017, the BJP was no longer the party he had dealt with in the past. The JDU has been pressing that while Modi may be the pan-India brand, in Bihar Nitish is the NDA’s tallest leader. The BJP has already declared that Nitish would be the face of the NDA in the polls but by giving in on this count the party appears to be preparing the ground for demanding a larger number of seats to contest. “If we contest an equal number of seats and manage to win more than the JDU, then it will establish that our support base has widened,” one BJP leader said. Despite declaring that Nitish would be the face of the alliance, the BJP’s campaign so far looks an independent push with no mention of the chief minister. It’s online campaign talks about achievements of the “NDA government” and urges the voters to have “faith in the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Gold deposit fraud charge on Kerala MLA||An Indian Union Muslim League MLA has been booked in Kerala on the charge of cheating depositors in connection with a gold investment scheme run by his jewellery group. The controversy has mounted pressure on the Congress-led United Democratic Front, in which the League is a partner, at a time when it is trying to corner the Left government over a gold-smuggling case. M.C. Kamaruddin, MLA from Manjeshwar, is accused of swindling hundreds of depositors from whom his company, Fashion Gold Jewellery, had allegedly collected crores of rupees. Many of the depositors have complained to police that the company stopped paying even the profits from their investments since late last year. They have alleged that neither Kamaruddin nor the company’s managing director, T.K. Pookoya Thangal, responded to their calls. The jewellery’s three branches — two in Kasaragod and one in neighbouring Kannur — have downed shutters since January, apparently because of financial problems. Kamaruddin, charged under Section 420 with cheating, has alleged a “politically motivated case”. “This is a civil matter and not a case to be handled by the police. It’s a politically motivated case and the police were forced to register it against me,” he told a TV channel. Sources in Kasaragod said the individual depositors’ investments in the scheme ranged from a few thousand rupees to several lakhs. Among the complainants, Abdul Shukur has said he invested Rs 20 lakh, Suhara has claimed investing Rs 1 lakh while E.K. Arif has claimed investing Rs 5 lakh. They have told the police the company used to regularly pay the profits every year until all the payments stopped late last year just ahead of the shutdown. Some depositors have alleged the cheques issued to them last year had bounced because they carried forged signatures of the managing director. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday sidestepped reporters’ questions on the case against the ally. “I will comment later,” he said. The controversy has pushed the Congress on the backfoot after nearly three months of bashing the CPM over the gold-smuggling case, in which a senior bureaucrat has been questioned multiple times by central agencies. The secretary to the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, was suspended after he was accused of links with some of the key accused. The BJP has recently been sucked into the controversy with reports saying a friendly journalist had requested some of the accused to help the party with their diplomatic connections and advised them to defuse the scandal through the same connections. The CPM has demanded Kamaruddin’s resignation as MLA to facilitate a fair investigation. “He must resign or his party should remove him. Otherwise he can tamper with the investigation,” Kasaragod CPM district secretary M.V. Balakrishnan told The Telegraph. “It’s unfortunate that Chennithala could not take a stand when it came to scamming these investors, most of them lower-middle-class people.” Balakrishnan alleged the company had begun defaulting on payments to the investors in 2017. “They paid small amounts of profit to some investors, while the cheques issued to the others bounced.” No clear picture has emerged on how much the company owes the investors. “The police investigation can throw more light on the number of investors and the money owed to them. We feel that Kamaruddin’s company owes Rs 110 crore to the hundreds of investors,” Balakrishnan said. Sources said the company was formed in 2013 and the gold scheme was floated soon after.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Congress warns Facebook of legal action||The Congress on Saturday warned Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg of legal action if the American company continued to interfere in democratic processes to help the BJP and allow its social media platforms to spread communal hatred in India. Two days after Time magazine reported that Facebook had allowed a hate post by a BJP lawmaker in Assam to remain on its pages for more than a year despite an alert from an NGO, the Congress shot off its second letter to Zuckerberg. Earlier this month, after The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook had condoned violence-inciting posts from the Hindutva ecosystem, including BJP leaders, the Congress had written to Zuckerberg urging him to investigate the “blatant biases and dubious practices” of the social media giant’s management team in India and make immediate amends, saying interference in the electoral processes of the country would not be tolerated. In its letter on Saturday, written in connection with the Time report on BJP MLA Shiladitya Dev blaming Bangladeshi Muslims for rapes in a Facebook post, the Congress said: “We urge you to let us know what steps your company is planning to take to investigate these matters and draw a plan of action to stem the rot in your India operations. We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for pursuit of private profits.” The letter, written by general secretary in-charge of Congress organisation K.C. Venugopal, added: “You may recall our letter to you on August 17, 2020, outlined the Facebook India team’s blatant biases and interference in India’s democracy (as exposed by The Wall Street Journal). We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27, 2020, that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling BJP.” It went on: “This article makes three main points that are alarming and violate both the spirit and the law of operations of foreign companies in India. “1. The BJP has been allowed to exercise control of WhatsApp’s India operations in return for a possible licence for its payment operations, which is critical for the future of WhatsApp in India. 2. More than just one person in your company’s leadership team in India are biased and partisan in favour of the ruling BJP in their professional endeavours. The problem is larger, deeper and more pervasive than initially assumed. 3. The WhatsApp platform used by 400 million Indians has been willingly allowed by your India team to be appropriated for hate speech and the consequent tearing of India’s fabric of social harmony.” The messaging app owned by Facebook has been so rampantly used in India to spread unsubstantiated, fake and hateful content, especially by the Hindutva brigade, that it has spawned the term “WhatsApp University”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has tweeted the Time article with this message: “America’s Time magazine exposes WhatsApp-BJP nexus: Used by 40 crore Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi government’s approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera and party data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty issued a statement iterating its demand for a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the allegations against Facebook. “The unholy nexus between Facebook’s India operations and the Modi government is now unravelling fast and has become a global issue. There is a need for an investigation by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC). The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news,” the statement said. The two leaders also said that WhatsApp must not be granted approvals for its payment operations in India until such an inquiry is complete and the actions recommended are implemented by the company. The Congress also asked Facebook to probe the latest revelations about WhatsApp’s links with the BJP and make the report of its internal investigations public. Alleging that it is not only Facebook India head Ankhi Das who is involved with the BJP, Khera said another senior executive, Shivnath Thukral of WhatsApp, was an unabashed devotee of the ruling establishment and was partisan in his professional conduct. Khera said: “The Time expose reveals Thukral was hired by Facebook in 2017 only because he was ‘extremely close’ to the ruling establishment. Thukral’s relationship with the BJP goes as far back as 2013 when he operated websites and Facebook pages for the 2014 election campaign in conjunction with other party affiliates who continue to hold senior positions in the current government.” The Time report mentions that when members of the NGO Avaaz had met Thukral to complain about the Assam BJP MLA’s Facebook post, he had walked out of the meeting saying he had other important things to do. The Time report says that Thukral had in 2013 worked with senior party officials to help run a pro-BJP website and Facebook page. “The site, called Mera Bharosa (“My Trust” in Hindi) also hosted events, including a project aimed at getting students to sign up to vote, according to interviews with people involved and documents seen by Time,” the article says. The site changed its name to “Modi Bharosa” in 2014. Referring to this, Khera said: “It was in 2014 that this ‘Mera Bharosa’ Facebook page changed its name to ‘Modi Bharosa’, and thus started sharing pro-BJP and pro-Modi content.” The Congress spokesperson added: “In May 2020 the former chief security officer of Facebook, Alex Stamos tweeted, ‘Local policy heads are generally pulled from the ruling political party and are rarely drawn from disadvantaged ethnic groups.… This naturally bends decision-making towards the powerful.’ This is a ringing endorsement of Facebook’s dubious operations and lobbying efforts.” Khera alleged that WhatsApp had become the “lifeline for the vicious and malicious propaganda of the BJP ecosystem”. “It is now the mainstream tool of misinformation. WhatsApp wants 40 crore Indians to not use it just for communication but for making payments as well. That is how WhatsApp can earn revenue and its future in India is dependent on this payment feature. This would be a multi-billion-dollar initiative for which WhatsApp needs the Modi government’s approvals and permissions. This is where it gets murky,” the Congress spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||American found dead in Varanasi||A 38-year-old American woman who had apparently been learning occult practices in Varanasi since November last year has been found dead in a guesthouse. Police said on Saturday that after an initial investigation it appeared that Cynthia Michelle Boots from South Dakota had been unwell for the past two weeks and taking medicines on her own. She was found dead in the guesthouse near Dashaswamedh Ghat along the Ganga on Friday. “The police have recovered from her room some painkillers, Hindu prayer books, idols of Goddess Kali and a stick, besides her visa, passport and some cash. The local intelligence unit has informed the American embassy,” said Rajesh Singh, the station house in-charge of the Dashaswamedh Ghat area. A police source said: “The initial investigation suggests that she arrived at Varanasi on November 15, 2019, and stayed in a guesthouse near Manikarnika Ghat. From there, she used to accompany some foreigners to the other side of the Ganga and practise tantric art. After a few months, she went to Jaipur, where she fell ill and visited a doctor. She returned to Varanasi this July and joined a group of tantriks who practise black magic. She used to take grass (marijuana).” The source said Cynthia had recently argued with some policemen when they asked her not to openly smoke marijuana on the ghats of the Ganga or sit there for long at night. Crooks in the guise of spiritual gurus and tantra practitioners have often been accused of giving dried datura (thorn apple) powder to people coming to Varanasi in the quest for moksha. All parts of the flowering plant are poisonous and can cause delirium, hallucination and even death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
30-08-2020||India||Central Information Commission headless, fifth time in 6 years||The Central Information Commission (CIC) is once again headless, the fifth time in the six years of the Narendra Modi rule and despite the Supreme Court last year asking the government to fill up vacancies without any delay. Not once since the Modi government assumed office on May 26, 2014, has the chief information commissioner at the CIC been appointed without some delay, which in some cases resulted in transparency activists seeking court intervention. In one instance, the post remained vacant for almost 10 months. “The repeated failure to appoint the chief and other commissioners of the CIC in a timely manner appears to be a deliberate attempt by the government to undermine the RTI Act & frustrate people’s ability to seek information to hold the government accountable,” transparency advocates Anjali Bhardwaj and Amrita Johri of Satark Nagrik Sangathan observed in a statement. This time round, outgoing chief information commissioner Bimal Jhulka retired on August 26. Though Jhulka’s date of retirement was known from the day of his appointment, the government waited till the last month to set the ball rolling for choosing his successor by advertising the post. Technically, the government is not in breach of the Supreme Court judgment of February 15, 2019, as the wording of the verdict allows the ruling dispensation some wriggle room. “We would also like to impress upon the respondents to fill up vacancies, in future, without any delay. For this purpose, it would be apposite that the process for filling up of a particular vacancy is initiated 1 to 2 months before the date on which the vacancy is likely to occur so that there is not much time lag between the occurrence of vacancy and filling up of the said vacancy.” Referring to the advertisement, RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj — who was also a petitioner in the public interest litigation filed vis-a-vis vacancies at the CIC and also in several of the State Information Commissions — said the government is following the court order in letter but not in spirit. She further pointed out that there are four vacancies for information commissioners in the CIC despite the Supreme Court directing the government on December 16, 2019, to complete the appointment process within three months. Only one vacancy was filled up and now the total number of vacancies at the IC level is four with Jhulka being elevated to the chief’s post in March. This, according to another transparency advocate with the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, Venkatesh Nayak, has affected the appellate process. Currently, over 35,000 appeals and complaints are pending before the CIC. “I have lost track of the number of times the CIC has gone headless since 2014,” said RTI activist Lokesh Batra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
30-08-2020||India||Mahanadi keeps rising in flood-hit Odisha ||The Mahanadi river, the biggest in Odisha, is swelling by the hour, inundating more and more villages along its course. Hundreds of villages have been marooned as water from the river breached the embankments at several points. All the tributaries of the river are in spate. Rivers such as Baitarani and Brahmani have swollen, making the flood situation in the state critical with more than 11 lakh people being affected. Sources said nearly 2,543 villages have been marooned while the overall death toll has increased to 16. On Saturday, the skeletal remains of two unidentified persons were retrieved from the banks of Baitarani river in Jajpur. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph, “More villages are likely to be marooned. We have already shifted more than 70,000 people to higher places and the operation to move more people to safety is on. We have asked district collectors to remain on high alert and immediately send damage assessment reports.” The state administration is expecting the flood situation in the Mahanadi system to worsen in the next 48 hours with more rains likely at various places, according to the meteorological department. While Hirakud reservoir on Mahanadi in Sambalpur is releasing water through 46 sluice gates, rivers in the downstream have swollen and crossed the danger mark at several places. Another two sluice gates of the reservoir are likely to be opened as more and more water keeps entering the dam from the upper catchment area because of heavy rains in the neighbouring Chhattisgarh in the last two days. Against its full capacity of 630 feet, the water level in the Hirakud dam has reached 627 feet. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has deputed six senior IAS officers — Hemanta Sharma (Kendrapara), D.K. Singh (Cuttack), Vishal Dev (Balasore), Bishnupada Sethi (Bhadrak), V.V. Yadav (Jajpur), Satyabrata Sahu (Jagatsinghpur) and revenue divisional commissioner (central division) Anil Kumar Samal (Puri) — to monitor flood management and co-ordinate with the state government and the district administrations. Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have already been positioned in different parts of the coastal belt to tackle emergencies. A Odisha Fire Service team on Friday night rescued a person at Khandas village in Jajpur district who had been sitting atop a tree for eight hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
30-08-2020||India||Covid: Fleecing warning to Odisha hospitals||The Odisha government has warned all the private hospitals that action will be taken against them if they charge exorbitant fees from Covid-19 patients. The government said that all the  tests must be done at the approved rate notified by it and hospitals should charge reasonable fees. The state government in a notification published the rate chart for private hospitals for treating coronavirus patients. According to the rate chart, a private hospital can charge from Rs 2,950-Rs 4,750 for a general bed including medicine, investigation, PPE kit, food and other consumables and from Rs 10,000-Rs 17,000 for treating a patient in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and from Rs 12,000 to Rs 18,000 for treatment of a patient in ICU with ventilator facilities. The government came out with the new guidelines even as the number of corona positive cases in the state touched 97,920 with reports of 3,252 new cases during the past 24 hours. The death toll stood at 470 with 14 more casualties reported in the last 24 hours. Health secretary P.K. Mohapatra said: “We will ensure that not a single patient is exploited by any private hospital. We will take action against hospitals that don’t adhere to the new guidelines.” The guidelines also make it mandatory for private hospitals having 30 beds or more to set aside at least 10 per cent of beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients with an option to convert the entire hospital into a Covid hospital. However, they have to intimate the district collectors and state level officers for data updating in this regard. They have to appoint an authorised medical officer who will coordinate with state authorities. “Such reserved beds must include appropriate numbers of ICU beds with ventilators dedicated for COVID patients. (At the rate of 10% of all available beds),” the order said. The notification further said as the Covid patients usually have high anxiety and they must be handled very gently with proper and regular counselling on the status of the disease and the outcome of treatment. Only patients who want to pay on their own or are covered under their own insurance schemes shall be treated in private hospitals. No reimbursement or payment of any kind towards treatment of such patients will be made by the government, as per the new guidelines. As per the new guidelines, the hospital staff will work for 14 days and then remain in uarantine for another 14 days after which they can again resume duty. The hospital shall regularly share all information with the government regarding availability of facilities, number of patients, line of treatment, availability of beds and charges. The hospital shall provide COVID-19 test results to the patients. Hospitals have been asked to create a help desk accessible physically and telephonically for counseling to the relatives of patients and share information on status of patients’ health with their attendants regularly. Hospitals shall install CCTVs in the patient treatment area for management, facilitation and screening of footage by appropriate authority as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
30-08-2020||India||Camel smuggling bid busted in Bihar||Bihar police have busted an inter-state gang of camel smugglers with international links and seized 23 camels in Kishanganj, around 400km northeast of the state capital. The animals were being allegedly smuggled to Bangladesh. Six persons — four from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh and two from North Dinajpur in Bengal — were arrested in the operation conducted on Thursday night. “We received a tip-off that a truck carrying camels on National Highway 31 was to cross our district. A 3km stretch of the highway passes through Kishanganj before it moves into Bengal. There was no time as the vehicle would take just a few minutes to traverse the 3km stretch. But we managed to intercept it near Rampur checkpost,” said Kishanganj sub-divisional police officer Anwar Javed, who led the operation. An SUV was escorting the truck and the people travelling in the two vehicles were arrested. The police found seven camels crammed in the truck. The arrested persons have confessed that they were transporting the camels from Rajasthan to Bangladesh. Their confession led to the seizure of 16 more camels kept in the villages of Khuda and Ambariya, located along the Bihar–Bengal border. However, the people who were looking after the animals fled before the police reached the villages. “We often keep seizing cattle being smuggled by gangs, but the seizure of camels is a rare one. There is no desert in Bangladesh. These animals were meant for the meat market in the neighbouring country,” Javed told The Telegraph. The arrested persons have revealed there are 13 more members of their gang in Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. Bihar police have alerted their counterparts in the neighbouring districts about the gang members. Sources said more technical and manual investigations were going on to ascertain the different aspects of the case, especially how the animals could be taken to Bangladesh despite border fencing and the presence of Border Security Force (BSF). The distance to the Bangladesh border from Kishanganj is around 22-28km through the “Chicken’s Neck” or Siliguri Corridor in Bengal. “What is also surprising is that the animals were being transported such a huge distance from Rajasthan unchecked. We are investigating this aspect as well. The mobile phones of the arrested persons have also been seized. We have put the rescued animals in a shelter run by an organisation associated with former Union minister Maneka Gandhi,” Javed said. Meanwhile, the police team involved in the operation ran into another problem as one of the arrested persons tested positive for coronavirus and was sent to an isolation centre under custody. A move is afoot to get all the team members tested for the disease. Police sources said that 10 camels were seized from smugglers in 2015 and another 61 in 2016 in Kishanganj district while being illegally transported from Rajasthan to Bangladesh. Camels are found mostly in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. According to the livestock census results of 2019, there were 2.5 lakh camels in the country, a sharp decline of 35 per cent from the 4 lakh population in 2012. Rajasthan has enforced the Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation on Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015, which bans any export of the desert animal for slaughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
30-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan death hints at suicide||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan of an outpost near the India-Bangladesh border in North Dinajpur district was found dead with bullet wounds on his neck and jaw early on Saturday. Police of Chopra block of the district suspect suicide. Kedarnath Hansda, 45, of the 94 battalion of the BSF, was on patrol duty at the border on Friday night. A police source said that around 4am on Saturday, wireless communication between him and other personnel at the outpost snapped. Then, gunshots were heard. Two jawans sent to search for him found him dead at a tea plantation near the border. The jawans informed others who rushed to the spot. They could also find his service rifle, a walky-talky and a torchlight – all the items which Hansda was carrying while on duty – from the spot. “It might be a case of suicide but we are waiting for post-mortem reports. We will also speak with the BSF personnel who were there at the outpost. His body will be handed over to BSF in due course,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Manager held for fraud||The manager of a women’s cooperative society here was arrested for allegedly embezzling funds from the society where poor women deposit their savings. Accused Triptikana Chowdhury has been charged with misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs 2 crore. Produced at a court here on Saturday, she was sent to police custody for five days. Sources said this March, resident Alok Roy filed a complaint in Alipurduar police station against Chowdhury, manager of Alipurduar Mahila Rwindaan Samabaya Samiti, accusing her of cheating depositors in connivance with some other staff. Roy accused her of defalcating over Rs 2 crore from the society. Police started probe at his complaint and recently arrested Sanjib Das, a clerk at the society. His interrogation led to Chowdhury’s arrest. The office of the assistant registrar of cooperative societies, under which the society functions, has also held an inquiry and found anomalies. “We are investigating the case and need to interrogate her further to obtain more information,” said Amitabha Maity, SP, Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||State buys land for bridge ||The East Burdwan district administration has started buying land directly from landowners to overcome acquisition hurdles that had delayed a 1km-long bridge on the Hooghly river to link Kalna in East Burdwan and Santipur town in Nadia. The Rs 613-crore bridge was announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in 2018, but work could not start amid land acquisition hurdles. “The project hit a roadblock at Hanspukur, Kuledaha, Barasat and Purba Sahapur mouza on the Kalna side after landowners expressed anger at the price of land offered by the state government,” said a source in the district administration. The issue was largely resolved after talks with landowners, but a few litigation issues further delayed the project. As the government is keen on rolling out the project, the East Burdwan administration recently started direct land purchase, sources said. Of the 48 acres identified for acquisition in the four mouzas, the district administration has bought 7.63 acres by paying Rs 4.63 crore, a source said. “Since 2013, the state government is buying land directly from farmers for development projects. The Mamata Banerjee government has always been averse to forceful land acquisition,” the source said. “We will soon finish buying the land required for the project in Kalna. There are 133 plots in four mouzas owned by 587 individuals. Apart from them there are other landowners too. To pay for the land we have sought Rs 13.80 crore from the state government. We are hopeful that work will begin soon,” additional district magistrate (L&LR) of East Burdwan Sashi Kumar Choudhury said. “To settle all disputes and clear payments, we are holding public hearings with landowners in Kalna. We are hopeful of sorting out all disputes by the end of September to pave the way for the start of work,” he added. The state finance department recently allowed money to buy land for projects, which had been restricted since April as a part of Bengal’s austerity drive amid the pandemic. The authorities woke up to the necessity of building a bridge after 20 persons died in a boat accident in May 2016. The plan to construct the bridge linking East Burdwan with Nadia district was conceived as a permanent solution for people in the two districts who frequently travel between the two sides. Every day, a few thousand people avail of the services of mechanised boats to cross the river to reach Kalna and Santipur. The authorities woke up to the necessity to build the bridge after 20 people died in a boat accident in May 2016. The proposed bridge would connect the STKK Road in Kalna with Nrisinhapur Road in Santipur that eventually leads to NH12. The national highway links Nadia to the districts of Murshidabad, Birbhum, and North Bengal as well. “Once constructed, the bridge would ease pressure on the Gouranga Setu that remains the only road link between Nadia and East Burdwan via Nabadwip town,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Yuvraj brings jumbo joy to state||The number of pet elephants of the state forest department reached 111 — Nelson in cricketing parlance — on Saturday as Yuvraj was born at the  Gorumara National Park of Jalpaiguri. Motirani, a pet elephant who was pregnant for over 18 months and staying at Medla camp in Gorumara, gave birth to a male calf early on Saturday. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee named the calf Yuvraj. “We had 110 pet elephants before Yuvraj. The male calf is the newest member of the family. Both the mother and calf are stable and under observation,” said V.K. Yadav, the state’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife). Banerjee, who was in Siliguri, at a meeting with department officials, hinted that they were planning to reopen national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and other parks and gardens of north Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. Like every year, reserve forests closed on June 16. Though they are scheduled to reopen on September 15 for visitors, the pandemic has made the reopening uncertain. “I have asked a senior official here to submit a report to me within a week on the present state of affairs of forests in north Bengal and how those can reopen for visitors with health safety protocols. We will decide on the issue based on the report,” said Banerjee. Meanwhile, state tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the Bengal Safari Park to know the conditions of the three newborn tiger cubs. “I will request the chief minister to name these cubs. We will also urge her to see that kangaroos and giraffes are brought at the park here. These would be added attractions for visitors and particularly for children” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals on cards||The public works department has decided to conduct fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and safe homes where patients have been put up. The decision was taken after a fire broke out at the sick neonatal care unit of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on August 18, and 56 infants had to be evacuated. “The fire at the NBMCH pointed out the necessity of fire audit at the hospitals and other establishments earmarked for Covid patients. In case of NBMCH, the fire broke out from an electrical gadget, either a poorly maintained AC or the regulator of a ceiling fan, and an emergency evacuation of sick newborns had to be done. It would be a difficult task to evacuate Covid positive patients in case of an emergency (like a fire),” said a senior government official. Sources in Nabanna said that the incident at the NBMCH drew the attention of the top brass of the government, and top officials were unhappy with the PWD’s reluctance to learn lessons from several fire incidents from electrical gadgets in the recent past at important buildings. “Repeated incidents of fire from malfunctioning electrical gadgets took place at the critical care unit of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the hostel of the National Medical College and Hospital and at a room of Calcutta High Court in recent times,” said an official. After being pulled up, the PWD department decided to go for a thorough fire audit of all Covid hospitals and other establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Sankarpur residents join hands to fix damaged embankment ||Nearly 500 residents, mostly fishermen, in East Midnapore’s Sankarpur have joined hands to temporarily repair a 1km stretch of an embankment that was damaged over a week ago by incessant rain and high tidal waves. “District officials have not been able to repair the embankment though the damage happened almost 10 days ago. So we thought we must do something to save ourselves,” said a villager in Sankarpur, a fishing harbour that is known for its dry fish business. The villagers embarked on the initiative to temporarily fix with sand bags the embankment that runs along the coastal road from Sankarpur to Tajpur as they fear that high tides might hit the area again on September 2, a full moon night, and further damage their village and properties. Huge tides, commonly known as spring tides, usually lash coastal areas around new or full moon nights. The tides rise higher than usual during the rainy season, often leading to floods in coastal belts. Over August 18 and 19, most of the coastal road stretching from Tajpur to Sankarpur in Talgachari-2 gram panchayat had been damaged by incessant flooding and the thrashing of larger-than-usual waves. Stone embankments along the area were razed as water flooded many villages and submerged roads. More than 1,000 residents of villages surrounding Sankarpur had to evacuate their homes. In Sankarpur, the effort of the villagers to repair the embankment with sand bags has been aided by the Digha-Sankarpur Fishermen’s Association. This week, the association helped the villagers with nearly 20,000 sand bags and heavy machinery, including excavators, to temporarily repair the embankment. “We have been working relentlessly for three days now.  We know it is a temporary measure but it is necessary to make an effort ahead of the new moon night when spring tides lash the coastal belt,” said one villager. Former CPM MLA and secretary of the Sankarpur Fishermen's Association, Swadesh Nayak, accused the district officials of “inaction”. “Villagers finally had to appeal to us to get work done, so we helped them,” he said, adding that over 2,500 fishermen lived in 12 villages in the area in makeshift homes. “By giving free labour to repair the damaged dyke, the fishermen are trying to save their homes and livelihood,” Nayak said. During the tidal waves earlier this month, homes of most of these fishermen were damaged and several quintals of dry fish had to be destroyed. However, East Midnapore district officials said that the irrigation department engineers had planned to repair the damaged stretch soon. Officials also termed the use of sand bags to fix the embankment, even if temporarily, as “unviable”. “Black stone embankments need to be reconstructed in the area. It will take some time, but we will get it done” said BDO (Ramnagar I), Bishnupada Ray. Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority vice-chairman Akhil Giri accused Nayak of playing “politics” with an eye on the next year’s Assembly elections. “He (Nayak) is trying to play with public sentiments. Our officials have already begun planning the reconstruction (of the embankment) and work will begin soon,” said Giri. However, this is not the first instance of villagers repairing damaged embankments. Shortly after Amphan hit the state on May 20, hundreds of villagers in South and North 24-Parganas had repaired broken embankments on their own to try and save more than 100 villages that were getting submerged twice a day during high tides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Saumitra uploads, Dilip shoots down||BJP state president Dilip Ghosh shot down a list of district presidents of the Yuva Morcha within minutes of Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the youth wing, circulating it within the party and uploading it on social media on Friday evening. “I spoke to him (Khan) and asked him to withdraw the list,” said Ghosh on Saturday evening. On Friday, Khan circulated a list of the district youth presidents in the party’s WhatsApp group for the media and on the youth wing’s Facebook page. In less than half an hour, the list — it had 29 names though the BJP has 39 organisational districts — was removed from the WhatsApp group amid questions on why Khan pulled it out. The Trinamul turncoat told reporters on Friday that the list was not meant for the media. Ghosh, however, offered a different narrative when asked about the vanished list. “His (Khan’s) procedure was not right and so it was withdrawn. How can he announce the names of district (youth) presidents without a go-ahead from the state leadership?” asked Ghosh, making his disapproval of Khan’s list clear. “I as the party’s state president will take the final call on who would be the presidents of the youth wing in the districts,” Ghosh added. Told about Ghosh’s comments on Saturday evening, Khan hardened his stand and said the list he circulated on Friday was the final one. “In the capacity of the president of the Bengal unit of the (BJP) Yuva Morcha, I can tell you this is the final list... Dilipda hasn’t told me that it is not the final list,” Khan told this paper. Sources close to Khan said that he was upset with Ghosh for two reasons. “First, he shot down the list. Then, he insulted Khan by saying the process of selecting the district presidents was wrong,” said a source. Multiple sources in party said the furore over the youth wing list was reflective of the main problem in Bengal BJP. “Dilipda is against the idea of giving any space to Trinamul turncoats like Khan or Mukul Roy. This is creating factionalism, and that is only growing,” said a source. According to him, Ghosh and his associates have a set of names in mind for the Yuva Morcha. “But Khan wants his associates and that’s the conflict,” he said. This is, however, not the first time that Khan and Ghosh have been at odds with each other. Since June, when he was made the chief of the youth wing, Khan has been complaining that Ghosh was not allowing him to form the new state committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati sacks former officiating VC||The Visva-Bharati executive council (EC) has removed its former officiating vice-chancellor Sabuj Koli Sen, former registrar Saugata Chattopadhyay and former finance officer Samit Ray from service on charges of tampering with the minutes of an earlier council meeting so as to extend Sen’s term as VC. The letter was sent by email late on Friday following an hour-long meeting of the EC. “The trio have been removed from their services and further legal action would be taken (against them). The varsity is likely to lodge a police complaint on the issue,” said an EC member. The row erupted in February 2018, when the President’s nominee in the EC Sushovan Banerjee and five other members wrote to the HRD ministry accusing Sen, Chattopadhyay and Ray of tampering with the minutes of the meeting. “The allegation is that Sen forged the EC resolution in collusion with the two officials to facilitate her extension as officiating VC,” said a source. Sen, also a philosophy professor, said she had received the email and said she was a victim of vendetta politics in the central varsity. “I was asked to submit documents in my defence...But I was given 48 hours when I wanted 10 days. They terminated my services just a day before my retirement. This is unethical, I was not granted time to reply. It was a predetermined move and nothing but vendetta politics,” Sen said on Saturday. Officials said Sen had become the officiating VC by virtue of being the senior-most director in Visva-Bharati. As her tenure as director was ending in February 2018, the onus fell on the EC to extend her term as officiating VC. The EC had in its February 2018 meeting decided not to extend her term as director. “But prior to the EC meeting, the HRD ministry asked her to continue as VC till November 2018,” said a source. Some teachers and officials argued that the HRD ministry’s letter dated March 5, 2018, had directed Sen to continue as officiating VC till the Centre found her replacement, and she could not be blamed for continuing as the VC. “But the issue is not about her (Sen’s) continuation as officiating VC, but about tampering of the minutes of the EC meeting,” argued a senior varsity official. The trio had been suspended in June after a one-man committee, headed by the Prime Minister’s nominee in the EC Dulal Chandra Ghosh, had submitted its report. The varsity then appointed former judge of Calcutta High Court Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya to probe the matter. Varsity sources said Justice Bhattacharya submitted his report on the alleged forgery in the EC minutes earlier this week after which the trio were sent a letter to respond to the charges against them. Chattopadhyay and Ray were not available for comments. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text from this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Tests rise, active cases fall for sixth day in row||Bengal on Saturday went past 43,000 Covid-19 tests, with 20,000 tests per million people, surpassing 18 lakh tests since the onset of the pandemic of which half were done in August. With 3,312 recoveries in the 24-hour window till 9am Saturday outweighing the 3,012 new cases, the total number of active cases fell for the sixth consecutive day. Active cases on Saturday stood at 25,996, lower than 28,069 last Sunday. The Covid toll was 53 on Saturday, of which Calcutta reported 12. Of the 3,126 deaths in all, 2,720 (87 per cent) were reported comorbid by the government. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.99, the national rate being 1.79 per cent. But the total number of recoveries touched 1.28 lakh of the total 1.56 lakh cases, and the state’s recovery rate rose to 81.42 per cent, the national rate being 76.58 per cent now. Five high-incidence districts — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 702 in total of active cases by logging more recoveries than new cases. “The most high-incidence district Calcutta had 7,041 active cases on August 9. On Saturday, with 560 recoveries and 470 new cases, active cases are 5,032,” said the minister. Bengal reported 43,232 tests on Saturday, over twice the daily level of 19,000 at which it began the month. It more than doubled the tests per million, from 9,927 to 20,022 in that same span. “In seven days, we conducted 2.78 lakh tests,” said a minister. “The World Health Organisation advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. We are at 481.” With more tests and relatively fewer new cases over the past few days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 on August 22 to 8.7 on Saturday. Six women, who tested Covid positive over the past couple of days and are lodged at a safe home in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, on Saturday morning circulated a video accusing the local administration of giving them bad food. One of the women, who is an employee at an ICDS centre in Mohammedbazar, said the supply of food at the safe home was irregular and of inferior quality. The women accused the employees at the centre of threatening them after the video made by them surfaced on social media platforms. The block development officer and officer in-charge of the safe home personally listened to the complaints after the video started doing the rounds. The officials assured them of food on time, a patient said. “Those women who had been shifted to the safe home a day ago levelled allegations regarding supply of food. We visited the safe home and assured them that their demands would be met. We distributed fruits to the patients with the help of the police,” said Mohammedbazar BDO Asish Mondal. He added that the allegations of the women were not exactly true but did not elaborate. A senior official said all patients at the safe home were asymptomatic and had been given food in plastic packets. “This (serving food in plastic packets) they did not like and used the video to draw the attention of officials,” he said. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
30-08-2020||Opinion||Goddunnit||The Centre cannot help the states with the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenues. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, soon after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, that an act of God “might even result in a contraction of economy”. Now, if a layman were to hear that speech, a god-fearing citizen with little knowledge of legal terms would you blame him for thinking the FM was shifting blame on to God? Would you blame him for having assumed this government is on good terms with the Maker? Good enough to make good promises of achchhe din come what may? The God-talk unravelled like this. In 2014, while campaigning for the general elections Narendra Modi said, “I think God has chosen me to do this work.” While moving a parliamentary resolution in 2016, the then Union parliamentary affairs minister M. Venkaiah Naidu described Prime Minister Modi as “God’s gift to India”. Naidu, who has since become Vice-President of India, is not the one to lead this chorus though. That would be Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the current chief minister of Madhya Pradesh. “He is God's divine gift to India. He will make India vishwa guru by 2022,” he once said while addressing a convention of the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha. In 2017, Modi himself said in his concluding address at a two-day BJP national executive meeting, “Serving the poor is serving God.” He also said that he neither coveted power, nor heaven nor second life, only wanted to end people's sufferings. By 2018, there was a perceptible shift in narrative. BJP spokesperson Avadhut Wagh tweeted, “PM Narendra Modiji is the 11th Avatar of Lord Vishnu.” In 2019, following weeks of intense political campaigning, Modi paid a visit to Uttarakhand's Kedarnath Temple. Photographs of him swaddled in saffron robes, meditating, were omnipresent. Later he said, “I never seek anything from God.” End-May, after the 2019 election results were out, Chouhan said, “He is blessed with God-like powers.” Uttarakhand BJP party workers came up with a Modi aarti. BJP MLA Ganesh Joshi spoke of plans to build a temple with Modi’s idol. In June, BJP president JP Nadda said in a reprimand to Rahul Gandhi, “Narendra Modi is not just the king of nar (humans) but also sur (gods).” And in August, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said of his boss-in-chief, “Insaan ke roop mein bhagwan hai.” Meaning, Modi is God in the guise of a mere mortal. But the FM said all this economic misery, present and impending, this inability to help the states all trace back to an act of God? Of course this is all legalese, but would you blame the layman if he got the wrong idea?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||Oh My Burdens! Laden, Laden||Not Laden. Not that Laden. Not the one with a capital L. Loaded. Not Laden. The Laden that first came to your mind or wherever is bin Laden. But no. But yes. Something did tell me you’d read it as that: Laden. Such is the air we breathe. Everywhere, all across the length and breadth and depth of things: Laden. And what springs from it. Suffused by Laden and related lads and dens. In a manner of speaking. This language, English, I mean.But English is not my mother tongue, much less my mother’s tongue. My mother spoke English, but she never made it sound like it was my mother tongue. She never made it sound like it was her tongue. It was a tongue she used. Conditions applied. English is the tongue of my employ, besides many and several other things, but it is not my mother tongue, although I must admit I probably use the English tongue more than other tongues. Or so it would seem to me and to sundry others who must have a language with me. Good for the English, they left behind a tongue that we can use, abuse, misuse, as suits us. My mother had many tongues other than English, which as I said, she spoke in a manner of speaking. I mean she spoke in many tongues. A loving tongue, an annoying tongue. A soothing tongue, a harsh tongue. A lilting tongue, a tongue that was straight as a lesson. A silver tongue, an iron tongue. She also spoke in Motherly. That is the most elusive tongue, the Motherly tongue will never be my mother tongue for no amount or no lack of trying or wishing. I can give it a shot. When I become a mother. But I suspect nature has not provided me the required equipment. Such is nature. Unequal. But let that be. Everything is unequal. Even democracy. Chhoro, let it be. The burdens of not having. The burdens of knowing that there are nations where mothers are English and English is the mother tongue. Imagine. Not having to make the effort to speak in English. I try, but it’s a burden. One among many I am laden with, what’s one to do? Aur bhi gham hain zamaane main. Like why do I not have peacocks? What a burden it is not to have them, and have them dance for me. It is our national bird, and I am a nationalist. How may I prove I am a nationalist unless I have peacocks? But I don’t have peacocks. Therefore it can be deduced I am not a nationalist. And not being a nationalist is a dangerous thing. Nor a garden? Nor hands to manicure them? Nor pearls, that I could feed those peacocks. Someone, please organise them, go on; and I promise I will get the camera crews, even if I have to pay for them, and all those different sets of carelessly matching and carefully mismatching sets of apparel; they’re going cheap. Online. They bring the merchandise home. Cash on delivery. Contactless, except they touch the cash you touch, and you touch the goods they’ve already touched, god knows who. But I digress. And so what’s new? Digression is duty. If you won’t digress you will go one way. And going just that one way or this one way is not what a democracy should be. It has become the case for some that we are no longer a democracy, but that can’t be true, or is it? Propaganda. The surest sign we are a democracy is that for all that is wrong with the way we are being ruled is that we blame it all on those that rule us no more. They are still there, adversaries, another group, a rival group. Other groups and rival groups are only allowed in a democracy. Except they don’t have peacocks. They are plainly told: no mor. Am I making sense? Of course not. But that’s the clever trick I’ve learnt on you to play I’ll hand you a heavy brick And say, now turn it into clay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||The prize for luring Jyotiraditya and a probe into a 'damaging' document||Earlier this week, the Bharatiya Janata Party fielded its spokesperson, Syed Zafar Islam, as a Rajya Sabha candidate from Uttar Pradesh. Islam, whose election is certain, would be the fourth Muslim face of the saffron party in the upper House. The BJP has no Muslim face in the Lok Sabha despite having a brute majority. Islam, however, was not selected to refute charges that the BJP discriminates against Muslims. Islam, who has been a prominent defender of the party on prime-time television debates since he joined the BJP in 2014, is said to have been rewarded for his role in luring away the Congress leader, Jyotiraditya Scindia, paving the way for the fall of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. A former banker, Islam is known to have tapped into Scindia’s frustration with the Congress leadership. Even if the BJP does not care about the votes of Muslims, it needs people like Islam to defend its Hindutva agenda. The major elevation for the new face has put the focus on the plight of Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, who has spent all his political life in the saffron party. Once the celebrated young Muslim face of the BJP, who got a prominent place in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Hussain has been pushed to the margins under the current regime. Hussain, too, comes on TV regularly to speak aggressively in favour of the party and the government, but has so far failed to please the bosses. The now infamous group of 23 Congress leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi asking for drastic changes to check the drift in the party after two debilitating defeats has been attacked and abused from all sides. If the Lakhimpur Kheri district unit in Uttar Pradesh passed a resolution against Jitin Prasada, a signatory to the letter, a minister from Maharashtra, Sunil Kedar, issued threats that he would not allow these leaders to roam freely within the state. But the dissenting leaders believe such rants are natural in any party in times of crisis. What anguished them deeply was the conduct of two veterans — AK Antony and Ambika Soni — as they launched an unabashed attack on the letter writers at the Congress Working Committee meeting. One senior leader from the group said, “Antony contemptuously said — ‘cruel, cruel’ — and accused us of betrayal when Sonia was unwell. All of us felt hurt by his attitude. We have been colleagues for decades and there should be some understanding between us, at least on what our commitments to the party are.” Another leader said, “We wanted to write another letter pointing out what Antony and Ambika’s credentials are. Antony pulled down the Congress government in Kerala when Indira Gandhi was being prosecuted and campaigned against her in the election. Ambika gave filthy abuses to Indiraji, which we can’t even mention as they are unprintable. But we avoided it as it will create more bitterness. And they are calling us traitors? We have not uttered a word against Indiraji or Rajivji or even Soniaji in our long careers. But one day we will point out that some leaders got undue respect in the party, without any worth, without any contribution to the party.” Many pointed out that senior leaders like Manmohan Singh and P Chidambaram were not happy with the letter episode either but they showed the maturity of not questioning their intentions. The anti-corruption activist, Anna Hazare, refused an invitation from Adesh Gupta, the BJP Delhi unit chief, to join an agitation against alleged corruption by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party. The AAP leader and Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, had parted ways with Hazare in 2012 over the formation of a party after a movement against corruption of which the elderly Maharashtrian leader had become the mascot. Since then, Hazare’s statements have been seen by many as tacit support for the BJP. In his reply to Gupta, however, Hazare tried to rid himself of the taint. He wrote, “What could be more unfortunate than leaders of a party, which has youth cadres in big number and claims to have highest number of members in the world, urging an 83-year-old fakir (monk) like Anna Hazare who resides in a temple’s 10X12 feet room and has no asset and power, to join in its protest... In 2014, your party showed dreams of a ‘corruption-free’ India and came to power, but peoples’ life has not improved [sic].” The defence ministry’s media wing is said to have ordered an inquiry into the alleged lapses which resulted in the uploading of an official document on the ministry’s website earlier this month, acknowledging China’s “transgression” into eastern Ladakh. Sources said the internal probe was launched to ascertain whether the move was deliberate or a “human error”. The ministry quietly removed the document from the website the day after as it triggered a controversy, leaving the top military brass red-faced. It was the first government document to admit to Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control in early May, which snowballed into a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, leading to the death of 20 Indian soldiers. It also contradicted the assertion of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, on June 19 that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. Recently, Tipu Sultan came to haunt the BJP in Karnataka. Just when everyone was focused on Covid-19, came a torpedo from AH Vishwanath, a former Janata Dal (Secular) state president who defected to the BJP last year, and was rewarded with a legislative council seat. “Tipu is a son of the soil”, stated Vishwanath, urging students to read everyone from Tipu to Gandhi. Confused about whether to ignore his words or risk an internal issue by chiding him, the party decided to distance itself from Vishwanath’s comments. It is no secret that the Karnataka state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, has high ambitions. But to become chief minister, he is allegedly trying astrological solutions. On the advice of his personal astrologer, Shivakumar is said to have painted his house white, and is in the process of repainting it and ‘vastu-correcting’ his office to clear all obstructions in the path to the chief minister’s chair. The joke in party circles is that he does not have to change his attire since they are all snow white.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||Zooming in on Covidiots and doomscrolling||Now is different than before. How long will now last? Is now here to stay? Till Puja? Or Diwali? Or Christmas and beyond? Did we think now would be like this? A world in which we would have to learn a whole new range of skill sets. A whole new way of living. An unfamiliar now. That’s taught us new ways to do things. New ways to work. New ways to communicate. New ways to even grieve. New techniques to master. New words to learn. How many of these seven terms were you familiar with before March 2020? 1. N95 mask: N95 face masks are used to protect the wearer from airborne particles. The ‘N’ stands for ‘not resistant to oil’ and the mask is used for oil-free atmospheres. It has a high filtration efficiency of 95 per cent or more. On a casual stroll down Park Street two days in a row, earlier this week, here is what anecdotal evidence suggested: 65 per cent of people were wearing masks properly, about 25 per cent were wearing masks the wrong way, and 10 per cent were not even wearing masks. So, let’s all mask up. 2. Zoom: There are a few instances where the brand name comes to define the brand category. Today Google is synonymous with searching online, Xerox is more commonly used than the actual word, which is photocopy, and Velcro has come to mean any adhering or fastening product. Zoom, a video conferencing application, is the latest brand to become a verb. From classroom teaching to presentations, job interviews to birthday parties, it’s all happening over a zoom call. 3. Covidiot: Know someone who does not wear a mask in public? Who hoards food during the lockdown? Who does not maintain six feet distance in public? That’s the description of a covidiot  _ someone who goes against public health and safety advice amid the pandemic. 4. Migrant workers: I’ve always preferred to call them guest workers. They were given a raw deal when the Prime Minister called the 21-day lockdown at four-hour notice. Remember the tragic Aurangabad incident, earlier this year, that saw a goods train mow down 16 guest workers? They, like millions of others on highways, were walking to their villages and had collapsed on the railway tracks — too exhausted to hear the train coming. Visuals like these, of millions making the painful and horrific journey back to their homes thousands of kilometres away, have been the most haunting images of the COVID-19 pandemic in India. Many of us in the cities took their existence for granted. This crisis has woken us up to their importance and vulnerabilities. (So proud of how the migrant workers were handled in my home state.) In the early days of the pandemic, I had the pleasure of speaking with economist Chinmay Tumbe, the author of ‘India Moving: A History of Migration’. His historical account of migration from, to and within India is an important read for anyone interested in understanding our country’s present demographic layout. 5. Social or physical distancing: In public health, social distancing means keeping at least 6 feet distance between yourself and others, to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Many prefer using the phrase ‘physical distancing’. WHO and leading public health experts feel that ‘social distancing’ implies a sense of disconnection from friends and family. They instead use the phrase ‘physical distancing’ since the pandemic calls only for physical isolation, not social. 6. Infodemic: The COVID-19 virus has led not only to a pandemic but also to an infodemic – the spread of an excessive amount of information which is mostly incorrect. From fake cures like Bhabhiji papad to the ‘hold-your –breath-for-10-seconds challenge’, “WhatsApp university” floods the social media with misinformation about the virus. 7. Doomscrolling: This word, included by publishing house Merriam-Webster in their dictionary, refers to the tendency to continue to surf or scroll through bad news, even though the said news is saddening, disheartening, or depressing. These are just seven of the many terms we have encountered in the new now. We were living our lives on a treadmill that never stopped. Till now came along and asked each one of us to pause. To think. To reflect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Growing rift: govt and its banker||The policymakers on Mint Street are starting to feel the heat as the Narendra Modi government starts to ratchet up pressure on the Reserve Bank of India to bail it out of every crisis that it stumbles into. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, dropped a bombshell when she asked the states to borrow up to Rs 2.35 trillion from a special window that the RBI would open to help them recover compensatory dues under the goods and services tax regime because of poor tax collections in a Covid-wracked business environment. The announcement is as much a shock for the central bank as it is for the states as there was no prior consultation with either. This is just another instance of how the Centre has tried to browbeat the banking regulator to do its bidding — and then sort out the resultant mess. It is even more ironic that this suggestion should emanate from Raisina Hill less than a week after the central bank flagged in its latest annual report that consolidation of government debt would be the key area in its agenda for 2020-21. The RBI is nominally referred to as the banker to the government, but that is only one of the many roles it plays. Mr Modi’s government has tended to treat the central bank, which is the oldest regulator in the country and can justifiably lay claim on a long history of independent action, like a handmaiden. In May, the Centre raised its gross borrowings target to Rs 12 trillion from the budgeted level of Rs 7.8 trillion, an increase of 53.8 per cent, with no sign of a concomitant increase in spending on the under-funded stimulus package. The states have seen their outstanding liabilities to the banking system swell to Rs 33.93 trillion at the end of June 30, which represents a 39.6 per cent increase in their borrowings over the past three years, leaving them with no fiscal headroom to take on more debt. The Centre has unilaterally offered to raise their borrowing limit by another 0.5 per cent of their gross state domestic product after raising it to 5 per cent in May from 3 per cent earlier. The new borrowing window for states will tantamount to RBI’s monetization of states’ debt, which is impermissible under the current regulations. The central bank’s balance sheet has grown by 30 per cent to Rs 53.34 trillion largely because the surplus transfer to the Centre this year shrank to Rs 571.28 billion from Rs 1.76 trillion. But that is no reason to penalize the RBI by asking it to spend its carefully husbanded reserves on state government debt when it can use the cushion to deal with other Covid-related contingent risks. It is time for the RBI to push back hard: it can no longer be forced to assume responsibility for igniting growth by cutting interest rates, capping runaway inflation, bankrolling cash-starved states and funnelling funds to dodgy borrowers while the Centre pretends to be in control like a busy policeman minding a logjam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Handmaidens’ tale||A CWC meeting was called last week in response to a letter signed by Congress grandees asking for more pro-active party leadership in place of the ad hoc arrangement where Sonia Gandhi officiated as its acting president. When the meeting ended with the status quo intact, the impotence of the CWC was widely mocked. The derision stemmed from a misunderstanding. Journalists assume that CWC expands into ‘Congress Working Committee’. It doesn’t. Sometimes in the history of organizations, initials replace the original name. No one today would speak of WIPRO as the ‘Western India Palm Refined Oil Limited’, which is what it used to be called in the days of Azim Premji’s father. So why do journalists insist on using the CWC’s obsolete expansion just because that was the name it went by in the days of Rahul Gandhi’s great-grandfather? It should be obvious to a child that this CWC has no connection with the party once known as the Congress, does no work, and is not a committee. The CWC is a séance. Its principal function is channelling the spirits of Rahul Gandhi’s dead ancestors. Call, Wake and Channel: that’s the CWC’s current brief. Like any select séance, only true believers are allowed to attend: complete credulity is the price of visitation. Inter-state bandwidth between the living and the dead being what it is, results aren’t guaranteed. Gossip has it that in one meeting, a garbled summoning of Kamala Nehru raised Kamaraj instead. A torrent of Tamil followed which P. Chidambaram refused to interpret; Kamaraj’s views on the current state of party organization were too trenchant to translate. The evolution of the CWC from a Congress party organ into a Gandhi family mouth organ has an interesting secret history. Till Rajiv Gandhi’s time, the Nehru-Gandhi family used the CWC in an organizational way. Motilal begat Jawaharlal who begat Indira who begat Rajiv and the CWC served as the party’s cabinet. But after Rajiv’s passing, the family stopped producing election-winning heirs which meant that the aura that sustained the dynasty needed oracular augmentation. It was at this point that the CWC took on its new function. Family members became resident oracles through whom the ancestral spirits spoke their wisdom and supplied their revelations. Ventriloquizing for the gods was a strenuous business that needed the unquestioning faith of committed handmaidens; this the members of the CWC supplied unstintingly. The handmaidens’ hissy fit (the plaintive leaked letter) didn’t happen because the CWC’s members had lost faith in the oracular power of the Gandhi dynasty. On the contrary, the letter was positively Sicilian in its assurances that the Family would always be integral to the Party. No, these handmaidens were outraged that they were being asked to accept oracular guidance from a functionary instead of the Family. After the Rout of ‘19, the Son had stopped channelling the gods and the Mother, as Caretaker Priestess, hadn’t been up to the rigours of the job. The CWC met irregularly, oblations were neglected, and the oracle didn’t speak. Instead of Insights Derived from Eminent Ancestors — the only ideas the Party considered legitimate — the members of the CWC were subjected to the instructions of a party functionary, the current General Secretary (Organization). Prostrating themselves before the Family Oracle came naturally to the members of the CWC but abasing themselves before an apparatchik was intolerable. So they wrote to Sonia Gandhi, imploring her to grant them the right to take their orders from the Family and the Family alone, to save them the humiliation of doing the bidding of creatures like themselves, and to summon the family’s blessed ancestors more regularly because the People were deserting the Congress. When the CWC meeting ended, Sonia Gandhi was still the interim president. She would remain in the position for another six months till a permanent oracle was elected by acclamation. The newspapers reported that the Family had rejigged its parliamentary hierarchy to punish the authors of the letter. Manish Tewari, the Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, was put in his place by being passed over for deputy leader. Likewise, Ghulam Nabi Azad, the leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha and the most senior Congress leader to have signed the letter, was put on notice. K.C. Venugopal, AICC general-secretary (Organization), whose status as the Family’s proxy had caused much of the heartburning that led to the letter, was made part of a new five-member ‘decision-making’ group in the upper House. The leaders of the faux rebellion fell in line. Party men, dissidents and loyalists alike, beseeched Rahul Gandhi to resume the office he had so recently vacated. Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar, published a propitiatory tweet. He had signed the letter, he admitted, but he hadn’t meant to discuss party matters publicly. He had complete confidence in Soniaji and Rahulji. Shashi Tharoor, three times Lok Sabha MP and arguably the letter’s most substantial signatory, tweeted obedience: “… once the Congress President says the issue is behind us, it is the duty of all of us to work together constructively in the interests of the Party. I urge all my colleagues to uphold this principle and end the debate.” The reading public could have been forgiven for asking, which issue, what debate? In its aftermath, the controversy about the letter felt like a made-up storm in a missing teacup. The moves to re-allocate party authority in Parliament seemed unnecessary; there didn’t seem much call for party whips when the Congress’s dissidents had such a gift for self-correction. Meanwhile, large sections of the Indian people, once the Congress’s constituency, had been wooed and won by Narendra Modi in the name of his ideological ancestors. People beleaguered by the BJP’s majoritarianism live in hope that the Congress’s grandees will find it within themselves to shake the party out of its undead state and get down to the task of democratic politics: mobilizing people. On this showing, though, this is wishful thinking. The members of the CWC have spent so many years raising the dead that they’ve wholly forgotten how to stir up the living. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Unique charm: The allure of Feluda||Sir — The article, “Feluda and Co.” (Aug 26), by Uddalak Mukherjee made for an enjoyable reading. Although I have always been an ardent fan of Feluda’s adventures, other literary characters created by Satyajit Ray — who is my favourite author — especially the ones in his short stories, are equally attractive to me. In fact, I always found the central characters of the short stories in the “baro” series very interesting. It is unfortunate that most Bengali readers from the younger generations have not read Ray beyond Feluda. One hopes that on the occasion of Ray’s one hundredth birth anniversary guardians would encourage their wards to read Bengali short stories along with the escapades of beloved characters like Feluda and Professor Shonku. Sourish Misra Calcutta Sir — Few people in Bengal have not read stories penned by Satyajit Ray. His short stories are so addictive that they are impossible to put down even when one is re-reading them. Most important, all his characters — be it the comic Jatayu or the evil Mandar Bose or Maganlal Meghraj — are well-rounded and have such depth. Ray’s contribution to Bengali literature is priceless and will continue to entertain generations to come.Alok Ganguly Kalyani Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee has called on the Bengali intelligentsia to ponder the unique unimpeachability of Feluda against the fallibility of other leading characters in Satyajit Ray’s other works. However, in doing so, he appears to have done injustice to the beloved detective. Mukherjee quotes at length from Leela Majumdar to establish that Feluda is a ‘flat’ character in the Fosterian sense. But we must remember that Ray created Feluda for the young readers of Sandesh, a children’s magazine. This could be why he deprived Feluda of a female companion. Like many others of my generation, I grew up reading Feluda stories in Sandesh and never noticed the absence of female characters. Even when his adventures were later published in the Desh magazine for a broader audience, his image remained the same: a tall, urbane young man with a razor sharp intelligence who can solve cases even when there is little evidence. Yet, Feluda, much like the rest of us, likes the good things in life, smokes cigarettes, is a fan of Sherlock Holmes, Tintin and Jim Corbett. Mukherjee’s twilight men, on the other hand, belong to a different genre. Their faults and foibles are demanded by their plots. These men may be subjected to critical analysis just as the famous sleuth. Anjan Majumdar Calcutta Sir — It is true that Feluda is above and beyond the ken of flesh and blood human beings, devoid of usual frailties. Uddalak Mukherjee has also rightly pointed out that Satyajit Ray has mostly omitted women characters from his works. But is this a coincidence or is it deliberate? Ray created ‘Feluda and Co.’ to whet the appetite of young Bengali readers. Not so the characters in “baro” series. While his writing struck a chord with the young and the old alike, his characterization in both cases was done with his target audience in mind. In a nutshell, all of us love to read the books of Feluda for his ‘magajastro’ which makes him a class apart from all other detectives. We also love to read his other stories and their protagonists, but for a different set of reasons. Anathbandhu Banerjee West Burdwan Sir — It is not everyday that a news in the entertainment section of the newspaper alarms people. Recently, I read that popular medical dramas like Grey’s Anatomy are going to replan their next season to include the coronavirus crisis. This is not the only show planning this either. These shows already use up precious medical supplies like masks and gloves. One shudders to think how much personal protective equipment it will go through in order to film the new plot. This is shocking at a time when not just frontline medical staff but also poor people around the globe are either not provided or cannot afford such basic safety measures amidst a very real pandemic. Roshni Sen Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader killed in road crash near Hazaribagh||An RJD leader from Bihar, Bijendra Yadav, who was on his way to Ranchi to meet incarcerated party chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, died in a road accident on Sunday morning. The accident, which also killed one of his associates, took place on GT Road near Barsot in Barhi, around 56km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Another associate, Chotelal Yadav, was severely hurt. He was taken to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) but later referred to Ranchi. Police said Bijendra, 60, was a former zilla parishad member in Saharsha district of Bihar. He was accompanied by Ram, 55, and Chotelal, 56. They were in a car that hit a stationary truck from behind near Barsot at 3 in the morning. The three were taken to the subdivsional hospital. Doctors there declared Bijendra dead on arrival. His associates were referred to HMCH but one of them died on way. Bijendra was gearing up to contest from the Mahishi Assembly seat in Saharsa. Three days ago, he went to Patna to talk to senior party leaders. Family members said he was going to Ranchi to meet Lalu and get his blessings and assurance. Bijendra was from Bijalpur village in Saharasa district. A team of four BTech final-year students of IIT (ISM), comprising Sanchit Kumar and Parth Hetamsaria of the mining engineering department and Varnika Kumari and Srajan Gupta of the electrical and mechanical engineering departments, has won the 2020 KPMG Ideation Challenge, an online competition held on August 24 and 25. Seventeen teams from various countries took part in the competition. The IIT (ISM) team developed a project based on the use of sensors in mining operation. A team from IIT (ISM) led by professor Aditya Kumar and two researchers has been conferred the Inder Mohan Thapar Award for its work on silver nanoparticles that can be applied on clothes to render them superhydrophobic. The coating has antiviral properties. Half of the award money of Rs 1 lakh will go to the faculty members, while the remaining will be credited in the contingent fund of scholars/students. The dean of research and development, professor Shalivahan, said: “The award, funded by Inder Mohan Thapar, will be formally conferred on the awardees during the foundation day celebrations of the institute on December 9.” The coating was developed by the IIT (ISM) team in May, and its efficacy testing with E. coli and A niger fungus has been carried out. Groups belonging to two Moharram akharas clashed with each other in Jharia’s Upper Kulhi locality on Sunday evening, leaving several persons injured. Some members of the Idgah akhara allegedly attacked those of another akhara in connection with an argument between the two sides a day earlier. A team from the local police station reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Oral cancer treatment will soon be introduced at Hazaribagh College of Dental Sciences and Hospital. The secretary of the hospital, Pravin Sriniwas, said the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery was being set up. The department will be responsible for the surgical treatment of acquired, congenital and traumatic issues related to the jaws and facial regions as well as developmental diseases of these areas. He said the department will provide much-needed relief to residents of the state. Advance tests, surgical management and chemotherapy, as well as post-care facility, will be provided under one roof, he said. Police in Bokaro are on the lookout for an alleged thief who is Covid-19 positive after he escaped from a care centre early on Sunday. He had been caught on August 27 for stealing two laptops from a house near Medina Masjid at Gaus Nagar in the Chas police station area. He had been tested for coronavirus infection as per norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bus operators decide to charge double the existing rates||Passengers travelling by bus within the state will now have to pay double the rates, bus owners announced on Sunday evening after a meeting at the Khadgara bus stand here to discuss modalities of resuming operations. “Considering various aspects, we have devised a simple fare revision method. Since the government is asking us to ply buses with 50 per cent occupancy, we have decided to charge a passenger double the usual rate. In other words, a passenger booking one seat has to pay for two,” said Ranchi Bus Association president Krishna Mohan Singh. While some bus operators have begun plying their vehicles, officials said that all buses would resume full-fledged operations from September 1. Of around 10,000 buses in the state, around 2,500 operate from Ranchi alone. Singh said the hike in fares was imperative to sustain the business. “The buses were grounded for over five months causing wear-and-tear and require immense investment to make them road worthy again. Then, fuel prices were hiked a number of times. Also, the state government hasn’t provided any road tax subsidy,” he said, adding that bus travel would work out cheaper for the public compared to using a private car. Announcing relaxations in lockdown norms in view of the coming entrance examinations, JEE and NEET on Friday, the state government allowed resumption of bus services and hotels, lodges, restaurants and saloons to open. On Saturday, the state transport department issued SOPs which specified that buses were to run with 50 per cent capacity in addition to other norms in line with what has been announced by the state and centre. The SOPs mandate thermal scanning of every passenger before boarding, sufficient distance between passengers, and regular sanitisation of seats. “Buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will only be allowed to ply on the streets,” state transport secretary K. Ravikumar said on Saturday. The driver’s cabin should also be covered with plastic sheets. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be covered by a plastic sheet and bus staff on-board are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said, adding that spitting or consuming tobacco in public would attract fines and/or punishment. Also, bus operators have been advised to download the Arogya Setu app and told to keep detailed records of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Daily wagers at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary without pay for last six months||About 48 daily wagers at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary have not been paid for the past six months. The situation has forced most of them to borrow money on interest, also forcing many to discontinue their children’s education. Several young people from such families have been forced to sit idle as jobs avenues are yet to open. “We have no option but to wait. Most of the daily wagers have started borrowing on interest from lenders of Chilgu village. The lenders are charging 10 per cent interest on the loan. We are living in utter penury but are continuing with our work,” Shristidhar Mahto, a watchman posted at the main entrance gates of the sanctuary at Makukakocha, told The Telegraph Online. Mahto also said that forest officials have informed them that pending dues are expected to be cleared next week. “We have been hearing this for over two months now. We will believe only when we are paid. We are already fed up with false assurances,” he added. Pritam Tudu, another worker, said, “My son and daughter are not going to school as it is closed due to the pandemic. I started tuitions but it has been discontinued as I cannot afford the same.” He said that some educated village youths have been teaching the children. The men and women working at Dalma are engaged in maintaining the accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts) and some working as cooks and trackers (who are recruited to keep a tab on movement of animals across the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur). They are paid Rs 249.83 per day for their labour. The workers held an agitation near the main entrance of the sanctuary and also detained forest range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra last month. Mahto, who heads the Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh, said, “We staged an agitation last month, but nothing worked. I think it will be a futile exercise to do the same again. We are helpless and have no option than to wait.” Mahto did thank some foresters for helping them out with money. “The foresters have also  asked some grocers to give us grocery on credit. But this arrangement cannot continue for long. The government should allocate funds for our pending dues,” he said. A forest official said dues would only be cleared after the forest department allocates the money. "We are very much aware of the situation, but dues can be cleared only if the fund is allocated by the forest department," he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||3 PLFI rebels arrested from Namkum, Pandra in Ranchi||Close on the heels of ransom calls made to a renowned businessman in the capital, police on Sunday arrested Three rebels of the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), who were staying at rented accommodations in the state capital, were arrested on Sunday with police claiming they were hatching a plan to target businessmen and industrialists for ransom. The arrested insurgents have been identified as Vinay Tigga, Kachna Pahan and Sunny Kacchap, all in their mid-20s and residents of an area under the Nagri police station, police said. Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha said police also recovered two pistols, 29 live bullets, three mobile phones and bikes from their possession. “We had intelligence inputs that some PLFI rebels are secretly operating out of rented accommodations in Ranchi, planning to target businessmen for extortion,” said Jha. “After verifying the inputs, we constituted teams to conduct raids and the trio was nabbed,” he added. PLFI is one of 17 splinter outfits in Jharkhand, primarily active in Ranchi, Khunti and Simdega. Founded by an ex-armyman Dinesh Gope, this Left Wing Extremist group, police say, is involved in demanding levy and extorting money from businessmen and industrialists. During the raids conducted late on Saturday night, Vinay and Kachna were arrested from Ketaribagan under Namkum police station area. During interrogation at Namkum Police Station, they disclosed that one Sunny Kacchap, a member of their gang, was staying at a rented accommodation in Pandra locality. A police team later arrested Sunny from his residence in Pandra. All of them have criminal records and FIR was lodged against the trio under section 385 and 387 of IPC and sections of Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sakshi Maharaj allowed to leave Giridih for Delhi||Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj, who was quarantined at an ashram in Giridih on the orders of the district administration, was allowed to leave for Delhi on Sunday after his Covid test reports were negative. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said Maharaj was granted exemption after he wrote a letter to the chief secretary on Saturday after he was quarantined. “He mentioned that he had to attend an urgent meeting of the parliamentary standing committee where an important bill was to be discussed,” Sinha said. Maharaj left the Shanti Bhawan Ashram in Makatpur area of Giridih at 2pm for  Dhanbad where he boarded a New-Delhi bound Rajdhani Express. The BJP MP, who was livid after he was told not leave the town on Saturday as per Covid norms, looked and sounded happy that he was leaving.  “Aaj ja rahe hai. Acchi baat hai (I am leaving today, which is good),” he told the media peering out from his car window. Sakshi Maharaj, or Swami Sachchidanand Hari Sakshi Ji Maharaj, the BJP’s MP from Unnao, came to the ashram in Giridih from Delhi via Dhanbad by the Rajdhani Express on Saturday morning. He spent about two hours there with his ailing mother and was returning when he was stopped. BJP leaders in the state condemned the “high-handedness” of the JMM-led state government. MP of Dhanbad P.N. Singh said the Giridih district administration was politically motivated. Several leaders also met the deputy commissioner to demand that Maharaj be allowed to leave for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vehicle scanner ready at Tatanagar station parking lot||A vehicle scanning system will be in operation at the Tatanagar parking lot from Monday with the railways touting it as another feather in the cap of the A1 category station. The under vehicle scanning system (UDSS) will be maintained by railway protection force (RPF) personnel, 10 of whom were trained in its use by a Calcutta-based company at the station parking lot on Sunday morning. "Three RPF personnel will be posted at the entrance of the car park where a tracker has been embedded by Reyant Private Ltd,” said RPF inspector at Tatanagar M.K. Sahoo. A distinctive beep from the tracker will alert policemen about the presence of illegal/unauthorised or dangerous items in the vehicle. The RPF inspector said Tatanagar, under Chakradharpur railway division, was the first station in South Eastern Railway to get UDSS. Over 2,000 cars are parked there every day. The station sees an average footfall of 70,000 a day. South Eastern Railway had installed over 250 CCTV cameras across the station in 2014.  Subsequently, the railways introduced a luggage scanning system at the entrance of the station in 2019. A senior railway official pointed that they persuaded the Calcutta-based company to train the RPF personnel as they wanted the new system to start functioning now even though a limited number of trains are running. "Tatanagar is a relatively small railway station. But several VIPs and their family members visit the station often, either to pick up or see off their near and dear ones. We want the station to be safe for everybody,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Restaurants on clean-up drive, want to stay open till 9pm||Hotels and restaurants of the coal capital of Dhanbad are busy cleaning up to reopen on Monday after more than five months, but owners said they would appeal to the authorities to allow them to serve guests till 9pm instead of the mandated 7pm. Restaurant owners are planning to meet office-bearers of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry to ask them to convey their concerns to the district administration. Senior GM of Skylark Hotel Anutosh Baghchi said deep cleaning of the entire premises was on since Sunday which would be followed by pest control measures and sanitisation. “As per SOP for operation, we have decided to avoid human interface and once a guest enters his/her respective suites, our staff will not enter their rooms. Food will be served in rooms using sanitised trolleys and guests will have to serve themselves. “We will also carry out the thermal scanning of all guests before booking rooms for them,” Bagchi said and added that no one would be allowed in without masks. The hotel restaurant that seats 80 will, however, allow only 40 people at a time. Arka Ghosh, who is GM of Hotel Sonotel that has 56 rooms and three suites, said they had also started sanitisation measures on the premises. “We will use thermal scanners and also note down the travel history of guests. We will also follow all the SOPs for restaurants,” he said. Satwant Singh, owner of La Piaza, a restaurant in Hirapur, Dhanbad, said he was happy that the government had allowed restaurants to open, but was sceptical about the volume of business. “Until the staying open time is extended to 9pm we will not see customers as office-goers will not get time to visit us,” he said. Mihir Mandal, owner of Monalisa, another restaurant in Dhanbad, expressed similar worries, “We are also planning to meet office-bearers of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce to demand an extension in timing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||First minister to test positive beats Covid, donates plasma||State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, who was cured of Covid-19 last month, donated plasma at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS)  blood bank on Sunday, becoming the first “VIP patient” to do so at a time when coronavirus cases are rising steadily in Jharkhand. Thakur, whose blood group is A negative, said, “On the day (June 28) RIMS launched the plasma bank, I had announced publicly that I will donate plasma after recovering from the disease. So, here I am today (Sunday) after undergoing the mandatory cooling period post-recovery to help others.” The minister, who was at RIMS in the afternoon, said that plasma donation was like blood donation. “I appeal everyone to do so in public interest,” he added. Thakur was the first Cabinet minister to test positive for Covid-19 in the first week of June. He was discharged from hospital on June 21. “I am completely fit and fine and am taking all precautions whenever I am moving out. Following mandatory safety norms is the best way to curb spread of the virus,” he said. State health minister Banna Gupta, the second Cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren government to test positive, is currently undergoing treatment at RIMS. He also promised to donate plasma after recovering. “I will also donate plasma. As a public representative, it is our responsibility to lead by example to motivate others. Chief minister Hemant Soren is already appealing to all those have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma,” Gupta said. Notably, the district administration and RIMS is currently running a campaign titled, “Saviours” to boost plasma donation. The campaign was launched on August 21 (Friday) in the form of a day-long special plasma donation drive in which about five policemen who beat Covid-19 took part. Since then, RIMS sources said, around two dozen people, including several policemen, have donated plasma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad worst hit||The Covid tally in Jharkhand drew close to 38,000 on Saturday as 1,299 people were found infected in 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 11,498, figures released by the health department stated. Accordong to a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin released at 10.45pm on Saturday, as many as 257 people tested positive for the coronavirus in Ranchi while 233 people were found infected in East Singhbhum – the two worst-affected districts in the state. There were 3,138 active cases of infection in Ranchi and 2,366 patients in East Singhbhum by the time this report was filed. As many as eight Covid patients, including three in East Singhbhum, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 398, government figures highlighted. Ranchi alone accounts for 7,257 of the 40,000-odd Covid cases in Jharkhand so far, while East Singhbhum has reported 176 of the 398 deaths in state, officials from the health department said on Saturday, raising concern over the Covid situation in the two districts. While the state witnessed a four-digit spike in the Covid cases on Saturday, as many as 968 patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital, government data stated. So far, 25,216 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand and 11,498 were still undergoing treatment. With nearly 3,000 Covid-19 cases, Dhanbad is the third worst-affected district in Jharkhand. All the remaining 21 districts in the state have reported less than 2,000 cases of infection. On Saturday too, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit spike in Covid cases, while all other districts registered fewer cases than 100, the NHM bulletin stated. The government so far has collected swab samples of 7.44 lakh people and tested 7.30 lakh of them. On Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 19,993 people and 18,694 of them came negative. The Covid testing rate has improved in Jharkhand since July, with the government testing at least 15,000 people every day on an average. The Covid recovery rate in state on Saturday was 67.94 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 75.27 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.07 per cent against the national average of 1.85 per cent, said government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown restriction: Businesses can run in Jharkhand ||The Jharkhand government ordered extension of lockdown related restrictions in containment zones across the state till September 30 but permitted all economic activities, unless specifically prohibited. “All economic activities, not specifically prohibited, shall be permitted outside the containment zones,” said the order, signed by state’s chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and issued by disaster management division of home, prison and disaster management department on Friday evening. Following this, such establishments as hotels, shopping malls, restaurants and saloons either opened or were preparing to open on Saturday. The government, however, did not permit social, political, sports and entertainment events or gatherings, large congregations and fairs. All educational institutions and coaching centres would also continue to remain closed as would be cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasiums, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums and assembly halls. Religious places would also continue to be closed, except those having clearance in view of a recent Supreme Court order. The government also allowed intra-state bus service but prohibited inter-state transport by bus. “We have issued a standard operating procedure for intra-state bus service today,” transport secretary R. Ravi Kumar said on Saturday. The SOP said that such buses would ply with passengers half the capacity and maintain detailed records of the passengers, besides following safety norms. “There is no restrictions but those entering or returning to Jharkhand will have to be in quarantine for two weeks,” he replied when asked about inter-state movement by private vehicles. Though chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday requesting the latter to consider postponing JEE-NEET examinations “in public interest”, the government appeared to be lenient on facilitating movement of the examinees if those are held in September as scheduled. Though not specifically mentioned about any particular examination, the guidelines issued along with the order lifted restrictions of examinees even if they belong to containment zones, with instruction to treat their admit cards as passes. This would be valid for such examinees from outside the state who may have opted for appearing at an examination from a centre in Jharkhand, the guidelines added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
