31-08-2020||Calcutta||Onam on virtual platform||Malayalees in Calcutta and outside celebrated Onam on the virtual platform on Sunday. Among the programmes held on Zoom was one by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam and another by by the Kolkata Kairali Samajam. Both programmes were streamed live on the Facebook pages of the associations. The Malayalee Samajam’s programme was inaugurated by A.K. Balan, Kerala’s culture minister. A performance by Matha Perambra, a musical troupe from Kerala, was one of the prime attractions. “The pandemic has curtailed the scale of the celebrations. But the virtual celebrations went off very spontaneously,” said N. Gopi, the secretary of the Malayalee Samajam. The organisation distributed dry groceries to needy people in the Charu Market area on Friday and Saturday. Thiruvonam, the most important day of  the 10-day Onam festival, falls on Monday. Large pookkalams, or rangolis made of flowers, were shared on the screens by many participants on Sunday. The programme of the Kairali Samajam was inaugurated by Madhupal, a writer, actor and director from Kerala. He spoke of the distress caused by the pandemic to the theatre fraternity. One of the highlights of the programme was a “mid-reading session” by Anand Mezhathur, a magician. The programme also saw several musical performances. “We had people joining in from Australia and the UAE,” said Sreekumar V., one of the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||2 accidents on Vidyasagar Setu, 1 killed||A man died and another was injured in two accidents on Vidyasagar Setu on Saturday, police said. Sabir Ali, 32, a resident of Noor Ali Lane in south Calcutta, was riding down the city-bound flank of the bridge on his scooter when a vehicle hit the two-wheeler from behind and fled, the police said. The accident happened around 11.15pm on Saturday. Ali was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident, the police said. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he died. The other accident happened around 5.30pm on the Howrah-bound flank of the bridge. RPF constable Nabin Chaurasiya, 36, who was returning to his quarters at Shalimar in Howrah on a motorbike, lost control and hit the median divider. He is being treated at BNR Hospital for head injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||TV actor cheated of more than Rs 10 lakh, actress arrested||A TV actor has alleged that he has been cheated of more than Rs 10 lakh after being promised roles in television serials and Bengali movies. Based on a complaint lodged by Suprabhat Sarkar, a TV actress named Titas Ghosh and a man identified as Sujoy Bhunia have been arrested. Police said the two were part of a group that cheated Sarkar and others. Sarkar, originally from Kalyani in Nadia district, and at least 17 others have approached Charu Market police station alleging that they have been cheated of Rs 23 lakh. “Sarkar mentioned in his complaint that he had held multiple meetings with the accused, who had offered to groom him as an actor and fetch him more roles in serials and Bengali movies. The accused had allegedly given the complainant and several others forged appointment letters, letters of appreciation and offer letters from various Bengali entertainment channels,” said an officer of Charu Market police station. Ghosh and Bhuniya, who were arrested at their south Calcutta homes on Sunday, have been remanded in police custody till September 5. “We will question them about their modus operandi and how many people they cheated,” a police officer said. The police said the television actress had produced identity documents for herself to prove that she was a member of an artist’s forum.“We are verifying the documents,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||During lockdown, a Calcuttan proves that magic belongs to the magician||All great magicians are named David, claims David Abhijit Nobo, laughing. There’s David Copperfield and David Blaine — and himself, a.k.a. Amazing David. But unlike the other two, he is a Calcuttan. At 32, Amazing David sees himself as belonging to the last of the magicians who learnt from books. “It’s easier now, with videos,” he says. But it is technology that has come to his rescue now and made him turn his bedroom into his studio, where he has installed a statue of Heath Ledger as Joker, framed Roald Dahl quotes, and a laptop. He is using his phone camera as a webcam. Magic is one of the oldest human arts, often a companion of religion, though charged, perhaps more than religion, with the possibilities of the dark and the illicit. Only around the 19th century in the West did it become established as a stage act for entertainment, a kind of theatre, which it remains till date. In India, the rope trick was another kind of performance. A few decades later, after Doug Henning, or David Copperfield performing on television, magicians began to be called “illusionists”. But throughout, like theatre, magic needed a live audience. The lockdown made the audience vanish. For Amazing David it meant work coming to an end. He is popular in the corporate event circuit, where a magic show often helps the transition from gruelling workday to mellow party hour. David, known for his comedy rope escape trick and liked for his friendly, genial manner, is among the higher-paid professionals in his bracket. He is a Bengali. His grandfather, Nobogopal Mukherjee, converted to Christianity and changed his name to Maurice Nobo. Initially after lockdown, David, who was in touch with other members of Kalkutta Konjurors, a platform for Calcutta magicians, did not know what to do. Then one day he pushed the bed out of his bedroom at his Park Circus residence, turned it into his studio (the current one is the third version) and put together an interactive show that the audience could enjoy online. He put up four ticketed events online, got some footage and sent them to event managers. He told them he could do corporate events again from home, where he also maintains several aquariums, terrariums (glass jars with plants and miniature landscapes), Java doves and a dog. Magic-from-Home began. David is now performing before corporate audiences again, online. At the end of June, he performed before a live audience of 1,500 from his home, on an online platform. It is not the same as before. Working magic is not easy. But its pull is irresistible. The theatre of magic combines fantasy, fiction, romance, role-playing and power. David could not help feeling drawn towards it. When he was in senior school at St James, Calcutta, instead of attending his private lessons, he would sneak away to the spot in front of Indian Museum where sat Basant Thapa, selling magic kits from a plastic sheet on the pavement. David learnt his first lessons in magic here, glimpsing scintillating worlds. By that time he was also heavily into Harry Potter. A bright boy with a curious mind, David learnt magic well but began to do poorly in academics. He did not fit into regular school, though he is very grateful to an actual play that he had participated in at school: the musical ‘Oliver’, directed by Katy Lai Roy for St James, in which he had played six to seven roles. It taught him a lot, also about magic. He feels the connection between theatre and magic deeply. “A magician is an actor who is playing the role of a magician,” he says. David began to perform magic professionally in schools when still very young. His mother Namita was his greatest support. By 2006, he was performing magic in almost every school of Calcutta. Though magic was entering a new age of sophistication and world influences, David was a bit of an anomaly in the often ill-paid, “vernacular” magic world of Calcutta. “One reason was my English,” says David. “Look, he can speak English!” a teacher at a school had apparently exclaimed to the principal, pointing at David. About this time, David also tried his hand at a call centre job, sometimes leaving in a local train at dawn with his suitcase to perform a show on the outskirts of Calcutta, and returned to his office. But he left the job as he felt his magic suffer. In 2010, he participated in a national television reality show on magic, staying in Mumbai. Following that, he began to perform at corporate events, as he wanted to perform magic before an adult audience. “It is not the trick per se. It is how I interact with my audience,” says David. “I draw them into a story.” For him, David Copperfield is the greatest magician of all times. “His flying act is the greatest illusion of all times.” But Copperfield is the greatest, says his Calcutta admirer, because also gives us a great story, an emotion, of people, of love. That is difficult online, but he is trying. He has also changed his acts, focusing on those which will survive closer scrutiny better. A lot of mind-reading remains, as do some sleights of hand, but his centrepiece, the rope escape, has been dropped. But fundamentally, he repeats, magic remains the same. “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,” he quotes Arthur C. Clarke. This holds for magic, too, from Houdini through the P.C. Sorcars to now. On a video call, he asks me to tell him a close friend’s name. I do, and a few minutes later it appears on an envelope on its own. I gasp. But one thing has changed. “At the beginning, I would work with a lot of equipment. Now I can go without any,” says David. “Because I realise magic comes from the performer, not from the props.” You cannot separate the magic from the magician. Which is why magic stays even in the age of Google. “Now with all the information available, willing suspension of disbelief becomes that much harder,” he says. A Korean group online had taken in particular to exposing every trick. “But you can’t find magic by exposing the trick,” says David. “You can’t find music by pulling the piano apart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT scholars seek time to leave campus||Sixty-five research scholars at IIT Kharagpur wrote to the institute’s director on Saturday night that they were unable to leave the campus by Sunday and sought permission to stay on till the situation became normal. The students said they could not return home now because trains were not running and some of their family members had comorbidities. IIT Kharagpur director Virendra Kumar Tewari had on Wednesday urged the students who were still on the campus to leave by August 30 as 10 people, five of them students, had tested positive for Covid-19. “We will allow students who could not leave by Sunday to stay for a few more days, but they will have to leave at the earliest,” an official of the institute said. The students mentioned in the letter that some of them were from remote areas, which could only be reached by train. The government is yet to start regular train service. Family members of a number of students are aged and/or suffer from comorbidities. “In view of the rising number of Covid cases on the campus, parents are worried that we might take the dangerous virus home,” a student told Metro. For some students, floods in various places are coming in the way of returning home. This newspaper asked director Tewari about the students’ appeal. He said: “The students are like our children. I would urge them to go to their hometowns without further delay. We have kept them as long as possible. Now when cases have been reported, it is no longer safe to stay on the campus.” What about the problems the students mentioned in their letter to him? “They have to realise we are urging them to go as the institute is concerned about their health,” he said. The students blamed the institute for not letting them go home before the start of the lockdown. “When the IITs in Kanpur and Guwahati were vacating their hostels in March, we had requested the authorities here that we be allowed to go home. There were only a few Covid cases then. But the dean of students’ affair, Somesh Kumar, had said in a notice that it was safer to be on the campus,” said a research scholar. Repeated calls to Kumar went unanswered. Tewari said: “We have done everything for the welfare of our students. When the institute allowed the students to stay, several parents praised us. When we had asked them to vacate the hostels by June 20, most of them left. If they could go home, the remaining students too can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Hoteliers to seek clarity on alcohol||An association of restaurant owners will write to the Bengal excise commissioner to seek clarity regarding serving alcohol. The Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, have dropped bars from the prohibited list. A section of restaurant and bar owners is interpreting the latest guidelines as a nod to serve liquor. But many restaurant owners said there was no clarity on the issue. Seasoned restaurateurs said the excise commissioner should issue a circular that allows serving liquor inside restaurants and also give a date from when it can start. “Our interpretation is that we will be allowed to serve liquor. We welcome the decision. But we would seek more clarity from the excise department. We will write a letter to the excise commissioner,” said Sagar Daryani, the head of the National Restaurants Association of India’s Calcutta chapter. “We would want to serve liquor as soon as possible. But we need the excise department to give us a date,” said Gaurav Karnani, owner of The Grid, a microbrewery in Topsia. The Unlock 4 guidelines say: “In areas outside the containment zones, all activities will be permitted, except the following….” Bars find no mention, unlike the Unlock 3 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Leak triggers drinking water crisis in Salt Lake||A couple of underground water pipes have leaked in Salt Lake, near the stadium, triggering a drinking water crisis in several blocks of Sector III of the township. The leaks were detected about three days back and the situation has only worsened by Sunday, engineers said. One of the leaked pipes carries water from Salt Lake’s tank number 13 to blocks such as IA, HA, GC, IC and KD-KC. The leak has been detected under Broadway, which links the township with the EM Bypass near the Salt Lake stadium's gate number 3A. A pool has formed on the artery, causing a large section of the asphalt to break and a crater to form. The other pipeline has sprung a leak near the FE island, also under Broadway, triggering a road cave-in. A layer of brick and sand has laid to level the stretch but the rough edges of the bricks are posing a threat to motorists. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) have carried out repairs but the bricks still lie exposed. Engineers at the civic body said lead joints in the pipe network were springing leaks because they were not sturdy enough to handle high pressure over a prolonged period. The joint near the stadium was supposed to be replaced with a mechanical one that employs steel gaskets and bolts to withstand high pressure of water, an engineer said. “But we could not do so because of a shortage of skilled labourers. Most of the labourers who specialise in jobs like this have gone home because of Covid-19,” he said. “We had started work near FE Island as it was more critical. We had barely completed the repairs when another joint started leaking near the Salt Lake stadium and a crater formed there as well,” said the engineer. Craters and potholes line the section of the road both near the FE island and near the stadium and are posing a safety threat to commuters. “I have seen several bikers skid while taking turns. It is plain luck that no major tragedy has taken place yet,” said Pratyush Chatterjee, a businessman and resident of Salt Lake. A scooterist skidded at the FE Block island crossing on the exposed bricks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Awareness campaign on Covid home isolation||The health department has launched an initiative to spread awareness about what a Covid-19 patient should do while in home isolation to clear misconceptions and make it easier for doctors to handle such patients when they are rushed to hospital during an emergency. The department, officials said, wants to explain to the people who can opt for home isolation after testing positive, the need to use pulse oximeters, the role of a caregiver at home and when a patient can return to normal life. Copies of synopsis of the guidelines for home isolation, drawn up by the ministry of health and family welfare, have been printed in Bengali and will be distributed as part of the campaign. The contents have been divided into sections dealing with who can stay in home isolation, when treatment is required and directives for caregivers. The campaign will be launched in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, Baranagar, New Barrackpore and Barrackpore, the pockets that have seen a large number of Covid-19 cases. The leaflets — one lakh will be distributed in the next few days — list seven numbers of a Covid control room in North 24-Parganas and two WhatsApp numbers where one can post a message in an emergency. Health department officials said there were still misgivings among a large number of those who had opted for home isolation. Many patients are not aware why it is important to check their blood oxygen saturation frequently while at home. There are doubts about whether patients can meet visitors and when to call up and seek advice from a doctor. As a result many patients are being brought to hospital in a critical condition. “A few days back, a senior citizen with several comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension turned up with a blood oxygen saturation level of 70 per cent. This patient could have been handled better (had there been proper awareness),” said Yogiraj Ray, a doctor attached to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. On the other hand, health department officials said, some patients whose level of infection is low enough for home isolation are looking for hospital beds. An overwhelming sense of fear and stigma about the infection is only making the situation more complicated. Metro has reported several times how neighbours are ostracising Covid patients and their families. “Misgivings go away when there is a clear understanding and that helps both patients and the doctors,” a health department official said. “We have observed that beds in safe homes in North 24-Parganas are lying vacant. Many who have tested positive and lack enough space at home to stay isolated from others are unwilling to shift to safe homes,” an official posted in the Covid cell of North 24-Parganas said. Experts from Sasthya Bhavan who have been monitoring the condition of Covid-19 patients in hospitals have observed that on several occasions patients who were being brought in had progressed from stage II to stage III of the coronavirus infection and were in need of intensive care. “Many such patients could have been managed at home had the caregiver been aware about the parameters that need to be continuously monitored,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake patchwork wears out in 2 days||The Salt Lake civic authorities carried out patchwork repairs at the intersection of EM Bypass and Broadway, near the Sports Authority of India complex, just a couple of days back. The road surface has already started to wear out. The 50-m stretch, leading to both EM Bypass from Salt Lake as well as the Salt Lake-bound flank of Broadway, has potholes forming again as the materials used for repairs are being worn out under pressure of moving vehicles. Metro reported earlier this week how potholes were slowing down traffic, leading to snarls during rushing hours. “Vehicles invariably slow down in order to negotiate the stretch. The entire area is now littered with stone chips and that pose a risk to commuters,” said a traffic policeman posted at the crossing. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation carried out the patchwork repairs by levelling the stretch with a thin bituminous layer. A resident of HB block said his car nearly skidded off the road and hit the divider as he slammed the brakes to slow down for the potholes. “The surface is broken and undulating and takes one by surprise. The bad stretch suddenly appears after a smooth and wide one. On Friday, I suddenly met with an accident,” said Alok Dasgupta, an engineer who stays in HB block. Another Salt Lake resident said the repairs should have been more thorough. An official of the Salt Lake civic body said patchwork was the preferred mode of repairs because the sanction for an overhaul often came late. Another official was more forthcoming. Officials do not stand to gain much from a road that lasts long, he said. So, a short-term measure is often the first and the most preferred choice. “A road surface laid by mastic asphalt or concrete outlasts a surface redone with bitumen, which wears out faster. Every time one bags a contract for repair, he or she has to grease several palms in order to work peacefully. The results are there for everyone to see,” the official said. The economics of building roads makes mastic asphalt a better choice in the long run, an engineer of the road repairs department of the civic body said. Around Rs 4 crore is required to create a kilometre of mastic asphalt road. Though the cost is many times higher than patchwork repairs, it evens out in the long run because mastic asphalt doesn’t require frequent repairs. “A concrete road is three times costlier to build compared with a bitumen stretch of the same length but lasts two decades. The longevity of a bitumen stretch, on the other hand, is a few months. A mastic asphalt road costs double and lasts around five years,” the engineer said. A contract for patchwork doesn’t have a built-in guarantee period, an engineer of the Salt Lake civic body said. “Cracks or craters can reappear if it rains the very next day and nobody will be liable,” the engineer added. Tapas Chatterjee, the mayoral council member in charge of roads at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, admitted that patchwork repairs had been carried out a few days ago at the EM Bypass-Broadway crossing but said he had no knowledge that the repairs had started to wear out. “We did not have the time to shut down entire roads and relay them. So, we did patchwork, which is time-saving. We will carry out thorough repairs soon,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock 4: Calcutta Metro prepares to resume service||Guards inside coaches are likely to be Metro Railway’s best bet on maintaining social distancing protocols once commercial service resumes, said officials. Suspension of tokens, access open to only smartcard-users and thermal scanning of passengers entering stations are other steps to be taken for resumption of commercial service. The absence of a mechanism to keep real-time track of passengers entering stations and trains has limited the options of the authorities. A shortfall in the number of Railway Protection Force personnel has increased the carrier’s dependency on the state government machinery to enforce the protocols. The Union home ministry’s Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, allow “graded” resumption   of Metro services from September 7. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs — the nodal authority of Metro corporations in the country — is expected to meet senior officials of all city Metros this week before coming out with a set of guidelines for running trains. Calcutta Metro, however, is not a corporation and functions under the railway ministry. The railway board is expected to give some specific directions to Calcutta Metro on the resumption of commercial service. “As of now, nobody has told us to attend the meeting of the urban affairs ministry. We are waiting for directions from the railway board,” said an official. A meeting with state government officials will follow a nod from the railway ministry, said Metro officials. The home secretary of Bengal has already written to the chairman of the board, seeking resumption of commercial service of Metro. Metro takes stock of the preparedness of the city’s transport lifeline, grounded since March 25, in the run-up to possible resumption of service.  The carrier used to run 288 trains daily and the average daily passenger count was over six lakh. Metro sources said the trains and the stations were ready for resumption of commercial service but enforcing social distancing norms would be a real challenge. “There is no mechanism to ensure social distancing without physical intervention. It will be premature to say anything on our preparedness before the guidelines come. But we might have to depute security personnel inside coaches,” said a Metro official. Only a set of trains in the Metro fleet has CCTV cameras inside coaches. Live feed can only be accessed by the motormen. There are cameras at stations but not enough to track the number of passengers entering the concourse and the platform. Since the control room cannot access the live footage, there cannot be any instant direction to seal the gates of a train or platform, said officials. “Let us say the central guidelines allow 50 passengers per coach and 40 passengers board one on a New Garia-bound train from Dum Dum. How do we restrict the number in the subsequent stations?” said a Metro official. Keeping track of the number of passengers will be challenging because of the multiple origin and destination points. There are 24 stations on the route. “Once commercial service starts, tokens will be suspended. Only smartcard-users will be able to use the services. They can recharge the cards at the counters or from the Metro Railway website. An app for the smartcard-users is in the works,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. But the carrier is not equipped to keep real-time track of the number of smartcards swiped at each gate. It is expected that passengers will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the stations. The Metro authorities will need police’s help in conducting the checks. “We will need police help in planning anything, both outside and inside the stations,” said another official. Metro’s security is the responsibility of the Railway Protection Force. But the RPF’s Metro contingent is working with a curtailed workforce. “The sanctioned strength is 900. We have a shortfall of around 130,” said an RPF official. RPF sources said the crunch was more acute because over 50 from the existing team have been sent to East-West Metro, which, once fully operational, will link Salt Lake Sector V with Howrah. On the table are options of closing the shutters at stations the moment the volume of passengers goes up, said officials. “We are used to doing it during the Puja rush. The permissible limit will be more at the terminal stations than the intermediate ones,” said an official. To counter the threat of transmission of the Covid-19 virus in an enclosed air-conditioning system, the quantum of fresh air will be increased on trains, said an official. “We will raise the supply of fresh air to the maximum level so that the existing air is not recirculated,” the official said. The frequent touch points like railings and handlebars will also be sanitised frequently once the services start, said the official. Sanitiser dispensing machines were installed at some Metro stations on Sunday. “All stations will be covered within a couple of days,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
31-08-2020||Business||GDP shrinks 23.9 %, sharpest drop ever||India's GDP shrank by the steepest ever 23.9 per cent in the April-June period as the coronavirus lockdowns battered an already slowing economy, official data showed on Monday.  Agriculture was the only outlier as all other sectors, including manufacturing, construction and services, suffered steep declines.  India's economy had grown by 5.2 per cent in the same quarter of last fiscal, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO).  The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown from March 25, 2020 to curb the spread of COVID-19 infections which adversely impacted all sectors of the economy.  According to the data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector contracted by 39.3 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, from 3 per cent expansion a year ago.  However, farm sector GVA grew at 3.4 per cent, compared to 3 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20.  Construction sector GVA contracted by a whopping 50.3 per cent from 5.2 per cent expansion earlier. Mining sector output declined at 23.3 per cent, as against a growth of 4.7 per cent a year ago.  Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment too shrank by 7 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, against 8.8 per cent growth a year ago.  Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting declined 47 per cent in the first quarter from 3.5 per cent growth earlier.  Financial, real estate and professional services fell by 5.3 per cent in Q1 FY21 from 6 per cent growth in same period last fiscal.  Public administration, defence and other services too saw a decline of 10.3 per cent during the quarter under review, from 7.7 per cent growth a year earlier.  "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q1 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 26.90 lakh crore, as against Rs 35.35 lakh crore in Q1 of 2019-20, showing a contraction of 23.9 per cent compared to 5.2 per cent growth in Q1 2019-20," the NSO said in a statement.  "With a view to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions were imposed on the economic activities not deemed essential, as also on the movement of people from 25 March, 2020.  "Though the restrictions have been gradually lifted, there has been an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms," it added.  It also said the timelines for filing statutory returns were extended by most regulatory bodies.  "In these circumstances, the usual data sources were substituted by alternatives like GST, interactions with professional bodies etc. and which were clearly limited," it said.  The Centre began easing the lockdown for certain economic activities from April 20 onwards.  Most rating agencies had projected contraction in India's GDP for the first quarter of 2020-21.  China's economy grew by 3.2 per cent in April-June after recording a decline of 6.8 per cent in January-March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Too little for later||Dear Investor, This letter comes to you at a juncture when a crisis is unfolding right before your eyes. Whether you like it or not, one of the biggest drawdowns in recent times is being played out. The reference is not to standing armies or nuclear arsenals but to the withdrawals from the average retirement kitty. The reason: Covid-19 and the resulting economic paralysis, supply disruptions, business closures and pay cuts. A lot of people who have painstakingly nurtured their retirement nest-eggs for years, are being forced to dip into this very corpus. Worse, however, is the realisation that they will have to make do with much less once they reach the retirement age. Yes, the situation is very challenging. The gap between the resources you will require in your retired years and the money that you have actually saved for the same is increasing. The gap, a dreaded one even in advanced nations where social security is more than a mere buzzword, is likely to be wider if this crisis persists. For a country such as India, where poverty is rife, the consequences are more severe. Remember, our retail inflation numbers have lately advanced, a trend that gets captured adequately in the prices of everyday goods and services. The July figure is close to 7 per cent. For the record, the annual interest that is being generally offered by most of the popular banks is approximately 5.5 per cent. And that clearly falls short of inflation. A common product like detergent worth Rs 100 will cost Rs 107 next year, assuming inflation stays constant at 7 per cent. However, at the current rate, your deposit of Rs 100 with a local bank will merely become Rs 105.50 next year. The imbalance is apparent; the earning versus expenditure battle becomes difficult for you by the minute. When a drawdown is imminent, the following pointers can be considered: However, an added focus on debt may potentially slow down your portfolio. Traditional debt instruments (which offer somewhat predictable returns) are low-yielding when compared to their equity counterparts; the latter, despite all the risk can act be powerhouses. Here’s a list of to-do’s for you: The last word in a stern letter like this can be forbidding too. You need to save and invest as much as possible while you are still working. If you haven’t done it, or if you have ignored the need to build your own pension scheme, adverse conditions in the market will leave you panting for air. Resorting to drawdowns in normal circumstances is bad in itself — the “new normal” led by Covid-19 and marked by serious challenges will be a lot worse. So expect less from your allocations, pare your assumptions, learn to live with limited resources. You will still need to pay taxes, remember. Your retired life may be a long one, thanks to advanced medical science. Imagine living in retirement for two whole decades or more. Living a healthy life after 65 is often an enormous challenge. Staying close to liquid assets is an easy solution, but chances are there will be a lot of sacrifices. However, with some careful planning and financial discipline you can give yourself a comfortable old age. Take care. Yours sincerely... The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Harley Davidson soldiers on in India||Its business as usual at Harley Davidson India. As of now, the company continues to manufacture at its Bawal factory and 30 of its 33 dealers in India are functional, said a company source. “July sales were encouraging and August sales will be even better and the company has a 54 per cent market share in July 2020 in the 750 cc and above motorcycle segment,” he added. The company sold 130 units in July recovering from 86 units in June 2020, however, it is yet to reach  pre-Covid figures of 210 units sold in January 2020 or 185 units in February. Speculation is rife that following American auto giants General Motors and Ford, another American iconic brand Harley Davidson is pulling out of the country following its global Rewire programme. A global Harley press release states: “Harley-Davidson plans to concentrate on approximately 50 markets primarily in North America, Europe and parts of Asia Pacific that represent the vast majority of the company’s volume and growth potential. The company is evaluating plans to exit international markets where volumes and profitability do not support continued investment.” Company chairman, president and CEO Jochen Zeitz said: “A total rewire is necessary to make Harley-Davidson a high-performance company. We’re overhauling our operating model and rewiring our market structure and organisation.  We are now working on our new 5-year strategic plan, The Hardwire, which will be grounded in enhancing the desirability of our brand and protecting the value of our iconic products.” The company source confirmed that the Rewire programme is “work in progress and hence the company cannot make any statement regarding its impact in India”. Meanwhile, marketing plans for the festive season are in progress though no launch is planned in the coming months. The last launch that the company had was the Low Rider S in the first month of the fiscal year, a cruiser bike with a price tag of Rs 13.75 lakh. Globally, the company is gearing up for the launch of its first adventure touring motorcycle Pan America 1250 in 2021 “but there is no word yet on it coming to India”. So also for Harley’s first electric bike LiveWire which was launched in 2019 in the US with expectations of it coming to other global markets in 2020. The bike was showcased here too in 2019. Harley’s lower dispensation bike programme Harley 350 will roll out in China with a Chinese partner QianJiang Motorcyle. There was talk of producing the 350 in India with an Indian partner, which did not materialise. The Baby Harley was planned to capture the Asian markets and there is no word yet on it coming to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||No change in third-party cover||The premium rates for motor third-party liability insurance for 2020-21 remain unchanged from last year’s rate till further order, insurance regulator IRDAI has said. The rates for the ongoing fiscal could not be finalised because of the Covid-19 and consequential lockdown. Motor insurance comprises two parts — mandatory third party liability insurance and own damage insurance. The rates for the third-party liability insurance are fixed by the IRDAI after consultation with the stakeholders every year and taking into account the claims trend of the past year. Accordingly the regulator came out with the draft proposing the rates for 2020-21 in March. The minutes of the 108th meeting of the regulator released last week said the process could not be completed because of the lockdown and it was decided to continue with the prevalent rates. Industry, however, anticipates that there is room for a later revision in case the regulator wants. “It is only ratification of the existing order. They have nowhere said that this is going to be there for the entire financial year. But generally the understanding is it might not change given the Covid situation,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdary, motor business head, Policybazaar.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||BSNL user base surges during Covid||Government-owned BSNL has posted a 31.84 per cent growth in wireless subscribers in Calcutta in May despite operational challenges on account of the lockdown and cyclone Amphan. Total wireless subscribers for BSNL in Calcutta increased to 21,27,898 in May 2020 from 16,13,991 in May last year, according to data from telecom regulator Trai. Compared with April, BSNL added 22,855 subscribers in May. According to BSNL officials, the addition in the subscriber base is despite the operator not offering 4G services unlike its private peers. “We have reworked sales and marketing. Earlier, BSNL did not have retail managers. Now we have posted retail managers in different areas. Their job is to work with the franchisees and retailers and expand the customer base,” Biswajit Paul, chief general manager, Calcutta Telephones, told The Telegraph. “We have also cut the time required to fix technical problems at BTS (base transceiver stations) and lower network downtime,” he said. Paul added that as an aftermath of the cyclone around 60 per cent of the network was affected. It took about a month’s time for the PSU to bring back stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Bid to plug Asean FTA gap||Commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal has insisted the rules of origin provisions be strengthened during the review of the free trade pact with Asean. The provisions are meant to stop nations use the third-party route to import goods cheaply into India, using the preferential trade arrangements between the third country and India. Goyal wants the review of the free-trade pact with Asean members, which has been “inordinately delayed”,  to start before the end of this year. The issue was discussed during the 17th Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations meet held virtually on August 29, an official statement said on Sunday. Goyal highlighted that the pact has to be mutually beneficial and a win-win for all sides. He also expressed the need to work towards the removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access to Indian businesses. Trade ministers of India and the 10-member Asean countries have instructed their officials to start discussions to determine the scope of review of the free trade agreement (FTA) at the earliest. Goyal and Tran Tuan Anh, minister of industry and trade of Vietnam, co-chaired the consultations. It was attended by trade ministers of all the Asean countries — Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean)-India trade in goods agreement was signed on August 13, 2009 and came into force on January 1, 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Telecom earnings seen to rise||The telecom industry’s revenues are expected to rise 14-15 per cent in the current financial year, led by some uptick in average revenue per user, though the subscriber base may remain flat with rural growth offsetting SIM consolidation in urban locations, apex association COAI estimates. The newly appointed director general of the Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI), S. P. Kochhar, said any duopoly situation in the current three-player private telcos market can “never be a good thing” and asserted that sufficient competition among the operators is required for ensuring that subscribers get good services at better prices. The COAI will continue to be a neutral body that believes in consensus building and unanimity of views, Kochhar said when asked about past differences among the telecom companies, who are members of the association, on various issues. “The COAI tries to get the point of view of all members unanimously and we make sure whenever we project to any authority whether in government or regulatory, we do it as unanimous voice, we are not partisan...,” he said. Kochhar said that the industry’s financial distress is “evident” and that the COAI will continue to push for relief, including reduction in spectrum usage charges (SUC) and licence fee; and exemption of GST on licence fee and SUC, as well as on payment of spectrum acquired in auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||FM to discuss loan recast with bankers||Ahead of the roll out of a one-time debt recast for the resolution of Covid-19 related stress in bank loans, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with bankers and heads of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) on September 3 for a smooth and speedy implementation of the scheme. “The review (meeting) will focus on enabling businesses and households to avail the revival framework on the basis of viability, necessary steps like finalising bank policies and identifying borrowers and discussing issues that require addressing a smooth and speedy implementation,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The finance minister will review the implementation of the resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress in bank loans on Thursday with the top management of scheduled commercial banks and NBFCs, it said. The RBI earlier this month permitted a one-time restructuring of both corporate and retail loans. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. Restructuring benefit can be availed by those whose account was standard on March 1 and defaults should not be over 30 days. Besides, the K.V. Kamath committee is working on recommendations on financial parameters such as service coverage ratio and debt equity ratio post resolution and interest coverage ratio to  recast corporate loans. Its recommendations will be notified within 30 days of setting up of the panel, which means the notification should be out by September 6. The resolution plans to be implemented under the framework may include conversion of any interest accrued, or to be accrued, into another credit facility, or granting of moratorium and/or rescheduling of repayments, based on an assessment of income streams of the borrower, up to two years. While the resolution under this framework can be invoked till December 31, 2020, the lending institutions have been encouraged to strive for early invocation in eligible cases, particularly for personal loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Forecast of 7% fiscal deficit||India’s fiscal deficit is expected to touch 7 per cent of GDP in the 2020-21 fiscal against the budget estimate of 3.5 per cent, with revenue collections being hit amid disruptions in economic activities because of lockdowns, according to Brickwork Ratings. “The impact of the lockdown on economic activity shows up starkly in the trends in the central government revenue collection during the first three months of fiscal 2020-21,” the agency said in a report. According to data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), the central government’s revenue in Q1 (April-June) of the current financial year is much lower than collections for the corresponding period last year. Revenue from income taxes (personal income tax and corporate income taxes) was lower by 30.5 per cent and the GST by almost 34 per cent during the period. On the other hand, there is a sharp increase in expenditure (by 13.1 per cent) because of additional spending incurred to save lives and livelihoods and to provide stimulus under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. “This has resulted in the fiscal deficit widening to 83.2 per cent of the budgeted target in the first quarter itself,” the agency said. Brickwork Ratings expects the economy to gradually pick up from the third quarter of this fiscal. “Given the early signs of resumption in business activity, we expect revenue collections to reach pre-Covid levels towards the end of the third quarter, hoping that festive season demand induces consumption and spending. “However, if the current situation prolongs further, the government may face acute burden of fund shortage to fulfil the budgeted expenditure even after considering the announced higher borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Need to find mid-way solution||The relation between the Centre and the states is not that of “giver and taker” and the GST Council will have to work out a mid-way solution for the GST collection shortfall keeping in mind that the central government too is bearing a huge revenue loss because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has said. Non-BJP ruled states such as Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Bengal are at loggerheads with the Centre over the financing of the  GST shortfall. “A huge borrowing by the Centre would have macro-economic impact. The relation between the Centre and the states is not that of ‘giver and taker’, we have to keep the spirit of co-operative federalism in mind and work out a mid way,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Bengal rejects GST payout formula||Bengal has rejected the twin formula presented by the Centre to meet the shortfall in the GST compensation pool, with state finance minister Amit Mitra claiming it neither has any headroom to borrow nor the ability to pay interest. Mitra said he would talk to other states and take a collective stance to impress upon her central counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman that the options communicated by the Centre on Saturday were untenable. “Many states are speaking to each other. Very soon we will have some collective discussion. We will put our heads together much before the GST council meeting,” Mitra said this afternoon. The Centre on Saturday shot off letters detailing the two routes the states could take to meet their shortfalls in the GST cess collection which is pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Under both the mechanisms, states would have to take debt on their books, which Mitra argued would destroy their financial health and cut off the developmental agenda of the Bengal  administration. Initial estimate suggests Bengal alone will face a shortfall of Rs 15,000 crore in GST collection this year as the economy faces headwinds from the Covid-19 pandemic. If the state plans to recoup the loss, which translates into 1.5 per cent of state GDP, entirely by market borrowing — as suggested in the second option by the Centre — it would hit the debt ceiling limit under the FRBM Act. “We are caught between the rock and the hard place. States being asked to borrow. But we do not have any headroom to borrow. And they are not in a position to service the debt as many of them are already overburdened with debt.” Mitra, who had been a chairman of the empowered committee on the GST, debunked the central argument that central borrowing, instead of state, could rock the macroeconomic stability of the country. “(Bond) yield and macro stability depend on the total borrowing of the Centre and the states. Fiscal deficit is calculated together, as well as the country’s debt-to-GDP ratio. If the states rush to borrow, if at all they can borrow, yield will be impacted,” he said. On the contrary, Mitra argued, the Centre admittedly has headroom to borrow on behalf of the states, has the ability to service debt and also can raise funds cheaper by 2 per cent (200 basis points) than the Centre. Quoting a speech by former Union finance minister, the late Arun Jaitley, delivered at the Ficci AGM on December 20, 2013, Mitra noted how the tables have turned on the Centre. Then an Opposition leader, Jaitley rejected the UPA’s plan on the  GST because he could not trust the government on paying compensation. “Today we have come a full circle. What Arun Jaitley had feared as the Opposition in 2013, that he does not trust the central government, today those who are in power, the same people, are hearing (the same) from state after state,” Mitra recalled. Referring to the comment made by Sitharaman that Covid-19 was “an act of God”, roiling the economy and leading to a huge shortfall in GST collection, Mitra argued that the economy was already stuttering going into the pandemic. Growth had faltered from 8 per cent to 4.2 per cent last fiscal due to demonetisation and a hasty implementation of GST. Moreover, cumulative fraud of Rs 70,018 crore was detected by GST officials after the new regime was introduced . “Was demon an act of God or the hasty GST? Somebody or some people were playing God before the ‘act of God’. And then we had an act of fraud as well,” the state finance minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Green ruling aids gas||The crackdown by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on polluting units is expected to push up the demand for natural gas. Demand for the "clean fuel" will also go up from fertiliser units and refineries in the country, with power providing the "icing on the cake", according to a brokerage. Natural gas which is the cleanest fossil fuel accounts for a little over 6 per cent of all energy consumed in the country. The government has set a target to increase its share to 15 per cent in another 10 years, which translates into a consumption of 600 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) from 153mscmd at present, bulk of which is met from domestic output. While efforts have been made to build LNG import terminals, laying pipelines and expanding the city gas distribution network, analysts at Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said in a note that one of the major factors that will cause demand to rise is actions taken by the NGT towards implementing pollution reduction in the country through both policy and punitive measures. The brokerage expects natural gas supply to spike to 290.4mscmd over the next two to thee years following stricter enforcement of environmental norms and increased pipeline penetration. Since the beginning of this calendar year alone, the NGT has levied a cumulative Rs 400 crore in fines across industries. Moreover, in its July order, it also asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to file an Action Taken Report (ATR) on restricting the use of petcoke and fuel oil by January 2021. The brokerage projects that if there is a ban or replacement of "dirty fuels" it will generate fresh demand of 25mscmd of gas which is around 16 per cent of the total gas consumption in 2019-20. “While 16 per cent may not look lucrative, combined with coal and other polluting fuels, replacement demand for dirty fuels could easily be around 100mscmd,’’ the analysts said. They added that several of the existing refineries such as Paradeep, Barauni, Haldia, Vizag, Bhatinda, and Mangaluru are not connected to the gas grid as yet. These could generate demand of 12mscmd over the next two to three years as the necessary pipeline infrastructure gets completed. Moreover, in addition to the four existing fertiliser plants — MCFL, MFL, SPIC and Matix — four more are under construction. They could generate total demand of 15mscmd. The city gas distribution sector had reported total consumption of 28mscmd in the previous fiscal. This segment could generate an additional 10mscmd over the next two to three years. The power sector could also be a strong consumer. While India has gas-based power generation capacity of 25 giga watts, the analysts said that at 80 per cent plant load factor (PLF), it could consume a total of 91mscmd of natural gas, against consumption of 31mscmd in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||India||Indian Army thwarts PLA attempts to change Pangong Tso status quo ||In a fresh confrontation in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese army carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake but the attempt was thwarted by Indian troops, the Army said here on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 to change the status quo. Government sources said a sizeable number of Chinese troops had moved towards the southern bank of Pangong lake in an attempt to occupy the area but the Indian Army quickly made significant deployment to foil the bid. The sources said there was no physical clash between the troops of the two sides during China's attempt to open a new front in the prolonged border standoff. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. It is also the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but it is yet to make the details public. However, according to an American intelligence report there were 35 casualties on the Chinese side. In a statement, Col Anand said the Indian Army thwarted the Chinese intentions to "unilaterally" change facts on ground and undertook measures to strengthen Indian positions in the area. "On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo," he added. "Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground," the Army spokesperson said. A Brigade Commander-level meeting was held at Chushul to resolve the issues, he said. The spokesperson further said the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect India's territorial integrity. Government sources said the top strategic and military brass including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs were briefed in detail about China's unsuccessful attempt. China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian claimed its border troops always strictly abide by the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and never cross the line. Chinese border troops always strictly abide by the Line of Actual Control (LAC). They never cross the line. Border troops on the two sides have been in close communication regarding the issues on the ground, the spokesperson said at a media briefing in Beijing in response to a question by a Japanese journalist about the fresh incident at Pangong lake. Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson of the Western Theatre Command of the PLA, alleged that on August 31 the Indian army broke the consensus reached at the previous multi-level talks between the two sides and illegally crossed the line again near the south bank of Pangong lake and the Reqin Pass, making a blatant provocation and causing tension along the border. The Chinese military is taking necessary countermeasures and will closely follow the developments to resolutely safeguard China's territorial sovereignty and peace and stability in the border areas, Zhang said in a statement released by Xinhua, the country's official news agency. In Delhi, people familiar with the developments said India has taken the Chinese attempt "seriously" and the Army has further increased its deployment of troops and weaponry in and around the southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake. They said the attempt reinforced the assessment by the Army that China has not been serious in disengaging its troops from the friction points as it was still trying to change the status of the LAC in the new area. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. The two sides began a process of disengagement on July 6, a day after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in eastern Ladakh. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas. At the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the two armies in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong lake was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute relates to the 3,488-km-long LAC that stretches from the Ladakh region in the north to Sikkim. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Even as both sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army stepped up its strength in all key areas along the LAC to deal with any eventualities. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing the operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", according to sources. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes. Following the incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||The truth shall prevail, long live democracy, says Bhushan||Activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who said on Monday that he would submit the token fine of Re 1 imposed by the Supreme Court, described the contempt case for his tweets against the judiciary as watershed moment. "What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society,” he said a press conference by CJAR (Campaign for Judicial Accountability & Reforms) and Swaraj Abhiyan.  "I would be failing in my duty if I do not thank my legal team, especially senior advocates Dr Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave. I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail. Long live democracy! Satyameva Jayate!" Bhushan said.  Bhushan, who has indicated he would file a review petition, said he has the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court and judiciary and his tweets were not intended to disrespect the apex court. The tweets, he added, were merely meant to express his anguish which he felt, "was a deviation from its sterling past record".  The issue was never about "me versus the Judges, much less about me versus the Supreme Court", he said.  Bhushan further said: "When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen.  "I am extremely grateful and humbled by the solidarity and support expressed by countless persons, ex-judges, lawyers, activists and fellow citizens who encouraged me to remain firm and true to my beliefs and conscience."  He said that these people strengthen his hope that this trial may draw the country's attention to the cause of freedom of speech and judicial accountability and reform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Former President Pranab Mukherjee dies at 84||Former president Pranab Mukherjee, one of India's most cerebral and respected politicians, died on Monday evening following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84.  Mukherjee, who was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital on August 10 and was operated for a removal of a clot in the brain the same day, is survived by two sons and a daughter.  The long-time Congress leader and seven-time parliamentarian had tested positive for COVID-19 at the time of his admission and was being treated for a lung infection. He had suffered a septic shock on Sunday due to it. Doctors said he died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30 pm.  His son Abhijit Mukherjee was the first to break the news of his death. "With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away inspite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital and prayers, duas and prarthanas from people throughout India! I thank all of You," he said on Twitter.  The government has announced a seven-day state mourning throughout India from August 31 to September 6. "During the period of state mourning, the National Flag will fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout India, where it is flown regularly, and there will be no official entertainment," a home ministry statement said.  The date, time and venue of the state funeral will be intimated later, it said. As condolences poured in for India's 13th president, who served as the country's first citizen from 2012 to 2017, President Ram Nath Kovind described Mukherjee's demise as the passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens, Kovind said on Twitter. Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity, Kovind said. Expressing his condolences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described him as a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman who was admired across the political spectrum. "India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society," Modi tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee."  "I join the country in paying homage to him. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||The Minister who read too much  ||Pranab Mukherjee was an unusual politician and his success was unusual given that the odds were stacked against him. He was not a grassroots politician and he lost most of the elections he contested. He was not an intellectual in the Bengali sense of the word and he didn’t come from an English-speaking background (all his life he spoke the Queen’s language with a heavy Bengali accent). He was also singularly lacking in charisma. He thus broke all the rules that had governed Bengal’s politics harking back to C.R. Das and Subhas Chandra Bose to Siddhartha Shankar Ray and Jyoti Basu. But he had other strengths. Most notable was the fact that he was born into politics. From their home in Mirati village, his father Kamada Kinkar Mukherjee controlled, and had an iron grip on, Birbhum district politics. Along with his alphabet, his son learnt the first rules of public life: influence-peddling and networking. He was a zealous student and never forgot the lessons. Mukherjee’s first big opportunity came soon after he had moved to Calcutta in the 1960s and dived into the thick of state politics. The Syndicate that ruled the Congress Party in Bengal, as elsewhere, threw a dissident leader out of the party. Mukherjee sensed that politics in India was changing and he chose to side with the dissident leader and was also expelled. He had timed it perfectly. Feelings against the Congress party were rising and in the assembly elections the dissidents scraped together enough seats to be the deciding factor. The Left successfully wooed the breakaway Congress by agreeing to make the Congress dissident leader the chief minister. Even Jyoti Basu agreed to serve as the deputy chief minister. Mukherjee knew though that no good could come out of an association with the Communist party. By then, the Congress Party had split into two parties - the Indira Gandhi Congress and the old Congress. Mukherjee skilfully negotiated a way for his group to ally with Indira Gandhi and even managed to win himself a junior minister portfolio in Delhi. His senior in the ministry was Kamlapati Tripathi, a UP Brahmin who preferred temple-hopping to ploughing through ministerial files. That task was left to the young Mukherjee who learnt the other important lesson, one his father had not taught him, namely that if you want to run India, you must know your files. He was not house tamed by the babus -- he became one. Mukherjee was not quite the ultimate old-school politician. True, he had friends in every political nook and cranny and beyond, and he knew when to cash in on his friendships. True, he held almost all the great offices of state, shuttling between finance, defence and external affairs with equal ease. But he had one redeeming feature which the rest lacked. He could read, and he read, every file that came his way. Jagjivan Ram, the most outstanding of all Indira Gandhi's ministers, was once asked who was the best minister he had seen. “Pranab Mukherjee,” Ram replied. Why? “He reads the files” was Ram’s response. Others had different views. Arun Jaitley who regarded Mukherjee highly thought there was always a danger of losing the tree for the wood. Pranab had a fondness for Jaitley but thought that without spending time on files, one could never have a grip on the Ministry. Understandably, Mukherjee's role model as Finance Minister was C.D. Deshmukh, a civil servant who went on to become the governor of the Reserve Bank and then the Finance Minister. Mukherjee harboured ambitions of being prime minister but being elevated to the presidency was an impressive consolation prize. In the political world, he was famed for his elephantine memory that made him the go-to man during any political discussion. Whether it was Bengal or any other part of the country, he could rattle off events and even the dates on which they occurred. “He was a ‘human computer’ like Shakuntala Devi. In most states, he could also give you the macro picture. He was relied on for spot information,” said a former bureaucrat. In addition, he was a meticulous diary-writer and brought out two books based on his memories and the contents of his diaries. Mukherjee held a law degree as well as an MA in history and political science. He often made jokes about his diminutive stature. Many in the political world turned up at his doorstep for advice when they were in difficulties. Once he shifted into a counselling role, many say, he would switch off his political side. He was also an administrator who could keep his cool when all others around him were losing theirs. Towards the end of his political career, bureaucrats reported he got irritable more quickly but even that was only an occasional flare-up, such as on TV when he ticked off interviewer Rajdeep Sardesai and told him to mind his tone when speaking to a former president of India. Above all, he was a man who cared about politics and political processes. One visitor to Rashtrapati Bhavan found him intently watching the parliamentary proceedings on Lok Sabha TV and muttering irately at the screen: “He should not have said that.” Early in his career, he caught Sanjay Gandhi's eye and was catapulted to high office even before he was 40. It is said he won his attention with the help of Kamal Nath, who was, at the time, a Calcutta businessman but making his mark in politics. Mukherjee proved his worth as a junior minister in the finance ministry. Noida, on Delhi's outskirts, was Sanjay Gandhi's pet project but even he could not get the State Bank of India to open a branch in Noida. At Mukherjee's suggestion, the Finance Ministry was split into two independent entities -- Revenue and Finance -- both reporting independently to the prime minister. As the revenue minister, Mukherjee instructed the State Bank of India to open the branch. The problem was resolved and a legend, that of the go-to man, was born. By 1980, when Indira Gandhi returned to power after the brief Janata Party interregnum, Mukherjee received a huge promotion and was made Commerce Minister at the age of only 47 -- still very youthful by Indian political standards. In 1982, two years later, his dreams came true. He became the Finance Minister of India. Mukherjee fought the election against Indira Gandhi's wishes and lost. Indira Gandhi was reluctant to include a defeated candidate. It was Sanjay Gandhi who persuaded his mother to change her mind. It also set the curious precedence for finance ministers (or wannabe finance ministers) who lost the election to be inducted into the Cabinet through the back door. Arun Jaitley and Jaswant Singh took advantage of this unfortunate example. Manmohan Singh did one better. He became the Prime Minister. Pranab Mukherjee was essentially a Sanjay Gandhi protégé but he was aware of the negative consequence of this association. He downplayed this relationship and instead pulled out all the stops to portray himself as an Indira Gandhi man. But his relationship with Sanjay was to haunt him later in his career. Rajiv didn’t trust the Sanjay men and Mukherjee’s clumsy effort to become an interim prime minister when Indira Gandhi was assassinated was seen as an additional and very glaring black mark. Pranab was not included in the Rajiv Cabinet in 1984 and later at the first opportunity, Rajiv Gandhi expelled him from the Congress Party. It took him a great deal of effort (and a failed attempt to launch a party) to be allowed back. Mukherjee admitted that being dropped from the cabinet left him “shell shocked and flabbergasted”. The Rajiv years were for Mukherjee the years of wilderness and the political aridity spilled over to the Rao era. He could regain a cabinet berth only in 1995 after 12 long years in the no-man’s land.  Earlier, it was during his time in the Commerce Ministry that he grew close to Dhirubhai Ambani and the Reliance Group. At the Commerce Ministry, he learnt the intricacies of how, especially in the heyday of the licence raj, duties could make or break products and, indeed, companies. By the time Mukherjee was back in favour, the Rajiv Gandhi government had lost its energy amidst the artillery fire surrounding the Bofors gun deal, and also the Shah Bano imbroglio. Later, he was pipped to the post to be finance minister in P. V. Narasimha Rao’s government. Mukherjee had misread Rao as he earlier had misread Rajiv Gandhi. He had also misread the change in ideological climate. Globalisation was beginning and was being endorsed even by communist countries. Deng's China and Gorbachev's Russia had all mended their ways. Mukherjee, a diehard statist, was the wrong man at the wrong time. Not merely did Rao have a new finance minister, he also had a radically new economic policy. The nation had made a 180-degree turn. Mukherjee was history's baggage. Still he got another innings when Chidambaram was replaced by Mukherjee in the UPA era. But he was clearly at odds with the new India. Worse, he was largely blamed for the economic downturn of the UPA2 that paved the way for a Modi triumph. His last act as the Finance Minister was to introduce the infamous Retrospective Taxation which amended a 50-year-old regulation and gave the government power to change laws with retrospective effect. This was Mukherjee’s last hurrah and a valiant last-ditch effort to bring back the rules-regulation Raj. From all accounts, he succeeded. The new law is said to be the single important factor in reducing foreign investments in India. His departure in 2012 for the Rashtrapati Bhavan saved him some embarrassment. Mukherjee himself always insisted he couldn’t become prime minister because he didn’t speak fluent Hindi. Others joked that, with his strong Bengali accent, he didn’t speak English either. Even after decades in Delhi and criss-crossing the world, his accent didn’t change the slightest. Some put this down to his innate belief in Bengali superiority. “Bengalis know there is only one language on earth and English is just a dialect of Bangla,” said another bureaucrat who knew him well. Mukherjee was unfazed whether he was meeting the Queen of Great Britain or any other world leader. “He would speak to the Queen in Buckingham Palace and he stuck to his village college-teacher English. He didn’t care about his background or his height,” the bureaucrat said. Mukherjee’s first job had been as a lecturer in a local college before he shifted to Calcutta. It was common knowledge that Mukherjee, and many others, blamed former West Bengal chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray – with whom he didn’t get along -- for the Emergency. But Mukherjee, himself, was a prime beneficiary of the Emergency and a charter member of the Sanjay Gandhi faction. He was also at odds with former minister A.B.A. Ghani Khan Chowdhary, another Congress Party mass leader in Bengal. In other ways, he was the quintessential Congressman and he took a stern line on communalism. Once when a communal incident broke out and others were caught off-balance, he delivered a strong lecture, quoting, as he was wont, earlier instances when the Congress had fought communalism – even throwing in the exact dates when the incidents had happened. Later in life, however, he took a milder line towards an organisation like the RSS. He adopted the view, as one observer explained, that “if you keep them in the doghouse, they will do many things in an effort to shock you”. Mukherjee argued that the RSS should be mainstreamed and that would force them to “soften down,” the observer said. That outlook may have been the reason for his trip to Nagpur in 2018 where he addressed RSS swayamsevaks and even praised the institution’s founder, though he did also emphasize the importance of tolerance. It was an open secret that Mukherjee wasn’t Sonia Gandhi’s first choice for the presidency. But he built up support at different levels and is said to have forced her hand and easily won the largely ceremonial post. He had recognised he was growing older and the one job he wanted wasn’t coming to him. Later, when Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, he knew that nothing would induce the BJP to give him a second term, but he did sound out Modi gently about his re-election. “You are a Congress nominee,” said Modi almost mischievously. “If the Congress Party proposes your name, we shall consider it,” Modi added. Mukherjee knew the game was lost. He bowed out quietly and gracefully, citing “health complications relating to old age”. Modi was otherwise kind to Mukherjee. He may not have given him a second term but he did honour him with the Bharat Ratna. That was more a put down to Advani (who certainly contributed much more to the nation from the Hindutva point of view) and also to Manmohan Singh (whose contributions surpass Mukherjee's by the long shot). It marked a low-key close to a long and illustrious political career. While it wasn’t perhaps the triumphant finale that he might have chosen for himself, it was very far from an ignominious ending. Mukherjee was predeceased by his wife, Suvra Mukherjee, who died in 2015. The couple had two sons and a daughter. Sharmistha Mukherjee is an accomplished Kathak dancer and choreographer who contested the 2015 Delhi Assembly election as a Congress candidate but failed to win. Abhijit Mukherjee served as a Congress MP from Bengal from 2012 to 2019. In 2012, Sharmistha wrote about her father for India Today, recalling he had to walk nearly 10km every day to school and there was a stream on the way that during the monsoon became a gushing torrent. “Whenever I close my eyes trying to visualise my father, I see this little boy standing by the roaring stream thinking about how to cross it. He has crossed that and many other barricades in his life and walked a long way since then,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Aveek Sarkar elected PTI Chairman||Aveek Sarkar, the Editor Emeritus and Vice Chairman of the Ananda Bazar Group of Publications, has been elected Chairman of Press Trust of India, the country's premier news agency. Sarkar's election was ratified by PTI's Board of Directors at their meeting on Saturday. He succeeds Vijay Kumar Chopra, Chief Editor of the Punjab Kesari Group of newspapers. Sarkar, 75, started training as a journalist while he was a student, just out of school. After graduating from the University of Calcutta, he went to Britain where he came under the tutelage of the legendary editor of The Sunday Times, Sir Harold Evans. He was schooled in journalism by such iconic figures as Edwin Taylor in design and Ian Jack in sub-editing. As Chief Editor of the Ananda Bazar Group, Sarkar was the moving force behind the transformation of the group's publications, which include Bengali language daily Anandabazar Patrika and English daily The Telegraph, both of which he personally edited. In addition, the Calcutta-based group also runs six television news channels in various languages, of which the most prominent is the Hindi-language ABP News. The group also publishes a large number of magazines. Sarkar is a man of varied interests and counts books, food, wine and art among his principal loves. He is a fitness fanatic and spends almost two hours every day on yoga, weights and rowing. He was captain of the Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) for 10 years. He was the founding Managing Director of Penguin India, the Indian counterpart of Penguin Books, the founding Editor of Business Standard and also the pivotal figure behind the acquisition of STAR News by the ABP Group in 2003. Besides Sarkar and Chopra, the PTI Board members are Vineet Jain (Times of India), N. Ravi (The Hindu), Viveck Goenka (the Express Group), Mahendra Mohan Gupta (Dainik Jagran), K.N. Shanth Kumar (Deccan Herald), Riyad Mathew (Malayala Manorama), M.V. Shreyamskumar (Mathrubhumi), R. Lakshmipathy (Dinamalar), Hormusji N Cama (Bombay Samachar), Praveen Someshwar (Hindustan Times), Justice R.C. Lahoti, Deepak Nayyar, Shyam Saran and J.F. Pochkhanawalla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court slaps token fine of Re 1 on Bhushan for contempt||The Supreme Court imposed a token fine of Re 1 on advocate Prashant Bhushan whom it found guilty of contempt for two of his tweets on Monday, adding that in case he failed to pay by September 15 he would have to undergo a three-month jail sentence and be barred from practising for three years. A bench of Justice Arun Mishra, B R Gavai, and Krishna Murari observed, “Freedom of speech cannot be curtailed but rights of others need to be respected.” The verdict said not only had the bench persuaded Bhushan to express regret but Attorney General K. K. Venugopal had also opined that it was in the fitness of things that the contemnor should express regret. The bench also noted that the statements of Bhushan submitted in the court were released to the media before they were taken on record. Alter, Bhushan said he would submit the token fine of Re 1, but indicated he would file a review plea against the order. Bhushan said he had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court and judiciary and his tweets were not intended to disrespect the apex court. "While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment," he said hours after the top court imposed the fine.  "I have had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court. I have always believed it to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive," Bhushan said at a press conference by CJAR (Campaign for Judicial Accountability & Reforms) and Swaraj Abhiyan. During an earlier hearing, the Supreme Court bench had orally observed that the sentence, if any, will not be enforced against Bhushan till the decision is taken on his plea seeking review of the judgement convicting him in the contempt case. On August 14, the apex court had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary and maintained they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in public interest. Bhushan in his statement had refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for the tweets, saying what he had expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold. On August 25, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan had urged the top court to show "judicial statesmanship" and not make Bhushan a "martyr" by punishing him for contempt over the tweets, after the activist-lawyer rejected fresh suggestions from the court for an apology. Dhavan, representing Bhushan, had suggested that the top court recall the August 14 verdict convicting the activist lawyer and not to impose any sentence. He urged it to not only close the case but also to bring an end to the controversy. Justice Mishra is demitting office on September 2. Venugopal had requested the court to forgive Bhushan with a message that he should not repeat this act. He also said Bhushan, who has been refusing to tender an unconditional apology for the tweets, should withdraw all statements and express regret. The bench had then given 30 minutes to Bhushan to "think over" withdrawing his statements made in the court and said he made "disparaging remarks against the institution and the judges". The bench had earlier, on August 20, granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his "defiant statement" and tender "unconditional apology" for the contemptuous tweets. Referring to Bhushan's statements and his refusal to apologise, the bench had told Venugopal that mistakes were committed by all but they needed to be accepted, but Bhushan was not willing to accept that. Dhavan had argued that reprimanding Bhushan like "don't do it again" as suggested by the Attorney General will not be correct and instead a statesman-like message should be there like "Mr Bhushan though we disagree with many things, but from next time you should be more responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Indian Army thwarts fresh attempts by China's PLA to change status quo in Ladakh||In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops, the Army said on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30. A brigade commander level flag meeting is currently in progress at Chushul to resolve the issues, he said. "On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo," Col Anand said in a statement. "Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground," the Army spokesperson said. He said the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect India's territorial integrity. It is the first major incident involving the troops of the two countries after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but it is yet to make the details public but according to an American intelligence report it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. The two sides began a process of disengagement on July 6, a day after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in eastern Ladakh. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas. At the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the two armies in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Even as both sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army stepped up its strength in all key areas along the LAC to deal with any eventualities. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing the operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", sources said. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes. Following the incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||SC rejects Mallya's plea seeking review of 2017 order in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya seeking review of its 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring USD 40 million to his children. A bench comprising justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan said, "We do not find any merits. Review petition dismissed." The apex court had reserved its verdict on the review plea on August 27 after hearing arguments from both sides. Mallya had filed the petition seeking review of the apex court's May 9, 2017 order by which he was held guilty of contempt of court for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violation of the order. The fugitive businessman, who is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is presently in the United Kingdom. The apex court's 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred USD 40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in "flagrant violation" of various judicial orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health declines||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee declined on Monday morning and he has suffered a septic shock due to his lung infection, the Army's Research and Referral Hospital said. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said he continues to be in a deep coma and is on ventilator support. Mukherjee is being managed by a team of specialists, they added. The former president was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated the same day for removal of a clot in his brain. He later developed a lung infection. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Modi champions swadeshi dog breeds in Mann ki Baat||No one can fault Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his choice of metaphors and sense of timing. When the economy has gone to the dogs and the government is in the doghouse over Covid-19 and the China border crisis, Modi used the better part of his monthly Mann ki Baat radio address on Sunday to champion the cause of rearing swadeshi dog breeds that have “astounding beauty and quality”. The avowed objective was the dogged pursuit of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), under which no “domain” should be left “untouched” by its “influence”. “Friends, I have also been told that Indian breed dogs are also very good and capable. Among the Indian breeds, Mudhol Hound and Himachali Hound are of excellent pedigree. Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai are fabulous Indian breeds. They cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings,” Modi said, according to the English translation of Mann ki Baat. Modi’s affection for man’s best friend is well documented. In 2013, asked whether he regretted the Gujarat violence of 2002 (over 1,000 people were killed in riots), Modi, then Gujarat chief minister, had told the Reuters news agency: “Someone else is driving a car and we’re sitting behind, even then if a puppy comes under the wheel, will it be painful or not? Of course it is. If I’m a chief minister or not, I’m a human being. If something bad happens anywhere, it is natural to be sad.” In Sunday’s Mann ki Baat, the Prime Minister could not stop talking about dogs. “Now, our security agencies are also inducting these Indian breed dogs as part of their security squad. In the recent past, Mudhol Hound dogs have been trained and inducted in the dog squad of the army, CISF and NSG; Kombai dogs have been included by the CRPF. Research on the Indian breed dogs is also being done by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research with the aim to make them better and more beneficial,” Modi said. The Prime Minister urged people to “search for these breeds on the Internet and know more about them”. “The beauty and qualities of these breeds will leave you astounded! The next time you think of raising a pet dog, consider bringing home one of these Indian breeds. At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?” the Prime Minister said. Modi also spoke at length about the toy industry and urged people to be “vocal about local toys”. He said India had the potential to become a toy hub and called upon start-ups to take up the challenge of converting the country into one. The Prime Minister brought up the issue of toys while highlighting the plight of children, who have been forced to stay indoors because of the pandemic. Modi called upon start-ups to “team up for toys”, saying the country had the potential to become the toy hub of the world. The Prime Minister did refer to Covid-19, lauding people for showing “discipline” and “responsibility” while celebrating festivals during the pandemic. At the end of the address, he urged people to remain vigilant by wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing. LAKH-PLUS DISLIKES Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat video uploaded by the BJP’s official YouTube channel has been greeted with 1.80 lakh dislikes and 17,000 likes till 1.15am on Monday. Such an overwhelming negative response to an official social media upload of the Prime Minister is rare. Some believe this could be a fallout of the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the JEE-NEET exams amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Covid: IMA appeal to help private doctors||The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to establish a “national solatium” to be paid to the families of all the doctors and other healthcare workers who die from the coronavirus disease. In a letter to Modi, the association iterated its concern about the growing number of Covid-19 infections and deaths among healthcare workers and urged that the Rs 50-lakh solatium approved for government staff should be extended to the private sector. More than 2,000 doctors have been infected by Covid in the country and 309 have died, the association said in its second such letter to Modi. It had on August 8 sent a similar letter, counting 196 deaths among doctors. General practitioners who remain the first point of contact for most patients across the country account for 188 of the 309 deaths mentioned by the association. The Centre had earlier this year announced a Rs 50-lakh insurance scheme to cover around 22 lakh government healthcare workers, including hospital ward staff, nurses, paramedics, technicians, doctors and specialists. The Union health ministry had on July 31 said it had received 131 claims from the families of healthcare workers who had died from Covid-19. A senior health ministry official said on Sunday that the ministry had not released data on the number of infections among healthcare workers. “All we’re pointing out is that Covid-19 does not differentiate between public and private sector,” Rajan Sharma, national president of the association, told The Telegraph. “Doctors and other healthcare workers in the private sector are also exposing themselves to the risk of the infection.” The association said it was “constrained to point out that” doctors and other healthcare workers in the private sector “could have stayed back at home during the epidemic” to protect themselves. “They chose to serve the nation in the best traditions of the medical profession,” it said in its appeal to Modi. “The solatium approved by the government for colleagues in government services in all fairness is deserved by the children of these martyrs as well.” All doctors who have laid down their lives fighting this epidemic should be treated on a par with the martyrs of the armed forces and acknowledged appropriately, the association said. It added that the surviving spouse or dependents should be provided with a government job. Sharma said the association had learnt through anecdotal accounts that the solatium in place had “failed to reach the unfortunate beneficiaries due to the inadequacy of the chosen instrument and indifference”. The association has called for a dedicated system to administer the solatium. The association’s August 8 list of doctors who had died from Covid-19 included a 55-year-old paediatrician from Chandigarh, a 55-year-old radiotherapist from Patna, a 55-year-old neurosurgeon from Chennai and a 59-year-old ophthalmologist from Howrah. The association says general practitioners have died in Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Covid: beyond containment stage, focus on reducing deaths||India’s coronavirus epidemic is beyond any prospects of containment at multiple sites that have widespread transmission or high infection prevalence rates and where health authorities have quietly turned their focus to curbing deaths, experts have said. Public health specialists and epidemiologists say that efforts to contain the infection through measures such as contact tracing made sense during the early stages of the epidemic but are fatigue-inducing and wasteful in areas with widespread transmission. The Union health ministry had earlier this week urged 10 states, including Bengal, to focus on “containment, contact tracing and surveillance” among the actions required for early diagnosis, effective treatment and mortality reduction among Covid-19 patients. The advisory also asked the states to ensure that at least in 80 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases, all the close contacts were “traced and tested” within 72 hours. Contact tracing helps identify and isolate people who might be infected to prevent further spread of the infection. But the scale of the epidemic at many places, experts say, would render containment efforts futile. India on Sunday recorded 78,761 new Covid-19 cases, including 16,286 in Maharashtra, 8,362 in Karnataka and 3,012 in Bengal — three of the 10 states that account for 89 per cent of the mortality. The average daily number of new cases over the past week has been 71,113. If every new positive case had only three contacts, field health staff would need to trace and test over 210,000 people every day. When there are hundreds or thousands of new cases every day, contact tracing will cause fatigue with little impact, said Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and president of the Indian Public Health Association. Surveys in Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune have suggested that 17 to 51 per cent of the sampled populations in some localities had been infected by the coronavirus, pointing to widespread transmission that has been invisible or not accounted in the daily Covid-19 counts. “The response in such circumstances should focus on mitigation — or efforts to minimise deaths by ensuring that every patient who needs hospital care gets the best care possible,” Rai said. “Testing all contacts would be wasteful. Resources should be conserved to improve and expand the treatment facilities.” India’s number of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Sunday was 765,302, the second highest in the world after the US, whose corresponding figure is over 2.5 million. Some epidemiologists say the successful containment achieved early in Kerala and at Dharavi in Mumbai probably raised expectations that similar feats would be possible across India. Kerala was the first state to detect a coronavirus case on January 30, and used rigorous contact tracing and quarantine to keep the daily number of infections below 100 till early June. The number has grown since then and the state on Sunday recorded 2,397 new cases. “There’s nothing surprising about the rise in numbers, whether in Kerala or elsewhere — this is the nature of this coronavirus,” said Jaiprakash Muliyil, a community medicine specialist and former principal at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Kerala did a fantastic job, a superhuman effort to help keep infections low as long as it was possible. But Kerala’s early success created an impression that it was possible to contain the virus.” Health authorities working alongside local doctors in Mumbai also helped achieve a steep decline in the number of new infections in Dharavi — from a daily average of 43 in May to one of 19 in June to single-digit numbers in August. They adopted standard public health measures — contact tracing, testing suspects, isolating patients and moving vulnerable elderly people to temporary shelters away from the infection’s hot-zone. “What Dharavi did demanded huge amounts of effort and determination,” said Oommen John, a public health expert at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It is unrealistic to expect the model to be replicated everywhere else.” Some experts argue that India has pursued both containment and mitigation simultaneously. “It doesn’t have to be a choice — one or the other — we’ll have to ride both horses depending on the ground situation,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior clinician-researcher at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research. “A lot of effort has gone into preparing health facilities for Covid-19 patients and trying to ensure that the patients receive effective treatment,” he said. “Given the state of our health system, India has thus far done much better than it might have,” Bhatnagar said. Health officials have attributed India’s declining mortality rate among Covid-19 patients — from 3.3 per cent in mid-June to 2.7 per cent in mid-July to 1.79 per cent on Sunday — to early diagnosis and effective treatment. But health experts expect the epidemic to continue to pose severe challenges. “It’s bound to grow,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a senior epidemiologist in Lucknow and member of an ICMR task force on epidemiology and surveillance. “The key to effective response lies in recognising what is going on at the local level. The response should be tailored to local situations.” Contact tracing and containment efforts will remain important in areas where the infection is still emerging, for instance, across rural areas or clusters of villages with few infections. But in areas with widespread transmission, Reddy said, the appropriate response would be mitigation and personal protection measures such as masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Justice Arun Mishra averse to farewell||Justice Arun Mishra, who headed the Supreme Court bench that has convicted lawyer Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt and is scheduled to sentence him on Monday, has declined any farewell party from the Bar. He is due to retire on September 2. According to sources close to the judge, Justice Mishra has cited the pandemic to politely turn down the offer from the Supreme Court Bar Association and the Confederation of Indian Bar to give him a farewell. It is customary for the Bar to give a farewell to every retiring judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||A migrant without memory, a boy and a reunion||When Daya Bhuyan, 65, was reunited with his family in Odisha on Sunday, one could have been forgiven for wondering why it had taken a migrant worker five months to return home after the lockdown. Except that for Daya, the lockdown had lasted three decades. A lockdown of his memory that had shut away from him his entire past life, even his own identity. Daya, then an unmarried young man, had left his village in Gajapati district to work as a construction labourer in Arunachal Pradesh sometime in the 1980s. Nobody in his village of Abasingh remembers the exact year he left, nor whether he ever visited home in the years before his mind went blank. Most of his elders and some of his contemporaries in the village are dead. Daya seems to have lost his memory, from whatever cause, by the late 1980s. The man from the Saora tribal community lived in a shack in the forests of Ziro Valley in Lower Subansiri district, keeping himself alive by selling firewood. It’s an unlikely friendship that he struck up there with a teenage boy named Rubu Ama, who would trek miles to visit him, that eventually led to his homecoming. Officials from the two state governments also played a part. Daya’s nephew Mukunda Bhuyan said: “We are happy to see bada bapa (uncle) after such a long time.” “We’ll take care of him. He doesn’t need to go anywhere or work any more. We are indebted to Rubu Ama Sir.” Ama, now a 32-year-old school owner in Ziro town who had probably not been born when Daya first arrived in Arunachal, described to The Telegraph how their friendship began in 2003, when he would have barely been 15. “He lived in a makeshift hut of bamboo and tarpaulin near a hill 7km from my home. Of this, 4km was navigable by car but one had to walk the remaining 3km,” Ama said over the phone from Arunachal. What began as a boy’s curiosity about a mysterious forest dweller who spoke little and “did not remember anything”, not even his own name, grew into a lasting friendship. The local people used to call Daya “Jagapati Karji” — the first word a distortion of “Gajapati”, Daya’s home district whose name he seemed to remember, and the second an Odia surname familiar to the villagers, thanks probably to some other migrant from Odisha. “When I first met him I was not interested in finding out where he was from or what his past life had been like,” Ama said. However, he realised his friend’s many vulnerabilities and chipped in with help whenever he could. When Daya fell ill last September, Ama, owner of the Royal Blue Pine Academy (Class I to X), started providing him with monthly rations, bringing it himself or sending it through others. In October, Ama shot a video of Daya on his mobile and passed it on to a WhatsApp group of Odias living in Arunachal, requesting them to circulate it across social media platforms. They did but with little result. When Daya’s health worsened during the lockdown, Ama kept in constant touch, more determined than ever to reunite his friend with his family. “He couldn’t recall his parents’ names properly, and identified himself as Jagapati Karji. But he was able to name his district and village more or less correctly,” Ama said. “On July 26, I made another short video of him and shared it on social media. Through some Odia people here I got in touch with a man called Abhilash Panda, who helped me track down Daya’s home address.” Panda, an ABVP member from Bhubaneswar, told this newspaper: “I contacted a journalist friend who helped me trace Daya’s village in Gajapati.” The journalist also found out that Jagapati Karji’s real name was Daya Bhuyan. Ama later showed Daya photos of himself as a young man as well as those of his brothers and his village, all sent by Panda, and told him the little that had been gleaned about his past life. “Daya broke down and pleaded with me to take him home,” Ama said. “I brought him to my house on August 8 and got him to speak to his family through a video call. Although he could not recognise them, he was desperate to return home.” Daya, however, fell ill and was admitted to hospital for a week from August 13. “I spent a whole night with him at the hospital to see him recover,” Ama said. By then the Odisha and Arunachal governments had got in touch. “Today (Sunday) we took him to his village. The entire village was elated to see him back,” said Gajapati district assistant labour officer Subhash Chandra Mandal, who had accompanied Daya back from Arunachal. Sources in the village said Daya seemed to have recognised his younger brother Suku Bhuyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Bangalore metal beats coronavirus blues||They say that life’s a carousel Spinning fast, you gotta ride it well The world is full of Kings and Queens Who blind your eyes and steal your dreamsHeaven and Hell, by Black Sabbath If the pandemic has flipped like a carousel the world as we knew it and things have spun out of control, Bangalore’s musicians can say they have worn the thorny corona with resounding optimism and not allowed their dreams to be stolen. Although Covid-19 has kept everyone home, bands in Bangalore, which reverberates with the power of metal and is home to India’s only dedicated open-air heavy metal festival, have found ways to use the time creatively, and in some case more purposefully, in spite of zero earnings from music. Most band members usually have day jobs that leave them to battle the maddening traffic in the city. With everyone working from home now and the pandemic putting paid to live shows, the musicians have enough time to rethink, relook and build on their repertoire. The bands are also connecting with fans by uploading on social media videos of how they have been creating music during the lockdown. Chintan Chinnappa, guitarist of the hugely popular thrash metal band Inner Sanctum who describes himself as a “lawyer by day, rock star by night”, has been missing live shows but would rather look for low-hanging fruits for now. Because of the lockdown, it has been a rather different kind of six months for the band that had opened for Metallica, the iconic American heavy metal band, in Bangalore in 2011. “We miss the adrenaline of live shows. But we need to stay busy and creative using the time in hand,” Chinnappa told The Telegraph. “It’s been very difficult for bands. But the only advantage is we have time to cultivate our fan base and work on our music,” he added. “As we have day jobs, we didn’t have time earlier to build on our outreach. Lots of us are using this time to build visibility and stay alive when it’s time to hit the stage,” Chinnappa said. Inner Sanctum is gearing up to release its first offering of the Covid season — a single titled Divided By Hate that will be a big-budget music video. “You need to make time for your passions, otherwise you go crazy in such times,” Chinnappa said, adding that most band members with salaried jobs would survive the current crisis. Srikanth Panaman, lead guitarist of the metal band Bevar Sea, recounted how the members used to juggle between day jobs and concerts with little time left for anything else. “We had taken a break in 2016 to rethink and refocus, but were still busy with our jobs. Covid-19 has actually helped us regroup and we are now set to complete our new album,” Panaman said. Of course, he misses the well-attended shows and all that energy of playing on stage. “Live is always great and we miss playing on big stages. But again, we took the positives out of the current situation and didn’t buckle under the pressure of not doing shows,” said Panaman, who is an IT consultant. Like most other bands, members of Bevar Sea snuck in to the comfort of their homes to work on new music and rethink their musicality. “We took our jam room totally online and used technology to share notes on our new production. We will start taking one member at a time to the studio (to maintain physical distancing) to record his track until everything is put together,” Panaman said. “But of course, we miss sitting together and getting instant feedback from each other,” he added. Building his home studio is another project in the works so that the band wouldn’t need to hire studios. The vocalist of Bevar Sea, Ganesh Krishnaswamy, who doubles as the drummer of a band named Kryptos, used the time to come up with his solo sideshow Megadrone in which he played lead guitar, base, synthesiser and the drum track. “After a few weeks of lockdown I realised we would have to stay indoors for long. So I didn’t want to slide into frustration and instead put down some ideas that developed into this one-song album of 55 minutes,” Krishnaswamy said. While money flow depends entirely on the traction a song receives on online music platforms like Apple Music and Spotify, the response has been very encouraging for his Covid-time solo release. Since stepping out was no longer easy, Krishnaswamy converted his guest room into a home studio where the album took shape. “In fact, I’ve already finished writing for the second album for which recording will start in mid-October,” he said adding that being creative was the best way to beat the Covid blues. Krishnaswamy is in no hurry to play live with powerful amplifiers thumping music into head-bangers in the crowd. “Live music is not coming back anytime soon. Even if it does, I don’t want to go out there unless I am vaccinated,” said Krishnaswamy, who handles digital strategy for an ad agency during the day. He too said band revenues had been badly hit. “We are making music but we don’t earn anything, although fans do buy merchandise of Kryptos,” Krishnaswamy said. But as Black Sabbath might have said in the current context: “And it’s on and on, on and on and on/And on and on and on and on and on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||India||India’s first woman cardiologist dead||India’s first woman cardiologist S. Padmavati, who drew scores of young doctors into her speciality, introduced the country’s first super-specialisation cardiology course, coronary care unit and mobile coronary care van and amazed her colleagues by swimming well into her 90s, died from Covid-19 on Saturday. She was 103. Sivaramakrishna Iyer Padmavati, described by some fellow cardiologists as the “godmother of cardiology in India”, passed away after a 10-day battle with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus, her colleagues said. Padmavati pioneered several aspects of coronary care services over more than two decades at the government-run Lady Hardinge Medical College and Maulana Azad Medical College in New Delhi. She founded the National Heart Institute in 1982 to continue patient care and research. She contributed to early research in India on coronary heart disease, rheumatic fever and high blood pressure, introduced a coronary catheterisation lab for diagnostic cardiology at Lady Hardinge in 1954 and launched coronary care services and a coronary care van at Maulana Azad in the late 1960s. “Mobile coronary care vans are so common, almost mundane now, but she introduced this concept to India,” said O.P. Yadava, chief cardiac surgeon at the National Heart Institute. Padmavati was director-principal at Maulana Azad when Yadava joined the first-year MBBS course there. “Many of the top cardiologists in the country today were her students,” Yadava said. Padmavati was born to a family of barristers in Magwe, a small town in Myanmar, in 1917 and studied medicine at the Rangoon Medical School. She then left for England, where she acquired the Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Edinburgh. She continued her postgraduate training in Sweden and the US before returning to India. Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the then Union health minister, appointed her a lecturer at Lady Hardinge where she rose to become professor and head of medicine. The government honoured her with the Padma Bhushan in 1967 and the Padma Vibhushan in 1992. Colleagues on Sunday remembered her as a person of many facets -- an aficionada of silk saris and solitaire diamonds who relished a glass of port every evening and continued to swim into her early 90s. “During one of her swims at age 88 she suffered a heart attack – someone noticed that she wasn’t swimming properly,” Yadava said. She was moved to the National Heart Institute where she underwent a bypass surgery. “Six months later, she began swimming again and continued till she was 93,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||India||Pinarayi Vijayan unveils ‘100’ Onam gifts||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday announced enhancements in food and social security schemes and the health infrastructure while declaring that 100 new projects would be inaugurated in the next 100 days. He told a news conference the distribution of dry ration kits, a feature of the state’s relief efforts during the 2018 and 2019 floods and the 2020 lockdown, would continue for another four months. “More than 86 lakh such kits were distributed (at the start of the lockdown).... With 1.5 lakh more ration card holders (added since then), the government has distributed more than 88 lakh food kits for Onam (which began last week),” he said. “Food kit distribution will continue for another four months. But if you ask me what the most effective change made by the Left government was, I would say it’s the social security pension (for the destitute, widows and others).” Vijayan said 35 lakh people received Rs 600 a month as social security pension when his government assumed charge four years ago. Since then, the sum had been increased “to Rs 1,000, then Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,300”. “Now we are adding another Rs 100 (to make it Rs 1400.) The beneficiaries increased from 35 lakh to 58 lakh; now another 23 lakh have been added,” he said. Vijayan added that from now on, the pensions would be paid every month instead of every three months. He said his government had already appointed “9,768 health workers, 1,200 house surgeons and another 1,152 health workers on ad hoc basis” during the Covid crisis. He said that over the next 100 days, his government would increase testing to 50,000 a day (from about 35,000), and raise the number of family health centres from 386 to 539. Vijayan said 24 new government hospitals, including medical colleges and district and taluk hospitals, would be opened in 100 days, as would “10 new dialysis centres, three catheterisation labs and two more modern cancer centres”. Some 500 government school buildings will be rebuilt at Rs 5 crore each, and another 35 at Rs 3 crore each. Fourteen new school buildings will be inaugurated. “While 45,000 classrooms at government schools are already hi-tech (with digital learning facilities), all the lower primary schools (up to Class IV) will be converted into hi-tech classrooms,” Vijayan said. He promised 11,400 computer labs for schools that lack them, and laptops for 5 lakh students. Some 50,000 jobs will be created through 15,000 enterprises in the non-agriculture sector, and another 1,000 posts in colleges and higher secondary institutions, he said. Vijayan had promised to generate employment to help Malayalis who had lost their jobs in the Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi prods Modi on JEE and NEET exams||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said students wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address their concerns over holding the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic in his monthly radio programme but he spoke about toys instead. Modi said during the Mann ki Baat address that the country had the talent and ability to become a toy industry hub and called upon startups and entrepreneurs to “team up for toys”. Using the hashtag “Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat”, Rahul tweeted: “JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM to do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ but the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’.” Rahul and the Congress have supported the demand to postpone the JEE Main engineering entrance exam and the medical entrance NEET, both scheduled in September, saying there was a risk to the health of students at a time Covid-19 cases were rising sharply across the country. Six state governments have moved the Supreme Court seeking a postponement. However, appearing oblivious to the countrywide campaign by students, political parties and activists, Modi on Sunday spoke not about exams but toys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal parrots Amit Shah, Sangh line on Onam||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has drawn flak for extending “Vamana Jayanti” greetings on the occasion of Onam, siding with a Sangh parivar belief and also sharing the same image that the BJP’s Amit Shah had done four years ago. While Malayalis overwhelmingly celebrate Onam as the mythological annual return of the Asura king Mahabali to his erstwhile kingdom, the RSS has often tried to turn this belief on its head by commemorating Vamana, the fifth avatar of Lord Vishnu who had banished Mahabali. Many see this as a Sangh parivar design to impose a “Brahminical version” of history (Vamana is a Brahmin and Mahabali an Asura), and an attempt to restore the “Brahminical order of inequality and oppression”. On Saturday, Aam Aadmi Party leader Kejriwal, who has frequently been accused of mirroring the BJP after being reelected in February, tweeted in Hindi on the first day of Onam festivities: “Greetings to all of you on the anniversary of God Vamana, the fifth avatar of Lord Vishnu. May Lord Vishnu’s benevolence be upon you forever.” Shah, then the BJP chief and now the Union home minister, had in 2016 tweeted on similar lines and shared the same image that Kejriwal has now tweeted: that of Vamana, wearing a sacred thread, banishing Mahabali by putting a foot on his head. Like in Shah’s case, Kejriwal’s tweet has angered Malayalis. Since the 2016 snub, when both the Left and the Congress in Kerala had criticised the BJP and the RSS, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had slammed Shah for “ridiculing Kerala, Keralites and the culture of Kerala”, top BJP leaders have refrained from using the Vamana phraseology in official Onam greetings. Kejriwal, however, appears to have picked up the baton from the Sangh, whose official publications have stuck to the Bhagvata Purana’s account that Vamana was born on the eve of Onam, which falls on Monday. Poems of the Vaishnavite Tamil Alvars describe Vamana as the deity of the festival at least until the 11th century. However, Mahabali had taken precedence by the 16th century. Kejriwal’s office did not respond to queries from this newspaper on the CM’s tweet. Author Anita Nair tweeted: “About time I sent Mr Kejriwal a copy of my Magical Indian Myths where the myth of the Vamana apropos Mahabali and Onam is explained so even a 9-year-old child can understand it.” She added: “I have no qualms about Kejriwal choosing to offer Vamana Jayanthi wishes but to use an image of Vamana pressing down Mahabali into the netherworld is a direct reference to Onam. And as you know Onam is about welcoming Mahabali not Vamana.” Unlike in Shah’s case, Vijayan has not reacted to Kejriwal’s greeting choices. In 2019, AAP had replaced its Kerala convener C.R. Neelakandan, a veteran social activist, after he declared support for the Congress-led UDF in a few seats for the Lok Sabha polls, and clarified that it backed the CPM-helmed LDF. Vijayan’s partymen, however, did not mirror his benevolence. Subin Dennis, an economist at Delhi’s Tricontinental think-tank and a CPM member, wrote in flurry of tweets: “Kejriwal takes the Amit Shah road to extend ‘Vamana Jayanti’ greetings. In stark contrast, in Kerala we celebrate Onam, to commemorate the return of the just and righteous Asura king Mahabali, not to celebrate Vamana’s treachery. “Onam commemorates the day when popular Asura king Mahabali returns once a year to visit his people. But Sanghis prefer Vamana Jayanti, celebrating the restoration of the Brahminical order of inequality & oppression. It is a difference of vision about the future of society itself. “Now Kejriwal has joined the Sanghis to indicate what he prefers: the inequality of the order that was restored when Mahabali was subjugated by treachery, not the egalitarianism which Onam celebrates and seeks to build again.” Dennis’ tweets were widely shared by the CPM’s Kerala ecosystem. Congress MP Hibi Eden accused Kejriwal of being the BJP’s “B team”, which AAP has frequently been accused of after the party that rules Delhi failed to curb the communal riots in February that killed 53 people. Eden tweeted: “All Malayalees deserve this... for the enthusiasm they showed to vote for AAP and Kejriwal.… Freebies come and go but culture, history, traditions can’t be distorted like this.… BJP and AAP do the same when it comes to this.… B team of BJP.” Although AAP has no representation in Kerala’s elected institutions, Malayali pockets in Delhi are seen as party strongholds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||India||Kashmir dailies roasted for silence on pellet injuries to Muharram mourners ||Valley newspapers faced criticism on Sunday for largely ignoring the pellet injuries to Muharram mourners in Saturday’s security force action, their silence in line with their year-old policy of not annoying the government for fear of a backlash or advertisement squeeze. Dozens of Muharram processionists were injured, some of them blinded or nearly blinded, when the forces fired shotgun pellets and tear gas canisters to disperse the mobs on Saturday and Sunday, mostly in the Srinagar and Budgam districts. Gruesome pictures of pellet-hit boys have taken social media by storm but several of Srinagar’s major dailies have given little or no space to the forces’ action, triggering outrage and a cry for an “independent media”. Class X student Suhail Ahmad was hit by pellets in both eyes on Saturday. His right eye is damaged and there is only a faint hope that the left would recover. Videos showed people using crude methods to remove pellets from the wounds of some of the injured, too afraid to visit hospitals lest they be arrested. Srinagar police chief Haseeb Mughal told reporters the mourners had defied the Covid curbs on gatherings and pelted the police with stones. Valley newspapers had in the past been sympathetic to the azadi cause and prioritised coverage of rights violations by the security forces. But they fell in line after the clampdown in August last year and began to resemble government bulletins. On Sunday, social media users, including journalists working for the national and international media in Srinagar, censured their coverage — or the lack of it — of the Muharram processions. Images of the front pages of major dailies were splashed across social media to prove the point. Shia mourners traditionally take to the streets during Muharram but the government had imposed restrictions this time, citing the Covid threat, after some processions earlier this week turned into pro-azadi demonstrations. “There is not even an atom of courage or for that matter honesty in editors of Kashmiri newspapers to report truth in their pages. What a meek surrender! I wonder how they live with themselves,” journalist Tariq Mir tweeted. “Mind you, #Bemina and #Budgam are not in #Kashmir. Otherwise the colossal human tragedy and pellet horror would have been reported by the Srinagar-based newspapers. Let us not be harsh on them. News is about proximity. Bemina and Budgam are far-off places. Let’s be considerate!” mocked journalist author Gowher Geelani. Bemina is a locality in Srinagar. Fahad Shah, editor of the news portal Kashmir Walla, said the shoddy coverage had underlined the “need for an independent media” in the Valley. Shah’s has been one of the few Valley news outlets willing to speak truth to the government, and he has been summoned by the police a few times over certain reports. An editor of an English-language newspaper said the Kashmir dailies were “gradually reclaiming the space” they had conceded last year after the clampdown. “There have been some brave pieces of late. All the newsmakers like Farooq Abdullah and others were behind bars; as they have returned to public life, our coverage is also improving,” the editor told The Telegraph. “But yes, there’s still a long way to go.” Another editor claimed the newspapers had been discreetly told to give the heaviest coverage to “developmental activities” by the government. “The (newspaper) business has been hit hard during the yearlong lockdown over the scrapping of Article 370 and the pandemic. Government advertisements are the dailies’ only source of revenue,” said the editor, a member of the now-defunct Kashmir Editors Guild. The guild, he said, had not issued a single statement or held a single interaction since the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year because of the “fear of a backlash”. When the government came out with a new media policy in June that empowered the State to decide what is fake news and act, no major media organisation in the Valley chose to criticise it. Journalists who have taken a stand have faced a crackdown, being booked and summoned by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
31-08-2020||West Bengal||IISER guardians irked with CBSE over affiliation||Guardians of students at the Garden High School-IISER in Nadia’s Mohanpur have accused the Central Board of Secondary Education of skirting the core issue of its affiliation and have said registration of Class IX students at another institution is a mere “consolation”. “The CBSE has been playing with the future of students without granting affiliation to the school. It is not just a question of Class IX, but of around 400 other students who have been suffering from anxiety for two years. The issue remained unresolved halfway into a new academic year,” said Anirban Mukherjee, a guardian. However, the CBSE’s action was in sync with an August 28 order by a division bench of Calcutta High Court. The order was issued on a petition by the CBSE which challenged a single-judge bench’s directive on July 30. Justice Soumen Sen had on July 30 directed the CBSE to issue provisional affiliation to the school and ensure admission to students who had cleared Class VIII. The order was issued on a petition by the Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF) which runs the school. During the hearing of the appeal on August 28, the CBSE assured the division bench that it would “register” students of Class IX with another school of equivalent standard, subject to parental consent so that the wards could appear in the board’s final examination. The division bench comprising Justice Indra Prasanna Mukerji and Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay approved the CBSE’s submission, setting aside the July 30 order, while offering the conditional option to register the students from Class IX within four weeks. The division bench stated if the condition (registration of Class IX students) was fulfilled, the CBSE “may not provisionally affiliate the school” and” await the disposal of the appeal”. Otherwise, said the court, the July 30 order (issue of affiliation) “shall remain in full force”. CBSE counsel U.S. Menon had assured the division bench of the registration of students. The CBSE’s move, however, was not well received by guardians. Goutam Majumder, a guardian, said: “The CBSE only pursuing the registration process is shocking.” T.K. Gopalan, the chief executive officer of the SGF, said the litigation was “jeopardising” the future of the students. The CBSE had rejected the affiliation on the grounds that the school had no boundary wall and the NOC by the IISER-K had not been vetted by the Union HRD ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||School shut, classes on the go||A schoolteacher in West Burdwan’s Jamuria block has been moving from one village to another to teach his students, mostly from tribal communities, for a month now as regular classes have been on hold since March owing to the pandemic. Apart from taking classes in open spaces, Deep Narayan Nayak, 30, the teacher at the Tilka Maji Adivasi Primary School in Jamuria, distributes among children dry food, textbooks and notebooks that he buys with his salary. The lockdown has bared the digital divide between rural and urban students, which teachers like Nayak are trying to bridge with physical classes in free spaces, keeping in mind Covid safety protocols. Nayak said he chose vacant fields or village roadsides for the classes. Students sit comfortably, spacing themselves out so that social distancing is maintained. They are told to wear masks, and explained why they should. “At least 25 to 30 students are attending classes every day for over the last one month,” Nayak said, adding the school has 150 students, mostly from nearby villages. “I keep my venue flexible, as I move from one village to another. I also try and spread awareness among parents of the novel coronavirus and how to stay safe amid the pandemic,” the teacher said. On what prompted him to take the initiative, Nayak said he noticed that students from poor tribal families were becoming detached from studies in the absence of classes during the lockdown and had been put to work in fields. “I come to school every week to hand over the midday meal ration among students and their parents. I’ve seen many students grazing cattle or goats, or helping parents in farm work,” he added. “I thought, we don’t know when the pandemic will end, when normal classes will resume. But by then if these kids lose interest in studies, it may increase the number of dropouts. So I am trying to get them back to their books.” Before class, Nayak takes his students through a yoga drill, and then gives them dry food such as bread, biscuits, cakes, fruits, boiled eggs and chocolates. He spends around Rs 7,000 a month on food and stationery for his students. Asked about this extra expense, he made light of it. “I have been getting my salary from the government without working since March. It is only my duty to do something for my students with my salary. I can’t sit at home and enjoy this period as though this is a holiday,” Nayak said. Parents have appreciated Nayak’s efforts. “Our kids were losing interest in studies. As we are poor and spend most of the time working, we don’t have the energy and time to spend on them. This teacher (Nayak) is taking care of what we cannot do,” said a daily wage earner, whose son is Nayak’s student. Lakshmi Murmu, one of Nayak’s students, said she was happy to attend the class. “I was bored at home. Here (in class) I can dance, draw and study. I also get chocolates and cakes here,” she grinned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||GTA worker union pen-down||The United Employees’ Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has decided to start a pen-down strike from Tuesday to demand the regularisation of more than 4,000 casual employees, a decades-long issue. These employees, who form over 90 percent of the GTA workforce, will continue the pen-down till September 10. “If we don’t get a favourable response, we will announce another round of agitation,” said Anil Rai, president, UEU (GTA). Many of these employees were hired on contract when the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed in 1988. Since then many have served under Bimal Gurung’s GTA, and under Binay Tamang, the former GTA head now replaced by Anit Thapa. During the pen-down, employees will report to work at 10am and stay in office till 4.30pm, but won’t work. “We have exempted health and PHE departments (from the strike),” said Rai. Over the years, the status of the GTA employees changed from “contractual” to “pay band” workers. Salaries start from Rs 10,000 for Group D staff and Rs 22,000 for Group A employees like engineers. The present employees’ union was formed in 2017, replacing the Janmukti Astai Karmachari Sangatan (JAKS) affiliated to Bimal Gurung-led Morcha. The UEU initially said it would remain “apolitical” but soon aligned with the Tamang camp maintaining only political will could solve their problems. On a couple of occasions, it seemed their demand had been accepted, but it was not. On September 17, 2009, following a hunger strike by the JAKS, the state government had given a written assurance to the JAKS to regularise 3,472 employees. The fast lifted, but the government said the promise was given under duress. On May 14, 2015, Calcutta High Court directed the state government to convene a meeting with the GTA in four months on how to set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but not much progress was made. When the GTA was formed in 2012, there was a provision for a Subordination Service Selection Board to fill up Group D, C and B posts in GTA following financial approval from the state government. The board has not yet been formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Erosion leaves villagers homeless in Malda district ||River bank erosion along the Ganga in parts of Malda district turned acute on Sunday, prompting hundreds to vacate homes. The river is fast submerging chunks of land in two villages on its left banks — China Bazaar and Sarkarpara — in Kaliachak-III block since Sunday morning, residents said. Manik Mandal, an elected panchayat representative, called it “unbelievable”. “The river is guzzling homes, fields and whatever else there is, people are dismantling homes to shift to safer places with their belongings. If this persists, we doubt how much land these two villages will have left.” Schoolteacher Jaiul Haque called this a fresh blow for migrant workers. “Many had returned home (in the early days of the Covid lockdown) jobless, now they are homeless.” Though the district administration and state irrigation department officials conceded the severity of the situation, they said they could not do much as the maintenance of the riverbank in these villages falls under the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority’s ambit. However, Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra spoke to Farakka barrage authorities on the situation, sources said. “Around 60-odd families bore the brunt of the erosion. They have been shifted to safer places and given relief,” said Arnab Chatterjee, additional district magistrate (development) of Malda. State irrigation officials have also given a report to the administration. “Though the area is not within our jurisdiction, we are keeping watch,” said an executive engineer of the department. Officials of the barrage authority refused to comment. Sources said that after a major erosion in 2016 that damaged the home of Swadhin Sarkar, BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, some jobs were undertaken in 2017 and 2018. “Since then, no major erosion in the area occurred. Now that it has been reported again, a team will make a spot assessment,” said a source. Youth Trinamul leaders of the district visited the affected villages, took photographs and recorded videos to send them to Youth Trinamul president and MP Abhishek Banerjee. “It is because of the indifference of the barrage authorities that people have become homeless. The river bed was not dredged for decades and no proper work was done to protect the banks. We have sought our youth president’s permission to launch a movement against authorities,” said Biswajit Mondal, a district Youth Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||September 9 deadline to finish comorbid survey||The Bengal health department set a two-week deadline from August 26 for completion of a door-to-door state-wide survey to identify people with comorbidities of Covid-19 for better management of the pandemic and lowering of the toll from the disease. The deadline was issued on Monday for completion of the survey by September 9. The order was issued by Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, to all chief medical officers of health. In Bengal, 87 per cent of all pandemic deaths were attributed to comorbidities. “We want to get the database done immediately as it would be easier for us to provide special care to persons with comorbidities because the rate of mortality is the highest among them. All districts have already started the survey and have been asked to send their reports in time,” said Chakraborty. In the order, Chakraborty asked all district health units to upload the data and share the same with state officials within the deadline. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have been of infected persons with comorbidities. Besides, those with comorbidities have been found more likely to develop severe illness from the pathogen. Physicians say this makes it important for patients with such underlying health disorders to take special care to manage their illness during a pandemic such as this. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of the lives of the Covid-19-infected persons who died, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which took around one-tenth of the lives. Health officials said the government noticed that patients with comorbidities who died had been admitted to a hospital too late. “If comorbid patients got to a hospital in good time, at least 70 per cent of those lives could have been saved. That is what we are trying to do, going forward,” said an official. “We plan to regularly call the patients we find from the survey and the Asha (accredited social health activist) workers will take their health report twice a week. It will help us monitor them and hospitalise them in time,” he added. The health department has given a specific format to Asha workers, in which one sheet will be dedicated for each family. There are seven kinds of diseases listed in the format, including diabetes, hypertension, liver-related disease and cancer. The list will also include the name and contact number of the head of the family. Asha workers on ground claimed that the stipulated time span was not sufficient for them. “We have other workers apart from those enlisted for this survey and it became an additional load on us to finish the survey and send the data within two weeks,” said an Asha worker in Birbhum’s Suri. “However, we are trying our best to meet the deadline.” However, a senior health official said Asha workers regularly visited households to monitor the health of Ili (influenza-like illness) and Sari (severe acute respiratory illness) patients since the beginning of the pandemic in the state. “The work has already started and we will send all reports to the state authorities in time,” said Himardi Ari, chief medical officer (health) of Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues||Bengal on Sunday recorded a fall in the total number of active Covid-19 patients for seven consecutive days, riding on more recoveries than new cases. Amid a three-week spell of improvements in the battle against the novel coronavirus, the recovery rate rose to nearly 82 per cent. With 3,308 patients being cured of the disease on Sunday, nearly 1.31 lakh recoveries formed the lion’s share of the 1.6 lakh total cases. The state logged 3,019 new cases and 50 deaths during a 24-hour period till 9am on Sunday. The three-week spell of what is being viewed as a turnaround began on August 9 when the recovery rate was 70.24. On Sunday, it was 81.96 per cent. The national recovery rate now is 76.69. “On August 9, we were not even in the top 10 states, in terms of recovery rate. Today (Sunday), we are fourth among the states, after Delhi (88.9), Bihar (86.9) and Tamil Nadu (85.6),” said a Bengal minister. In the past seven days, the state logged 20,915 new cases, outweighed by 22,945 recoveries. “On August 9, our total active cases were 26,375, which slowly rose to 28,069 by August 23. With the remarkable seven-day fall, the total active cases were 25,657 today (Sunday),” said the minister. On Sunday, yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal – Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly – collectively recorded a fall of 143 in their total of active cases. “Calcutta, the most high-incidence district, had 7,041 active cases on August 9. Today (reporting 472 recoveries and 428 new cases), it is at 4,969,” said the minister. In another positive aspect, the state reported a new 24-hour high in testing, with 43,436, taking the total past 18.45 lakh, at 20,504 tests per million people. Because of the turnaround, the positive confirmation rate fell from 8.9 per cent a week ago to 8.66 per cent on Sunday. Of the 50 deaths reported on Sunday, 19 were from Calcutta. Of the 3,176 in total, 2,762 (87 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. The overall mortality rate dipped further to 1.98, while the national rate is 1.78 per cent. Bengal reported 32.69 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 14.88 per cent on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.45 lakh, 4,181 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Boys beheaded, pond owner & family detained||Two 16-year-old boys have been beheaded for allegedly catching fish which overflowed from a pond into adjacent fields following heavy rains at Kathalia village near here. Police on Sunday detained pond owner Sherful Sheikh, his three sons, three women members of the family and another person in connection with the twin murders. The bodies of cousins Anjarul Sheikh and Manjarul Islam were found with their hands tied and the heads severed in a field on Sunday morning. “My son and nephew went out to play as usual on Saturday afternoon, but we became worried when they did not return by night. We launched a search, but decided not to file a police complaint as Behrampore is more than 10km away,” said Alema Biwi, mother of Anjarul Sheikh, a Class IX student at Kathalia High School. Manjarul is a dropout from the same school and lived with his family adjacent to Anjarul’s home. The villagers found the boys’ bodies less than 1km across the local Katwa-Azimganj train line, where many agricultural plots and ponds are located. Sources said suspicion had immediately been pointed at Sherful, who had reportedly been involved in spats over fishing in the past. Villagers ransacked Sherful’s home and forcibly handed him and two of his sons over to the police. “The fish had overflowed into adjacent fields. So, who is he to claim that they are his?” asked a villager. Sources said the boys’ families were awaiting autopsy reports before filing a formal police complaint. The sources said the police had been compelled to detain Sherful and his family members in the face of the violent protests by the local people. Murshidabad district police chief K. Sabari Raj Kumar: “We have started an interrogation and are waiting for an FIR to start a formal investigation.” A 16-year-old madrasa student, Abdul Waqar, was shot dead allegedly by bike-borne men at a crowded market in Jagaddal, North 24-Parganas, on Saturday night. The incident occurred when the victim, along with other pedestrians, had protested reckless driving by the alleged miscreants. Eyewitnesses claimed two miscreants were apparently trying to speed through the crowded road and fired shots in the air in an attempt to clear the road. “Unfortunately, Abdul came in their way, and when he raised his voice against them, he was shot in the head,” said an eyewitness, adding that Abdul was rushed to the Bhatpara State General Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. One assailant was apprehended by bystanders and handed over to police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Race to ready rail projects||The Northeast Frontier Railway has said construction of the second rail bridge over the Teesta in Jalpaiguri district will be completed by January next year and Sikkim will be added to India’s railway map by December, 2022. The project to build tracks from Sevoke in north Bengal to Rangpo in Sikkim had been taken up in 2009 when Mamata Banerjee was the railway minister. The project is strategically important as Sikkim shares border with China, Nepal and Bhutan. The second railway bridge over the Teesta is along the principal rail route connecting Northeast with the rest of the country. “Both these projects are very important and we have decided to give special focus to complete them,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR. According to him, the NFR has taken the task of removing constraints in the mobility of trains and that is why it has been building railway bridge and doubling tracks along different stretches. “The new bridge is coming up over the Teesta near Jalpaiguri. We hope the bridge will be ready by January,” Chanda said. The bridge and its approach are together around 5.71km long, said railway sources. In north Bengal, it was a longstanding demand to have a second railway and road bridges over the Teesta. Last month, work on the road bridge — that is along NH27 near Jalpaiguri — was completed. For the past couple of years, the Union government has been focussing on the connectivity infrastructure in north Bengal, particularly through and beyond the Siliguri corridor, which is also known as Chicken’s Neck. India’s width is the thinnest in the corridor with China, Nepal and Bhutan in north and Bangladesh in the south. The NFR said the Sevoke-Rangpo railway route was likely to be completed in December, 2022. “Work has been affected because of a number of reasons, the last being the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, the work was halted from March to May. But keeping in mind the importance of the project, all agencies concerned are trying to finish the work at the earliest,” said an NFR official. Sources said the total length of the rail route would be 44.96km, of which 41.55km fall in Bengal. The remaining 3.41km will be in Sikkim. There will be 14 tunnels (which cover around 92 per cent of the length) and 13 bridges along the route which will have four stations. The railways, which electrified the tracks that connect New Jalpaiguri with Calcutta and Delhi, also plan to finish the double line work between Betgara and Gumanihat stations (both in Bengal) by March next year. “Once completed, there would be two railway tracks to run trains from NJP to New Bongaigaon. The electrification of the tracks between NJP and Guwahati is in progress,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
31-08-2020||North East||Assam to cull 10,000 pigs to curb ASF  ||The Assam government will cull about 10,000 pigs from the first week of September to check the spread of African swine fever (ASF). The contagious and fatal disease has claimed nearly 18,000 pigs since it was first detected in May. African swine fever, a severe viral disease affecting domestic and wild pigs, does not affect humans. However, like the novel coronavirus, there is no vaccine as of now to check the spread of ASF. It was first detected in Kenya in 1907. ASF is different from swine flu which also affects humans. Veterinary department officials said they have no option but to continue culling in the 29 identified containment zones located in 14 districts to “save the thriving piggery” sector of the state which has the highest pig population in the country. Pig farmers will be paid between Rs 2,200 and Rs 15,000 depending on the weight of the culled pigs. The pig population in the affected districts is around 14 lakh while the total pig population in the 33 districts is estimated to be over 20 lakh, the officials said. Assam had on April 25 banned trade in pigs and pork and the movement of people associated with pig rearing/farms. A containment zone has been demarcated within a radius of 1km of the affected area but a radius of 10km from the affected area is under surveillance. The entire culling exercise in the containment zones is expected to take a week. “We could have carried out the operation in May but could not do so because of the floods. We need land to bury the carcasses which was not possible because most of the affected areas were submerged. “Now that the floodwaters have subsided in these areas we need to go for immediate culling. An estimated 10,000 pigs will be culled and owners will be paid as per their weight,” an official said. Culling will be followed by complete sanitisation of the affected areas. If there is no infection, pig farmers in these areas can be back in business after four months. “There will be no rearing of pigs for three months after culling. After this, we will go for limited rearing to see if the disease has been controlled. If there is no death for two weeks we will relax the ban in the affected areas. “If the ASF prevalence continues, we will have to resume the entire process of disinfecting and sanitising the infected areas. If not, pig farmers can resume normal activities after four months,” an official said. The Assam government had last month opposed the Centre’s decision to transport pigs from Punjab and Haryana to the Northeast because such a move, officials said, was fraught with danger as it will not only fan the spread of ASF but also Covid-19 (through drivers and vehicle staff). Punjab and Haryana do not have the market to consume the pork they produce. Therefore, these states have been supplying pigs to the Northeast where pork is a staple for many. The piggery market of the northeastern states is worth Rs 7,500 crore annually. A kilo of pork is sold for Rs 300 here. Officials said that they are also contemplating to help the affected farmers who have collectively lost 18,000 pigs so that they can resume their business. The most likely option is to provide them with live pigs. ASF has affected pigs in Dhemaji, Sivasagar, Biswanath, Lakhimpur, Dibrugarh, Kamrup (metro), Jorhat, Golaghat, Nagaon, Majuli, Morigaon, Karbi Anglong, West Karbi Anglong and Sonitpur districts of Assam so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
31-08-2020||North East||Assam in talks for oxygen for Covid patients ||The Assam government is in talks with oxygen producers from Bengal and Jharkhand so that critical Covid19 patients do not suffer for want of supply. The government has also decided to withdraw certain free facilities to patients who can pay. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the rise in Covid cases has also seen a rise in patients requiring oxygen support. “Consumption of oxygen by Covid-19 patients has increased from five metric tonne a day in July to 8.25 metric tonne as on day. Along with non-Covid patients, the state altogether requires 25MT of oxygen a day but its production from all sources in the state is 37.86MT a day,” Sarma said. Till Sunday, the number of positive cases crossed the 1,03,794 with 20,992 active cases and 289 fatalities. Cases are rising by 2,500 a day on an average. “Since the number of patients requiring oxygen support are rising, we are contemplating importing oxygen from outside to meet any shortfall. We are in talks with oxygen suppliers in Bengal and Jharkhand so treatment of patients does not suffer,” he said. There were 126 Covid patients in ICU, 430 patients on life support while 1,300 on remdesivir till Sunday. Remdesivir is an anti-viral drug used in treatment of Covid patients on oxygen support. There are ten oxygen producers and bottling plants in the state. One metric tonne of oxygen costs around Rs 25,000, sources told The Telegraph. Since the gap between demand and supply of oxygen required for critical patients was closing in and mortality rate too rising from 0.24 per cent to 0.28 per cent, Sarma appealed to all to adhere to Covid19 protocols to avoid adding to the galloping number of positive cases. “Going by the figures, the overall situation is critical. Therefore, I appeal to all to maintain social distancing and wear masks,” Sarma said. On the positive side, the doubling rate of cases has gone up to 23 days from 15 days and Assam was third in testing per million. Sarma also said Covid patients preferring to stay in paying cabins will have to pay the daily room charge except for the medicines. To cut down on free services offered to Covid patients, the government has also withdrawn the service of dropping home cured patients within a district. Those requiring RTPCR test report within 24 hours from government hospitals will have to pay Rs 2200 which, Sarma said, was still cheaper than what is charged by private hospitals. “Those who can pay will have to pay from now but we will continue offer life saving medicines for free and serve the BPL for free,” he said. Sarma, who is also the education minister, said government school and college teachers will have to be at their respective institutes from September 1. “Teachers will check the sanitisation drive and take online classes. From September 15 to 30, they will take informal classes for Class X and degree final year students in groups of four to five. If anyone tests positive, this move will be discontinued,” he said. Educational institutes have been closed since the March 25 lockdown but most parents/teachers are said to be against reopening given the surge in Covid cases since July. Sarma also said the government will deposit Rs 20000 each in the account of 16, 944 students securing 75 per cent marks and more in this year’s High School Leaving Certificate (HSLC) examinations in lieu of laptops which could not procured this time because of Covid. Laptops are given  under the Anundorum Barooah Award scheme launched in 2005. He also announced cash assistance of Rs 2.5 lakh to 8000 Namghars,  community prayer hall “conceived by Mahapurush Srimanta Sankardeva, symbolising the collective identity and culture of the people of Assam”.  The amount will be given under Asom Darshan Phase 2 scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
31-08-2020||Opinion||Vocal for local: Adopting Indian dog breeds||Sir — Whatever the political reasons behind it, the prime minister’s appeal to adopt Indian dog breeds — both to citizens and the armed forces — is encouraging. Perhaps now Indians will sit up and take notice of the Indie breeds that are neglected in favour of breeds like Labrador retrievers. Left to their devices, these breeds reproduce in large numbers creating an imbalance in local ecologies. Adopting strays can radically reduce urban man-animal conflict.Rima Roy,Calcutta Ear to the ground Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article, “Aural pleasure” (Aug 29), kindled nostalgia. Guha mentions some noted commentators, praising them for their “profound understanding of the game’s history and techniques, and the ability (as well as desire) to transcend national partisanship.” However, while mentioning Indian commentators, Guha has done injustice. He has remarked, “[T]hey talk too much and talk over the action, all the while making it shamelessly obvious that all they want from a Test match is that their side should win.” Those who have heard Indian commentators cannot but disagree with Guha on his allegations about the parochial approach of our commentators. Sunil Gavaskar, for instance, was the chairman of the International Cricket Council’s technical committee and is second to none in his knowledge about “the game’s history and techniques”. About a decade before the period that Guha talks about, we had commentators like Sydney Friskin, Pearson Surita, Berry Sarbadhikari and Maharajkumar of Vizianagram or ‘Vizzy’. All of them were stalwarts and could make listeners feel as if they were present on the ground. Vizzy, however, often left listeners impatient because while the game was on, he used to narrate his personal experience of playing, sometimes allowing an entire over to pass by without actual commentary.Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Cricket remains suspended in a limbo in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic; there is little possibility of the game returning to normal anytime soon. The few matches that are being played are taking place under severe restrictions. At such a time cricket commentary gains utmost importance. Not everyone can afford OTT platforms where the matches are being streamed live. Many in India, for instance, still depend on radio commentary to enjoy matches while on the move. Others huddle in front of shops selling electronic goods to catch the match; the crowd in front of such TV sets is so huge that not everyone can see what is going on. Commentators thus have an important role to play in the present scenario. Ramachandra Guha has rightly pointed out that commentators should focus on the game and not talk incessantly. Subho Bhattacharjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Greedy: 'Vaccine nationalism'||Nationalism is an evolving phenomenon. That perhaps explains the reason for its various mutations. Among these new forms, ‘vaccine nationalism’ has, understandably, raised concern around the world. It has been reported that developed nations such as the United States of America and the United Kingdom have put in place a plan to stock the vaccine against Covid-19, if and when there is one, in a manner that is disproportionate to the needs of their respective populations. The US has made agreements with, reportedly, six pharmaceutical companies that are in the race to develop a drug, assuring itself of a combined 800 million doses. This essentially means that over two doses of the medicine would be available for every American citizen. The figure in the case of the UK is five doses per capita. This kind of predatory tactic and discriminatory sensibility is not unprecedented. At the dawn of the outbreak of the swine flu pandemic, economies with deeper pockets had been accused of hoarding vaccines to the detriment of poorer — needy — countries. The implications of vaccine monopoly are many and dangerous. There are speculations that the capacity of manufacturing and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine may be somewhat limited in the initial months. This means that if the bulk of the medication were to be pre-booked by two or more countries, the supply of the drug to the rest of the world would be adversely affected. This, in turn, raises the possibility of the wait for the vaccine — even after a vaccine is available — becoming longer. The death toll is likely to increase correspondingly. There is also the issue of pricing. Depleted supplies could push up prices, putting the medicine out of the reach of a number of economically weaker, populous nations. Vaccine nationalism, much like other strident forms of nationalism, has bared a fundamental, ugly truth. Populism, political compulsions and, most glaringly, myopia are being prioritized by regimes — democratic or authoritarian — over the right to equitable healthcare. This only goes to reiterate the importance of a programme like Covax, facilitated by the World Health Organization and its alliance partners, which seeks to make investments to ensure that successful vaccines can be developed and distributed fairly on a global scale. Unfortunately, Covax’s future is likely to be determined by collective political will. This element, central to international cooperation, seems to have been decimated by the contagion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Urgent tests: Holding JEE-NEET exams||Fear seems to have become a constant in every sphere of life in India. It is now hovering over the issue of examinations that are to be held in September in spite of the rising numbers of the coronavirus infection. The University Grants Commission has stated that college and universities must hold examinations for graduating students by September 30, while the Centre has ruled that the Joint Entrance Examination Main and Advanced for engineering courses and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for medical courses shall be held on their scheduled dates in September. The Supreme Court has supported the UGC’s argument that degrees cannot be awarded on the basis of internal assessment; an examination alone demonstrates a student’s competence. That is perhaps undeniable — it is pointless to lament the fact that education in India is solely examination based. The court has also upheld the Centre’s argument that students will lose an academic year if JEE and NEET are not held in September. Six Opposition-ruled states have filed a petition seeking that these tests be postponed by six to eight weeks. That would still give students time to complete an academic year, while special arrangements could be made for transport and lodging for the sake of their health. The JEE and NEET mean the movement of 25 lakh students mostly on public transport, and in-person tests entail hours together in enclosed spaces. Isolation of students showing Covid-19 symptoms and seating 12 students in a room, as instructed by the UGC for graduation examinations, and online tests that would exclude many among the possibly one crore examinees, seem impracticable. In spite of arguments in favour of holding examinations now, the fact is that the times are unnatural. Some political parties and students are protesting against what they perceive as an endangering of students’ health — and of their families to whom they might carry the infection. They point out that members of parliament are protecting themselves by not sitting, although the Centre has declared that parents and students are pressing for the examinations to be held on time. But is the Centre not responsible for young people’s safety and the consistency of efforts to control the pandemic? A little thinking could have thrown up solutions. Adjustment is not a novel concept.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Lost labour: Working Indian women||Employment of women in India has an interesting trajectory. The periodic labour force survey (2018-19) states that approximately 83 per cent of the total number of women employed in India earn their livelihood as casual labour. Metropolitan cities are magnets for migrants. A study of Census 2011 shows that women constitute almost 70 per cent of the internal migrant community. Rural-urban migration primarily occurs to expand the opportunity set of the household. However, in contrast to the popular perception of the ‘city’ being the hub of opportunities, women are engaged in home-based labour, such as making earrings, dhaga cutting, filling bottles with limestone, rolling beedis and so on to add to the family income. Women’s engagement in home-based work has deep-rooted patriarchal and capitalist underpinnings. While patriarchy imposes severe mobility restrictions on women, capitalism portrays ‘home-based work’ as ‘safer alternatives’. However, women do become subjects of exploitation and are made invisible in the value chain of products. They are paid meagre wages and are devoid of employment benefits as members of the informal economy. One can only imagine the plight of women engaged in home-based work during the pandemic. Structural inequalities have amplified. Unpaid work (inclusive but not limited to extended childcare, household chores, sourcing ration and groceries, cooking, cleaning) has increased manifold. The impact of the pandemic and ensuing lockdown is being felt disproportionately by marginalized and vulnerable sections of society. The International Labour Organization stated that approximately 400 million informal sector workers are at risk of abject poverty in India. Research for this article primarily involved interaction with women home-based workers in Kurla, Mumbai. Their narrative indicated that their bargaining power, which was already negligible, has been severely impacted. They would be, yet again, treated as the reserve army of labour and be at the mercy of contractors. Moreover, home as a ‘workspace’ does not provide a conducive environment for home-based workers. There are severe repercussions on their physical and mental health. The loss of livelihood brings with it unimaginable trauma and uncertainty. Angus Deaton, the Nobel laureate economist, and Anne Case coined the phrase, ‘deaths of despair’, to bring to attention the reduction in life expectancy among working-age Americans after the recession of 2008. It is likely that this pandemic will weaken the position of labour, deepen inequities and polarize society. Women in India already account for 36 per cent of global female suicides. The government must intervene. To begin with, we have to build and protect the agency of women home-based workers by listening to their demands and incorporating them in policy. There must be recognition and payment of the work undertaken by women home-based workers. This would help attain the following Sustainable Development Goals: 1 (no poverty); 5 (gender equality); 10 (reduced inequalities). The privilege of ‘capitalizing’ on a crisis is not available to all. The impoverishment of the vulnerable segments of society has amplified and is yet to be addressed. It is upon us, as a nation, to acknowledge our nirbharta on invisible women workers and their valuable contribution to the economy. How else can India become atmanirbhar?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Debt and taxation: The art of plucking the goose||“A government that robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.” — G.B. Shaw History suggests that high and accelerating debt levels are common during wars. Covid-19 can be compared to a ruthless enemy in a war. When the dust settles, how will policymakers deal with this mountain of debt? Luckily, interest rates are dramatically low today; the burden of servicing a one-off increase in government debt is less taxing. With austerity in many countries a taboo word, there are two possibilities — higher taxes and inflation. One of the most significant archaeological discoveries ever was a tax document — the Rosetta Stone. It was unearthed in 1799 by one of Napoleon’s officers, as French soldiers plundered ancient Egyptian tombs for relics to send home. Napoleon, a product of the French Revolution, hoped to overthrow anciens régimes across Europe, including the United Kingdom. The resulting naval arms race put massive pressure on exchequers on both sides of the English Channel. The Napoleonic Wars added over £600 million to the national debt, costing thrice as much as the previous four wars combined. This war debt and the interest payable thereon burdened the Britishers with a huge perpetual charge, bringing great hardship for the next half a century. Income tax has had a greater impact on human history than any piece of legislation ever enacted. Henry IV, in 1404, was allowed a one-off income tax, provided it was not made a precedent. To keep it under wraps, every record was burnt. A contemporary chronicler called the tax “vexatious and burdensome”. Not only was it the ‘tax to beat Napoleon’, but income tax was also a game-changer in WWI and funded the US contribution to WWII, thus winning the war for the Allies. The British prime minister, William Pitt the Younger, is widely considered to be the man who introduced income tax to the world. It was rumoured of the government at that time, ‘Wherever you see an object, tax it!’ In 1842, income tax was an interim measure, to be repealed as soon as government revenues balanced. Britain is still waiting 178 years later. Income tax’s effectiveness is what doomed its chances of ever being repealed. Pitt had created a tax that has become a standard fiscal feature of economies across the globe. Cut to 2020. It’s not difficult to imagine a future where more taxes are levied. The European Commission’s landmark July deal to raise 750 billion euros of debt across 27 nations included a promise to explore new sources of income. France is leading the charge for EU taxes on global digital companies and a carbon border levy on foreign polluting imports. Tax on wealth could be a target since a large proportion of recent financial gains owes much more to the monetary actions of central banks than gains in underlying performance. Another area could be pensions as the biggest post-pandemic economic losers are those at the beginning, rather than the end, of their careers. There could also be a renewed interest in ‘treasure islands’ (tax havens) in the event of an international agreement. Screams of anguish are inevitable. Copernicus called it “insidious” — because it is ‘hidden’ — while Keynes felt it happens in a way “not one man in a million is able to diagnose”. It is inflation. A heady concoction of central banks’ unbridled fiscal and monetary support, a recoil against widening income inequality and a growing national debt will trigger high inflation over time. While an economist may term it ‘expanding the money supply’ or ‘artificially stimulating credit’, for the historian, it’s ‘debasement of money’. Whatever your preference, it’s a particularly vicious form of taxation. Medieval kings and Roman emperors reduced the amount of gold and silver in coins — ‘coin clipping’. Weimar Germany, post-WWII Hungary and Zimbabwe simply printed money, unbacked by anything. Today’s central banks suppress interest rates, use amorphous measures of inflation, deploy quantitative easing: the techniques may differ, but not the intention. Devalue money and we devalue debt and lighten our obligations. “There is no subtler, no surer means of overturning the existing basis of society,” said Keynes, “than to debauch the currency.” The worst inflation rears its ugly head where government spending is the greatest, with the terrible irony that governments that spend the most looking after their needy end up making them poorer. “The art of taxation consists of so plucking the goose as to obtain the most feathers with the minimum amount of hissing.” Undeclared, unseen and misunderstood, the inflation tax means that the goose is plucked silently. It is the stealthiest of stealth taxes and hurts those who rely on salaries or savings by eroding the value of money they earn while pushing the price of the assets they want to buy out of bounds. The salaried classes are hit on both sides. Many of those bearing the brunt of today’s debt are not born yet. Like Pitt’s Napoleonic War debts, which was finally repaid in 2015, future generations would be saddled with the burden. Debt is indeed, to use the clarion call of the American revolutionaries, taxation without representation. We are faced with a grim situation where the lower and the middle classes are ground between the millstones of inflation and taxation. Someone will eventually have to pay for the lockdown costs of a pandemic that has wreaked far greater economic damage than anybody could have imagined. The author is a Harvard alumnus and works for an investment bank in Mumbai. He is also a member of the Young Scholars Initiative at the Institute for New Economic Thinking, founded by George Soros et al.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Choose wisely||August 5 marked the one-year anniversary of the lockdown in Kashmir — a lockdown that started months ahead of the pandemic that broke out in the world. Last year, on August 5, the Indian government decided to withdraw Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate it into two Union territories. The message of doing this to a Muslim-majority Kashmir was not lost on anyone. It also led to an indefinite lockdown, much of which is still in place. While human rights organizations around the world condemned the move and it led to international headlines, most countries treated it as India’s ‘internal matter’. This was most likely on account of India’s economic pull and the huge market it offers to the world. Pakistan tried its best to rally the world on the issue but the vested interests of the international community came in its way. The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, wanted to show his voters and supporters that he would deliver what was promised in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto regarding Kashmir. He also delivered on another of his promises — by laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple on the one-year anniversary of August 5, he gave a loud message that the country, in an official capacity, now stands for majoritarian rule. By doing this on the day Kashmir’s special status was changed, Modi laid the final nail in the coffin of India’s secularism as his own legacy is obviously at the opposite end of the spectrum. The BJP under Modi has distanced itself from the ethos of Indian secularism. The Muslim minority in the world’s largest democracy now lives on the edge as a result of Modi’s policies. When he was first elected in 2014, many analysts — including me — had predicted this. Modi has proved us right. From Kashmir to Delhi riots, from a pliant media (there are some honourable exceptions) to a foreign policy that has alienated India’s neighbours, Modi has undone what the Indian Constitution stood for once upon a time. His legacy will be that of someone who pushed Indian society into extremism and towards majoritarianism. It takes decades to build something but only a few years to ruin it. We have seen it all around the world. It is quite an unfortunate sight. When one community feels it is superior to the rest of the inhabitants of the country or when there is an anti-minority rhetoric at the official level, it changes the narrative. When there is any mention of Pakistan in India, it is not just about my country but there is a stark anti-minority connotation attached to it. This is something that not many outside India would understand but it is a reality. Online trolling of Indian journalists who don’t toe the official line is something that we have witnessed for almost a decade now. It is ugly; it is crass; it is horrendous. Apart from the mental toll it takes, it also affects one’s work. The corporatization of many Indian media outlets is another reason why there is no pushback from these outlets. The basic principles of journalism are thrown out of the window. I have been a victim at the hands of an Indian channel’s anti-Pakistan rhetoric recently. When a small group of women journalists released a statement about online abuse, an Indian channel asked me to send a video about our demands. The short clip was edited and distorted. It was used in an anti-Pakistan package that had nothing to do with the said statement. I officially complained and it was taken down later but the damage had already been done — I got online death threats as a result and I am still being hounded for something that was not even my fault. Sometimes I wonder if the Indian media just want to use people as fodder for their own agenda. Unfortunate but inevitable I guess. There are lessons to be learnt though. If there is no pushback against such fascist policies, an entire generation and the coming generations will suffer. Someone would need to stand up. It is understandable if the Opposition parties are weak and unable to do what is expected of them but this pushback has to come from within one’s society. If today’s generation fails to stand up to these policies, they will have no one but themselves to blame for what lies ahead for their own children and grandchildren. Fear is also understandable but it should not make one desist from complaining. Look at the United States of America. The entire Black Lives Matter campaign was a pushback — against oppression, against racism, against the status quo. More and more people became part of the campaign. The movement captured the international headlines and also became a cry for many marginalized communities around the world. This is how societies stand up to power. The world is changing, but not for the better I suppose. But there are things we can inculcate in our future generations, such as right values; values that will make them speak up against tyranny, values that will make them call a spade a spade; values that will make them call out injustice; values that will not make them a part of oppression. This is something that we were taught at home and also learnt with the passing years. Yesterday was the day of Ashura, the day of the martyrdom of Imam Hussain at Karbala. It has lessons for all of us, the most important one being that always stand up for what is right and never compromise on your principles. Those who stand on the right side of history will be remembered till eternity. The side we choose today will determine our path tomorrow. Let us not go down the path chosen by the oppressors. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Testing camps draw huge crowds in Bokaro industrial areas ||The health department held several Covid testing camps across Bokaro district on Monday to try and get a grip on the spread of the coronavirus after 400 positive cases were recorded in the past three days. The camps drew huge crowds and at some places police had to be deployed to ensure social distancing was maintained. “Against a target of conducting tests on 75,00 people, the health department team managed to collect swab samples of 5,500 residents till 6 pm,” said district epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava. He said they would continue to collect samples so that all those who had come for testing on Monday were covered. “More than 40 staffers of the health department have been deployed to conduct the drive where swab samples were tested using Truenat, rapid antigen and RT-PCR kits,” Srivastava said. While rapid antigen and Truenat test reports are expected to come in by Tuesday, the results of RT-PCR were expected in 72 hours. Camps were held at Central Coalfield (CCL) offices at Kargali, Dhori and Kathara areas under Bermo subdivision, Electrosteel Steel Plant at Chandankyari and Indian Explosives (IEL) Colony at Gomia. “These companies also provided their lab technicians for swab collection,” said civil surgeon Dr A. K. Pathak. Tarun Kumar, a local resident who had come to Agrasen Bhavan for testing, complained of the crowd. “There was a massive gathering at the camp. It was very difficult to stand in line for about an hour to reach the point where my swab sample was collected. People who were in que did not realise that not adhering to social distancing made everyone more vulnerable to contracting the virus,” he said. As on Sunday evening, Bokaro district had 498 active Covid-19 cases of which 178 people had tested positive through the day, the highest 24-hour figure so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||BSNL launches high-speed air fibre internet service in steel city||Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) launched Bharat Air Fibre services in Jamshedpur on Monday, allowing residents of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan to get wireless internet connection on demand. Jamshedpur is the second place in the state to get high-speed wireless internet service. The Bharat Air Fibre service was launched in Ranchi earlier this month. The national launch of the service took place last month. GM of BSNL's Jamshedpur SSA Sanjeev Verma said, “The Bharat Air Fibre Service will provide high-speed broadband connectivity of the order of 100 Mbps. It will be very handy in areas where cable laying is difficult and time consuming. The service will also prove to be a boon for those working from home." The service is currently available in Pardih and Adityapur, and in the next one month it will be extended to most places in the three districts. The air fibre reach will span a radius of 1.5 km from a BSNL air fibre transmitter.  BSNL is planning to set up air fibre transmitters in various locations across the three districts. Customers can get wireless internet connection upon installing an air fibre router. “The biggest advantage of the scheme is that with a single router eight to ten devices can run at the same time,” Verma added. The service is currently available in monthly rental plans of Rs 849 and Rs 1,277 depending on usage patterns. Verma said they launched the service because of a demand for high-speed internet connection. "The demand of high-speed internet has gone up in the lockdown as people want uninterrupted internet connections at home for work and for online classes.  Also, where optical fibre reach is difficult, air fibre is the solution," he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||A tribal nurse who braved the odds and emerged a Covid winner||Tala Tudu may have battled bravely with the deadly coronavirus but the thought of going back to the place from where she got the infection still frightens her. The 48-year-old nurse at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) and Sahitya Akademi award-winning writer recalled the fear and anxiety she went through for over a fortnight while undergoing treatment. “Fear gripped me when I heard the name of Covid for the first time. I felt like was the name of some dangerous wild animal. I didn’t know how serious the infection was as I continued to nurse the patients at the Covid ward at the hospital,” Tudu said. But she felt proud to be a frontline warrior. “I got appreciation from various quarters. This made me work with dedication. But I did not know that one day I would test coronavirus positive myself,” the Bistupur N. Road resident said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Tudu said she was on duty at the hospital’s Covid ward from July 28 to August 11 and tested positive on August 12. “I was shifted to the GT 4 hostel a Covid care unit) in Kadma for treatment at around 9 pm on that day,” she recalled. “I was constantly worried about my family during my deployment. However, being a nurse I had to take the risk at a difficult time.  I was shattered after the phone call that said I had tested positive. I became worried for my family,” she said. Tudu, who is assistant secretary of the East Singhbhum unit of the All India Santhali Writers Association (AISWA), said she felt orphaned, staying away from her family because of her duty at the hospital. “I had promised my family that I would return home on the 15th day after the rotational phase of my duty at the hospital. But I couldn’t fulfil my promise. I sobbed at the thought of my daughter, son and husband,” she said. “I also cried during my treatment but managed to somehow pump up my spirits as I knew I had to fight and win the battle. I thought I have to conquer the infection and return to my family. I am grateful to the almighty who gave me strength to overcome the crisis,” she added. Tudu tested positive again on August 22 during her course of treatment at the GT4 hostel. However, she tested negative on August 27 and was discharged the same day. Tudu said facilities at the Covid care unit were good but there is scope for improvement. She said was still low on the immunity front but would have to return for duty at the hospital next week. “I still feel weak and my immunity is also not in very good shape. But I have to report for duty as nurses have to work at the Covid ward on a rotation basis. I am helpless, but I am a frontline warrior who has a responsibility. I will report for duty on Monday or Tuesday,” she said. Tudu is known for her translation of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s novel Parineeta into Santhali in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in Brazilian midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima||Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, on Monday became the latest acquisition for Jamshedpur FC, being signed for the 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) season. Alex is a midfielder who comes at the back of a star-studded career across the world and becomes the club’s fourth foreign player (along with Aitroy Monroy, David Grande and Nerka Valskis). The strong and well-built playmaker is known for his ability to hold the ball, create chances as well as get into scoring positions. The 31-year-old has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon FC and FC Anyang and most recently with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). Alex has amassed a total of 43 goals and 23 assists in a total of 337 appearances in his career. The Brazilan expressed his delight on signing for JFC and said: “ I have played football across four continents. To now join this exciting league wearing the colours of one of the top teams of India makes me extremely proud. I can’t wait to meet my teammates. I want the fans of Jamshedpur to know we are going to fight tooth and nail to win the ISL. Let’s do this together.” “Alex is a player of multiple capabilities. A team player, aggressive, smart, quick, a powerhouse. I could go on with a hundred adjectives and yet it would not be enough to describe him. He is an amazing talent who can unlock the toughest of defences. I remember I signed Alex when I was a coach at Houston and he did his job perfectly well for the club. I hope he will do the same here. A warm welcome to Alex. Wishing him a successful time with us,” said head coach Owen Coyle. The Brazilan began his career with the youth system of Gremo Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland. He became a regular for the Swiss 1. Liga Club where he spent four years and enjoyed  a spell on loan at FC Gossau of the same league. Alex will be donning the jersey number 7 in the upcoming ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four deer, one of them pregnant, run over by train near Kechki station||Four deer, one of them pregnant, were run over by a goods train barely one km away from the Kechki railway station in Dhanbad on Monday. “Railway officials discovered the run over bodies of the deer this morning around 5.30am,” deputy director north of the Palamau tiger reserve Kumar Ashish told The Telegraph Online “One of the deer killed had a growing calf in her womb. This unborn was torn out,” said Ashish. “We thus lost 5. We have asked the local railway officials to give us details of the train that caused this run over,” he added. DS Srivastava, secretary Nature Conservation Society an NGO said there was no end to the tragedies plaguing the tiger reserve Palamau. “First a tigress was found dead in Betla National Park. Then three bison died in quick succession. A female elephant was also found dead.” “Now five deer are lost to the railways. It is a serious loss. Railway officials may not understand this tragedy,” lamented Srivastava. Sources said the railways are laying a third line from Patratu in Jharkhand to Dehri Sone in Bihar along an 11km stretch that is to pass through the core area of the tiger reserve. “This 4,000 crore rupees project of the railways all set to pass through the critical core area of our tiger reserve is a serious issue,” he said, adding that the stretch between Hehegara and Chhipadohar railway stations under the East Central Railways can be reset, without having any bearing upon the traffic. Kumar Ashish said if the railways so agree to their suggestions, it will help the tiger reserve in Palamau and its wildlife greatly. “A resetting of the third line will mean additional 2,000 crores of rupees for the railways,” he said. Railway sources said for a stretch of 22km in the reserve area starting before the Jawa bridge, there is a 25kmph speed embargo for all types of trains. Further, each train is to do a constant hooting, to keep wildlife at bay from coming over to the railway lines. “If our suggestion for resetting the third line is accepted, then neither will trains have to slow down, nor there be any constant hooting,” said Ashish. The tiger reserve in Palamau has more than 130km of state highway beginning from Kutmu to Mahuadarn, which is no less dangerous for wildlife in the area. “Just last week I saw a langur limping. A vehicle had hit one of its legs,” he said. “Let wildlife have its own world, space and solitude. They don’t need roads or trains, they need space and peace,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vegetable prices soar as rain damages crops, disrupt supplies  ||Prices of vegetables, including potato, have increased sharply over the last couple of days, upsetting domestic budgets at a time when household earnings have seen a hit. While potato prices have increased to Rs 35 per kg from Rs 30 a kg, coriander leaves, tomato, cabbage, beans and brinjal have gone up substantially, between Rs 20 and Rs 30 in the retail markets in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and elsewhere. Retailers attribute the trend to supply restrictions as a result of damage to crops in the recent spell of heavy rain. In Ranchi, potato was selling between Rs 32 and Rs 35 in the capital against Rs 28. "Supply has been affected due to the current spell of rain and flash floods in different parts of the state," said Tulsi Kumbhkar, a vegetable vendor at Lalpur Chowk in Ranchi. He said prices of almost all vegetables, like tomato, beans, cabbage, gourd and chillies, have witnessed an increase of Rs15 per kg to Rs 25 per kg in the last two days. Homemakers, who said they were already facing a crisis in managing household budgets due to the pandemic, explained that the current hike in vegetable prices had aggravated things. “Tomatoes, which we used to purchase at anything between Rs 40 and Rs 50 per kg till two days ago, is being sold at Rs 80 per kg now,” said Smita Das, a resident of Sakchi in Jamshedpur. Potato prices have shot up as fewer trucks were coming to the Sakchi vegetable mandi from neighbouring Bengal and elsewhere. The staple, which was selling for Rs 30 per kg two days back, was being sold at Rs 35 per kg on Sunday. Prices of other vegetables had gone up considerably. Cauliflower was selling at Rs 40 per piece — double of what it was available at last week _ while bitter gourd was being sold at Rs 40 per kg against Rs 20 per kg a few days ago. Carrots were also sold at Rs 40 per kg against Rs 20 per kg a couple of days back. There was no change in prices of onions which continued to sell between Rs 20 and Rs 25 per kg. However, prices of green chillies witnessed a rise. Against Rs 100 per kg, green chillies were selling at Rs 150 per kg. The trend was similar in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Beans which were available at Rs 80 per kg touched Rs 100 in Hazaribagh and Dhanbad. In Bokaro, too, beans were selling at premium of Rs 110 per kg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Twitterati backs Hemant, wants JEE, NEET postponed||Twitterati has backed Hemant Soren’s stand of postponing JEE and NEET exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic with nearly 1.5 lakh voting in favour of rescheduling the exams in a straw poll conducted by the chief minister on his official Twitter handle. Hemant conducted a 24-hour-poll on whether postponing the competitive exams would affect the academic future of students and asked them to vote. The poll ended at Monday midnight and the results showed that over 78 per cent were in favour of postponing the exams. “I want to particularly ask and seek feedback from all my young engineer and doctor friends - Will students face huge difficulties if #JEENEET exams are postponed?” Hemant Tweeted on Monday and gave three options: yes, no and I don’t know. The poll results showed that 78.2 per cent of the 1,87,730 voters were in favour of postponing the exams, while 20.6 per cent were of the opinion that postponing the exams would adversely affect academic careers of students. Around 1 per cent who voted did not know if postponing the exams would benefit the students or harm them. While the poll results gave a clear indication of what students want, the chief minister also received requests from the student community to get the exams postponed, citing probable violation of social distancing at examination centres. “Sir, we are literally begging for our lives and future. Please help us. We will never forget this if you will help us in such hard time please sir please postpone the exam postpone please do something sir,” tweeted Anushka Choudhary, who uses the handle, Anushka0526 handle. Some students also shared pictures of examination centres to highlight the lack of adherence to social distancing norms. “Sir @HemantSorenJMM consider this too!Plz save us from writing these large scale exms in sept .plz try to understand even our mental conditions,” wrote Twitter user Ayesha Khaki Hussain, sharing a quote from an AIIMS doctor, which stated that more young people were getting infected by Covid-19 virus. Hemant had written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank last week, requesting him to postpone the exams. In the letter, the chief minister pointed to the risk of spread of infection, adding that with public transport not operating in the state, many candidates would face difficulties in reaching examination centres. “Tonight I'm worried & tensed as India continues to record over 75000 Covid 19 cases every single day. Yet our Union Education Minister @DrRPNishank ji is not even remotely concerned about the safety & health concerns of lakhs of students made to write #JEENEET exams in September,” Hemant tweeted on Monday. National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) are scheduled to be held in September. Ministers from six states, including Jharkhand, have also moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to postpone the exams and also reviewing its earlier order in the matter. The apex court had on August 17 dismissed a petition seeking the postponement of the NEET and JEE scheduled observing that the career of students cannot be put under jeopardy for long. More than 45,000 students are likely to appear for the exams across 40 centres in five cities in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus sours sale of popular kalakand in Koderma||Kalakand sale at a sweet shop near Jhanda chowk of Telaiya town in Koderma has reduced to half from the usual 20 quintals, much to the worry of the owners. The sellers at the popular shop along the NH-33 say this is the first such situation they are facing since the business started in 1960, as people are not travelling on the Ranchi-Patna highway due to the coronavirus pandemic. Apart from mica exports and song requests to Vividh Bharati, the Jhumri Telaiya town is famous for its kalakand, a sweet made with milk, saffron and cream. Vikas Seth, owner of Kanhaiya Sweets said they were supplying kalakand to Gulf countries as well. “Business has suffered a 60% drop after the lockdown was imposed,” he said. Ankit Chaudhary of Vandana Sweets said kalakand has given a new identity to the small town and recognition both within the country and abroad. “Attempts were made to make the same kalakand in other districts of Jharkhand and a few neighbouring states, but the taste of Telaiya was found missing,” he said, adding that workers who had taken the sweet to other cities failed to make it the same way there. “It’s because of Telaiya’s weather and water, which brings this unique taste,” he said. Sources said in undivided Bihar, people going to Patna for work at the secretariat would bring this sweet back for their clerks. Even today, people crossing this place never forget to take some mouth-watering kalakand home for their relatives. Sellers said that at present they were making three types of kalakand, including one for ranging from Rs 360 to Rs 400 per kg.  The fall in the daily sale of kalakand has affected milk sellers too, as huge quantities of milk are required for making the sweet and many local sellers supply milk to these hotels. With kalakand sale reduced now, demand for milk has also dropped, making sellers suffer losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Award for Jharkhand check-dam ||A low-cost check dam model to retain water for irrigation in Jharkhand’s rebel-hit Khunti district has fetched an award of excellence from the Union Jal Shakti ministry. The award for the bori bandh project through community participation in the participatory water management category was presented to Khunti deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan at the National Water Innovation Summit 2020 held on a virtual platform in Delhi on Friday. The award was given by Jal Shakti ministry secretary U.P. Singh. “It is a proud moment for the district and has been achieved due to the participation of all stakeholders, especially rural communities and gram sabhas even in remote blocks of the district. We would now be undertaking the bori bandh project in more blocks. The ministry secretary was highly impressed and has expressed the desire to visit the sites soon,” said Ranjan. Jharkhand drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur congratulated the Khunti district administration and Sewa Welfare Society, an NGO, for the commendable job in watershed management. Social worker Ajay Sharma, who is associated with the welfare society, said the check dam model had won Khunti a Skoch award (considered the highest civilian honour in the country conferred by an independent organisation) in June this year. “The innovative low-cost bori bandh model built by several NGOs, including Sewa Welfare Society, in collaboration with the district administration fetched Khunti a Skoch award, presented in Delhi on June 20. A bori bandh is constructed by filling sand and soil in used cement bags. The bags are kept on one atop the other to stop the water from flowing into the local rivulets. This helps provide water for irrigation throughout the year and also helps maintain the water level in wells and borings. The biggest advantage of the dam is that it does not led to displacement of people anyone as is the case with big check dams and helps villagers prosper by increasing their source of income,” said Sharma. Over 200 bori bandhs have been set up in Khunti, Murhu, Torpa and Karra blocks of the district. The water harvesting structure has become a game-changer among small and marginal farmers who earlier had to depend on only rainfall for kharif crops, he said. However, with bori bandhs they can cultivate mustard and wheat in rabi season and also grow vegetables in large tracts as against the earlier practice when agriculture land used to remain fallow during the entire rabi season forcing farmers to migrate to nearby cities in search of livelihood and work as daily wagers in factories, he added. “Usually, a check dam costs in excess of Rs 25 lakh while a bori bandh costs around Rs 2,000. However, during heavy rain when the river is in spate such bori bandhs are swept away. However, they are built again after the rainy season. But the negligible cost outweighs this disadvantage,” said Sharma. Khunti is also one of the aspirational districts among the 115 in the country selected by Niti Aayog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
