01-08-2020||Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong spoke diplomatically||Chinese checkers||India and China were well on their way towards building a stronger relationship until the expansionist face of Chinese international policy caused a rupture. Indeed, India has always respected the ‘One China’ policy, but the Chinese have pushed forward aggressively, not only on the border issue but on all fronts, almost encircling India. No wonder, there has been a call to rethink India’s China policy, which has obviously now perturbed Beijing.The need to mend the relations between the two Asian giants is obvious, even as it seems like a bridge burnt at the moment. Toning down the rhetoric, understanding each other’s point of view, showing flexibility and maturity are the building blocks on which a fresh understanding can be built. China is, however, yet to show that it can go beyond tokenism. In theory, the ambassador’s five points sound good. Indeed, ‘India and China should be partners, rather than rivals. They need peace rather than confrontation. They should pursue win-win cooperation instead of a zero-sum game. They need to build trust rather than suspicion, and bilateral ties should move forward rather than backward.’ It, however, remains to be seen what steps China takes to de-escalate and disengage in Ladakh to put these shibboleths into practice. The proof of the pudding is in its eating, and as of now, the Chinese fare has left more of a sour note rather than any pleasant aftertaste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-checkers-120589
01-08-2020||The economic downturn induced by the pandemic is reflected in the extremes reported from two Punjab cities. On the one hand||Battling labour shortage||The manufacturers have been making efforts to bring back the workers, not with much success though, because of the coronavirus scare. The workforce might be weighing options back home, but the crisis also offers an opportunity to the textile industry to reinvent itself. Modernisation has aided in reducing employment. Advanced computerised machines do away with the need for manual machines. Changing fashion trends also require new machinery, rendering many units obsolete. The textile industry is among the more affected, unlike the bicycle industry that has done better. Many of the units diversified, making PPE kits and other accessories for the health workforce.Exporters in Ludhiana say that they have orders from the US and the European Union, but they are unable to make a commitment because of the inability to deliver the goods within a stipulated time. Reviving economic activity will mean that the problem be looked into by enabling the deployment of men and machinery. If it can be done for agricultural activities like harvesting and procurement, the region’s signature industry also deserves attention. With the curbs in place, the lockdown affected demand because of the ban on social gatherings, restrictions like home confinement and the shutting of markets. With restrictions easing, it may take time for the activity to pick up pace. A flourishing industry should not be allowed to flounder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/battling-labour-shortage-120579
