03-08-2020||If men||Criminal contempt of court||The rationale behind the power of contempt is to safeguard the interests of the common man, who would be adversely affected if the court’s authority is undermined and public confidence in the judiciary is eroded. It is nobody’s case that the power of contempt vested in the Supreme Court and high courts under Articles 129 and 215 of the Constitution, respectively, and the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, should be done away with. Those interfering with the due course of judicial proceedings or obstructing the administration of justice must be taken to task. The real problem is about Section 2(c)(i) of the Act: publication of anything — in any manner whatsoever — which ‘scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of, any court’. It is this provision which has been challenged by noted journalists N Ram and Arun Shourie, and Bhushan before the Supreme Court for being vague, manifestly arbitrary and violative of the right to free speech under Article 19(1)(a).The power of contempt is not meant to protect judges or the judiciary from criticism in a democracy, where every individual and institution vested with public function can be subjected to public scrutiny. To quote Justice Frankfurter again, ‘The power to punish for contempt is a safeguard not for judges as persons, but for the function which they exercise.’ Unless the act in question is such that it erodes public faith in the judiciary, it shouldn’t be categorised as criminal contempt. It’s time to have a relook at the definition of ‘criminal contempt’ to make it compatible with democratic norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminal-contempt-of-court-121402
03-08-2020||It was a tragedy waiting to happen. The Tribune had exposed the complicity of distilleries in the distribution of spurious and illicit liquor in Punjab and neighbouring states in recent months; and it did spur the governments into some bit of action — all proven to be wholly inadequate by the deaths in Majha districts. Nurtured and patronised||Punjab govt in the dock||A complete overview is required of the liquor trade — production, distribution and sale. For the Excise Department, it’s a moment of truth. Why not have a ‘white paper’ on how Punjab’s most reliable revenue earner is managed? Why not an earnest effort to right-price, and not incentivise smuggling or the parallel liquor network? Why is a crackdown so difficult despite regular feedback on tampered liquor brands? What does it say about a state when a consumer leaves it to providence that the product being consumed is safe? The approach has been shameful and embarrassing.The lockdown triggered a boom in demand and supply. The quality was allowed to be compromised. In June, under Operation Red Rose, Punjab Police seized 8.32 lakh litres of lahan (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor). A whopping 3,490 cases were registered and 2,664 persons arrested. In short, the state machinery did move, but conveniently missed the larger picture. That sham efforts can go only so far, the real bumps are of own making — be it political appropriation, official obsequiousness, or police acquiescence. The government knows where to strike. It’s about time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjab-govt-in-the-dock-121393
