05-08-2020||Desperate to put his presidential campaign back on track even as America continues to be ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic||More H-1B curbs||Trump’s latest order is based on the erroneous presumption that American workers are enough, whether or not they have the skill set possessed by foreigners. The Silicon Valley is a testament to the commendable work done by Indian techies in America over the decades. According to the Hurun Global Unicorn List, of the 61 unicorns (startups valued at over $1 billion each) founded by Indians, two-thirds are based outside India, mostly in America’s technology hub.As the US strives to reduce its unemployment rate and create jobs, it can’t afford to shut the door on skilled workers from around the world. Isolationism can be detrimental to accomplishing the Herculean task of rebuilding American economy. Trump says he favours a merit-based immigration system, but at the same time, he is disinclined to ensure a level playing field. It’s no secret that job outsourcing has enabled American companies to overwhelm competitors around the globe, considerably cutting down operating costs and maximising profits. With the virus still out of control, the US doesn’t have the wherewithal to achieve a turnaround merely by generating jobs at home. ‘America First’ is not necessarily synonymous with ‘Americans First’. The beleaguered superpower needs allies like India to get back on its feet. Increasing the curbs on workers and students from India is nothing but an economic and diplomatic own goal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/more-h-1b-curbs-122296
05-08-2020||Today marks a year since Jammu and Kashmir was stripped of its special status and reorganised into two UTs. In one stroke||J&K, a year later||The non-BJP parties did show a semblance of resistance, but quickly realised the power of silence in the changed climate of burning patriotism and nationalism. Omar Abdullah has been scathing in his attack, saying he felt betrayed more by the Opposition. What deserves serious attention is his charge against the Modi government of reducing the political mainstream into an object of ridicule. Four-time legislator MY Tarigami’s argument is pertinent: ‘The continued detention of political prisoners, particularly legislators, shows that if democratic rights are not even available to the voices that speak on behalf of the Indian union, how would ordinary people even think of enjoying them?’ The only fallout of disallowing political discourse is anger, sullenness and further alienation, not integration.Since the clampdown in the Valley last year, high-speed Internet remains out of reach. That amounts to two lockdowns, including the one induced by Covid-19, without a basic necessity. Carrying out such an exercise anywhere else in India is unimaginable. The legal challenge to the abrogation of Article 370 is still on, restoration of statehood is a popular demand. Allow voices of dissent. Dispel the notion, as a former CM feels, that all the Centre wanted to do on August 5, 2019, was to ‘punish and humiliate’ the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jk-a-year-later-122264
