13-08-2020||The Supreme Court verdict acknowledging equal rights to daughters on a par with sons as coparceners or equal inheritors in a Hindu family is welcome. The verdict does away with the last vestige of a discriminatory practice that continued despite the 2005 amendment to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act||Equal rights for daughters||The Hindu Succession Act, 1956, made inroads into the male-dominated system. Though women didn’t get equal rights in property, the law made it possible for them to inherit property. While the rest of India continued with the discriminatory practice, some states such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka amended the law, giving equal rights to daughters. It was in this light that Parliament amended the Act in 2005 to give equal rights to daughters. But due to conflicting verdicts delivered by courts on retrospectivity of the amendment, daughters continued to be discriminated against.Maintaining that daughters cannot be deprived of their right to equality, the Supreme Court has now ruled that the 2005 amendment would be applicable to them, irrespective of whether they were born before or after it. Most of these laws are from the pre-Constitution era, when right to equality was not a fundamental right. Post-Constitution India must strive to achieve the constitutional objective of equality. While Hindu personal laws have been amended several times to make them compatible with constitutional provisions and principles, there is a need for similar changes in personal laws of all other communities. This calls for legislative intervention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/equal-rights-for-daughters-125738
13-08-2020||With its surprise announcement on Tuesday of having approved the vaccine for novel coronavirus||Russian vaccine||However, tempering Putin’s claim of the vaccine offering ‘sustainable immunity’ against Covid-19 is scepticism. The concern arises from the fact that Sputnik V is yet to undergo phase III trials on humans. Many experts have questioned its efficacy and fear that Russia, in reckless hurry, may have put national prestige before safety. WHO has specified the importance of vaccines passing through all stages of testing before being rolled out. Even if India were to procure Sputnik V, its phase II and III trials on locals are necessary before approval for use. And, that would take a few months.There are three vaccine candidates — two indigenous ones and one from Oxford — undergoing human clinical trials in India. They are perhaps a better bet. The Dr VK Paul-headed expert committee, set up to consider vaccine administration, has already started confabulations with state governments and vaccine manufacturers so as to be ready with the wherewithal of inoculating people against the disease the moment a vaccine is cleared for use. With more than two crore people having been infected and nearly 7.5 lakh having died of Covid-19 till now, and economies having been crippled beyond any comparable event in almost a century, all eyes are on the magical shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/russian-vaccine-125740
