14-08-2020||There are certain moments in public life that define the character of a society and exemplify the integrity of its systems; the choice of Kamala Harris as running mate for Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden is one such for the United States of America. She is many things rolled into one||Lessons from the US||Indians are rightfully gleeful about Harris’ India connection. But they miss the points of inclusion, diversity, civil rights, empowerment and integration that underpin the India connection in Harris’ life story. Half black Jamaican and half Tamil Brahmin, Harris is a symbol and lesson against majoritarian exclusivist politics that the current Indian dispensation would benefit from. Writing about herself on the US Senate website, Harris says she has spent her lifetime fighting injustice. No wonder she identifies herself as African-American and not an Indian-American.Along with African-American icons Thurgood Marshall, Constance Baker Motley, Charles Hamilton Houston, all legal legends, Harris counts Shyamala, her Indian-American mother, as her primary source of inspiration. This ought to be a conundrum for those racist Indians who claim a ‘brown’ status to condescendingly distinguish themselves from black people. Worse, this ought to be a diplomatic thorn in the Indian Government’s side as it battles accusations of minority-bashing at the international fora. Harris is a shining exemplar of the power of pluralism; something India, a nation of diverse races and religions, used to cherish all along.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lessons-from-the-us-126103
14-08-2020||IN a tone that is bound to rile New Delhi||100 days of standoff||It cannot be mere coincidence that the envoy’s provocative remarks were posted online after India’s ambassador to Beijing reached out to a key interlocutor in the Communist Party of China’s Central Committee to make headway in talks on resolving the crisis. This two-faced Chinese approach explains why the Indian Army has prepared itself for the long haul, even as diplomacy is given a fair chance. Another round of official talks is expected in the days to come. The Chief of Defence Staff has told Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee about the sizeable troop buildup by China, and the commensurate mobilisation by India.There have been five rounds of meetings at the level of Corps Commander and three of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs. The Foreign Ministers have spoken to each other, the Special Representatives have met. There has not been much progress. New Delhi’s demand for restoration of status quo ante as of April requires disengagement, de-escalation and restoration of patrolling rights. The Chinese conundrum is here to stay. A multi-pronged counter strategy — diplomatic outreach, military readiness, slowdown in trade and brakes on Chinese tech platforms — is in active mode. New Delhi is banking on its relentless pursuit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/100-days-of-standoff-126104
