15-08-2020||The expert group headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia||Montek’s prescription||Paddy is a water-guzzling crop and its cultivation was being blamed for the decline in water table. It has been suggested that Punjab have a look at the Haryana model that is providing cash incentives in districts where water has been overexploited to diversify and reduce procurement of paddy from critical areas, steps that could also help in checking the problem of stubble burning. Free power meant an annual burden of around Rs 6,500 crore. This money could be used to fund loan waiver, create infrastructure and implement schemes related to education and health, both priority sectors in the post-Covid period.Studies have pointed out that over 80 per cent of the beneficiaries of free power have been medium and large farmers while the rest were small farmers, the section among which rural indebtedness and suicides prevail. Of the over 14 lakh agricultural tubewells that benefited from the plan, only around one-fifth were with small farmers. So, the priority has to be set right. But how it will be done is what matters. Punjab will have to go for crop diversification carefully. It lost out on industrialisation in the recent past. It is for the Centre to ensure that cultivation of crops is broad-based on the basis of demand and remunerative prices to ensure food security. Pay cuts and deferring salaries can only be short-term measures for the fixed income group. The government should reconcile conflicting interests in its decision-making process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/monteks-prescription-126733
15-08-2020||ON the face of it||Direct tax reforms||A Covid-hit country striving to rebuild its economy needs confidence-building measures that can drastically raise tax compliance and plug leakages. It has to be ensured that the honest are not harassed and the dishonest are not spared, and not the other way round, as is often the case now. A taxpayers’ charter has the potential to reduce the trust deficit between the government and the taxpayer. Why should people who have nothing to hide live in mortal fear of the taxman? The onus will be on the tax officials to act reasonably and avoid overreach. It is also imperative to widen the tax net and catch the big fish in particular. The number of individual taxpayers in the country who have disclosed annual income above Rs 50 lakh is as low as around 3 lakh (in case of income above Rs 5 crore, the figure is even less than 10,000). Last month, the Central Board of Direct Taxes signed an MoU with the Securities and Exchange Board of India for data exchange between the two organisations. More such steps can help in effectively zeroing in on the evaders.Speedy resolution of tax disputes is another key factor. The funds locked in litigation serve no purpose; these can be released and put to use only if cases are disposed of without delay. A common grouse among Indian taxpayers is that they do their duty but are still deprived of quality services and facilities, including affordable healthcare, good roads and round-the-clock power supply, as the hard-earned money they part with is misused or not optimally utilised. It’s up to the government to ensure that valuable tax revenue does not go down the drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/direct-tax-reforms-126726
