17-08-2020||THE Supreme Court’s decision holding activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for his ‘scandalous’ tweets has again highlighted the problem of the contempt law’s incompatibility — actual or perceived — with a democratic society in which every institution and individuals manning public offices must be subjected to public criticism. Coming on the eve of Independence Day||Contempt of court||It’s one of the rare category of cases in which principles of natural justice don’t apply. Judges hear cases despite being aggrieved persons — either individually or as members of the institution. There is no visible tool to rule out possible bias, except their own sense of fairness, justice and good conscience. It calls for greater self-restraint; unless there is direct interference with the due course of judicial proceedings or obstruction in the administration of justice, courts should avoid invoking contempt jurisdiction.While upholding the law in letter, the court appears to have missed its spirit. It could have followed the House of Lords, which in the Spycatcher case spared Daily Mirror that had published an upside-down picture of three law lords with the caption, ‘You Old Fools’, saying whether one was a fool or not was a matter of perception. Showing magnanimity would have enhanced the court’s credibility. Barring a few exceptions, courts in India have zealously protected individual freedom from legislative and executive excesses. They should be circumspect while using the contempt law so that it does not have a chilling effect on free speech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/contempt-of-court-127252
17-08-2020||Nearly 17 lakh people have responded||Contentious EIA draft||As new ventures continue to mushroom with impunity in the name of development, the affected millions are rightly aghast at the draft that has little to afford by way of reining in the rogue industries and developers. Rather, certain provisions in the draft point to a dilution of the stringent penal provisions of the earlier Environmental Protection Act (2006), shifting the balance in favour of unrestrained economic growth and giving short shrift to ecological concerns. The Congress has joined the public outpouring of outrage, particularly against the provision which seeks to give the clean chit to industries set up without valid environmental clearances through ex post facto approvals, granted with payment of a penalty amount. This is likely to hit a legal hurdle as it goes contrary to a Supreme Court ruling that has struck down such approvals as ultra vires of the parent Act and illegal.The government would do well to look into the suggestions aimed at taming the devastation to environment by strengthening the compliance rules. Short-term economic gains with environmental hazards are myopic. While Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has given an assurance to the effect, it remains to be seen how much he bends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/contentious-eia-draft-127253
