19-08-2020||In a decision that will bring relief to students||Life has to go on||Schools and colleges prepared to meet the new eventuality by switching to online teaching — engineering and management institutes being no exception — to prevent a total learning gap. But the limits of it were pointed out by the Bench that asked why the case should be taken up at a time when pleas were being made to resume physical hearings in the top court: ‘You are demanding opening of physical courts, but you want exams to be postponed. Why can’t exams be held with precautions?’ US President Donald Trump had earlier told the American universities that if the online method of teaching persisted, foreign students would be asked to go home. The UGC has also told the Supreme Court that it is the sole authority when it comes to conducting examinations, for it confers the degrees on students and that the states have no authority in the matter.With the new education policy proposing a merger of the UGC, AICTE and the NAAC into a single body for higher education, campuses could well see some changes in the days ahead. But six months into the pandemic, efforts to restore normalcy will be welcome, albeit with safety measures in place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/life-has-to-go-on-128047
19-08-2020||Facebook has had its fair share of critics who have repeatedly called out the social network for failing to adequately police hateful and misleading content. The global giant has come under intense scrutiny in India after a Wall Street Journal report indicated that it had gone easy on hate speech by a BJP lawmaker to protect the company’s business prospects in its biggest market. Facebook has over 340 million users and its WhatsApp chat service has 400 million users in India. If that is not foothold enough||Facebook faces heat||The Opposition’s demand for an investigation into Facebook’s conduct in India is only going to get shriller, notwithstanding the BJP vociferously taking on the Congress over charges of spreading fake news and influencing the electorate. The Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology may be split over summoning Facebook executives to explain the alleged bias towards the ruling party, but the issue does require fact-checking and transparency. A free run is against national interest and democratic values.The issue of biased content moderation applies to all social media platforms, not just Facebook. The impact of hateful, inciteful, inaccurate content flowing without check has been devastating in India. As Facebook finds itself embroiled in the political discourse, be it in India or the US where the upcoming presidential election is set to test the efficacy of its self-regulation, the message for amending processes cannot be clearer. For a hugely successful company, profit cannot be the sole driving force. Striving towards being more responsible is a mark of character. That, in the long run, is priceless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/facebook-faces-heat-128048
