22-08-2020||Chandigarh is struggling to live up to its proud tagline — City Beautiful. It is placed at the 16th spot in the Swachhta rankings this year. Though it’s an improvement by four notches from last year||Tricity waste woes||Notably, similar woes bedevil the satellite town of Panchkula in Haryana as the dirty nullah snaking through it and the garbage hill in the dumping ground impact its steadily soaring trajectory: its rank 56 this year is up from 211 in 2017. Neighbouring Mohali in Punjab has had to settle for an embarrassing fall in the survey: it is down to rank 157 from 121 in 2017. Punjab also suffers the ignominy of having the third dirtiest town in the country: Abohar. Waterlogging is its major bane. Generally, some gains here are negated by slips there.The authorities and residents need to clean up their act. Further complacency in dealing with the filth will cost them dearly in the coming surveys as cities are waking up to the importance of sanitation in these Covid-hit times. Piles of garbage and plastic, stinking public toilets, inadequate water supply, missing dustbins, unkempt parks, biomedical waste — a lot has to be tackled. On a positive note, as the two states inch up in overall ranking (Punjab moved up a slot to sixth position, and Haryana is second among states with less than 100 urban local bodies), the challenge is not impossible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tricity-waste-woes-129470
22-08-2020||The findings of seroprevalence surveys have raised hopes that herd immunity to Covid-19 may not be a distant dream||Herd immunity||There is, however, lack of unanimity among scientists worldwide about the herd immunity threshold. A section of them estimates that at least 70 per cent of the population must have antibodies to prevent spread of the disease, while some others say that protection is possible even if half the population becomes immune. Moreover, the jury is still out on whether having antibodies against the virus that causes Covid-19 can protect someone from getting infected again, and, if that is the case, how long this protection might last. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated that the focus should be on developing an effective vaccine rather than waiting indefinitely for herd immunity.The surveys have reignited the debate on the efficacy of the nationwide lockdown that remained in force for over two months and impacted millions of lives as well as livelihoods. Did the stringent restrictions last too long and merely delay the inevitable? The unlocking, as expected, has led to a sharp spike in cases. Rattled, several states have reimposed the lockdown. The kneejerk reaction could prove to be ineffectual, if not counterproductive. In a study on the prevalence of Covid-19 in Spain, published in The Lancet last month, researchers concluded that ‘herd immunity could not be achieved without accepting the collateral damage of many deaths… and overburdening of health systems.’ Even as vigorous testing and tracing should continue along with vaccine research, Central and state governments should focus on the rebuilding of the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/herd-immunity-129492
