26-08-2020||With the harvesting of paddy accompanied by its ensuing concomitant of straw burning likely to coincide with the government’s stated intent to unlock the economy further by the resumption of various modes of transport along with other activities||Pollution as pandemic||Punjab has been asked if it could assure that no stubble burning will take place, a question that assumes significance for attempts have been made to promote crop diversification this year. In Delhi, the court was informed that efforts were on to install smog towers that compress particulate matter and reduce pollution, but that would take another 10 months. Meanwhile, urgent measures will be needed. The counsel for the farmers said they had not been consulted. The farming community is an important stakeholder and their views need to be ascertained and involvement in environmental protection ensured by safeguarding their interests.Crop diversification, though advocated on the ground that paddy is a water-guzzling crop, despite being low maintenance, has been questioned on the ground that assured price and purchase of cash crops will prove to be a challenge. Punjab and Haryana have incentivised the cultivation of other crops in water-stressed areas. In UP, the setting up of bio-fuel plants has been advocated, where farmers can sell waste stubble for power generation. Checking the problem on the ground can be the best way and for that the farming community needs to be convinced through encouragement and awareness that the change will be for the better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pollution-as-pandemic-131362
26-08-2020||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat’s statement on military options against China is fraught with strategic imponderables. He told a news agency on Monday that ‘military options to deal with transgressions by the Chinese army in Ladakh are there||Military options||Mobilising the troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh to measure up to the neighbour’s presence and refusing to get bullied by the Chinese, in fact, is a military option that India has already exercised. Along with the General’s comment, an unnamed Army source was quoted by a national daily speaking on the possibility of India doing a tit-for-tat transgression into the Chinese territory and holding on to it as a bargaining ploy. All these are de rigueur military manoeuvres and need not be announced in the media. Instead of reassuring people, these statements by the top military brass can only create confusion about their intent.Decoupling of the Indian and Chinese economies is the most urgent step now for the government, which requires a grand vision on the future of the domestic industry. Beyond slogans, India needs investment, technology and uninterrupted supply chains in all sectors, particularly telecom and pharma. We have a ready market with a massive appetite whetted by Chinese products. Once our economy is on the rails with a direct linkage between the industry and market, we would have achieved much more than what military options, devoid of an offensive plan to target the Chinese heartland, can promise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/military-options-131363
