27-08-2020||The green shoots of an economic turnaround are turning pale||RBI’s bleak report||Another worrying trend is that the corporate tax cut, announced in September 2019, has been utilised by companies primarily for debt servicing and build-up of cash balances. This considerable relief was aimed at boosting investment, demand and capital expenditure, but the purpose largely stands defeated. The RBI has stressed on targeted public investment through asset monetisation and privatisation of major ports. The onus is on the Central and state governments to proactively play the part of enabler and facilitator, even as the investors need to become less risk-averse.The continued disruption of global supply chains has prompted India to take stock of its domestic manufacturing sector and look for opportunities to cash in on the anti-China sentiment in the West. But much will depend on how India handles the health crisis in the coming months. The government just can’t keep waiting for the Covid peak or herd immunity to arrive. Effective containment measures that don’t take a toll on livelihoods — along with the development of a potent vaccine — have to be put in place quickly so as to restore consumer confidence. The sooner the fear of infection subsides, the faster demand will return to pre-Covid levels. For that, everybody has to chip in, right from the common man to the corporates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rbis-bleak-report-132040
27-08-2020||The 13||Pulwama chargesheet||According to the NIA, the car that rammed into the convoy was laden with 200 kg of explosives in a ‘well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by the Pakistan-based leadership of terrorist organisation JeM’. Six of the 19 have been eliminated, seven have been arrested. At large are the three brothers across the border and three local terrorists. When the arguments are heard on September 1, another chapter will be added to Islamabad’s proven complicity in terror activities. That, however, will bring little solace if past experience is anything to go by. The perpetrators of the 26/11 attack continue to be active.Pakistan’s presence on the Grey List of anti-terror funding watchdog FATF makes it difficult to get financial aid. To evade the more severe blacklist at the FATF review expected in October, it has designated close to 100 people as terrorists. Among them are LeT chief Hafiz Saeed, 26/11 accused Lakhvi and Azhar. What’s expected of Pakistan is to deny them direct access to funds, entry or transit through the country and procurement of weapons. Such resolve is wishful thinking, but NIA’s effort should not go in vain. Bolstered by the cross-border surgical strike strategy, New Delhi’s fight against terror hinges on top-notch intelligence, found wanting in Pulwama, and persistent global pressure against the rogue gallery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pulwama-chargesheet-132028
