31-08-2020||Even as the authorities are struggling to tackle the raging pandemic and provide health facilities to the affected||Commitment default||But though Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has conceded that of the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, Rs 97,000 crore was owed to the states, the dire straits caused by a setback to cess collection this year have constrained the Finance Ministry to look for alternative solutions to inject funds into the states. Its suggestion of allowing the states to individually borrow from the RBI to make up for revenue losses due to the deficit in GST dues has not evoked much enthusiasm as it puts the burden on the fund-starved states.Capt Amarinder Singh has been among the CMs at the forefront to raise concern over GST dues and even threatened to knock at the Supreme Court’s doors in case of a deadlock. With Punjab’s revenue receipts falling by 21 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 and its own GST collections of July down by 9 per cent, as compared to last July, the Rs 2,100 crore that the Centre owes to Punjab can be a big support to the state in running its affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/commitment-default-133963
31-08-2020||That the Lok Sabha Speaker should write to chairpersons of parliamentary committees||Speaker’s directive||Checks and balances are important in a democracy to ensure accountability. Judicial activism stems mostly from the apathy of the executive and the inertia of the legislature. In view of the exigency created by the pandemic and its long duration, the government has exercised exceptional power, seen in the use of the police force to implement the lockdown, and the slow resumption of economic activities. Parliament represents the will of the people and it can make the government accountable for its actions. A strong and constructive Opposition remains an integral part of the parliamentary system. The procedures for House panel functioning in other democracies like the US, battling the pandemic, too, can be studied. After the truncated sessions of the Punjab and Haryana Assemblies, it is important to ensure the smooth conduct of Parliament. Special arrangements are being made to ensure that the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha meet in shifts and members have been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19.Governance does not cease even in extraordinary circumstances. Instead, it acquires more urgency. But for it to be responsive, the need is to make the institutions strong and to respect their autonomy. As the Supreme Court recently pointed out, it cannot ask the Election Commission to defer the Bihar polls on the grounds of Covid-19 as it would amount to devaluing institutions. Parliament too needs to safeguard its traditions and practices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/speakers-directive-133962
