03-07-2020||Amritsar||Woman dies in road mishap||32-yr-old kills self in Lalpur villageTarn Taran: Jasbir Kaur (32) of Lalpur village allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at in-laws’ house on Wednesday night. According to sources, the victim turned into a verbal duel with her husband and later consumed some poisonous substance. She was admitted to a nearby hospital in a serious condition where doctors declared her dead. Inspector Harwinder Singh, SHO, Goindwal Sahib, said a case had been registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. He said the couple had married 14 years ago, and has two children. The body had been kept at the Civil Hospital’s mortuary, he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-dies-in-road-mishap-107987
03-07-2020||Amritsar||VK Seth is director of Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport||On Thursday, VK Seth (pic) joined as director of Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport (SGRDJI) here. He took the charge from Manoj Chandra, who has been transferred to New Delhi.Seth said, “The number of flights has been decreased due to the Covid-19 outbreak. So my first priority will be to increase the number of flights. We will provide good services to passengers and visitors and work for the betterment of the airport”. Chandra said, “After completing a long three year tenure here, today I am handing over the charge to VK Seth.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vk-seth-is-director-of-sri-guru-ram-dass-jee-international-airport-107986
03-07-2020||---||30-gm heroin, 66K intoxicants seized||Amritsar, July 2A day after the seizure of over 66,000 intoxicating tablets worth Rs6.50 lakh from a local resident, the rural police on Thursday confiscated 30 gm of heroin on the basis of interrogation of the suspect, who was brought on a police remand.Balwinder Singh, a resident of Mardi Kalan village, was nabbed by the CIA staff of the rural police from a check point in Chatiwind area here on Wednesday. SSP Vikram Jeet Singh Duggal said the police seized as many as 17,400 intoxicating capsules and 48,750 sedative pills from his possession.“Among the drugs seized from his possession included alprazoram, tramadol hydrocholride and clovidol worth over Rs6.50 lakh,” said the SSPPolice hand over 10 lost mobile phones to ownersThe city police on Thursday handed over around 10 mobile phones to their owners who had lost them in the past. Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, DCP Investigations, in a statement issued here today said with the help of cybercrime cell, the smart phones valued at Rs 1.3 lakh were traced and today handed over to their owners. The step was taken to make cordial relations between the police and public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-gm-heroin-66k-intoxicants-seized-107985
03-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Villagers seek replacement of damaged power meter boxes||Tarn Taran, July 2Residents of Thakarpura village (Patti) are demanding the replacement of damaged electricity meter pillar boxes installed at several places in the village.Jorawar Singh, Harwishavjit Singh and other residents of the village in a representation to Powercom officials on Thursday said the department had installed electricity meters out of the premises of the consumers to check power theft. These meters were installed more than 10 years ago at main street crossings. The villagers said with the passing of time these pillar boxes had damaged and there was possibility of power theft. The residents have demanded replacement of the boxes to avoid any untoward incident as the rainy season has set in.Jatinder Singh, deputy chief engineer local circle, Powercom, said the damaged pillar boxes would be replaced soon as the work had been assigned to officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/villagers-seek-replacement-of-damaged-power-meter-boxes-107984
03-07-2020||---||Drive to beautify road begins||Amritsar, July 2Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal on Thursday initiated a plantation drive to be carried out by Dera Kar Sewa Bhuri.As part of the drive, Dera Kar Sewa would plant 350 ornamental plants in central verge of the road from Chatiwind to Gurdwara Saheedan Sahib. Earlier, the Dera Kar Sewa Bhuri Wale planted over 700 saplings on both sides of the road. Volunteers of the Kar Sewa clean the road in the morning on a daily basis.Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale had made a great contribution to society. “During the Covid-19 lockdown, he served langar to lakhs of people and the activity is still ongoing. He has been serving city residents in various ways. Bhuri Wale volunteers not only plant trees, they assure the growth of plants by taking care of them,” he said.Commissioner Komal Mittal said: “Baba Kashmir Singh is working to conserve the environment which is the need of the hour. Dera Kar Sewa Buri Wale has formed Saheed Baba Deep Sing Vatawaran Sambal Society for working on environmental issues.”Amarjit Singh, an activist of the society, said: “With motivation from Baba Kashmir Singh, we are regularly planting trees and looking after them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drive-to-beautify-road-begins-107983
03-07-2020||---||GNDU comes up with virtual internship offers||Amritsar, July 2SciRox, the science club of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), has started a virtual internship initiative called ‘Mentor-Mentee Program’ for both under and postgraduate students in the fields of basic and applied sciences.The objective of the programme is to provide the students with an opportunity to enhance their skills by training under experts working in a specific research area. The mentors include faculty members, post-doctoral and PhD students from various institutions across India and abroad. A total of 25 mentors from Indian Insitutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, Council of Scientific & Industrial Research, other state universities and foreign universities have registered. Several projects like science communication, chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and computers are up for grabs.“The mentors will guide the students for a period of one month providing them with assignments, virtual lab tours, lectures, and small projects. The club will provide certificates to both the mentors as well as mentees after the successful completion of the programme,” said Dr Bindiya Arora, Convener and incharge, SciRox.The registrations for the mentees will start on Friday. Each student can apply for one or more of the offered projects and a mentor will be provided on the basis of their academic profile and statement of purpose. The application process is completely online and the selected students will work on a project of their choice filled. This programme is exclusively for the students who have availed the free lockdown membership of the SciRox. The result of the selected candidates will be declared on the official website of the club.‘Mentor-Mentee program’ is being organised in collaboration with The Chemical Society, GNDU, and the Stellar Universe, DU. It is open for all the members of the science club studying in various departments of GNDU main campus and affiliated colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-comes-up-with-virtual-internship-offers-107981
03-07-2020||---||Manoranjan Kalia comes in defence of ordinances on agriculture||Amritsar, July 2Former Punjab minister and senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia on Thursday accused the state Congress of double standards in opposing the recent three ordinances related to agriculture brought in by the Union Government.Kalia said at a press conference here today that the state government in 2017 had amended the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act. “The amended APMC and the ordinances are same. If the amended APMC is good for farmers, how these ordinances are harmful,” he reasoned.Kalia said the Union Agriculture Minister had repeatedly stated that the government had no intention to withdraw the MSP for crops and the three ordinances do not have anything to do with it.The BJP leader said the state Congress was just trying to distract people as it had failed to fulfill poll promises made in 2017. He added the purpose of the three ordinances was to create an ecosystem in which farmers and traders were free to sell and purchase crops. He claimed that it would help farmers as they would get a better price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manoranjan-kalia-comes-in-defence-of-ordinances-on-agriculture-107980
03-07-2020||Neha Saini||Punjabi food — the route to our roots||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 2The distinct flavour of traditional Punjabi food has a long trail of history behind it, but the contemporary Punjabi cuisine is a mélange of influences from India and beyond.While modern Indian palate has turned international, our traditional food is still a heritage we love to identify with, especially the Punjabi cuisine.So, Majha House, in an attempt to explore the roots behind several traditional Punjabi recipes, invited eminent culinary experts to speak on the topic of ‘Punjabi Cuisine: A Hotpot of History’.“I feel when you move away from your land, you tend to lose connection with the food of the land and Punjabi cuisine is inextricably connected to the land. Therefore, there is this urge among Punjabis settled outside Punjab to stay connected to their roots and culture through food,” said Puneetinder Kaur Sandhu, an author, content developer and food critic.Sandhu has penned ‘Punjab – A Culinary Delight’, a coffee-table book about the food traditions of her home state and was one of the resource persons for the first World heritage Food Summit held in Amritsar last year.“While we have managed to retain our food traditions primarily in rural Punjab, in urban centres, many next generation Punjabis are not aware of some traditional staples such as Mitha Rot also called Mandh, aloe vera sabzi and moringa that was either pickled or made into a sabzi. Not many people are now aware about moringa, which is considered a super food. So, we need to know about our food heritage and preserve it before we lose it to time,” she said.Vernika Awal, a food writer, agreed. “There are so many simple dishes that we used to eat as kids, but no one cooks these now. Sukhi Maa ki daal, rooh di kheer made from sugarcane juice which was an integral part of our festival cuisine has been limited to just interiors of Punjab. I feel we might be the last generation to actually preserve these recipes,” she said.Vernika has been writing about some of the lost recipes of Punjab in her blog — Delectable Reveries. Almost three years back, she began working on the concept of #DelectablePunjab, through which she aimed at documenting the culture and cuisine from her home state of Punjab. Vermika has been organising food pop-up sessions with limited people to educate them on Punjabi cuisine and ingredients.“My pop-ups are an attempt to create awareness and to share the culinary heritage with more people. Staying away from Punjab most of my life, I felt that I had to search for my cultural identity through food. Like most people think that saag gets its flavour from the leaves, when actually it’s the stems that are important for that authentic flavour. Bhajji, the wedding special platter of sweet and savoury delights, are not made anymore and have been replaced by fancier versions like chocolates and cakes,” said Vernika.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-food-%E2%80%94-the-route-to-our-roots-107979
03-07-2020||The president of Amritsar Textile Processor Association||‘Provide interest-free loans to MSMEs for five years’||How has the lockdown affected your businesses?The textile, real estate and hospitality arms of our business have been lying shut since the lockdown.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?The resumption of our businesses is not expected in the near future as labourers are not available. Most of them are migrants who have already left for their native places. We are also facing a financial crunch as payments from outstation traders, who were given supplies before the Covid-19 pandemic, are not forthcoming.Have you paid salaries to your workers during the lockdown?Although we have no funds to release salaries, we have been paying the labourers by taking loans and selling our stock at low rates.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading in our profession, except hospitality, stands at five to 10 per cent.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?I have learnt that survival is more important than double digit growth. There is no alternative to liquidity. Entrepreneurs must have reserve of it apart from the one in working capital to support the business in case of any such situation.How do you take the current crises — a challenge or an opportunity?I consider the current crises as a challenge. The demand will return only when the pandemic abates.What are your expectations from the government?Migrant labourers should be brought back by providing free transport to enable the businesses to resume functioning in full swing. Rent-free accommodation must be provided to them. Interest-free loan up to Rs5 crore must be provided to MSMEs for a period of one year and thereafter the interest charged must be five per cent. Electricity rates must be reduced by up to 50 per cent and the power bills for the lockdown be waived off. PF contribution of both employees and employers be deposited by the government till March 31, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/provide-interest-free-loans-to-msmes-for-five-years-107977
03-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||E-learning rises to Covid challenge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 2With schools and colleges shifting to online education, frequent exchange of audio-video messages and calls among students and teachers have become the new normal these days as educational institutions are closed due to Covid-19 pandemic.Parents, who earlier complained about children using mobile phones, have now granted permission to them for using phones for a longer duration in order to complete their assignments.In a marked shift, many parents reported that they had given personal phones to their children so as to facilitate their online learning.Rajinder Singh, a parent, said, “We had to buy a desktop as copying assignments from mobile phone is time consuming and difficult for a child.” In normal times who could have thought of giving a personal phone or a desktop to a student of a primary class, he said.While the experts are debating the increased use of electronic gadgets among children during the Covid-19 lockdown, parents feel that they have no other option. The necessity of a mobile phone has however affected education of children whose parents cannot afford to buy new phones.For teachers making videos while delivering a lecture has become the new normal. Many of them claimed that they had never shot their own video before the Covid forced the closure of schools. Professor Psychiatry Nursing at Sri Guru Ram Das College of Nursing, Dr Amandeep Kaur Bajwa said: “The use of computers and mobile phones has increased among the teachers too. They have to prepare study material and then check assignments online or offline.” She said even class tests were conducted using Zoom where invigilator keeps a watch on video footage of each child. The students are required to send the picture of the test copy immediately on email.The teachers stated that to keep primary students involved, they have to come up with innovative ideas every day. “The primary students, especially those who are in first or second year of school have a very little attention span. To keep them engaged, teachers have to keep looking for new story ideas,” said Monica, a primary school teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/e-learning-rises-to-covid-challenge-107976
03-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||MC collects cow cess but stray cattle continue to rule Amritsar roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 2Though the municipal authorities have been claiming to spend crores on development programmes, they have failed to provide any solution to the issue of stray cattle roaming on city roads and streets. Residents, who have been paying cow cess on electricity bill and purchase of liquor and automobiles, are a harried lot as the menace of stray cattle continues to haunt them.The number of stray cattle has been increasing in the city. As male calves have been deserted by farmers in the village, they move to urban locations in search of food. Though the MC has not conducted any survey, officials claim that more than 3,500 stray cows flock the city roads. Stray cows feed on rotten vegetables thrown by sellers and often cause traffic snarls as while grazing on grass grown on dividers between roads. The animals cause traffic jams, besides accidents. Some furious bulls also attack the residents. Cows can be seen roaming in narrow streets in search of food and create nuisance.A research conducted by traffic experts at Guru Nanak Dev University revealed that several major accidents have been reported due to stray cattle. Not only residents, even the cows are being killed in road accidents. A few weeks back some unidentified vehicle hit a cow to death at Putaligarh area. Similarly, another cow died on Majitha-Verka bypass in a road accident on last Sunday.Despite directions by the state government, the Municipal Corporation and the district administration have failed to curb the menace.The MC has a cattle shed with a capacity of 30 animals, which is insufficient. The proposed construction of gaushalas by district administration is still a distant dream. Meanwhile, the general house of Municipal Corporation also cleared the construction of two gaushalas with a capacity of head of 600 cattle in Naraingarh area last year but the project is still in a limbo. Though a large number of cow shelters are being run by religious organisations and private individuals, it has hardly brought any change in the situation.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said tenders for the construction of cow shelter at Nariangarh area have been floated. “After constructing a boundary wall, we have started keeping the cattle there but the required infrastructure doesn’t exist,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-collects-cow-cess-but-stray-cattle-continue-to-rule-amritsar-roads-107975
03-07-2020||---||City-based biker goes extra mile||Amritsar, July 2Venturing into cities riding on a bike is what he loves to do. His riding expeditions are sometimes short but can also stretch as far as to Ahmedabad, starting here. Kanwalpreet Singh Sethi, a 42-year-old city-based adventure biker, has done it all. Be it biking for long hours or wading through the most difficult roads in the country.However, earlier this year in February, Sethi went an extra mile as he undertook an arduous journey of 3,300 km to travel to Patna on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the fruits of which he is savouring now, as his name and his journey has been etched in the India Book of Records. It has been registered under the appreciation category.“I have been biking since last seven years and it has become not just my passion but also therapeutic for me. The journey I undertook between two holy cities of Amritsar and Patna was in February this year. My single day travel was 1,466 km,” said Sethi, who is an insurance sector professional.He usually rides with the members of his biker club known as ‘The Holy City Riders’ but this time he rode all by himself and the area he had to go about was notorious for criminal activities.“My friends had advised otherwise as the area I had cross was not considered safe for night rides but I had planned to finish my entire journey riding non-stop,” shares Sethi.Among some of his achievements, Sethi has scaled some of the most difficult roads like Jalori Pass and Cliffhanger road, considered one of most dangerous roads in India. He has also covered about 1,430 km riding from Amritsar to Ahmedabad — without any stoppages — finishing his journey in 21 hours.Well, what is his mantra?“I train lightly before going out on any journey and usually pack the essentials on my bike. Its important to be hydrated all along during the such long trips so as to not suffer any health crisis later on. Also, one needs to build stamina for such lengthy runs which is why you need to have a fitness routine as well, even when you are not riding,” he says.The biker is upbeat than ever after landing in the India Book of Records and shares that he plans to carry out more such excursions once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. He said that he had planned for the annual ‘Rang De Basanti’ ride, organised by Thumpers Cafe in Chandigarh. “The ride is usually planned for March every year, but due to the virus, we had to cancel it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-based-biker-goes-extra-mile-107974
03-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||AIR’s 12-hour Urdu service goes off air, listeners want it back||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 2Listeners of the All-India Radio’s FM Amritsar 103.6 service, being broadcast from FM tower at Gharinda village close to the India-Pakistan border at Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post, are dismayed at the government for snapping the 12-hour long Urdu service.After the lockdown and curfew post coronavirus outbreak, the Urdu service was discontinued from AIR FM Amritsar 103.6 MHz. Shortwave services are becoming unpopular in Pakistan, while the FM services are gaining popularity all over.Harjap Singh Aujla, a retired engineer, said: “Of late, the All-India Radio’s FM Amritsar 103.6 became very popular in the Lahore region of Pakistan. Its reception of the Urdu service of AIR was better in Lahore than in Amritsar. Although it could not reach some downtown areas of Lahore city, in outer and suburban Lahore, its reception was reasonably good.” Aujla demanded that AIR should recommission the Urdu service from Amritsar without further delay.The original 1,000-ft high tower remained non-commissioned due to some technical issue and the 300-ft high tower was being used to relay the programmes, defeating the very purpose of reaching out to a larger audience, he said, adding that if it gets commissioned, it would reach all parts of Lahore as well as the most difficult parts of Amritsar city.Another avid FM radio listener, Mohan Singh, said: “Residents of the border district remained cut-off from highly informative and entertaining FM broadcast programmes and the radio culture for decades because the programmes being broadcast from the Goraya antenna of Jalandhar radio station never reached here. Listeners were delighted to get some surprise in the shape of Gharinda (Amritsar) FM station.”But shockingly, the height of the new transmitter as well as the power claimed to be 20 KW do not seem to be delivering, he said. “Now, they have totally withdrawn the Urdu service from Gharinda station. The daily two-hour Asa di Vaar is a popular feature, no doubt, but the Urdu content was directed towards the audience across the border, where this is very popular particularly in the Mofussil areas. I request the authorities not to give up this high-priority 12-hour Urdu slot because it is very useful for projecting the Indian point of view as well,” he said.Santosh Rishi, Director, All-India Radio, Jalandhar, who administers the Gharinda tower, said: “The 12-hour Urdu programme used to be relayed by the Delhi office. Since the coronavirus pandemic has intensified in the capital, the staff members are unable to rejoin the office. It is a temporary phase, in which programmes were off air and the service will be resumed once the staff rejoins.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/airs-12-hour-urdu-service-goes-off-air-listeners-want-it-back-107973
03-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police to adopt tough stance in walled city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 2With a majority of the cases coming from the congested walled city area, the city police have decided to enforce more stringent measures, at least for a week, to contain the spread of Covid-19.According to the police, residents of the walled city area were not abiding by the government guidelines, forcing the police to adopt a tougher stance. “It was seen that residents of the old walled city were caring two hoots to the instructions related to maintenance of social distancing norms and wearing of mask, which are essential to controlling the spread of the deadly virus,” said Jagmohan Singh, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) while talking to The Tribune.On the other hand, residents pointed out that owing to its old topography, there were congested lanes in the old city, making if “difficult” for them to maintain social distancing. Markets in the area are located in the congested lanes and there are many roadside eateries, too, they said.As per Health Department reports, nearly 1,000 positive cases were reported in the holy city and a majority of them came from the walled city. Many areas were declared as containment zones in the old city. Besides positive case, the death toll due to Covid-19 virus has crossed 44 in the district.The district administration has been appealing to the people to wear masks and maintain social distance to flatten the curve of the coronavirus as there was no treatment available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-to-adopt-tough-stance-in-walled-city-107972
03-07-2020||---||71-year-old succumbs to virus||Amritsar, July 2Another septuagenarian died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll to 45 in the district. The health authorities also reported five new positive cases. The deceased has been identified as Manjit Kaur, a 71-yr-old resident of Ganda Singh Colony on the Tarn Taran road. She was admitted to Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable hospital.The total count of positive cases in the district now stands at 971. According to health officials, three of the five new cases showed symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) while two were contacts of Covid patients.One ILI case each has been reported from Jaspal Nagar, Basant Avenue and Akaash Avenue. The other two infected persons are from Majitha and Bhagtawala. The health authorities stated that a total of 771 patients have been discharged after recovery till date. The district at present has 150 active cases, with 97 undergoing treatment at hospitals and 58 in home isolation. Though the number of new cases reported in a day has dropped significantly in the past one week, casualties are still high. The deaths from Covid-19 in the district account for 30 per cent of the state’s toll.Meanhwile, Tarn Taran district reported five more cases on Thursday, taking the number of cases to 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/71-year-old-succumbs-to-virus-107971
03-07-2020||GS PAUL||SGPC hires Pune firm for dairy items, farmers fume||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 2The SGPC’s move to hire a Maharashtra-based dairy for supply of desi ghee and other products, to be consumed in shrines across the state, has not gone down well with Punjab-based dairy farmers.The state’s only cooperative milk producers’ federation, Milkfed, which offers products under the brand name Verka, has been a regular supplier of dairy products to the SGPC for the past many decades.Winning the tender gameThis time, Milkfed lost the SGPC order to a Pune-based firm Sonai Dairy, that offered products at a relatively much lower rate.Insiders said in response to the tender dated June 26, 2020, the rate quoted by the Pune firm was Rs 352 per kg for desi ghee, and Rs 252 per kg for dry milk, both rates inclusive of the GST. On the other hand, Verka desi ghee was quoted at Rs 446 per kg and dry milk at Rs 352 per kg, including the GST.Daljeet Singh Gill, president of Progressive Dairy Farmers’ Association, Punjab, contested that negotiations could have been made with Verka. Thousands of dairy farmers have been associated with Milkfed and losing SGPC’s order that rolls in several crores would directly hit their income.SGPC vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said the tenders were finalised by a sub-committee and the firm with the lowest rates grabbed the order. “We have been using Verka products for decades, but this time, their rates were high in comparison to the Pune firm. There was a difference of around Rs 4 crore in desi ghee and Rs 1.30 crore in dry milk. How was it justified to ignore it?” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-hires-pune-firm-for-dairy-items-farmers-fume-107773
03-07-2020||Amritsar/Kapurthala||2 FIRs against SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh||A day after Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) was declared a terrorist by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the police today registered two FIRs in Amritsar and Kapurthala against him and his associates, including an active SFJ member, Joginder Singh Gujjar.The MHA had designated Pannu as a terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India.The Dalit Suraksha Sena had filed a complaint against Pannu and his associates in Amritsar for burning the Constitution of India and the national flag and instigating others to do so.The second FIR registered at Bholath police station in Kapurthala is based on reliable inputs of entry of Joginder Singh Gujjar alias Goga in India in February, said a police spokesperson and added that Pannu and his associates have been charged with sedition and secessionist activities.The police spokesperson said Gogga was an active member of the SFJ, which had been declared an “unlawful organisation” by the MHA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-firs-against-sfjs-gurpatwant-singh-107779
03-07-2020||Amritsar||Security up in Amritsar ahead of ‘Referendum-2020 registration’||Following a decision by the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) to start “voter registration” for “Referendum-2020” in Punjab from July 4, the police have cordoned off the area around the Golden Temple complex.A heavy police force has been deployed around the shrine and barricades put up at vulnerable spots. Though police officials were tightlipped about the heightened security, sources in the intelligence agencies said it was done as a precautionary measure in the wake of a call by the SFJ to commence registration.The sources said July 4 was chosen by the SFJ on this day in 1955, the government “ordered the police to enter the Golden Temple precincts” to disperse the assembled separatist Sikh volunteers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-up-in-amritsar-ahead-of-referendum-2020-registration-107780
03-07-2020||Amritsar||Rice firm, bank officials booked for cheating||The CBI has booked directors of a local rice shellar, Punjab Basmati Rice Ltd, and unknown bank officials for causing a loss of Rs 174 crore to Canara Bank.Reportedly, the accused cheated a consortium, led by the Canara Bank, and comprising of Andhra bank, Union Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce, IDBI Bank, and UCO bank, to the tune of Rs 350 crore by disposing of stocks/ prime security sans any prior information and approval from the consortium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rice-firm-bank-officials-booked-for-cheating-107781
