05-07-2020||---||Tourist spots in city take virtual route amid Covid||Amritsar, July 4 The Partition Museum and several other historic and prominent tourist attractions continue to remain closed until government guidelines on re-opening are given. The Partition Museum was the first to decide to shutdown indefinitely in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.  The Punjab State War Memorial and the museum followed and shut down its galleries for public. Many other historically significant places such as Pul Kanjri and Gobindgarh Fort too remained shut.  These historical places might have witnessed a reduced footfall, but their activities have shifted on a digital platform, keeping the buzz  around them alive. “We have shut all our galleries for the public for now, occasionally opening them just for maintenance. But we are carrying out online activities, interactions and webinars on our social media pages. We are uploading information and archive stories on these pages so that people still know about our history and purpose,” said Rajwinder Kaur, from Partition Museum. Rajwinder says that the maintenance of archives and galleries is being undertaken regularly and keeping in mind the safety guidelines. “Despite the fact that we are shut, we are carrying out sanitisation or our galleries and premises.”  Similarly, Punjab State War memorial and Museum too have been carrying out activities on social media pages to stay connected to people. Like Partition museum, they too are resorting to virtual tours which include information regarding the place and the galleries.  “We are putting in a lot of information about our military history and marking the anniversaries and commemorations on social media platforms. Specific video and audio updates are being done just to pique the interests of the public. It is important to explore the digital media reach at this time,” said Col HP Singh, project director, War Memorial and Museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourist-spots-in-city-take-virtual-route-amid-covid-108878
05-07-2020||---||‘Community efforts can check Covid spread’||Amritsar, July 4 The Punjab Youth Development Board held an awareness drive under the Mission Fateh for the youth clubs at the Nehru Yuva Kendra on Saturday. It was addressed by DC Shivdular Singh. He exhorted people to ensure that safety and health guidelines are strictly adhered to in the wake of Covid-19 spread and also urged the youngsters to create a network of information in their families and community.  “It is very important that this battle against the disease is fought together as well with individual responsibility. We have to follow the guidelines to ensure each other’s safety. The administration and health workers are working tirelessly to keep you all safe. But this is everyone’s fight and we need to take up community-based efforts to curb the further spread of pandemic,” he said. Director, Punjab Youth Development Board, Dr Aanchal Arora, too was present at the event. She said the volunteers from these youth clubs would be trained to create awareness and run programmes regarding safety measures to be followed in various wards and rural blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/community-efforts-can-check-covid-spread-108879
05-07-2020||Amritsar||Lack of education facilities in border areas a cause for concern: MP Aujla||Member of Parliament (MP) from Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency, Gurjit Singh Aujla, on Friday visited border area to get a partial view of villages adjacent to the border areas . He also met residents and listened to their issues. Aujla visited villages, including Dhanoa, Rangarh and Valla near Amritsar and addressed the problems faced by the residents on the spot by directing the authorities concerned. The MP said there were flaws in the education facilities in many villages of the border and to know about these shortcomings he had specially visited the villages. It was an effort to take a closer look at the problems of the people. He said the education system in the villages, falling under the border areas, would be up made to standard and he would approach the Chief Minister Punjab and the Union Government to get funds for the development of their infrastructure.  He said it had come to light that farmers across the border wire had not yet received the compensation for the year 2015-16. The MP also directed the authorities concerned to involve MGNREGAworkers in these activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lack-of-education-facilities-in-border-areas-a-cause-for-concern-mp-aujla-108880
05-07-2020||---||Work on development of green belt along Upper Bari Doab Canal starts||Amritsar, July 4  The Dera Kar Sewa Bhuri Wale, in collaboration with the Municipal Corporation and Public Work Department, (PWD) will construct a jogging park alongside the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC), from Taran Wala Pul to Tarn Taran Road. Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale, along with Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, inaugurated the development work of the green belt here. The green belt area would include an open gym, jogging track and a walking track for senior citizens, benches and parking area. Mayor Karamjit Singh said, “We are thankful to Sant Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale who has taken the responsibility of taking care of this plantation and development of green belt. He also said Dera Bhuri Wala was committed towards making city green and pollution free and for the welfare of humanity. Today, there is a need to create such green belts to protect the environment and human health. We will plant maximum trees in the city to deal with global warming. Meanwhile, keeping in mind the public health, an open gym was set up by the Improvement Trust at the Housing Board Colony Park in Ranjit Avenue here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-development-of-green-belt-along-upper-bari-doab-canal-starts-108881
05-07-2020||---||Virus snuffs out 25-yr-old’s life, 14 fresh cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 4The district reported the death of a 25-year-old man due to Covid-19 on Saturday. With this death, the casualty count has increased to 47 in the district. The deceased has been identified as Karan Kumar, a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony. He was admitted to Government Medical College.Besides, 14 new cases surfaced, taking the count of positive cases to 996 in the district. Of the new cases, eight are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while six are contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Bharariwal, B-block (Ranjit Avenue), Bhagat Singh Colony, Raja Sansi, Majitha Road, Indira Colony, Preet Nagar and Kabir Park.Of the contact cases, three were reported from Anand Avenue, besides one each from Shahid Udham Singh Colony, Ganda Singh Colony and Kabir Park.The district health authorities stated that 807 patients had been discharged after complete recovery. At present, the district had 142 active cases, out of which 92 were admitted in hospitals and 50 were in home isolation.With a mortality rate of 4.71 per cent, the district has the highest number of casualties in the state. Besides, the district also has the highest number of positive cases.Though the spread of the virus (as indicated from a reduction in the number of cases reported daily) has slowed down, the rising number of deaths has become a cause for concern.A health official said positive cases had been reported from many new localities in the past few days. “With this, the chances of the spread of the infection in areas outside the containment and micro-containment zones cannot be ruled out,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-snuffs-out-25-yr-olds-life-14-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-108882
05-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||In Tarn Taran, seven taken ill after consuming parshad||Tarn Taran, July 4 Seven persons were taken ill after consuming ‘parshad’ at Gurdwara Bhagat Baba Namdev, Mohalla Tonk Kashatrya, here on Saturday. They were admitted to the local Civil Hospital, from where three of them were referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) in Amritsar. According to the police, the patients were identified as Baba Balbir Singh (65), the granthi of the gurdwara, his wife Gurmeet Kaur (63), two grandsons Tejinderpal Singh (12) and Gurjotpal Singh (10), Raghubir Singh (35) of Tarn Taran, Paramjit Kaur (42) and her son Jashanpreet Singh (21) of Banga. Raghubir, Paramjit and Jashanpreet Singh were referred to GNDH. Baba Balbir Singh, in his statement to the police, said after performing the bhog ceremony of Sharanjit Kaur, Paramjit, at their residence in the locality, ‘parshad’ was taken to the gurdwara with Guru Granth Sahib and distributed among those present there. After his grandsons complained of bad taste of the ‘parshad’, the granthi himself tasted it. Later, all those who had the ‘parshad’ were taken ill. Baba Balbir Singh said the ‘parshad’ distributed at the residence was harmless but some poisonous substance got mixed in it later and only those who had the ‘parshad’ at the gurdwara fell sick. DSP Sucha Singh Bal said on the basis of information given by SHO Shaminderjit Singh, a case under Section 328 of the IPC had been registered against unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-tarn-taran-seven-taken-ill-after-consuming-parshad-108883
05-07-2020||---||Month on, wife, paramour booked for man’s murder||Amritsar, July 4 Over a month after a man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Jethuwal village, the police have booked his wife and her alleged paramour on charges of murder and disposing of his body. They were identified as Amandeep Kaur and Charanjit Singh of the same village. Sukhwant Singh, a resident of Jethuwal village, told the police that his son Hari Singh (35) was married to Amandeep Kaur of Gaddian village in Gurdaspur around 12 years ago. He said Charanjit Singh would often visit their house, after which Sukhwant got suspicious of Amandeep having an illicit relationship with Charanjit. “On May 22, Charanjit came to our house and he, along with Hari Singh and Amandeep Kaur, stayed on the first floor of the house till late night. Around 5 am, when I called my son, Amandeep told that he was not feeling well. When I went upstairs, I found him dead,” said Sukhwant. He said the suspects cremated the body in haste, without getting an autopsy done. Later, he lodged a complaint with the police.  A police official said after a getting a preliminary probe done and obtaining legal opinion from the District Attorney, a case under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC had been registered against Amandeep Kaur and Charanjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/month-on-wife-paramour-booked-for-mans-murder-108884
05-07-2020||---||SAD demands jobs for kin of Dasehra train tragedy victims||Amritsar, July 4 A day after the report of the judicial probe into the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy, which claimed 58 lives, came out, the migrant labour wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal alleged that the government had not fulfilled its promise of providing jobs to kin of the deceased. Addressing a press conference here, Mahesh Verma, the president of the wing, demanded that jobs be given to family members of the victims. “Over 50 families lost their bread-winners in the accident. The compensation amount was not enough and does not assure the survival of dependent members. Navjot Singh Sidhu and the Municipal Corporation had promised jobs to a member of the victims’ families. The government has failed to fulfill its promise as not a single person has been employed,” said Verma. The office-bearers of the wing alleged that the Congress government had given a clean chit to Navjot Sidhu and other main suspects in the case. “Justice hasn’t been done to the victims’ families? They need employment first. The probes are on but the families are concerned about their survival. They want jobs as promised by Navjot Singh Sidhu. We will continue continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-demands-jobs-for-kin-of-dasehra-train-tragedy-victims-108885
05-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Bored out of their minds, children kill time on video & board games||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4Parks and playgrounds are off the limits, schools have for long been shuttered. Locked in at their homes, the children and teenagers have never felt such a lull in their lives ever before. Boredom has crept in and is likely to stay for a prolonged period of time.What are they supposed to do now? Well, amid this humdrum of a routine, the only option left to beat the boredom are the board games and of course, the video games. But then again, with the indoor games becoming the new normal, the parents are in a fix. The folks are worried regarding their puplis’ health as lack of physical activity can take a toll. But at the same time they are reluctant to allow their children to go outside.It has aroused mixed feelings. They complain that the time spent on phones and computers has surley increased amid the lockdown, but that is certainly better than allowing their children to play outside.“The use of electronic gadgets for long hours is worrying but how would children spend their time if they cannot enjoy sports and other activities,” said Shruti, a parent, adding that to reduce children’s dependence on video games, she has introduced children to board games such as ludo, carrom board and chess.However, children feel that if video games cannot be a substitute for real sports, the board games too are not the option. “I do miss my evening soccer time. Though I have started going to our farm to help my father. But working and playing soccer are two different things,” said Gursimran Singh, a class 10 student.Bhupinder Kaur, a senior citizen, said, “Before there were mobile phones or even television, the children used to play outdoor games such as hopscotch and rope-skipping. These were not only entertaining but involved physical activity.” She said that these could help parents and children in their lesuire time and could be played on the terraces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bored-out-of-their-minds-children-kill-time-on-video-board-games-108891
05-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Absence of  parking lot at Hall Gate spells chaos for residents||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, JULY 4One just cannot stress enough on the importance of a planned parking lot these days. No matter what the place. The Gandhi Gate here, also popularly known as Hall Gate, is missing one badly.The absence of a parking lot has stirred much hassle in the area as the markets inside the renowned place is a big attraction spot for the flocking tourists. Not only this, it is also largley used by the commuters as well. Due to such heavy footfall, many have no other alternative but to station their vehicles on roadside leading to frequent road congestions and traffic snarls.Ranbir Singh, a shopkeeper, said, “Though the traffic police kept painting a yellow line intimating the motorists to park their vehicles not beyond it. At times the number of visitors swelled so much that they had to park their vehicles beyond the designated area.” He also stated that adequate number of employees of the police department were deployed and they keep gesturing and whistling at the violators. However, the high number of visitors outnumber them and it's a bedlam out there.Even as there is only one designated spot at the Kairon market people are forced to park their vehicles on the roadside as it offers uncovered parking space for vehicles. Due to the non-availability of one, commuters face heavy traffic jams in Hall Bazar and surrounding areas like Katra Jai Mal Singh, Katra Sher Singh and others. “Major markets of electronic goods, book shops, medicines, lifestyle items and readymade showrooms are situated inside the market,” said Satinder Singh, a visitor.Interestingly, the Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) had chalked out a plan to raise a multi-level car parking at the Kairon market years ago. But recurring delays in the execution of plan led to the revision of its cost under the Smart City project.The officials of the ASCL revised its cost from Rs 18.24 crore to Rs 32 crore in the beginning of this year. As per its master plan, there would be a total of seven floors of parking, including, two underground slots.Ravinder Kumar, a visitor, said, “As the Kairon market is situated in the middle of the Hall Gate and Katra Jail Mal Singh road leading to Gate Sikandari, the establishment of the parking lot will accommodate a large number of vehicles.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/absence-of-parking-lot-at-hall-gate-spells-chaos-for-residents-108893
05-07-2020||TEJAL Saini||‘We got time to set new goals and analyse our strengths, weaknesses’||How is your business doing amid the lockdown?We are leading manufacturers and suppliers of products, which are electrical switchgears, electric motors starter, change over switches, switches and fuse units, isolators, contactors, overload relays, etc. Though we are able to manage production and there are no issues related to raw material or labourers as of now, the demand for these has come down to just 50 per cent amid the lockdown.What are the major issues troubling you at present? How are you dealing with them?The main problem being faced by us is that we are not getting export orders. We are major suppliers of switchgears to Nepal and Bhutan, but business with both the countries is currently off the track. Also, our supplies to other states, especially some cities in the South, are being disrupted due to the lockdown and closing of several state borders. And to tackle these issues, we have shifted our focus to Punjab. We are now supplying a majority of our products in the state itself.Are you facing any problems related to shortage of labourers?Well, nearly 300 labourers are working with Mex Switchgear and without them, the industry cannot run. But luckily, the majority of labourers working with us are based in Jalandhar or nearby towns, so none of our operations were hit due to mass exodus of labourers. Also, our staff (labourers) are skilled who have knowledge of electronic components, so I cannot afford to lose them.Do you expect your business to pick up in the near future?Looking at the situation, it's really hard to predict when the business would get back on track. Until an effective Covid-19 vaccine is available, it seems things will not improve. We have been following all guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. We have given masks, gloves, face shields and other protective gears to the staff for their safety. And, at least for this year, we are not worried about profits. All we want is maintenance of our brand.What lessons have you learnt from the crisis?The spread of the coronavirus and the whole lockdown period came as a wake-up call for all. The whole situation has made me realise that we must take care of our mother nature. Also, during the lockdown period, we got the time to set out new goals, analyse our strengths and weaknesses, and chalk out plans to bring changes in production line or re-strategise business plans for post Covid-19 period.What are your expectations from the government?The government should take all possible efforts for the revival of the industry. Labour-related issues must be solved on priority. Also, labourers in the state are struggling to make ends meet. Besides the salary, there must be some financial support for them from the government for at least next six months, so that they can sustain their livelihoods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-got-time-to-set-new-goals-and-analyse-our-strengths-weaknesses-108894
05-07-2020||---||GNDU research to assist in cancer treatment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4Findings of the research group on the role of water in the transfer of electrons during the working of enzymes in human body would help in the development of effective drugs for treatment of several diseases, including cancer, Alzheimer's disease and neuro-degenerative diseases, said Prof Palwinder Singh of the chemistry department of Guru Nanak Dev University, who headed the group.Explaining the significance of the research, Prof Palwinder said: “When designing new medicines against a particular disease, it is essential to look into features of proteins responsible for the origin and propagation of the disease. We have been engaged in the research for the past couple of years and have focused on the working of proteins, which cause inflammation as inflammation is the root cause of several other diseases, including pneumonitis, arthritis, cancer, Alzheimer's disease and a number of neurodegenerative defects."He said what earlier was supposed to be happening through the jumping of electrons from one part of the enzyme to the other has been established to be taking place through a well organised channel of water molecules. "It is the outcome of several experiments performed in collaboration with the team from the department of pharmaceutical sciences. The research will be helpful in the development of more effective medicines for the treatment of above mentioned diseases,” he said.Detailed results of the research have been published in Scientific Reports, a high impact journal of England-based Nature Publishing Group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-research-to-assist-in-cancer-treatment-108895
