08-07-2020||---||SAD workers protest rising fuel prices||Amritsar, July 7 On the call of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to stage demonstrations all over the district headquarters against the hike in the prices of diesel and petrol, activists of the Amritsar (East) constituency staged a protest at the Golden Gate here on Tuesday. The workers, who joined the demonstration on tongas, raised slogans against the Punjab Government.  The protest was led by Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, in-charge, SAD (east constituency). In his address, Randhawa said, “The party workers protested against the rising fuel prices and increase in electricity bills all over the state today. We also raised voice against the state government over discrimination with poor beneficiaries of government schemes and for restoring the blue cards to poor and needy people. Mahesh Verma, in-charge, Migrant Labour Wing (MC), said, “The common man is unable to buy petrol for their vehicles. The lockdown has already disturbed the budget of economically weaker sections. The reduction in fuel prices would provide them some respite. As for the SAD’s statewide demonstrations, MP Gurjit Singh Aujla said it was a political stunt of the SAD. “If the SAD leadership is really concerned about the hike in fuel prices, then Union Cabinet minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal should resign from the government,” said Aujla. “The Modi government has increased excise duty on fuel nine times during its tenure. The SAD is misleading people,” he added. Protest against ‘anti-poor’ policies of state govt Tarn Taran: Workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday organised protests in different parts of the district and burnt effigies of the state government. SAD district president Virsa Singh Valtoha said the party was against state’s ‘anti-people’ and ‘anti-poor’ policies. The protesters were demanding a cut in VAT on petrol and diesel to bring down high prices, besides restoration of all Blue cards. The protesters demanded decrease in electricity rates and seed scam probe.    The workers under the leadership of Iqbal Singh Sandhu, former member of the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB), protested in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here and pulled a tractor with bull to protest higher diesel  prices. The workers led by Harmeet Singh Sandhu, a former MLA, marched in the town  and burnt the effigy of the state government. Former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha led workers in Bhikhiwind township. Similar protests were organised in Chabal, Gaggobua, Khadoor Sahib, Sri Goindwal Sahib, Chohla Sahib, Dhand, Khemkaran and at other places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-workers-protest-rising-fuel-prices-110055
08-07-2020||---||Guru Nanak varsity awaits govt’s call on holding exams||Amritsar, July 7The UGC, in its fresh guidelines, has stated that universities were required to complete the process of examinations of terminal/ exit classes by the end of September in offline (pen and paper) online or blended mode, following the prescribed protocol guidelines by the UGC, related to Covid-19 pandemic. With fresh set of guidelines, GNDU will further await directions from the Punjab Government in this regard.Prof Manoj Kumar, examination controller, GNDU said the varsity would wait for any fresh instructions from the state government in this matter. “Any decision to conduct the examinations will be according to the directions issued in this matter by the Punjab Government. We were ready to conduct examinations for exit classes in July itself, but the state government postponed the exams till July 15. Even now, we will abide by the state government’s decision. In any case, we will ensure implementation of full safety protocol while conducting exams.”Meanwhile, the UGC also states that if any student is unable to sit for final examination for whatsoever reasons, he/she may be given an opportunity to appear in the examination for such course which may be conducted by the university at a later date as a one-time measure. The UGC also instructs the universities on clearing any backlog of papers for exit classes by conducting exams online, offline or blended mode. The GNDU, had earlier too announced the special chance for any student not being able to sit for exam, allowing them to give the paper at a later date set by the varsity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-varsity-awaits-govts-call-on-holding-exams-110056
08-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Bioremediation begins at Bhagtanwala dump, again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7After drawing a blank from its garbage bioremediation initiatives in the past, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has started the process of bioremediation of garbage at Bhagtanwala Dump again.Recently, the Amritsar MSW Company Limited started the functioning of two machines for garbage bioremediation under the supervision of the MC. Officials of the health wing of the MC claimed that as soon as AVERDA Waste Management, a Dubai-based firm, will take over the Amritsar MSW Company Limited, the project would be fully functional. More machines would be brought to enhance the speed of the bioremediation.Bioremediation is one of the major components of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the civic body to initiate bioremediation of garbage. Following the recommendation of the NGT, the MC initiated the construction of a wall around the dump and will also develop a green belt by planting trees.“We started the bioremediation wok at Bhagtanwala dump recently. More machines will be added. AVERDA will take over this project and implement it properly. Composite pits have been prepared. The company will also install the waste energy plant. The boundary wall is under-construction and green belt will be devolved soon,” said Dr Ajay Kawar, municipal health officer.Residents of Bhagtanwala are facing several health and sanitation issues due to the garbage dump. The government often announces several projects of solid waste management, but fails to implement these. Area residents are demanding shifting of the dump away from the city.Davinder Singh, a resident of Bhagtanwala, said: “It is our long pending demand to shift the garbage dump or maintain it as per the standards of the NGT. But the government has failed to implement any recommendation of the NGT so far. Several people staying around the site have complained of chest infections and other health complications. As a majority of residents in these localities belong to the economically weaker section of society and are less educated, they consider these as minor ailments, but it can be a major health complication as well.” WHAT IS BIOREMEDIATION||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bioremediation-begins-at-bhagtanwala-dump-again-110058
08-07-2020||  ||Kabaddi player shot at, 14 booked||Our Correspondent Tarn Taran, July 7 One person was injured in a firing incident on Monday night. A conflict between residents of Amishah Khalra village over the apparatus in village gym said to be the reason behind the incident. The victim, identified as kabaddi player Baljinder Singh (27), has been admitted to a Amritsar hospital with chest injuries.  The Khalra police have booked 14 persons under Sections 307, 148 and149 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. While seven of the 14 persons have been identified as Gurlal Singh, his father Desa Singh, Gurjot Singh, Lovepreet Singh, his father Sukhchain Singh and Gurmukh Singh, all residents of Amishah village and Karamjit Singh of Sursing village, and rest of the seven suspects are yet to be identified, the police said. ASI Tarsem Singh, Investigating Officer (IO), said the suspects came to the village common gym and wanted to take the gym apparatus to some other village. Baljinder stopped them from doing so. The suspects in a fit of anger fired at him and fled the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kabaddi-player-shot-at-14-booked-110059
08-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Cooperative bank stops credit facility to farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7Members of the Nagli-Naushera Agricultural Cooperative Society in Verka block are a disturbed lot as the Central Jail branch of Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank has stopped giving credit to them after the state government announced a loan waiver of up to Rs 2 lakh for the agrarian sector.The members said in many cases wherein they had purchased fertilisers from the cooperative society, the bank branch did not honour their cheques. The society caters to the credit needs of farmers from seven villages in the area. The cooperative bank has fixed loan criteria of Rs 25,000 per acre to help farmers bear input costs.With a total of 300 members, the Nagli-Naushera society had around 100 active members who were dependent on the cooperative bank for credit needs. Earlier, the cooperative societies at Meerakot and Khairabad in the area had been closed. The farmers feared that their society too would be closed.Harbhajan Singh, a farmer from Bhaini Gilla village, said, “The bank branch has stopped giving advance without giving any reason. I had received the benefit of the loan waiver even though I was not a defaulter but now with the bank stopping the credit facility we have to take loan from commission agents.” He added that he had been associated with the society for the last 40 years.Another farmer Charanjit Singh of Muradpura village said, “We have visited the bank many times and asked them for the reason but we are still in the dark. I have been associated with the bank since 1998 and before that my father was the member.” He said the cooperative bank had arbitrarily stopped their credit facility.Kuljeet Singh, an advocate from Malawali village, said, “Recently, I purchased fertiliser from the society and gave a cheque issued by the cooperative bank. The bank did not honour the same and I had to give cash.” Singh added that as he had not taken loan from the cooperative bank in the past, he had received no benefit of the loan waiver. He said the purpose of the cooperative bank was to provide farmers with Rs 25,000 per acre for sowing the crop and to help them not fall in debt trap of arhtiyas.Bank manager Kuljit Singh said, “We cannot advance loan to those farmers from whom we have to recover the money.” However, when he was asked about the farmers who had not defaulted, he invited the correspondent to come to his office. “We would sit and talk,” he said before disconnecting the phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cooperative-bank-stops-credit-facility-to-farmers-110060
08-07-2020||---||No respite: 18 more Covid-19 cases take Amritsar tally to 1,033||Amritsar, July 7The district reported 18 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,033.Of the new cases, 13 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while the remaining five are contacts of positive patients. Of the five contacts of positive cases, one each was reported from Shahid Udham Singh Nagar and Basant Avenue, besides three were contacts of a DSP of the rural police, who tested positive two days ago.Two ILI cases were reported from Ram Nagar and one each from Mohan Nagar, Lahori Gate, Sawan Nagar, Katra Sher Singh, Krishna Nagar, Baba Bakala, Berna Sahib Gurdwara, Railway Colony, Preet Nagar and Pulighar areas.At present, the district has 206 active cases, out of which 158 are admitted in hospitals and 48 in home isolation. So far, the district has witnessed 48 deaths due to the coronavirus and 827 recoveries.Meanwhile, District and Sessions Judge Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who is also the Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), launched an awareness campaign in association with the Sewa Sankalap, an NGO.Judicial officers carrying placards and raising slogans also attended the event. Balwinder Singh Sandhu said awareness regarding precautions could help check the spread of the disease. He said prevention was the only way to avoid the disease as a vaccine to control the virus could not be developed so far.He appealed to the general public to wear mask while coming out of their homes and avoid spitting in public places. He said the NGO had done a commendable job in creating awareness and now the District Legal Services Authority and the Bar association would help in the regard.SGRD varsity offers Covid test for Rs3,500Amritsar: In yet another initiative by the SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences, a diagnostic test for Rs 3,500 has been announced by it to provide a cost-effective treatment to Covid-19 patients. The government had earlier capped the test charges at Rs 4,500. The university had also fixed Rs 50,000 as weekly charges for Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital. With many private hospitals charging around Rs40-50 thousand per day, the move has received accolades from the public. The university has set up a molecular diagnostic laboratory for testing Covid-19, which was inaugurated by Bhai Gobind Singh Longowal, president, SGPC on Tuesday. The lab is ICMR and NABL approved and is equipped with thermo-fisher RT-PCR machine. Dr Daljit Singh, Vice-Chancellor, said, people could apply online for the test and would be issued an e-pass accordingly. He added that doctor’s prescription was mandatory for the test. Dr AP Singh, Dean Academics, said this diagnostic test would detect genetic material of the SARS-COV-2 virus using an RT-PCR in nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs. He said the university was also mulling over beginning an antigen testing, which is less time consuming and its report would also be available within half an hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-18-more-covid-19-cases-take-amritsar-tally-to-1-033-110061
08-07-2020||---||Uneven manhole covers on Amritsar roads pose threat to commuters||Amritsar, July 7Protruding or sunken manhole covers on major and connecting roads have become a nuisance to residents in the city. Several vulnerable points on stretches of Ratan Singh Chowk, Maqbool Road leading to the Vallah mandi bypass and even within the walled city can be found.Now one witnesses a rush of commuters on almost all roads after the easing of the lockdown restrictions. Protruding manhole covers, which are a result of shoddy works carried out by the workers of the Municipal Corporation, are posing a threat to the lives of residents.One such problem is also being faced on the stretch outside Celebration Mall on the Batala road. Though the issue has been raised with the MC by residents a number of times, it has failed to fix the problem. Unevenly placed manholes can also be seen on the newly laid road in Sultanwind leading to Tarn Taran. Manhole covers are placed above or below the level of the road, which have led to road mishaps and fatalities in the past.“The protruding manhole covers lead to accidents as commuters fail to see them, especially in the night and during the monsoon season. It was only a few years ago that a young girl lost her life due to broken manhole cover while driving a two-wheeler. Despite that, the problem persists,” said Maninder Singh, a resident of one of the colonies on the Batala road.Earlier this year, one could see a broken manhole cover on a stretch of the Heritage Street, which is usually crowded with tourists. “Even the area around manholes is dug, which gets covered with soil or rainwater during the rains, posing a danger to commuters. The manhole and the road should be at the same level. It’s a genuine issue that needs immediate attention,” said Geetu Ratra, a resident of the Mall Mandi area.Workers of the MC have been on the job to level manholes on prominent roads. “The Municipal Corporation must get all those manhole covers, which are not properly placed or are protruding, removed and re-installed at the road level. The city has several roads where such manholes can be seen. I have one on the road right outside my house and children drive their two-wheelers or bicycles on it every day. They can get injured due to the uneven manhole,” said Ravinder Sharma, a teacher, who lives in Dashmesh Avenue.Shoddy workNow, one witnesses a rush of commuters on almost all roads after the easing of the lockdown restrictions. Protruding manhole covers, which are a result of shoddy work carried out by workers of the civic body are posing a threat to the lives of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uneven-manhole-covers-on-amritsar-roads-pose-threat-to-commuters-110062
08-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Jashan shines in speech contest||One booked for molesting minorTarn Taran: The Patti city police have booked a man for allegedly molesting a nine-year-old girl. The suspect has been identified as Bhinda, a resident of Patti town, 25 km from here. The police said the suspect took the victim to his house and molested her. The incident took place on June 27 while the case was registered on Monday. A case under Sections 354, 341 of the IPC, besides the POCSO Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jashan-shines-in-speech-contest-110063
08-07-2020||Neha Saini||Film unravels history behind Punjab’s architectural marvel — Pul Kanjri||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 7The historical site of Pul Kanjri, 35 km from Amritsar, towards the Indo-Pak border, has found its mention in many literary accounts pertaining to the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.The site was built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh between 1800 and 1840 as a resting abode for the king and his troops. But its history also mentions the love story between Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Mooran Sarkar, a Muslim courtesan. It is believed that Pul Kanjri, that was known as Pul Mooran before, got its popular name from her since dancers were addressed as kanjris back in the day.Pul Kanjri now stands in isolation, right between the twin cultural cities of Lahore and Amritsar as an example of fine architectural heritage of that period and a symbol of love. Highlighting the significance of this historical site of Punjab, Harpreet Sandhu, a photographer and an advocate by profession, shot a documentary titled ‘Pul Kanjri’ during the lockdown. He shot the film solo and got it edited by his team in Mumbai. It was telecast on a TV channel on Tuesday.“My sole aim to shoot the documentary was to highlight the story and history behind one of the beautiful architectural marvels of Punjab — Pul Kanjri. Despite its historical significance, Pul Kanjri has not been given its due in contemporary India, especially Punjab. Even in Amritsar, a lot of people are not aware of its existence, which is tragic as Pul Kanjri was a hub of cultural activities during the period of Maharaja Ranjit Singh,” said Sandhu. The Punjab Tourism Department includes Pul Kanjri in its heritage tours, but Sandhu says that mere footfall is not enough to reconnect with this hidden gem of history.The documentary was released worldwide by MP Gurjeet Aujla in the presence of DC Shivdular Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/film-unravels-history-behind-punjabs-architectural-marvel-%E2%80%94-pul-kanjri-110064
08-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No demand, readymade biz takes a hit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7With people being advised to stay inside their homes and avoid moving out unless it is highly necessary, readymade business has lost its customers base.As an impact of the advisory, vehicles are no longer visible on city roads, especially commercial hubs. So, people no longer require much apparel. Demand of casuals has obviously increased in the changed circumstances.Demand from students, teachers and non-teaching staff of educational institutes, right from schools to universities has almost vanished.People did not go out for a vacation, so holiday shopping was also dropped this time. Similarly, limiting the number of participants in wedding parties has eroded the slim chances of sale picking up.Deepali Jain, operating online readymade garment portal Owncraft said she started little late after the relaxation in the lockdown. Even then, the response of customers was lukewarm as only a couple of pieces were procured per day. During the peak season, she used to sell 70 to 80 pieces of women’s winter coats and on normal days, it was 15 pieces daily. She received orders from the North East, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, West Bengal. Her family is into manufacturing of fabric and she started getting coats stitched and selling these online.Both sale and manufacturing are down. Labourers left for their places, seriously curtailing the manufacturing capacity of factories, but lack of demand does upset the equation.QUOTES“Vital period has been lost during the lockdown and now, it is off-season. The next season will commence from September and I am very skeptical of customers’ behavior, as many people have lost their jobs and purchasing power has shrunk. So, it will be highly unpredictable to say how customers will behave.”Deepali Jain, operates online readymade garment portal OwncraftPeople have lost purchasing power. The time for marriage season shopping was eaten up by the lockdown period and three months of monsoon period from July to September are always considered off-season. Thereafter, the winter season will come and the entire clothing range will be replaced.Rajiv Aneja, general secretary, Amritsar Wholesale Readymade Garments’ AssociationCustomers are not coming out for shopping. So, they are encountering no less than a slump period. During the lockdown, our expenditure on operating shop was under control. Now, daily expenses are intact whether sales take place or not.Balbir Singh, owner of a readymade shop on Main Bazaar, PuttaligharThe attitude of the law enforcing agency is not favourable for business. They have barricaded the approach road from both sides. How can a customer on a motor bike or a four wheeler reach any outlet like this?Meet Preet Singh, another shopkeeper in Puttalighar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-demand-readymade-biz-takes-a-hit-110065
08-07-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘We need financial support to pay salaries to workers’||NEERAJ BAGGATRIBUNE NEWS SERVICEAMRITSAR, JULY 7Kuldeep Singh established Associated Industrial Corporation (an ISO certified company) in 1981, which manufactures corrugated box-making machines. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he shares his experiences gained during the lockdown and uncertainty staring at non-essential industries. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?The lockdown completely snapped the supply chain and sent all transactions in disarray. Materials, which are required for manufacturing, are not easily available. An unprecedented and swift change shook the confidence of customers. I think our business will no longer be the same in the coming months.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?There is no hope of the revival of businesses soon. Moreover, my unit falls in the non-essential category. In a scenario in which the flow of liquidity has been hit, people tend to buy essential goods.Did you pay salaries to your workers in the lockdown period?I paid salaries to all employees during the lockdown period. We were expecting financial help from the government. However, my all hopes were dashed after the announcement of an economic package by the Union Government as it did not have much to offer to the MSME sector.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Entrepreneurs belonging to the micro and small businesses will receive neither any attention nor any help from the government. Besides, I feel that nothing is above mother nature.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?One must always make the best out of every situation and never give up in adverse circumstances. These times have brought a lot of challenges but we need to brace ourselves up to tackle it and turn it into an opportunity.What are your expectations from the government?We expect the government to come forward and provide financial help to pay salaries to workers, waive interest on loans for some time. Instead of giving more loans, which will increase NPAs in the banking system, they should give us cash subsidies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-need-financial-support-to-pay-salaries-to-workers-110066
08-07-2020||GS Paul||Jallianwala Bagh set for Aug 15 opening||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 7The ongoing renovation work which is in its phase I at the Jallianwala Bagh is on the verge of completion. The memorial’s doors are likely to be thrown open to public on August 15.Since it is located in close proximity to the Golden Temple, which witnesses millions of visitors, the visiting hours will be extended to ensure that people have ample time to visit the memorial after sunset. It is learnt that a high-profile team of the Union Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has scheduled a visit to the historic site on July 13 to review the developments before making an official announcement.The memorial has been lying closed since February 15. The Union Ministry of Culture had announced to open it by April 12, but the renovation work was disrupted owing to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The next deadline was set at June 15, but it was further extended to July 31.MP Shwait Malik, who is also a member of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said he had proposed to extend the visiting hours till 9 pm at least. “The proposal to extend the visiting hours has received positive response from the trust members. We have improved facilities, introduced modern digital lights and sound show, documentaries and special light arrangements for late evening programmes,” he said.The restoration work and allied services worth Rs 19.36 crore was being carried out by the Ministry of Culture under the supervision of the ASI. As part of the project, entry and exit points have been repositioned, the narrow passage and the green belt have been redesigned with new lightings. The martyrs’ well, from where 120 bodies were believed to be recovered, too has got a new structure on its surrounding. The old wire mesh-studded structure with six small ventilating windows covering the well has given way to a freshly designed concrete structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-set-for-aug-15-opening-110002
08-07-2020||---||Advisory panels formed for Patiala, Amritsar GMCs||Chandigarh, July 7The state government on Tuesday constituted two ‘expert advisory committees’ under the guidance of Adviser, Health, Medical Education and Research, Dr KK Talwar, to ensure better management and handling of various Covid-related matters in the Government Medical Colleges of Patiala and Amritsar.Dr Talwar said the underlying objective of the committees was to guide the administration to adopt good scientific practices to ensure better planning and management of Covid patients, with an aim of reducing complications and mortality. Both expert committees have also been mandated to chalk out strategies to ensure that non-Covid patients are not ignored. Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, DK Tiwari, said the committees would meet at least once a week or as per the directions of Dr Talwar through video-conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/advisory-panels-formed-for-patiala-amritsar-gmcs-110008
