09-07-2020||Gurdaspur||Given pink slips in Dubai, Gurdaspur boys back home||As many as 16 Gurdaspur boys, who were among the 177 persons who returned from Dubai through a chartered flight that landed in Chandigarh last night, narrated their tales of woes after companies, where they were employed for the last few years, suddenly gave them the pink slip following the Covid-19 outbreak.Jugraj Singh, hailing from Pakhoke in Dera Baba Nanak block, was curtly informed by the officials of the construction firm, with whom he had been working since 2012, that they were left with no other option but to fire him as building activity throughout Dubai had come to a standstill. He was not paid his dues despite the fact that he was legally employed and whatever he had saved was spent on medicines after he slipped into depression.“Just before Covid outbreak, nearly 25 per cent of the earth moving and allied construction equipment of the world was deployed in Dubai. Such was the hectic pace of construction activity. However, in the first week of March, as the Covid scare grew in magnitude, work came to a grinding halt. We were told by officials that they could no longer pay us and subsequently we were fired. We slept on empty stomachs for days together before somebody asked us to get in touch with businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi. Unfortunately, he was in India, trapped in the lockdown, but nevertheless, he told us to get in touch with his office in Dubai. His charitable organisation — Sarbat-Da-Bhala — chartered a flight, which finally brought us back to India. Not even a single rupee was taken from us,” Jugraj said.Peter Masih Sidhu and Deepak Kumar, too, had similar tales to tell.The flight touched down at Chandigarh airport late last night. The boys were received by Oberoi and his brother Gurjit Singh Oberoi. No officials were present.“This is the first of the four flights chartered by my organisation. Three more flights will be arriving on July 13 (Amritsar), July 19 (Chandigarh) and July 25 (Amritsar), respectively. Each flight costs around Rs40 lakh. We will keep on chartering planes till the last of the stranded men reach home, irrespective of the fact whether they are Punjabis or not. All 177 people who returned yesterday were made to undergo Covid tests at Dubai itself. Each test cost 40 Drihams (Rs800 approximately) and the total expenditure incurred by us totaled nearly Rs1.41 lakh,” said Oberoi.“In Dubai, when the lockdown was introduced, the construction sector was deemed to be a vital sector, exempting it from government restrictions. Construction sites were permitted to remain operational and workers continued to commute to and from the site, subject to obtaining a permit from the Dubai Municipality and the Permanent Committee for Labour Affairs. However, later, all activity was stopped as things on the Corona front got from bad to worse. Thousands of labourers were stripped off their jobs,” said Oberoi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/given-pink-slips-in-dubai-gurdaspur-boys-back-home-110481
09-07-2020||---||60-year-old dies, dist toll 49 in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 8The district reported the death of a 60-year-old man on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Ashok Kumar, was a resident of Ramdas Colony. As per the district health bulletin, he was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. With this fatality, the death toll has increased to 49 in the district.The district also reported 13 fresh cases, taking the total count of positive cases to 1,048. Of the new cases, nine are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while four are contacts of positive patients.One of the ILI cases is a local resident, who is at present living in New Delhi, has also tested positive. For the purpose of statistics, a permanent resident of a respective district, irrespective of his or her present stay, is counted as positive case or casualty from that particular district.The health bulletin stated that one ILI case each was reported from Laxmansar Chowk, Ajnala, Chhajalwadi, Kartar Nagar (Chheharta), Gobind Nagar (Sultanwind Road), Nangali, Dyanand Nagar and Jujhar Singh Avenue.While two contacts of a positive patient from the Police Lines also tested positive, the remaining two are contacts of another positive patient from Hussainpura Chowk. At present, the district has 151 active cases while a total of 848 patients have been discharged.24 more NRIs quarantinedTarn Taran: Twentyfour more NRIs were quarantined at the isolation centre in Khadoor Sahib here on Wednesday. They returned from Dubai, Canada, England and the US.Meanwhile, 15 persons, who had returned from abroad and quarantined on July 1, were sent to their homes from the isolation centre at Khadoor Sahib after they were declared negative by the Health Department.One of the seven positive patients under treatment at the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital was sent home as his report came out negative. There were nine positive patients under treatment in the district, six in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital and three were kept at the Covid-19 Care Centre at Mai Bhago Centre, Sheron.Bhai Nirmal Singh, a follower of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, who was looking after quarantined persons at the centre, said 12 of the 15 had returned from Kuwait while one each from Canada, China and Georgia.At present, 139 persons were quarantined in the Khadoor Sahib isolation centre. These persons were being provided food, medicine, etc, by the Kar Sewa sect. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-year-old-dies-dist-toll-49-in-amritsar-110482
09-07-2020||Amritsar||3 former SAD MLAs booked for violating distancing norms in Amritsar||A day after the protest against the state government over hike in fuel prices, the police booked former SAD MLAs, including Amarpal Singh Bony, Malkeet Singh AR and Veer Singh Lopoke, among hundreds of SAD leaders and workers under relevant sections of The Epidemic Diseases, the Disaster Management Act and the IPC.SAD had held statewide agitation against the petrol and diesel prices hike which would ultimately led to inflation in the state.In Amritsar rural, SAD leaders along with their supporters had staged protests at as many as 15 different places as part of statewide agitations against fuel prices. While the police registered two cases against Bony and Malkeet AR, one case was registered against Veer Singh Lopoke.The police said in view of Covid-19 pandemic, there were clear instructions from the state government over maintaining social distancing and wearing masks at public places while avoiding gathering. The government has advised the residents against coming out of their houses without any emergency or reason.However, SAD leaders organised protests in gathering while maintaining no social distancing. Many of them were not wearing masks thereby leading to the spread of pandemic. This could also endanger the lives of others as there is no vaccine for the disease at present, said the police officials.According to the police, Amarpal Bony Ajnala participated in the protests in Ajnala and Ramdass while Malkeet Singh AR took part in agitations in Tangra and Jandiala. Therefore two separate cases were registered against each. Amritsar Rural SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said further action would be taken as per law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-former-sad-mlas-booked-for-violating-distancing-norms-in-amritsar-110485
09-07-2020||---||After over 100 days, Metro service resumes partially in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 8After staying off the road for more than 100 days, the services of Metro buses running under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) resumed on Tuesday got a lukewarm response from passengers. Initially, the authorities are plying 40 buses on both routes.There are plans to run all 84 buses within the next few days. After the outbreak of Covid-19, residents are also avoiding travelling in public transport. That is why not many people were seen in the buses on the first day. Even the residents are not aware that the service has been resumed.The BRTS authorities claimed that fresh guidelines issued by the government were being implemented. Passengers are not allowed to board the bus without a mask. The buses are being sanitised daily.Before the outbreak of coronavirus, all 84 buses were plying and the daily ridership was between 25,000 and 30,000. A large number of passengers were college, school students. Now, all schools and colleges are closed till July 31. Only 5,000 passengers travelled on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the BRTS authorities claimed that the bus drivers would get their salaries soon. Employees have been continuously demanding their salaries. Now the government has cleared the salary bills of two months and disburse the payment within two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-over-100-days-metro-service-resumes-partially-in-amritsar-110497
09-07-2020||Amritsar||Hospital staff, local residents protest against each other in Amritsar||In a bizarre incident, local residents led by political activist Mandeep Singh Manna and employees of private EMC hospital staged protests against each other wherein the former accused the latter of malpractices and the latter accused the former of playing politics. Manna had earlier given a call to the victims of ‘false Covid-19 reports’ case to gather outside the hospital. As Manna and his entourage reached the place, employees of the private hospital were ready with a loudspeaker and a mike. The police had a hard time controlling the two parties and did not let them confront each other directly. The agitated employees claimed that Manna was politicising the issue unnecessarily. They claimed that no wrong has been done by the hospital and the hospital management and staff are being harassed. The agitating employees indulged in name calling after which the police had to push them back. A police official on duty said, “In our experience, such name calling often leads to a scuffle. With large numbers of people from both sides present on the place, it could have turned ugly.” Speaking on the occasion, Manna said, “We are demanding arrest of the hospital owner and the doctor already booked by the Vigilance Bureau in the case related to false reports of Covid-19 patients.” Earlier, the Vigilance Bureau had booked four doctors of Tuli Diagnostic Lab besides owner of EMC hospital and a doctor of the hospital on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. The Vigilance had found that at least seven persons, including a pregnant woman doctor, who were issued wrong reports of Covid infection.He claimed that a large numbers of people from city were affected due to the false reports and the hospital has been charging exorbitantly from the patients. Talking about the protest by the hospital employees, “I have nothing against the employees. They are the paid employees and were ordered by the management to stage protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hospital-staff-local-residents-protest-against-each-other-in-amritsar-110498
09-07-2020||Amritsar||Punjab govt trying to shield real culprits in train tragedy, alleges Rajesh Honey||The BJP has raised the issue of injustice being done to the Joda Fatak victims and their families. At least 59 persons were killed and 70 others were injured in this tragic accident in October 2018.State BJP secretary Rajesh Honey, who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 Assembly elections against Navjot Singh Sidhu, alleged that the judicial probe report of the tragedy had clearly shielded the real culprits.Pointing towards the Sidhu couple’s influence, as the Dusehra programme was presided over by Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, Honey said, “Ironically, the organisers — Mithu Madan and his mother Vijay Madan — were made witnesses in the probe. How could you expect justice? By implicating MC officials, it was the government’s attempt to shield the Sidhu couple and main organisers who share close proximity with them,” he said.He claimed that during the event, when Dr Sidhu was present on the dais, it was announced that thousands of people had gathered on the railway track and they would not bother how many trains passed by.“No permission was sought to organise the event. Who could have dared question the organisers when the then Local Bodies minister’s wife was to be the chief guest on the programme? The MC officials are being made scapegoat,” he said.The inquiry officer, a retired additional district and sessions judge, has indicted four MC officials, including a PA to the then MC Commissioner. They were already chargesheeted in the departmental inquiry in October 2019 allegedly for being negligent in performing their duties. The state government had got a magisterial probe done by the Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar, B Purushartha, which held 23-24 persons, including organisers, policemen, railway employees and MC officials, guilty. The inquiry report submitted to the government on November 21, 2018, had termed this incident as a ‘tragedy of errors’.Honey, who is an advocate, said the probe had clearly held the organisers responsible in the investigation report. “It was mentioned in the report that a 95-foot-tall effigy of Ravana was set up which was stuffed with 5,000 types of fireworks during the event held on 4,500 yards of land at Dhobi Ghat. And its distance from the onlookers was merely 20 foot. Also, the LEDs, installed on the occasion, were facing the rail tracks. It was gross negligence which could never be overlooked,” he said.He said the state government also failed to provide jobs to kin of the victims as assured by CM Capt Amarinder Singh. “We will fight for the cause of the victims’ families at the party level and if need be we would be knocking the doors of the Supreme Court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-trying-to-shield-real-culprits-in-train-tragedy-alleges-rajesh-honey-110499
09-07-2020||---||KCET students get placements||Amritsar, July 8Six students from Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET) have been absorbed in a top-notch MNC company during the intensive placement drive. The students belonging to BTech (CSE &ECE) were selected by the Q-Spider, a Bangalore based IT software company, at a reverent package of up to Rs 9 lakh each. This company has offices located in Pune, Noida , Delhi, USA and UK.Among the selected ones, were Jyoti and Rimpy Sharma both from BTech CSE (semester 8th), Kulwinder Singh and Rajandeep Singh, both from BTech (ECE) (semester 8th), Navpreet Kaur and Neha of BTech CSE (semester 6th), said Dr. Manju Bala, Director, KCET.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kcet-students-get-placements-110500
09-07-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Left tears into Centre’s policies||Workers of various Left parties under the banner of ‘Against Fascist Attack’ staged demonstrations here on Wednesday and marched in the bazaars of the town to express their resentment against the alleged anti-people and communal policies of the Union Government.The activists also condemned the state government for the same and not to implement the promises made to public at the time of election.CPI state leader Harbhajan Singh, RMPI state executive secretary Pargat Singh Jamarai, CPI state deputy secretary Pirthipal Singh Marimegha and revolutionary centre Punjab leader Narbhinder were among the others who spoke on the occasion. The leaders blasted the Union Government for converting Kashmir into jail by dividing the people through enactments of NRC, NPR and Citizenship Act. The leaders also condemned the Union Government for increasing the working hours of the labour class from eight to 12 hours. The leaders termed the ongoing three ordinances rift as anti-farmers and anti-people.They also demanded compensation for the migrant and the state labour, huge relief packages for farmers who faced loss due to the lockdown. Dismantling of power departments, increase in fuel prices. A probe into the partiality committed in distributing ration to the poor by the state under the Union Government policy was also urged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/left-tears-into-centres-policies-110501
09-07-2020||Amritsar||CPI activists protest govt’s ‘apathy’ towards migrants||Activists of the CPI(M)and Revolutionary Party of India on Wednesday held a demonstration at Company Bagh against the Central and the state government while alleging that the governments had failed to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic appropriately.They also took the two governments to task in view of the unprecedented hike in fuel and electricity prices.Representatives of different parties said the government failed to provide ration to hundreds of people besides the economy of the country was badly hit due to three month curfew and lockdown period. They said the government also failed to make appropriate arrangements for the migrants to ferry them to their native places. Due to this many travelled on foot to reach their places.The situation arose after unprecedented global health crisis shattered the economy of the country and many were rendered unemployed widening the gap between rich and poor. They alleged that the Central Government passed several ordinances which were against labourers, farmers and common man of the nation.They urged the governments to stem the increasing fuel prices and rollback the recent increase in the hike. They also urged the government to withdraw three ordinances passed for farm sectors besides rolling back the Power Act 2020. The protesters sought to stop the privatisation of health and education sector besides Rs 10,000 as compensation to the labourers who were hit hard during curfew and lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cpi-activists-protest-govts-apathy-towards-migrants-110502
09-07-2020||Amritsar||Unscheduled power cuts bane of residents in Amritsar||Unscheduled power cuts in both urban and rural areas are causing undue inconvenience to residents. They complain that their phone calls made to employees of the power corporation are not attended for hours by them.A resident, Sukhvinder Kumar, said, “Sometimes the power supply remains suspended for 12 hours. In that case, even inverters cease to work.” He said though the consumers were paying the highest electricity rates in the country, they were getting poor service.In many areas of the city, residents can be seen sitting in their streets and using hand fans to keep them comfortable. “Inside, it is like an oven. Here in the street it is still comfortable,” said Vibha, an elderly woman in the Gawal Mandi area.Residents say that food items in refrigerators get spoiled due to power cuts and they sometimes are unable to get cold water. The trouble is felt more by those families which have small children and elderly persons.Residents in urban areas complain that power corporation employees do not address their complaints on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unscheduled-power-cuts-bane-of-residents-in-amritsar-110503
09-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Missing man’s body found||26-yr-old jumps into sarovar, diesAmritsar: A 26-year-old youth drowned to death in the sarovar of Golden Temple on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased has been reportedly identified as Jaspreet Singh of Bhadla village in Ludhiana district. Some eyewitness reported that around 3 pm, a person jumped into the sarovar. A task force of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) tried to rescue the youth but failed to trace him. Later, officials of the SGPC called in divers from Harike, who fished out the body. Satnam Singh, in-charge, Galiara police post, said: “We have sent the body to the Civil Hospital. A family from a Ludhiana village has claimed the body. They will be here for identification tomorrow.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-mans-body-found-110504
09-07-2020||GS Paul||Dhindsa move invalid, won’t stand legal test: Brahmpura||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 8The advent of a “parallel” Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), led by Rajya Sabha member and rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, has shaken the foundation of the SAD (Taksali) even as its founder president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura thinks otherwise.The SAD (Taksali) was formed by Brahmpura, Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Dr Rattan Singh Ajnala on December 16, 2018.Now, party’s secretary general Sekhwan, senior vice-president Bir Divender Singh and youth wing head Harsukhinder Singh Bubby Badal have joined the Dhindsa camp.Talking to The Tribune, Brahmpura said Dhindsa’s move would prove to be a failure. “Both Sekhwan and Bir Devinder have backstabbed me, but this has exposed them. They have broken the vows taken at Akal Takht at the time of forming the SAD (Taksali),” he said. Terming Dhindsa’s move “technically invalid”, Brahmpura said the SAD was a registered party, which was led by Sukhbir Singh Badal. “Dhindsa’s claim of toppling Sukhbir and occupying the post of the SAD chief will not stand the legal test. I had volunteered to step down and offered him to lead the SAD (Taksali), but I didn’t have any inkling of what was cooking up. They kept me in the dark over the matter,” he said. Brahmpura said a party meeting would be scheduled shortly.Respect democracy, SAD tells rebel leaderChandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to “respect democratic norms and abstain from making false claims, which would only lower his stature”, even as it castigated him for “humiliating” SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhindsa-move-invalid-wont-stand-legal-test-brahmpura-110247
