13-07-2020||---||Two more succumb to contagion, Amritsar district toll 54||Amritsar, July 12With two more patients succumbing to Covid-19, the death toll in the district rose to 54 on Sunday. Besides, 22 new cases were reported. The deceased have been identified as Harinder Singh, a 42-year-old resident of Sant Avenue, and Surinderpal Singh, a 50-year-old resident of Gate Hakeema. Both were being treated at Government Medical College here.The new cases include 16 patients with influenza like illness (ILI) and six contacts of Covid patients. One ILI case each has been reported from Lakkar Mandi, Katra Karam Singh, Pawan Nagar, Bahadur Nagar, Prem Nagar, Gilwali Gate, Bhilowal Village, Bhalla Colony, Partap Nagar, Gurnam Nagar, Gobind Nagar, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Police Line, Tehsilpura, Sant Avenue and Gate Hakeema. Two contacts of Covid patients from Lakkar Mandi, three from Milaap Avenue and one from Green City tested positive.The total count of Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 1,111. The number of active cases is 168, of them nine are under home isolation. A total of 889 persons have recovered from the contagion. With mortality rate at 4.86 per cent, the large number of deaths in the district is a reason to worry.Another concern is that new areas have started reporting positive cases in a large number. The city with dense population contributes a majority of cases, with only a few infections reported in rural areas. An official of the Health Department said a close watch was being kept on areas reporting new cases and contacts of the Covid patients were being tested.One tests +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: One new case of Covid-19 was reported in the district on Sunday. The 27-year-old patient, a resident of Khara village, is symptomatic and has been sent to Mai Bhago Covid Care Centre in Sheron village.Two persons were discharged after recovery while 13 persons, who were in quarantine at a centre in Khadoor Sahib, were sent home after their reports came out negative on Sunday. Nine of the centre inmates had returned from Dubai, one from Bangladesh and three had come back from Australia.Markets wear deserted lookAll markets, including wholesale vegetables, textile, stationery and electronics, remained closed on Sunday as the state government has declared stricter lockdown on the weekend. However at some places, retail shops situated inside localities sold essentials such as milk, dairy products, confectionaries, vegetables, grocery and others. Hall Bazaar and Heritage Street also wore a desolated look.2 gyms sealed for lockdown violationThe police on Sunday sealed two gyms for violating the state government order of stricter lockdown on the weekend. Amarjit Singh of Dharad village, who owns SKS Gym on the Veroval road in Jandiala, and Balwinder Singh of Jandiala, who is the owner of Rock and CRVE Gym in Mallian village, have been booked under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC. The police have sealed the gyms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-more-succumb-to-contagion-amritsar-district-toll-54-112164
13-07-2020||---||BRTS track waterlogged as heavy rain, strong winds lash Amritsar||Amritsar, July 12 Rain lashed the city on Saturday night, leading to waterlogging in some areas of the city. No waterlogging was seen in main markets due to the timely desilting of major sewer lines or rainwater channels. However, there were some areas where rainwater remained accumulated till this afternoon. The storm sewerage laid alongside the track of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) has not been functioning properly since its beginning. The BRTS track was also waterlogged in various areas. The choking of storm sewerage along the BRTS track had led to road cave-in on the Mall Road two years ago. Apart from the BRTS, the faulty design of the elevated road also led to water accumulation at some places, including the start of slope near Alpha Mall. The potholes on the road from Gate Hakima to Central Jail Fathapur were filled with rainwater, causing undue inconvenience to devotees visiting Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib Jhabal on Sunday morning. Similarly, Jhabal Road is also in a bad state. Besides, the road from Ajnala Road to Gumtala via Tabowali and Malawali villages was also waterlogged. Hardeep Singh, a resident, said, “The main roads, where the desilting work was carried out by the MC a few days ago, did not witness waterlogging, but the situation was totally different on internal roads where potholes were filled with rainwater, causing inconvenience to residents.” On the other hand, the residents got the much-needed respite from the scorching heat. “Cloudy skies will further provide succor to residents who were reeling under the scorching sun. The weather is pleasant. We are expecting more rain as black clouds are hovering,” said Naveen, another resident. Tarn Taran: Heavy rain, which lashed the district on Saturday night, has brought cheer to farmers as rain is very beneficial for the paddy crop at this time. But gusty winds caused heavy loss to Powercom as a large number of electric poles and transformers fell down. Power supply was disrupted to many areas.The heavy rain, which was reported from the whole district, also came as a blessing for Powercom as it was unable to supply the required electricity to farmers and there were reports of paddy fields going dry in different parts of this border district.  Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Sabhra village, said the rain affected power supply in Tarn Taran, Patti and other urban localities of the district. Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini said Tarn Taran received 28.2 mm of rainfall, Khadoor Sahib 26 mm and Patti subdivision 18 mm. He said rain would be beneficial for farmers as well as those who kept animals. Jatinder Singh, Deputy Chief Engineer of the local Powercom circle, said a large number of electric poles and transformers fell down in the area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-track-waterlogged-as-heavy-rain-strong-winds-lash-amritsar-112165
13-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Potholes on road leading to Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12The holy city of Amritsar is one of the major tourist and religious destinations with lakhs of devotees coming to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, the holiest of Sikh shrines, from all parts of the country and abroad daily.However, devotees and tourists feel discouraged while going down the road stretch from Ramtalai Chowk on the main GT Road to the elevated road that leads to Saragarhi Parking – the only designated parking of the Darbar Sahib.Though the authorities concerned has done only patchwork on the road below the elevated road, the deplorable condition of the stretch leaves a bad impression on the tourists. The potholed road also reflects badly on the district administration and the civic authorities. Besides, the road is encroached upon by parked vehicles, making commuting/driving along the road a risky affair. It seems that the authorities are hardly concerned to take serious note of the prevalent conditions.Pebbles, which have come off at places on the elevated road, make driving a dangerous affair, especially for those travelling on two wheelers. Owing to the pebbles scattered all over the elevated road, it becomes difficult for two-wheelers to stick to the road during driving.“This is the only stretch that leads the pilgrims and tourists coming from outside the city in their vehicles to the Saragarhi parking. The bad condition of the road exposes the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned,” said Paramjit Singh, a daily visitor to the Golden Temple. “How can the authorities be so negligent and irresponsible,” he questioned.As per a rough estimate, over 1 lakh devotees and tourists, including foreign nationals, visit the Golden Temple daily. The road below the elevated one that also leads to the Golden Temple from the Ghee Mandi and Shera Wala Gate side is encroached upon by truckers and horse carts. Some time ago, there were big potholes on this stretch, but these have been filled by the authorities, said Sikander, a shopkeeper.There are also inadequate street lights on the elevated road and no one has ever seen any worker clearing the pebbles from the elevated road, said Gurinder, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/potholes-on-road-leading-to-golden-temple-112166
13-07-2020||Our Correspondent||2.5-lakh kg lahan, 1,600 bottles of illicit liquor seized in Harike||Tarn Taran, July 12The excise teams of Tarn Taran and Ferozpore districts seized a huge quantity of lahan and illicit liquor lying unclaimed from different places in the Mand area, Harike Pattan, 35 km from here, on Sunday. Madhur Bhatia and Karambir Singh, Excise and Taxation Officers, led the teams along with excise inspectors and the excise police of both the districts.Madhur Bhatia said acting on the information received from different sources, the teams used boats to locate the consignment stored at different places in the Mand area.The ETO said 2.5 lakh kilogram of lahan kept in 18 drums and 1,600 bottles of Illicit liquor were seized from the area. The lahan was destroyed at the spot, while suspects are yet to be identified, he said. On the statement of the Excise Department, the Harike police have registered a case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-5-lakh-kg-lahan-1-600-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-harike-112167
13-07-2020||Our Correspondent ---||International webinar on post-Covid education||Tarn Taran, July 12  Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Education, Kairon (Patti), in collaboration with the council of teacher education foundations conducted a two-day ‘Interdisciplinary International Webinar’ themed ‘strategical framework for post Covid-19 education’.  Nearly 1,000 delegates from various universities, principals and teachers of various schools, degree colleges, education colleges, DIETs and various other professionals participated in the webinar from all  corners of the country and globe.  Satyam Bhardwaj and Amandeep Kaur, assistant professors of the college, hosted the webinar. Dr Rajesh Bhardwaj, Dr Mridula Bhardwaj, Dr Sarita Narad, Satyam Bhardwaj, principal, and Prof (Dr) Vedprakash Mishra, chancellor, KIMS, Karhad, chief advisor, DMIMS (Deemed University) Wardha, who is also National Head UNESCO Bioethics Academic Programme, gave presidential remarks.  Dr Sarita Narad, principal of the host college, said Dr Baljinder Johal, educationist, University of British Columbia, Canada, Dr RP Singh, consultant, transplant surgeon, deputy lead of Infection, prevention and control, Manchester University, UK, Dr Monica Nagpal, project associate commonwealth education media, Centre for Asia, Dr Navin Kumar, psychologist, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, University of Delhi and Dr Deepa Sikand Kauts, head, Faculty of Education, Guru Nanak Dev University, were among the others who addressed the webinar with few suggestions for the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-webinar-on-post-covid-education-112168
13-07-2020||Amritsar||Consumer panel slaps fine on Amritsar real estate developer||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a local real estate developer to refund Rs27,20,000 to a local resident along with interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum and Rs33,000 as litigation expenses.Earlier, Dr Ranjit Singh had filed a complaint against Shubham Enclave developers stating that he paid around Rs27 lakh after booking a residential property in September 2012. He alleged that he was not given physical possession of the property despite repeated attempts. He added that the basic cost of the flat was fixed at Rs30,40,000.The commission stated that possession was to be delivered within three year i.e. upto September 2015. Pahul Kanwar Singh said as the opposite parties refused to accept the notices issued by this commission, therefore it proceeded ex parte against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/consumer-panel-slaps-fine-on-amritsar-real-estate-developer-112171
13-07-2020||---||Couple dies as roof collapses in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 12A couple died after the roof of their house collapsed due to high-velocity winds and rain that lashed this part of the region last night.The deceased have been identified as Ravinder Singh (33) and Harpreet Kaur (27), both residents of Dhapai Road.They were sleeping, when the roof collapsed. On hearing the noise, the neighbours came out and tried saving them. However, they could not be saved. The police also reached the spot.According to information, Ravinder Singh used to work as a welder and was the only earning hand in the house. He has left behind his parents, younger brother and two sisters. He was married to Harpreet Kaur around a year ago. Harpreet was five months pregnant.MLA Raj Kumar Verka visited the bereaved family members and offered his condolences. He said the Punjab government would give Rs2 lakh as compensation to the victims’ family. He gave Rs20,000 from his pocket as immediate relief. He said the administration would also help in repairing the house of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-dies-as-roof-collapses-in-amritsar-112173
13-07-2020||Amritsar||CKD hospital opd opens for patients||3 govt school students excelAmritsar: Three students of Government Middle School, Bhoewali, Ajnala, have cleared the Punjab State Talent Search Examination (PSTSE). The students are Mandeep Kaur, Sumanpreet Kaur and Jorawar Singh. Mandeep has also cleared the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) examination. She is eligible for two scholarships. All students belong to poor families. School science teacher Pankaj Sharma selected 11 bright students and groomed them for the competitive test. Students who clear the NMMS exam get Rs 12,000 per annum, while students after clearing the PSTSE exam get Rs 2,400 per year till class XII. The State Council of Educational Research and Training conducts both tests. TNSMall of Amritsar declared ‘safe’Amritsar: Bureau Veritas, an international certification organisation, has declared Mall of Amritsar to be ‘Safe and Secure’ after an extensive audit. Col Mandeep Singh, centre director of the mall claimed the mall was found to be complying with maximised hygiene standards to ensure the health and well-being of its customers, retailers, and staff. The audit was conducted on the standard operating procedure, which had been circulated by the Shopping Centres Association of India. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-hospital-opd-opens-for-patients-112178
13-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||No kisan melas, field staff hold digital meetings with farmers in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12Earlier, the field staff of the Agriculture Department used to conduct farmers’ meet to address their issues and make them aware of various government schemes and projects. But now, they have been adopting new techniques to contact farmers and help them get good results. This year, in the wake of the outbreak of pandemic, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) cancelled the kisan melas, which were to be held in March.The block-level routine farmer meetings and special farmer-expert meetings were also not held during the past four months.Despite restriction on public meetings, the field staff of Agriculture Department has provided assistance to the farmers even during the lockdown days. The department officials claimed that even the kisan mela and farmers meets were not held but quality seeds, vegetable kits, bio-fertilisers and farm literature were available at all Krishi Vigyan Kendras, regional research stations, farm advisory help centers, Agriculture Department Offices and block offices. With the efforts of field staff, farmers did not face any problem during the paddy transplantation season.The Covid-19 outbreak has led to shortage of staff and challenges to the farmers. But the Agriculture Development Officers made person-to-person contact on their mobiles and social media application and motivated the farmers for direct seeding of rice, diversification of crops and provide assistance for weed management. The officers claimed that they had succeeded in this practice. The field staff is continuously working to implement various laws, including The Insecticide Act (1968), Pesticides Act (1974), Fertilizer Control Order (1985) and Seed Act (1966). Apart from this, the Central and state government-sponsored farmer welfare schemes are also being implemented at the field level.Speaking outThis time, our main focus was on direct seeding of rice as transplantation was a tough task because of the shortage of labour. We motivated our farmers and achieved good results. We have adopted new media technology as an alternative of mass meetings as kisan melas were cancelled this year. — Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Majitha block ADOWe have advised farmers to avoid mass gatherings. But in case of any need, one can approach the Agriculture Department staff. We are always keen on providing them assistance. We meet farmers regularly by taking all precautions and apprise them of new techniques, especially direct seeding of paddy. — Gurpreet Singh, Harsha Chhina block ADOWe are in contact with farmers through WhatsApp groups. They send their queries about the crops, weeds, pesticides, diseases and marketing. We provide them online assistance. In case of some important development, we visit the farmers to answer their queries on fertilisers and pesticides. — Gurvinder Singh, Ajnala block ADOAll schemes and projects of the government are being implemented but mass meetings are being avoided. We are using social media applications to reach to the masses for awareness drives or to alert them. We have witnessed good results of direct seeding so far and farmers have cooperated with us at every level. — Satwinderbir Singh, Baba Bakala ADO||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-kisan-melas-field-staff-hold-digital-meetings-with-farmers-in-punjab-112179
13-07-2020||Open House||Firms selling ‘adulterated’ sanitisers must be banned||Centre, states must start awareness campaignsThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States has taken up the issue of use of methanol in production of hand sanitisers. But no such step has been taken in our country. Hand sanitiser should contain 60% of ethanol, also called ethyl alcohol, but manufacturers are using methanol, which gets absorbed in skin, causing vomiting, headache, blurred vision, blindness and permanent damage to the nervous system and even death. The US FDA has informed the world about the ill-effects of methanol. Now the Centre and and state governments must start awareness campaigns to sensitise the public at the earliest.Naresh JoharLaxity on part of authorities exposedSince the outbreak of Covid, people have been conscientiously applying sanitisers on their hands, even spraying them on formites multiple time a day, in belief that alcohol-based liquid is effective in killing germs. Their belief has been shattered with the news that some products containing methanol were being sold in the market illegally. Methanol is known to cause harm to skin, eyes and the central nervous system. To cater to the growing demand for hand sanitisers because rising Covid-19 cases, a few companies started producing substandard products. The presence of substandard or adulterated sanitisers in the market has also exposed the lax attitude of the health administration. The government should also create awareness on harmful effects of chemicals in hand sanitisers.Amarjit KalsiBan firms involved in illegal tradeMethanol is a toxic chemical and cannot be used as ingredient for producing hand sanitisers. Those who have used sanitisers with methanol must seek treatment as substantial exposure results in nausea, vomiting, headache, blurred vision, permanent damage to the nervous system or even death. The government should keep a close watch on the sale of such products and ban the companies involves to send a message to those who indulge in the illegal trade.Rohit Kumar SehdevCheck ingredients before buying hand sanitisersWearing masks and using hand sanitizers help in preventing the spread of the coronavirus disease. We seem to have been overpowered by the protocols that we turn a blind eye to the quality of sanitisers available in the market. These sanitisers contain harmful chemicals which, instead of protecting us from germs, can adversely affect our health. Many firms, taking into consideration a huge demand for hand sanitisers these days, are making substandard products. On the other hand, these substandard products are reaching consumers after being approved by government authorities who have been assigned the task of quality testing. Therefore, manufacturers and scrutinising authorities are equally responsible for the availability of methanol-based hand sanitisers in the market. Both must be held accountable for toxic sanitisers which are health hazards. Fixing accountability will be possible. Even we, consumers, need to be cautious while purchasing such products. The ingredients must be cross-verified. This is vital for our personal protection. Moreover, we need to understand that washing hands with soap frequently is more effective than using sanitisers. These must be preferred only under unavoidable circumstances.Gulshakh KaurGovt must bring culprits to bookEven in these uncertain times, unscrupulous traders are leaving no stone unturned to make a quick buck. Manufacturing of substandard sanitisers by adding methanol instead of isopropyl alcohol is harmful for the health of human beings. Substantial exposure to methanol can lead to nausea, vomiting, giddiness and in worst cases even seizures. The government must bring the culprits to book and award stricter punishment to the offenders. Moreover, the general public should go for the time-tested method of cleaning the hands with soap and water instead of using adulterated and substandard hand sanitisers.Rajiv SharmaAlcohol-based sanitisers a better optionAmid the new FDA warnings that most hand sanitisers which consumers use contain nothing but a lethal chemical methanol (wood alcohol), people are in a quandary if they should use sanitisers containing dangerous methanol or not. The FDA should have named the brands which are selling substandard and harmful sanitisers so that people can avoid them. Substantial exposure to methanol can result in vomitting, headache, blurred vision, permanent blindness, seizures, coma and damage the nervous system. Consumers using sanitisers having methanol, which is not an acceptable active ingredient for hand sanitisers, are facing a greater risk to their health. Instead, an alcohol-based sanitiser that contains at least 60 per cent ethanol, which is simple alcohol, is a much better option. Though ethanol is an effective sanitiser, it should be used when soap and water are not available. Regrettably, nothing is being done by the authorities concerned to ensure the safety of consumers. They are completely focusing on the revival of the economy giving a go-by to people’s safety and health. Already, use of chemicals and adulteration in our eatables and drinks is playing havoc with our health and lives. Sanitisers with methanol chemical will have further serious effects on our health. On their part, the authorities seem to be pretending to have noticed nothing. Still, they are answerable to public. That is highly deplorable and despicable. People should be senitised to the injurious effects of sanitisers having methanol. Prevention is better than cure. Hence the brands selling sanitisers having methanol must be prevented from doing so and the authorities should take strict action against them. Merely letting the people know that the FDA has detected toxic methanol in hand sanitisers is not suffice. Actions speak louder than words. It is time for the authorities concerned to act soon to ensure public’s safety.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONEven as the UGC insists that exit exams are a must, the Punjab Government, which had already announced cancellation, is now pleading before the Centre for a rethink. In the tussle between the Centre and the state, who do you think is right?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 16).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firms-selling-adulterated-sanitisers-must-be-banned-112182
13-07-2020||Amritsar||Probe missing ‘saroops’, SGPC urges Akal Takht||The SGPC, which has come under fire over the issue of missing 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, has agreed to an independent investigation from an outside panel designated by Akal Takht.The decision was taken during an emergency meeting of the executive body held at Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital at Vallah today. The meeting was chaired by SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal.The SGPC has shifted the entire publication and binding wing officials and staff members so that the inquiry was not influenced in any manner.Longowal said the SGPC sub-committee, which was formed to probe the matter, had been dissolved to avoid any controversy. “We have requested Akal Takht to get an unbiased investigation done by a Sikh judge or an intellectual,” he said.On Friday, an SGPC delegation, led by Sewa Singh Sekhwan, had met Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and urged him that an independent investigation should be conducted into the matter. The jathedar had hinted at getting the probe done by a Sikh judge. SGPC’s former assistant superviser (publication) Kanwaljit Singh had exposed the matter of missing ‘saroops’ after his service benefits were held back.Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has requested Giani Harpreet Singh to involve the government machinery into the probe. He also proposed that the case could be attached with the SIT, which is probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents.“Instead of engaging a retired judge, the investigation should be done by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court with the assistance of the state government. An FIR should be registered with the Amritsar police,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-missing-saroops-sgpc-urges-akal-takht-112137
13-07-2020||---||Sena leader Sudhir Suri held from Indore for ‘inciting enmity’||Chandigarh, July 12The Punjab Police today arrested Shiv Sena (Taksali) president Sudhir Suri from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Recently, a video of him denigrating women and inciting enmity between different groups went viral on social media.The Director General of Police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, said 11 police personnel of Amritsar (Rural) drove non-stop for 21 hours to arrest Suri.The DGP said a manhunt was launched to arrest him after the release of the said video, followed by another video in which Suri had claimed that the objectionable video had a voiceover of some other person.The DGP said the first video went viral on July 8 and the Jandiala police had booked Suri under Sections 153-A, 354-A, 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 67 of IT Act.Gupta said he had directed the Punjab Bureau of Investigation to get the video examined from the Forensic Science Laboratory at the earliest. The DGP said he personally spoke to Vivek Johri, his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh.The Punjab Police is now moving for bail cancellation before the Judicial courts concerned where Suri has already been bailed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sena-leader-sudhir-suri-held-from-indore-for-inciting-enmity-112150
