14-07-2020||Neha Saini||CBSE Class XII results: Girls shine in commerce, humanities; boys in science||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Girls dominated this year’s CBSE Class XII results not just at the national level, but in the district and city as well.In commerce and humanities, the top-three positions in the district were bagged by girls this year, whereas boys stole the show in science.Kirtideep Kaur Marwaha (commerce) from Senior Study II topped the district with 99.6 per cent marks. District’s second spot was held jointly by Bhavya Shingari (humanities) from DAV Public School and Diya Khanna (humanities) from DAV International School with 99.2 per cent marks. Hetal Arora (humanities) from Spring Dale Public School came third in the district with 99 per cent marks.Rajwinder Singh from Shri Ram Ashram School came second by scoring 98.8 per cent marks in commerce.Bhanvi Khanna from DAV Public School and Pardeep Singh from Khalsa College Public School came third by scoring 98.6 per cent marks in humanities.However, boys managed to score better than girls in science stream with Amritdeep Singh from Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, GT Road, scoring 98.2 per cent marks in non-medical to bag the first position in the city. Arhant Arora of Spring Dale and Ayushi from Shri Ram Ashram School scored 98 per cent marks and came second in the city.In medical stream, Hardik Vyas from DAV School scored the highest marks in the city with 97.8 per cent marks, followed by Manpreet Kaur from DAV International with 97.4 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-class-xii-results-girls-shine-in-commerce-humanities-boys-in-science-112508
14-07-2020||---||Amritsar’s non-medical topper dreams of becoming a computer engineer||Amritsar, July 13 Amritdeep Singh of Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School, GT Road, did his school proud by securing top position in the non-medical stream in the city with 98.2 per cent marks. Celebrating his feat with his family, Amritdeep says he aspires to become a computer engineer and was focused to repeat the feat in competitive exams as well. “I am relieved that my hard work has paid off. I want to sit for JEE Advance, whenever that happens,” he said.  Dharamveer Singh, principal, Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School, said: “Amritdeep was a focused and quiet student. He has been an achiever all throughout his academic span. We are happy for his achievement. He has done the school and his teachers proud.”  The second position in the non-medical stream was shared by Arhant Arora (98 per cent) from Springdale Public School and Ayushi (98 per cent) from Shri Ram Ashram School.  Arhant also aspires to be a computer engineer and shared that his results had surprised even him.  “My result has been better than my expectations and that surprisingly is good for me. It’s good to get a sigh of relief after days of stress over uncertainty over results and the future of competitive exams,” he said. The third position in non-medical stream was earned by Supreet Kaur from Senior Study II, who scored 97.4 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-non-medical-topper-dreams-of-becoming-a-computer-engineer-112509
14-07-2020||---||Aspiring doctor Hardik tops Amritsar in medical||Amritsar, July 13 An A-grade student all through his school life, Hardik Vyas from DAV Public School bagged the top spot in the city in medical stream with 97.8 per cent marks.  An aspiring doctor, Vyas celebrated his achievement confined to his home, due to Covid-19 pandemic. “I wanted to celebrate with friends and teachers, but the school remained closed due to Covid-19. I am really happy with my score,” he said.  His father Ramesh Vyas is a Resident Medical Officer, Manawala Health Centre and mother Dr Seema Vyas a dental surgeon. Coming from a family of medical professionals, Hardik, too, aims to crack NEET and continue with his family legacy of being in the noble profession. Neera Sharma, principal, DAV Public School, congratulated him on creating an academic benchmark with his performance.  Like Hardik, another aspiring doctor, Manpreet Kaur from DAV International School stood second in medical stream with 97.4 per cent marks. Manpreet said she is relieved of some stress after getting her Class XII results. “Clearing NEET is my next goal,” she said. Parjot Kaur from Shri Ram Ashram School with 96.6 per cent marks secured the third position in medical stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aspiring-doctor-hardik-tops-amritsar-in-medical-112511
14-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Diya, Bhavya are district toppers in humanities with 99.2 % marks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Diya Khanna of DAV International School and Bhavya Shingari from DAV Public School topped the district in humanities with 99.2 per cent marks. She scored 100 per cent in music and painting and 99 per cent in economics, psychology and political science. She scored 98 per cent marks in the compulsory English subject. She had scored 97.6 marks in Class X.She wished to pursue mass media from abroad and join broadcasting as a career. Talking about her career choice, she said, “I am more into creative things. I like to write poetry. I am curious to learn new things which guided me to choose journalism as profession.”Her father Kapil Khanna, a businessman and mother Dolima Khanna, a businesswoman, also seemed to be happy with her performance. They said they always aimed at supporting Diya in her career pursuits and she gave her best. Diya acknowledged the effort of her school for supporting her throughout her.Hetal Arora of Spring Dale Senior School topped the school as she scored 99 percent in humanities and was second in the district in arts stream. She said: “It was undoubtedly an overwhelming feeling. My heartfelt gratitude goes to my family, my teachers who were constantly there for me as my torch bearers, entire school management.”This journey wasn’t easy for her as she had lost her father two years back and she missed his presence at this point of time more. She added that her mother has been her support all these times. “I can still visualise how she motivated me through every phase of my life.” She was grateful to her teachers who made her realise that she had this very potential in her. She wanted to pursue higher studies in psychology.Bhanvi Khanna from DAV Public School and Pardeep Singh from Khalsa College Public School came third in the district by scoring 98.6 per cent marks. A visibly elated Pardeep thanked his parents and family members for supporting him to achieve the marks. He said his aim was to become a civil servant so he had chosen humanity group after clearing matriculation.Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School’s Bhavjit Singh Kesar got 98 per cent marks. He was grateful to the faculty for helping him understand nuances of various subjects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/diya-bhavya-are-district-toppers-in-humanities-with-99-2-marks-112512
14-07-2020||GS Paul||Amritsar-based nutritionist offers health on platter||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Twentyone-year-old Jasmine Kaur has completed her bachelor’s in Nutrition and Dietetics from Lovely Professional University (LPU), Jalandhar. She had a flair for cooking since childhood, but her expertise in nutrition motivated her to make most of her passion. The free time at home made it easy for her to hone her skills.Unleashing her creative side amid lockdown, she came up with several mouth-watering desserts during lockdown. Besides, she gained expertise in baking customised desserts, which are vegan, gluten-free and sugar-free.“The culinary habits of people have completely changed after the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, people want healthy food prepared in hygienic conditions. As they avoid having it from outside, they try to prepare it at home as per their taste taking help of the online videos of recipes. However, one cannot completely rely on online videos. So, I wanted to bake healthy, hygienic and delicious desserts, including a variety of cakes, donuts, breads, pastries and many other items,” said Jasmine.She further said, “For people suffering with various diseases such as diabetes and Celiac, healthy options are quite limited. So, I decided to bake gluten-free, refined flour-free and sugar-free desserts in order to satiate their taste buds. Also, for the ones who cannot digest lactose, vegan desserts are the option. Only a few people in Amritsar have options for such customised desserts. Not only ailing people, even the healthy ones should also prefer these harmless bakery items in order to keep themselves healthy.”She, however, takes extra efforts to add fibre-rich fruits and other ingredients to the desserts, to make it healthy.“Ever since I started displaying desserts on my Facebook page ‘Baker’s Studio’ and Instagram handle @bakersstudio.asr, there has been a rising demand among residents. So, I am planning to launch a bakery in my own home,” she added.Her father, Jaswinder Singh, a social activist, said, “I never imposed my choices on my children. I have always believed in guiding them. If my daughter’s art can make a difference in somebody’s life, I have no issues with that.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-nutritionist-offers-health-on-platter-112513
14-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||62-yr-old loses battle against virus; Death toll stands at 55 in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Rising deaths in district a cause for concernWith 55 of 1,121 patients losing their life, one out of every 20 cases has succumbed to the virus. The district has a mortality rate at 4.90 per cent, which is nearly the double of the state’s rate of 2.51 per cent. Around 27 per cent of 200 deaths in the state have been reported from the district.State Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation on Monday. Soni asked officials of the Health Department to increase sampling of suspected patients.A 62-year-old Covid patient, identified as Palwinder Singh of the Sharifpura area, died on Monday, taking the toll to 55 in the district. The patient was being treated at Government Medical College.The district Health Department also reported 10 new cases on Monday. The cases, all with influenza like illness (ILI), were reported from Kot Khalsa, Sharifpura, Chheharta, Bhagtanwala, Golden Avenue, Sultanwind, Majitha Road, Avtar Avenue, Mehka village and Vijay Nagar. The district Covid tally rose to 1,121 on Monday.With 55 of 1,121 patients losing their life, one out of every 20 cases has succumbed to the virus. The district has a mortality rate at 4.90 per cent, which is nearly the double of the state’s rate of 2.51 per cent. Around 27 per cent of 200 deaths in the state have been reported from the district.On Monday, the district had 158 active cases admitted at hospitals. A total of 908 have been discharged after recovery.Meanwhile, State Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation on Monday. Soni asked officials of the Health Department to increase sampling of suspected patients. He also instructed officials to make reports available to patients at the earliest.He said random testing in areas that reported Covid cases would be done. Soni told officials of the Municipal Corporation to start fogging in the city to prevent spread of dengue. He instructed the officials to sanitise hospitals and offices to check the spread of Covid-19.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal, Additional Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation Sandeep Rishi, Medical College principal Rajiv Devgan and Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/62-yr-old-loses-battle-against-virus-death-toll-stands-at-55-in-amritsar-district-112514
14-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Family alleges negligence in murder case investigation, ACP denies charge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Two and a half months after a resident of Ghanupur Kale was shot dead by around five persons, the family members of the deceased have raised questions over the investigation being carried out by the police.Davinder Singh (38) was shot dead on March 28 when he tried to intervene in a brawl between a shopkeeper and the suspect. The suspect was forcing the shopkeeper to open the shop when curfew was in force in the state.Among those booked included Sarabjit Singh Saba, son of an ASI rank police official. The police had also arrested Lovepreet Singh and Janka of the same area.Gurpreet Singh, brother of the deceased, alleged that the police failed to identify the remaining suspects in the case. “Despite having three suspects in custody, the police have failed to identify their other accomplices,” he said.Gurpreet said the police confiscated two bikes from the spot, as recovered in CCTV cameras installed nearby, but mentioned only one bike in the challan produced in the court. The cops also failed to ascertain the source of the weapon used in the crime by Saba, he said. “The incident got recorded in the CCTV cameras but the police did not bring the footage on record. In the footage, four persons can be seen arriving on two bikes to the spot,” Gurpreet said.The deceased’s brother said he took up the case with the Commissioner of Police, Sukhchain Singh Gill, in the mid of May who marked a probe to the ADCP (city), Sandeep Malik, who further marked probe to the ACP, Dev Dutt Sharma.Sarabjit Singh Verka of the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO, said despite the fact that the incident occurred during the curfew, the Chheharta police did not include Section 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC in the FIR.ACP Sharma said: “The police have carried out the probe on merit and a challan has been produced in the court. The allegations being leveled by the family are baseless.”Three held in murder caseThe police have nabbed three more persons in connection with the murder of a youth Suraj Kumar (23) in Haripura area here on June 7. He was shot dead by several persons after they barged into his house.Those held include prime accused Shambhu’s brother and notorious criminal Chandan of Vadda Haripura, Ravi Kumar of Chhota Haripura and Harwinder Singh of Guru Ram Dass Avenue in Kot Khalsa area.Harwinder had sheltered the accused while they were on run after killing Suraj Kumar.Assistant Commissioner of Police Parvesh Chopra said Chandan had around 10 cases of NDPS registered against him and he was also involved in a murder bid, while Ravi Kumar was wanted in several NDPS cases. The accused were held when they were coming out of the residence of Harwinder Singh. The prime accused Shambhu is still absconding.The police had earlier nabbed Sonia and Manjit Singh in the case.Satpal, father of the victim, in his statement to the police, said Sonia, who is his neice, had illicit relations with Shambhu and his brother Chandan, both the residents of the same locality. He said he had asked her to snap her ties with the accused, who were criminals and had a couple of criminal cases registered against them. He said enraged over this, the accused shot his son dead whose marriage was fixed for June 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-alleges-negligence-in-murder-case-investigation-acp-denies-charge-112515
14-07-2020||---||Revenue Minister lays foundation stone of tehsil building in Beas||Amritsar, July 13 Punjab Revenue and Rehabilitation Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar laid the foundation stone of the sub-tehsil building at Beas on Monday.  In a function held at Beas, Kangar said the Punjab government had announced to make Beas into a sub-tehsil on June 19. The event was also attended by Lok Sabha member Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MLAs; Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Raminder Singh Aawla, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon and others.  Kangar said keeping in view the demand of the people of the area, the Punjab government had created this sub-tehsil, covering an area of about 10,000 hectares in 10 circles and 29 villages. He said although the work of the said sub-tehsil had been started in a private building, the Radha Soami sect had announced to give five acres of land for the new building and to bear the construction cost of the building.  He said in an area of about 18,000 square feet, the building would be equipped with modern facilities.  He lauded the initiative taken by the Radha Soami sect and thanked the dera for opening its satsang houses and setting up langar for the needy during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revenue-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-tehsil-building-in-beas-112516
14-07-2020||---||Prisoner flees custody, four ASIs of Pathankot police booked||Amritsar, July 13 Four Assistant Sub Inspectors of the Pathankot police were booked for negligence, under Section 223 and 224 of the IPC, by the Majitha road police after a prisoner admitted at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here fled from their custody. The cops were identified as Balkar Chand, Avtar Chand, Kishan Lal and Surinderjit Singh. The prisoner, Sikander Lal of Jalandhar, has also been booked. The police authorities have written to the Pathankot police, recommending suspension of the cops. Sikander was arrested in a theft case registered at the Jalandhar Cantonment police station in February this year. He was lodged in Pathankot jail and was brought to GNDH for treatment. Sub Inspector Jasbir Singh told the police that the four ASIs were deputed to guard the jail inmate. However, during a checking around 12.30 pm on Sunday, it was found that the prisoner was not present in the medicine Ward No. 1 where he had been admitted. The cops were also absent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-flees-custody-four-asis-of-pathankot-police-booked-112517
14-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu opens 50-bed hospital||Tarn Taran, July 13Balbir Singh Sidhu, state Health Minister, inaugurated the building of 50-bed Mai Daultan Jacha Bacha Hospital constructed at a cost of Rs 6 crore.The minister said they were all set to fill the 4,000 posts of medical officer (MO) and the other staff till September 30.Asha workers and facilitators led by Seema Sohal protested in favour of their demands regarding remonstration. Meanwhile, members of the Rural Pharmacy Officers Association, Punjab, too protested on the occasion as they were on an indefinite strike for the past 25 days, demanding the regularisation of their services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-opens-50-bed-hospital-112518
14-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Kirtideep tops Amritsar city with 99.6% marks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 13Kirtideep Kaur Marwaha has topped the city with 99.6 per cent marks in the commerce stream of the CBSE Class XII examinations, the results of which were declared nationwide by the board on Monday.A student of The Senior Study (II), she upheld the dominion of commerce in the city. She scored 100 marks in English, economics, business studies and 99 marks in accountancy and painting. Her aggregate total was 498 out of 500.She has been a student of The Senior Study (II) right from the play pen. An intelligent, sincere and a fun-loving girl, motivation helped her excel in the exams. She has always been a good student and remained among the toppers of her class year after year. Clear in her thinking, she was sure of her goals and worked sincerely to achieve them.She credited her teachers and parents for her outstanding success. They were always there to support and guide her. She is a good orator, poet, artist and actor as well. She was a member of the student council, a house captain and was a source of inspiration for her juniors because of her leadership traits.Rajbinder Singh of Shri Ram Ashram Public School has achieved 98.8 percent marks. He had scored 93.8 marks in the ICSE board and thereafter he switched over to the CBSE for studying commerce in senior secondary.He had opted for the commerce stream because it is one of the most popular streams and I was really keen on pursuing it. I had a knack for legalities and wish to pursue a career as a corporate lawyer. Now, he wishes to pursue BCom LLB. His father, Lakhwinder Singh, is running an automobile workshop.Ananya Chawla of Spring Dale Senior School said 98 per cent marks could not have been possible without the support of her teachers, family and friends. “The happiness is out of this world and I can still feel the goose-bumps. This result taught me that hard work pays off sooner or later. I am planning to pursue the Bachelor of Business Administration for my graduation.” “I would like to thank my school, parents, my brother and friends for being with me throughout this.”Armaan Wadhawan of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School got 97.6 per cent marks in the commerce stream. He is a national-level player in fencing. He says: “I want to become a Chartered Accountant.” Sheetal of Khalsa College Public School (KCPS) scored 96.6 per cent marks in the commerce stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kirtideep-tops-amritsar-city-with-99-6-marks-112520
14-07-2020||---||In Gurdaspur, Isha shines with 97.8%||Gurdaspur, July 13Students of Jiya Lal Mittal School topped in the non-medical, arts and commerce streams while those of TC International School led the charge in the medical stream.Isha Mahajan of Jiya Lal Mittal School topped the arts stream by securing 97.8% marks. Akhilesh Mahajan of the same school bagged the first place in the commerce stream by scoring 97.6% marks.Jasleen Kaur of TC International School secured 96.4% marks and topped the medical stream. In her matriculation exams, Jasleen had scored 94.4% marks. Kunal Dhawan of the same school stood second by bagging 96% marks. Both his mother and father are in teaching profession.In Tarn Taran: Gurleen, Adil excel with 97%In the Class XII results declared by the CBSE on Monday, both Gurleen Kaur of Sri Guru Harkrisan Public School, Chabal, and Adil Singh of Majha Public School bagged 97 per cent in the non-medical stream. Hartaj Singh Sidhu, principal of Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School, Patti, said Harmanpreet from the school secured 96% marks in the non-medical stream. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-gurdaspur-isha-shines-with-97-8-112521
14-07-2020||WITH its offices based in Amritsar||‘Lockdown helped us realise benefits of work from home’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Our clients include big business industries and we provide them auditing, advisory and assurance services. They have been badly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and the exact extent of losses may be assessed in times to come. However, the lockdown helped us realise the benefits of work from home and how to survive in difficult times such as these through innovation and self-reliance.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?We have been providing services to big industrial units and companies, but it will definitely require the changes on account of the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic. No doubt, there will be many new challenges which we may never think of. We were planning to expand by opening the fourth office in Gurgaon and hiring more staff, but we have kept the idea on hold and will think of it once normalcy returns.Did you pay salaries to your staff during the lockdown period?We neither retrenched staff nor delayed the payment of salaries to employees during the lockdown period.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?One must have enough savings to meet any challenge during lockdown-like crisis. One must have an alternative plan to arrange cash even during the closure of business and banks. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown helped us introspect and realise our strengths and weaknesses.What are your expectations from the government?The government should lay more emphasis on the revival of industries and businesses and should give them free hand to run and postpone all the applicable laws for the year under consideration. The applicable taxes should be allowed to be deposited in two instalments, i.e. December 2020 and March 2021. The government should utilise this time for updating themselves rather than approaching the industry and business houses for enquiries. The applicability of labour laws should at least be postponed during these difficult times of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-helped-us-realise-benefits-of-work-from-home-112527
14-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cheque scam accused denied bail||An alleged multi-crore scam, using blank cheques given by “simple, ignorant and mostly illiterate” farmers, to siphon off money from their accounts has surfaced before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Taking a serious view of the matter, Justice Deepak Sibal has not only dismissed anticipatory bail plea of the accused, but also directed the forwarding of the order’s copy to Amritsar Commissioner/Joint Director, Income Tax (Investigation).The modus operandiBlank signed cheques were taken from farmers on the pretext of renewing loan limits. The petitioner, in connivance with bank officials, manipulated the banking entries to show repayment of earlier loan by the farmer/memberThereafter, loan limit was renewed on the basis of forged recovery of earlier loan, and fresh cash advances/loans were made to the accounts of the loanees from the renewed loan limitsThe cheque was misused and funds were either diverted to their personal accounts or cash was withdrawnInstructions for recovering the loan, renewal of limit and further cash advances were made without the knowledge and consent of the member/farmer.Justice Sibal made it clear that the authorities may examine the matter to find out whether the petitioner-accused violated provisions of the Income Tax Act before taking action in accordance with the law, if required.“Such directions have been issued inter-alia keeping in view the allegations with regard to transfer of crores of rupees by the petitioner to the accounts of his family members, purchase of several properties by the petitioner/family members of the petitioner and deposit of Rs 1,05,000,00 made on behalf of the petitioner,” he added.The matter was placed before Justice Sibal after Sukhbir Singh sought anticipatory bail in a cheating and forgery case registered against him on February 18 under Sections 409, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 477-A and 120-B of the IPC, the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and the Information Technology Act at Tarsikka Police Station in Amritsar district.The FIR was registered on a complaint by Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank, alleging irregularities and embezzlement by the petitioner and officials of its Tarsikka Branch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cheque-scam-accused-denied-bail-112608
14-07-2020||Amritsar||In Amritsar,  boys excel in science stream||Despite cancellation of one of the major exams of business studies and computer, students of the commerce stream managed to secure the highest percentage in Amritsar.In commerce and humanities, the top three positions in the district were bagged by girls this year, whereas boys stole the show in science. Kirti Deep Kaur Marwaha (commerce) from Senior Study-II topped the district with 99.6 per cent marks. The second spot was held jointly by Bhavya Shingari (humanities) and Diya Khanna (humanities) with 99.2 per cent marks. Hetal Arora (humanities) came third in the district. However, boys managed to score better than girls in science with Amritdeep Singh scoring 98.2 per cent marks in non-medical to bag the first position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-amritsar-boys-excel-in-science-stream-112492
