17-07-2020||---||Septuagenarian falls victim to virus, dist toll reaches 59||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16With the death of a septuagenarian from Covid-19, the district toll reached 59 on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as 75-year-old Piyara Singh of Gobind Nagar on the Sultanwind road. According to the health authorities, Piyara was being treated at Government Medical College and was a known case of hypertension.The district also reported 23 new cases in the past 24-hours, taking the total count of Covid patients to 1,170. Of the new cases, 20 are persons with influenza like illness (ILI) and three are contacts of Covid patients.One ILI case each has been reported from Chehharta, Chabba, Damganj, Jaspal Nagar, Shashtari Nagar, Majitha Road, Othiyan, Krishna Nagar, Hathi Gate, Krishna Lane, New Azad Nagar (Kot Khalsa), Police Lines, Tuta Wala Bazaar, Varindavan Enclave, Circular Road, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Rakh Devidas Pura, Lakkar Mandi, Bhagtanwala and Verka. One contact of a Covid patient from Raghunathpura and two contacts from Shareefpura tested positive. A total of 12 patients were discharged after recovery. With this, the number of persons who managed to defeat the virus reached 955. The district had 156 active cases on Thursday.Meanwhile, Government Medical College here has stopped operations of MRI and CT scan machines after an elderly woman, who had got scanned by the machines, tested positive for Covid. The authorities said the machines had been sealed for three days for sanitisation. Ban on gathering of more than four||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/septuagenarian-falls-victim-to-virus-dist-toll-reaches-59-114181
17-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||SIT begins probe into ‘fake’ Covid reports in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe into the alleged fake Covid reports racket started its probe on Thursday. The three-member probe team, headed by Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, held its first meeting.Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal and Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh are other members of the SIT. The Punjab government announced formation of the SIT into the case on July 12, after victims of the ‘racket’ criticised the abrupt shifting of probe from the Vigilance Bureau to the local police. The victims had alleged that it would give “undue benefit” to the suspects.The Vigilance Bureau has booked five doctors of a private laboratory and owner of a private hospital on charges of murder bid, forgery and corrupt practices. The victims had alleged that the laboratory made fake Covid reports only to fleece them and put their kin in the isolation ward where Covid patients were admitted, as a result of which their kin also contracted the infection.Raj Kumar Khullar, one of the victims, pointed that though the SIT has started a probe, the suspects had not been arrested. The racket was busted when the Vigilance Bureau lodged an FIR in the case on June 25, after the victims approached them.Khullar alleged that the influential and rich doctors and hospital owner filed three separate petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court to hoodwink the judiciary. However, on Wednesday, the court clubbed all the three plaints which would now be heard on August 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sit-begins-probe-into-fake-covid-reports-in-amritsar-114182
17-07-2020||---||Gym trainer shot at, 20 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16As many as 20 persons shot at a gym owner, kidnapped him and later left him abandoned near Wadala Johal village after thrashing him. The incident occurred at Bamma village on Tuesday evening.The victim was identified as Balwinder Singh, who runs a gym in Navan Pind village.Among those booked included Harpreet Singh, Sajan Singh, Gobind Singh, all residents of Raipur Kalan village, Happy and Deepy, besides 15 unknown persons.Gurwinder Singh, cousin of the victim stated to the police that he was a coach at the gym. He said on Tuesday, the accused came to the gym and wanted to work out. However, he stopped them from entering the gym as it was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, . Perturbed over this, the accused barged into the house of Balwinder and shot at him after firing a couple of gunshots in air. He suffered a bullet injury in the knee. He said he was then kidnapped in a car and badly thrashed before they threw him near Wadala Johal village.Jatinder Singh, investigating officer, said a case under different sections, including murder bid, criminal trespass, firing and the Arms Act was registered against them. Raids were on to nab the suspects and identify the remaining accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gym-trainer-shot-at-20-booked-114183
17-07-2020||---||Want to serve in border villages: Tarn Taran Class X topper||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, July 16Perneet Kaur of Mata Gujri Convent School, Sarhali Kalan, who obtained 97 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X exams and topped Tarn Taran, aspires to become a doctor. Her goal is to pursue the noble profession and serve her hometown, which comes under one of the most backward border districts of the state.Perneet’s father Inderjit Singh of Rattoke village near Chohal Sahib said he was proud of his daughter’s feat. He said, “I just want to say that Perneet has always been an achiever in our family. She has always done us proud.”Inderjt Singh is a marginal farmer. He, along with his wife, is committed to provide every possible opportunity to their girls to help them chase their dreams. Perneet’s younger sister is a student of Class VI in the same school.Geeta Kukraja, Principal of the school, called Perneet a genius and an achiever. The school authorities have announced to provide free education to Perneet Kaur till Class XII. Perneet Kaur said she took no coaching or tuition outside school and self-study was the key to her academic success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/want-to-serve-in-border-villages-tarn-taran-class-x-topper-114184
17-07-2020||Amritsar||20 booked for lockdown violations||Tightening the noose around violators of government guidelines in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the city police have booked 20 persons, including shopkeepers and vendors. All of them were later released on bail.Expressing concern over the rising cases and death count of coronavirus patients, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the police department to take stern action against the violators. The government issued guidelines to the people to wear masks at public places besides maintaining social distancing. It appears that the people are not taking it seriously.Among the violators booked by the police in the city included a vendor dealing in non-veg items, a sanitary shop owner and a noodle snacks vender. Besides, five persons were booked for illegal assembly and not wearing masks. The police booked the violators under the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-booked-for-lockdown-violations-114185
17-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Encroachment of footpaths, laxity by MC has pedestrians fuming||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16Where in the world shall we walk? These are the words most of the pedestrians must be uttering when trotting down the roads of the holy city, for perpetual encroachments of footpaths have become a commonplace sight to see.“The footpaths available alongside the roads are mostly encroached. The departments cornered can save the lives by providing a safe infrastructure”, said Davinder Sharma, a local resident.The encroachments are narrowing the width of the road, making life difficult for not only for pedestrians but also commuters. And the Municipal Corporation (MC) officials seem to have turned a blind eye towards the goings-on. Roads inside the walled city, Civil Lines area, Majitha Road area, Batala road area, Putlighar and Chheharta have all been squeezed upon by shopkeepers and street vendors, leaving no space to walk.Take for instance the Putlighar area, roads here have been encroached upon at least 10-12ft. Besides, vends and haphazard parking of vehicles is just another addition to the pile of woes. The walkway from Ghala Mala Chowk to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital has been messed up by installment of illegal kiosks.Apart from these encroachments, the tendency among shopkeepers to display goods on footpaths outside their shops has deprived pedestrians of what was left to tread. There is hardly any space left for the people to walk in the markets. In such a situation, pedestrians take to the road, which eventually leads to accidents and frequent traffic snarls. Long queues of vehicles are often witnessed in markets, including Hall Bazar and others near the Golden Temple, which are thronged by thousands of tourists and most prefer to walk.The negligence on part of the MC is proving costly for city residents as a study done by traffic experts has revealed that the highest number of casualties reported in road accidents are of pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. The traffic advisor of Punjab government, in collaboration with Rahgeer, an NGO, and Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, during a research on road casualties in last three years found found that due to encroachments on footpaths pedestrians and two-wheeler riders are the top victims, hit by cars.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer MC, said, “We conduct regular anti-encroachment drives and remove vends. But now we found that the shopkeepers sublet the footpaths to the vendors. We will come with a policy to take action against shopkeeper, who accommodates the vendor outside his shop.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachment-of-footpaths-laxity-by-mc-has-pedestrians-fuming-114186
17-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Losing control? Habitual of sanitisers  and masks, residents left nonplussed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16Change is the only constant. We all know this. Remember the time before the pandemic wreaked havoc and left lives in tatters? Everyone was just leading their lives without any abnormal habits like washing of hands repeatedly, which before could have been termed as a symptom of mental disorder; Obsessive-Compulsive disorder (OCD). But now, this is considered a common thing to do. What a turnaround of episodes it is, no?Remember how covering a face with a cloth just to avoid pollution or the harsh sunlight while driving until a few months ago could have resulted in a challan or even an FIR? Presently, no such actions exist, rather on the contrary you could be slapped with a fine if stepping out without one.Satwant Singh, a resident, says, “Earlier, if I forgot my phone’s charger at home before leaving, I had to come back. My list of always-carry-items has expanded and now it includes a face mask and a bottle of sanitiser.” He, however, added that guidelines should be bit logical and a single person driving a vehicle should not be issued a challan.The times have changed drastically and the change has been so quick and abrupt that it has thrown most people’s mindfulness out of balance. Many have also expressed their disdain for being masked most of the time, it is uncomfortable. The contradictory guidelines for use of masks by the Union government and World Health Organisation (WHO) had initially taken public aback but the fear of being issued a challan has now somewhat made people use it more frequently.Similarly, cleansing hands repeatedly or using an alcohol-based sanitiser to keep hands germ-free has become a fixation for many. “I have developed a habit of sanitising hands everytime I touch anything be it a car handle, a door knob, and a food packet etc. I sometimes feel if I am getting paranoid!,” says another resident.The medical experts state that though government has made the use of masks mandatory, most of the people are not aware of it’s proper use. “The people with respiratory trouble and toddlers should not be made to wear masks. Instead they should be kept home,” said a government doctor, adding that toddlers cannot report the trouble the mask is causing in breathing. “People should prefer cloth masks made at home as these are comfortable and could be washed easily as well,” he advises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/losing-control-habitual-of-sanitisers-and-masks-residents-left-nonplussed-114187
17-07-2020||BOTH realty and education sector are in doldrums since the lockdown got imposed. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur||‘Expect govt to treat all private players on par with public sector’||We face stringent norms for everything including fire safety and water hygiene, while similar norms need to be mandatory for government schools as well. The administration never appreciates the hard work of private schools or offers any encouragement to toppers that we churn out each year. We just expect some kind of an equitable treatment from the government’s side. — Dr Narotam Singh, Realtor and president of group of State Public SchoolsHow was your business impacted? Has it picked up again?The realty business has taken a big hit and it may take several months to get investors back. There, of course, are a few genuine buyers, who continue to make some queries with us. We have three branches of State Public School in Jalandhar Cantonment, Shahkot and Nakodar and there is little issue over fee.What is the position specifically in real estate sector?Our most recent commercial project has been the City Centre mall in Hoshiarpur. Thankfully, we were able to sell off all shops except a central 20,000 sq feet space, which we rented out to an MNC that put up an anchor store. The company is now demanding that the amount for the last three months be negotiated and the charges be slashed to 50 per cent. So, overall, there has been a slump. I am also working on residential projects, buying land for kothis in posh localities such as Chhoti Baradari, developing mansions and selling these off. This business still has some potential.In schools, how many parents have paid the fee?About 55 per cent of the parents have paid the fee. There are about 5 per cent parents, who are raising the issue. The remaining 40 are on wait-and-watch mode. The matter is not as serious as it has been highlighted. It can be settled in one or two sittings with parents. Parents have been saying that we are saving on electricity and other bills, while the reality is that the government is levying fixed charges from us. In all, we could be saving on just about 5-7 per cent of our expenses, but we are now spending as much on sanitisation and other things.Are you keeping your staff intact? Have you imposed any salary cut?We still have about 95 per cent staff with us. We have imposed 30 per cent cut in salaries and the teachers who are with us for the last 15-20 years know that it has been a really difficult time for us, too, and they are ready to bear the brunt jointly. They have been working really hard for online classes these days. It is because of our staff, that we have been able to churn out a good result. Our school topper scored 96.4 per cent in Class X and it has been really satisfying for everyone.What are your expectations from the government?I, as a businessman, have no financial demand from the government. I only expect the government to treat all private players in business on a par with the government enterprises. There are so many checks and curbs on our business that need to be rationalised. The government has enhanced the mandatory annual building certificate fee from Rs2,000 to Rs15,000, which we have to needlessly pay every year. We face stringent norms for everything including fire safety and water hygiene, while similar norms need to be mandatory for government schools as well. The administration never appreciates the hard work of private schools or offers any encouragement to toppers that we churn out each year. We just expect some kind of an equitable treatment from the government’s side.What are the lessons learnt?What we have learnt is to keep all negativity at bay and have a broader and more positive approach towards life. This will minimise all adverse impacts on one’s attitude and way of life. One must also take all decisions with wisdom and courage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expect-govt-to-treat-all-private-players-on-par-with-public-sector-114188
17-07-2020||---||City airport 2nd in handling international traffic in May||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport (SGRDJI), Amritsar, became the second busiest international airport in India to handle international traffic during the month of May, 2020. The UK and Canada continued to operate special repatriation flights for its stranded residents due to Covid-19 induced lockdown.Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative, said Amritsar continued to be one of the busiest airports in the country during lockdown, which has once again proved its real potential for international traffic to UK, Canada and other countries. Gumtala stated that as per the recently released monthly traffic report from the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for the month of May, Amritsar, recorded the second highest total of 11,681 international passengers, leaving behind all major airports in India. Delhi airport was on the top with 40,212 and Mumbai was third with 10,280 passengers.A complete suspension of flights in late March had left thousands of foreign nationals and residents stranded across the country. The Canadian and British Consulate in India started special flights in April to repatriate its citizens. Due to the huge number of their residents stranded in Punjab, these overseas flights continued to operate for the month of May and these were operated by the world’s leading airline carriers, British and Qatar Airways.The British government arranged a total of 28 from April till May 15, 2020 that flew around 8,271 Britons back home. The Canadian government also operated a total of 25 flights to Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal, repatriating almost 7,516 Canadians from Amritsar. According to unofficial estimates, the airport handled maximum flights from Canada and UK. In addition to this, the airport also handled special repatriation flights to Malaysia, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and USA.Gumtala said, “The SGRDJI Airport may have been neglected for a long time by the world airlines for introduction of new international routes, but this unprecedented repatriation effort from the airport has revealed its real potential for major destinations such as London, Toronto and Vancouver. A direct flight by the Air India from Amritsar to London Heathrow and other North American destinations, including Vancouver in the near future will save both time and money and it will give a boost to the region.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-airport-2nd-in-handling-international-traffic-in-may-114189
17-07-2020||---||Rikita emerges district topper||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16Rikita Babbar from Pathseekers School, Dera Baba Jaimal Singh, Beas, is the district topper with 98.80 per cent marks in the Class X results announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Wednesday. ‘An ambiguous system’Rikita is followed by Lovejotpreet Singh, from Guru Nanak Dev Global Academy, Chananke village, near Mehta, who secured 98.60 per cent marks. In Tarn Taran district, Perneet Kaur from Mata Gujri Convent School, Sarhali Kalan, was the topper with 97 per cent marks.CBSE Class X results this year also followed the format of Class XII results, by evaluating results according to the previous assessment and declared no merit list, given the special circumstances due to Covid-19 pandemic. But since the CGPA system of evaluation to bring out transparency has not been in practice for the past two years, schools are left to interpret the evaluation of the final result of a student, by themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rikita-emerges-district-topper-114190
17-07-2020||---||Sacred forest to come up on 2 acres at GNDU||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The work on a sacred mini-forest of 2,000 trees and bushes on the premises of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) here was inaugurated on Wednesday.Vice Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu, while addressing those present, said the word ‘development’ should be redefined and all aspects of life, including environment, must be included in it. Baba Sewa Singh of Khadur Sahib, horticulture consultant JS Bilga and other eminent personalities of the university and the city were present at the inaugural function.“The sacred forest also depicts a message that if forests are not preserved, our coming generations would live in degraded environment and face several health problems,” said Prof Sandhu.The forest, which has been dedicated to the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, will have 28% shady trees, 24% fruit trees, 24% flower trees and 24% medicinal plants. It is based on the Japanese ‘Miyawaki’ concept and is being planted in two acres land of the university. The forest is being prepared by Baba Sewa Singh and the Sikh sangat.Baba Sewa Singh said Nishan-e-Sikhi, Kar Sewa Khadur Sahib, had planted 48 forests at various places and the one being initiated at GNDU would be the 49th forest. He said apart from planting forests, about 700 trees were also being planted on the roadsides in the university.Bilga said the forest would have native varieties of trees, including trivaini (bohar, peepal and neem), sandalwood, jand, tahli, desi kicker, shahitut, arjun, gullar, dharek, mango, jamun and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sacred-forest-to-come-up-on-2-acres-at-gndu-114191
17-07-2020||---||Krishi Vigyan Kendra bags ICAR award||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The KVK here participated in the 92nd foundation day and award ceremony of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, held through video conferencing today. ICAR Awards in 20 different categories were announced on the occasion.KVK, Amritsar, received Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Rashtriya Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Puraskar. This award comprised a cash price and funds for the development of infrastructure at KVK, Amritsar.Maj Manmohan Singh Verka, a renowned orchardist, was awarded Jagjiwan Ram Abhinav Kisan Puruskar (National) for year 2019 with a cash price of Rs 1 lakh. Associate Director of KVK, Dr Bhupinder Singh Dhillon and Major Manmohan Singh was congratulated for being recipient of the award by Padam Shri Dr BS Dhillon, Vice Chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Dr Rajbir Singh, Director, Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Zone 1 and Dr Jaskaran Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education, PAU, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/krishi-vigyan-kendra-bags-icar-award-114192
17-07-2020||Neha Saini||Remembering stories of internment, pain & joy of Deoliwallahs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16Initiating a discussion on what makes a human being a resident of any nation, the Majha House’s online platform invited author Dilip D’Souza, oral historian Aanchal Malhotra and Joy Ma, a US-based Chinese who was born in the Deoli camp, Rajasthan, to speak on the topic, ‘Who is an Indian?’About Joy Ma“The session evolved when the book titled ‘The Deoliwallahs’ about the lives of Chinese children born in the camp at Deoli, Rajasthan, especially Joy Ma, was written by Dilip D’Souza,” informed Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House. “In today’s times when identity and belonging have become very contentious issues, it is very important to talk about these issues to make sense out of this raging argument over who is an Indian, what makes an Indian,” she added.Joy Ma, a Chinese born in an internment camp post 1962 Indo-China war at Deoli, shifted to the US. Born in that camp, where Indians of Chinese origins were sent to set up base during the time, Ma shared her experiences growing up in internment. She recalled, “After the war, which went on for five years, we were all rounded up and made to board a train that took us to Deoli. And I remember the words ‘Enemy Train’ were written on the train. And when we passed through stations and states and cities, people pointed out to us and shouted abuses. We felt so shamed and guilty without having or understanding any reason behind this alienation.”Dilip D’Souza, who has co-authored the book ‘The Deoliwallahs’ with Joy Ma, said, “It is a harrowing tale of becoming the enemy without doing anything at all. Little children, some born during the internment, were seen as outsiders, aliens, enemies and they could not fathom why they were being ostracized thus.” Talking about the shared experience Ma said, “It was not a normal childhood as you can imagine. Though we had our games and everything at all times, we were conscious that we were restricted to the area. And when we were moved from the camp, the sense of being an outsider never left us. And the memories are all in the mind. We don’t have any photographs of our childhood.”Aanchal Malhotra, who has worked on charting an oral history of the 1947 Partition, also touched upon the issue of hope and despair, key factors in the lives of prisoners anywhere in the world. Dilip also shared the anecdotes about the names given to the children born at the camp. Joy Ma was born in the camp and her mother gave her the name ‘Joy’ because that was the one true moment of joy that she experienced and cherished. Joy Ma shared that one girl had been named Deoli and she was okay with the name that she can laugh about it now. She said that they were all trying to normalize their past as there is no point in being sad about what happened 50 years ago.“The pain is there, sadness too but life has to go on, and it is always best to move forward with happiness and hope,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-stories-of-internment-pain-joy-of-deoliwallahs-114193
17-07-2020||Amritsar||Wellness guru shares 4 pillars of good health||Luke Coutinho, one of the country’s high profile nutrition expert and health coach, conducted an online session on holistic fitness with FICCI FLO members in the city. The session focused on a discussion about health, eating right for physical and mental fitness.Chaired by Meeta Mehra, Chiarperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, the session emphasised the Luke’s concept of 360 degree approach towards health goals and his four-pillar strategy. “Sleep, emotional well-being, nutrition and exercise, are the four pillars of a healthy mind and body. Sleep is the elixir to ensure youthfulness and boost the immunity. Any disturbance in our sleeping cycles may cause health issues,” he said.He also emphasised the importance of mental and emotional well-being by highlighting the fact that one can enhance one’s physical health by altering his or her thought process. “No matter how many healthy habits a person inculcates, if he does not have a peace of mind, nothing will work for him. He said fitness came from a peaceful mind.”Explaining the concept of balanced nutrition, Luke said each meal should be laced with nutrients, according to the susceptibility of our body. “A particular diet can do wonders for a person and may not work for another,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wellness-guru-shares-4-pillars-of-good-health-114194
17-07-2020||Amritsar||Metro staff go on strike||After running on the track for eight days, drivers and other staff members of the Metro buses running under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) on Wednesday went off road due to non-payment of salaries for the last four months. The employees said they would not resume the Metro bus service until their salaries were paid.They said they were not getting salaries for last four months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-staff-go-on-strike-114195
