19-07-2020||Amritsar||Picture of semi-naked women in Jallianwala Bagh gallery riles many||A controversy has erupted over the placement of a picture of two semi-naked women striking different poses—similar to those depicted in Ajanta and Ellora caves—at an upcoming renovated photo gallery at the Jallianwala Bagh amid portraits of national heroes and first Sikh master, Guru Nanak Dev.The International Sarv Kamboj Samaj has lodged a strong protest with Prime Minister Narendra Modi—who is the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust President—and demanded the removal of the offending picture from the national memorial to the Indian freedom struggle.The Jallianwala Bagh complex is currently undergoing a massive makeover in this historical city of Punjab. Authorities say the renovation/restoration began on February 15 under the supervision of Archaeological Survey of India and will reopen to the public from July 31.The Centre has allocated Rs 20 crore in the first phase through the Ministry of Culture.The renovation work is supervised by BJP member of Parliament Shwait Malik, who is also a trustee of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust. He last visited the galley on July 17."The Jallianwala Bagh is no less than a pilgrimage centre for every Indian. Hundreds of people, comprising schoolchildren and families, visit it every day to pay respect to those who sacrificed their lives for the country," International Sarv Kamboj Samaj President Bobby Kamboj told IANS.He said it was a "shame for us when we came to know on Saturday that authorities had put on display the picture of semi-nude women in the gallery, which houses a collection of portraits and paintings of national heroes and Sikh gurus".He said the martyrs have been "insulted" by such display of an offensive picture in the gallery.In a letter to Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, he said the trust had also insulted the martyrs by setting up a ticket window right in front of the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh at the main entrance. It demanded the shifting of the ticket window as well.The objectionable picture is placed close to a portrait of Sikh monarch, Maharaja Ranjit Singh, also known as Sher-e-Punjab (Lion of Punjab) for his bravery and one of the most revered heroes in Indian history.A large portrait of Guru Nanak Dev is installed on the right side of that picture.A big statue of Sikh warrior Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, who had the distinction of consolidating the Sikh rule in India in 1711, has also been set up in the gallery along with depiction of glorious contribution of 'Gadri Babas' (revolutionary fighters) in the national freedom struggle."I have no information about the installation of the picture of two semi-naked women in the gallery," trustee Malik told the media on Saturday.In fact, he was caught on camera while standing in front of the offensive picture during his last visit to the gallery."I will inquire (about the semi-naked picture) and only then comment," he added.Located in the vicinity of the Golden Temple complex, the Jallianwala Bagh witnessed one of the bloodiest massacre of the pre Independence era when at least 379 civilians were gunned down on April 13, 1919, by British India Army on the orders of Acting Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer. Over 1,000 others were injured. The incident catalysed the Indians' struggle for freedom.Under renovation is an old well—the martyrs' well—within the park, which is a silent witness to the brutal killings on April 13, 1919. It is going to be put under a dome-shaped see-through fibre-glass canopy. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/picture-of-semi-naked-women-in-jallianwala-bagh-gallery-riles-many-115050
19-07-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Covid testing: Public can wait, but not the lawmakers!||Tarn Taran, July 18While the higher officials of the Health Department had issued orders not to give VIP treatment to politicians and bureaucrats, the officials have started doing the opposite, it seems.In a surprising development, the Health Department started collecting Covid-19 samples of the MLAs from their homes, while the general masses have been left out in the lurch.The samples have been collected from homes on the instructions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had asked the authorities to collect the samples of all MLAs. The doctor wore a PPE kit and collected the samples and adopted all precautions. — Rohit Mehta, SMO, Tarn Taran Civil HospitalThe department, so far, has collected the samples of Dharambir Agnihotri, MLA from Tarn Taran, and Harminder Singh Gill, MLA from Patti. According to the information, ENT specialist Dr Sarabjit Singh collected the samples of Dharambir Agnihotri and Harminder Singh Gill from their residences.Rohit Mehta, Senior Medical Officer (SMO) of the local Civil Hospital, said this was done on the instructions of Chief Minster Capt Amarinder Singh, who had asked the authorities to collect the samples of all MLAs. The SMO said the doctor wore a PPE kit and collected the samples and adopted all precautions.However, the samples of other two MLAs — Ramanjit Singh Sikki from Khadoor Sahib and Sukhpal Singh Bhullar from Khemkaran, who stay out of the area, have not been collected.Meanwhile, the district administration is yet to start sample collection from the doorsteps of the general masses.Daljit Singh Dialpura, a farmers’ leader, said: “MLAs does not deserve a VIP treatment when lakhs of other people are deprived of medical facilities. Not only this, it is not safe for medicos even. The MLAs should themselves visit the Civil Hospitals to understand the pain and difficulties of the general patients.”Mahaveer Singh Gill of Patti also condemned the move of sending doctors to the residences of MLAs to collect Covid-19 samples, when the department had failed to implement the policy to send teams on the doorsteps of the general masses.Agnihotri tests +veThe Covid report of Tarn Taran MLA Dharambir Agnihotri came out positive on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said of the 347 reports received on Saturday, six came out positive. The number of active cases is 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-testing-public-can-wait-but-not-the-lawmakers-114777
19-07-2020||---||Pedalling their way across state to spread Covid-19 awareness||Amritsar, July 18Two cops — Sammandeep Singh and Gursewak Singh — from Muktsar are on a mission to spread awareness about Covid-19, in order to contain the virus.They pedalled for about 250 km and reached Amritsar after covering Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran districts. On their arrival here, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Simrat Kaur welcomed them and handed over sanitisers and masks. She appreciated the jawans who had taken the task of spreading awareness among the public during these testing times.The two cops would culminate their mission after covering a 1,300 km road journey on cycle and reach back to Muktsar. Talking to The Tribune, Sammandeep said they were now moving to Batala. From Monday, we will start our journey to Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshehar, Ropar and Mohali. We will culminate the journey after reaching to Muktsar.“On an average, we have been travelling from 80 to 100 kms,” he said. They travelled through villages and city roads and met a number people in order to spread the message of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands regularly. They also appealed to the people not to venture out of their houses without any reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pedalling-their-way-across-state-to-spread-covid-19-awareness-114778
19-07-2020||---||Pupils to revisit history of Partition digital medium||Amritsar, July 18The Partition Museum’s school education programme aimed at engaging kids actively in understanding the history of Partition of India has shifted to digital medium due to Covid-19.Considered as one of its most successful in-house activity, the schools visits had been suspended in the wake of lockdown and would not possibly continue until the guidelines on reopening come. So, the museum, in an effort to continue with the educational programme, has now collaborated with the District Education Department to prepare audio-video files of the information regarding its galleries, major events during the Partition and its brief history to share among the students.“Our school visits and education programme for students were running quite well until we had to shut down due to the Covid-19 lockdown. We did not want to suspend the programme as it was quite interactive and generated lot of interest among young children towards our history. So, we came up with the idea of sharing audio and video files regarding important historical events related to Partition in collaboration with the District Education Department. Since, academic education has shifted to digital platform, it was our only alternative to ensure the awareness programme continuity,” shared Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO, Partition Museum.Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan said this exercise had been great in increasing knowledge of students beyond the textbooks regarding one of the most significant historical events of not just our country but also the world. “The museum management had shared these files that offered a virtual tour of the museum, its galleries and enables the students to know about the history from the comfort of their home. We had shared these digital files with our teachers, who ensured that the students get to understand and be sensitive towards the Partition and its impact on generations,” she said that such an initiative would help educate students, especially from rural areas to connect with the Partition museum.Partition Museum has added the option of a virtual tour of its galleries during the lockdown as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pupils-to-revisit-history-of-partition-digital-medium-114779
19-07-2020||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation seizes goods displayed on footpaths along Majitha Road||Amritsar, July 18The estate wing of the MC seized goods displayed on the footpath on Majitha Road here on Saturday morning. The team, led by Sushant Bhatia, initiated the move after the predicament of pedestrians was highlighted in these columns on Thursday.Permanent vendors and shopkeepers are illegally subletting space outside their shops or kiosks to other vendors to earn money on Majitha Road.There are several vendors on Majitha Road, who say that they pay rent to shopkeepers and permanent kiosk owners to install vends outside their shop or kiosks. Several pedestrians had been complaining of nuisance due to increased number of vendors along roads.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, MC, said, “We will not tolerate the practice of subletting on the government’s land in front of illegal kiosks and shops. We will issue challans to vendors.”Shopkeepers sub-let their spacesPermanent vendors and shopkeepers are illegally sub-letting space outside their shops or kiosks to other vendors to earn money on Majitha Road. There are several vendors on Majitha Road, who say that they pay rent to shopkeepers and permanent kiosk owners to install vends outside their shop or kiosks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-seizes-goods-displayed-on-footpaths-along-majitha-road-114780
19-07-2020||Amritsar||2 booked for blackmailing woman||A woman has accused former istri wing leader of the SAD for allegedly making an obscene video and blackmailing her.The police have booked Rajwinder Kaur and her husband Rajinder Singh Bath of Sandhu Colony for outraging victim’s modesty. A case under Sections 354-A, 120-B, 109, 114 and 506 of the IPC has been registered against them. Rajwinder is former local president of women wing of the SAD.In her complaint to the police, the victim alleged that she was a worker of the party. She was called by the accused where they offered her some drinks laced with intoxicants. Later, she allegedly made vulgar video of her and started blackmailing.Sub-Inspector Jaspal Singh, investigating officer, said a case had been registered following a probe conducted by ACP (West) Dev Dutt Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-blackmailing-woman-114781
19-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Man killed over property dispute||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-property-dispute-114783
19-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No service lane along busy GT Road, nearby residents a harried lot||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 18Travel on the stretch of the GT road from the New Amritsar chowk to the ISBT has become a terrible experience for motorists, two-wheeler riders and heavy vehicle drivers.The absence of service lanes means both light and heavy vehicles, including those coming from the Delhi side, ply on the same road, which has residential colonies on both its sides, thus increasing the chances of accidents.A service lane would have separated the heavy vehicles and light vehicles. The road stretch from the New Amritsar chowk to the ISBT is marred by a heavy traffic, and travellers have a painful experience. — Kulwant S Ankhi, A Partap Nagar residentOver the past some years, the area has became a centre of urbanisation as a number of residential colonies have sprung up. Therefore, traffic on the road has also increased. Though the government constructed an elevated road on the stretch as part of an exercise to widen the road, no effort was made to set up a service lane.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a resident of Partap Nagar, which falls on the same stretch, said: “The service lane would have separated the heavy vehicles and light vehicles. The road stretch from the New Amritsar chowk to the ISBT is marred by a heavy traffic and the travellers are have a harrowing experience. Accidents have become a common thing.”Also, it has become an uphill task for residents living on the roadsides to cross over to the other side of the road because of the heavy traffic. In various road building schemes, convenience of pedestrians hasn’t figured at all as at places, foothpaths are absent. The road needs a specific development plan to provide a relief to residents.Harpinder Singh Walia, a resident of New Golden Avenue, which also falls on the same stretch, said: “Traffic lights must be installed on the New Amritsar road, 100 Foot road and the Panj Peer chowk to manage and control the traffic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-service-lane-along-busy-gt-road-nearby-residents-a-harried-lot-114784
19-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Staying put at home, digital detox a far-fetched dream for residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 18The Covid-19 pandemic induced stay-home norms have resulted in an increased online presence of the public. Those who would earlier complain of the shortage of time to watch their favourite movies or web series are now troubled by issues such as backaches, eyestrain and boredom.With workplace, school and even government office-related works now being done from homes, the residents have to spend extra hours in front of screen. With this, upgraded data packs and long hours in front of digital screens have become a new normal for the residents.A private company employee, Jugraj Singh, said: "I have to pay for the data consumed while doing the office work. I had to upgrade my data pack. Besides, I had to buy an additional air conditioner for home which has increased the electricity bill. Earlier, these expenses were borne by my office." He added that during the initial days of the lockdown, he enjoyed working from home but now he felt his productivity had gone down.When it comes to children, if watching cartoons and playing games on mobile phones or computers were earlier making their parents concerned about their health, the added screen time has exacerbated the worries. "Now the children have to have their daily quota of online entertainment even if they have already spent hours on completing homework and watching videos sent by their teachers. The increased screen time is a worry but we do not have any other option," said Sangeeta Sharma, a mother.Many youngsters said they had already seen all movies, shows in their watchlists and were left with fewer options for entertainment. "I have already watched the movies and web series that I had been wanting to for a long time but could not do so due to time constraints. For the past two weeks, I am feeling bored as nothing much of interest is left to watch," said Satnam Singh, a college student.Speaking outInitially, I thought I would get enough time to chat with friends and explore social media but the same is now becoming an ordeal. I wish the things return to normal soon at the earliest. Ashu MahajanThe increased use of the Internet by children is a reason to worry. Now they have to sit before the screen for at least five to six hours a day which is bound to have adverse effects on their health. Jatin MadaanThe stay-home norms have forced people to use the Internet to pass time. It has resulted in increased spending on data packs. As students aren't attending schools, they are spending more time on mobile phones these days. Suresh KumarChildren and elderly persons cannot leave their homes and can pass time only by watching TV or using mobile phones or computers. Computer is a better option as they have greater control over the content they want to watch. Mohit Kumar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staying-put-at-home-digital-detox-a-far-fetched-dream-for-residents-114785
19-07-2020||---||3 succumb to Covid-19 virus, 31 fresh cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 18With three more patients losing their lives due to Covid-19, the death toll has reached to 62 in the district on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as 44-year-old Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Othian village, 37-year-old Padma, a resident of Damganj area and 51-year-old Madan Lala, a resident of Bhagtanwala here.The health authorities said Gurmeet Singh was suffering from diabetes. Padma was an ovary cancer patient undergoing treatment at Government Medical College.Besides, 31 more persons, including four employees of the Deputy Commissioner’s office, tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. The district health authorities reported that a CID cop and one cop posted at the police post near Sun City also tested positive.Of the new patients, 21 had influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and 10 were contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Rajesh Nagar (Tungpai), Heir village, Gali Kamboj, Medical Enclave, Aman Avenue, Baba Sahib Chowk, Azad Nagar (Putlighar), Green Avenue, Verka, Namak Mandi, Military Hospital, Gopal Nagar (Ajnala), B Block Railway Colony, Madhipur, Green Field Avenue, police post in Sun City, CID office and Batha Hari Singh (Ajnala). Besides, two health workers of a hospital in Beas also tested positive.The health authorities said four contacts cases from the Deputy Commissioner’s office, two each from New Abadi (Kot Khalsa) and Desa Singh Wali Gali (Kot Khalsa), one each from Hussainpura Chowk and Sundar Nagar were reported.The total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached 1,244. With the district witnessing 10 more recoveries in the last 24 hours, the count of cured patients increased to 975 here on Saturday. At present, the district has 209 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-succumb-to-covid-19-virus-31-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-114774
19-07-2020||---||Man killed over Rs 50 he lost in ludo, 2 arrested||Amritsar, July 18A minor monetary dispute while playing ludo online proved costly for a youth who was allegedly abducted and murdered by two persons here on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Bobby (30). The police had nabbed the two suspects, Vishaldeep Singh of Dashmesh Nagar and Mani of Mohkampura area.According to the police, the suspects hit Sukhjinder on his head with a stone killing him on the spot and later dumped his body at vacant plots in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar here. A case of kidnapping and murder was registered against the duo.Avtar Singh, alias Sunny, victim’s brother told Sukhjinder was his younger brother. On Tuesday, he had a quarrel with the suspects over playing online ludo. He had reportedly lost Rs 50 to the suspect who had been demanding the money. He had allegedly smashed the glass of e-rickshaw belonging to Vishaldeep Singh. He said both have later entered in a compromise.He alleged Vishaldeep, however, kept a grudge and yesterday they kidnapped him on their e-rickshaw. The footage of a CCTV camera installed in the area revealed that the victim was initially reluctant to go with them. However, they lured him and took him somewhere. When he did not return, a complaint was lodged with the police. The police had registered a case of kidnapping which has been converted into that of murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-rs-50-he-lost-in-ludo-2-arrested-114775
19-07-2020||---||14-year-old girl raped by cousin in Jhunjh village||Amritsar, July 18In a shocking incident, a minor girl was allegedly raped by her cousin at Jhunjh village here. Though the incident occurred around six months ago, a complaint was lodged with the rural police on Friday.The police have registered a case against the suspect, identified as Baga Singh of Jhunjh village, and further investigation is underway. The medical examination of the victim was also conducted, said the police authorities.The14-year-old victim told the police that as their house was under construction she along with her parents and other siblings were living at the residence of her paternal aunt (father’s sister) at Jhunjh village. She said that in mid-January, her parents went to meet her elder aunt at Mojpur in Gurdaspur.The victim alleged she along with other siblings were sleeping in the night when Baga Singh came and covered her mouth and took her to another room. She alleged the suspect sexually assaulted her and threatened of dire consequences in case she told anyone about this. She said as she was afraid and did not tell anyone about this. The victim said after the incident she always remained in fear at the residence.She said her parents got suspicious about her condition and repeatedly asked her about the reason of her fear. She said she narrated the entire incident to them. They decided to lodge a complaint with the police in this connection.The Bhindisaida police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said efforts were on to nab the suspect while further investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-year-old-girl-raped-by-cousin-in-jhunjh-village-114776
19-07-2020||---||Covid vicitms’ bodies swapped at Amritsar GMC||Amritsar, July 18In a major goof-up, officials of the Government Medical College (GMC) here sent a wrong body of a Covid victim to a family in Hoshiarpur on Saturday. The matter came to light when the family members of Pritam Singh (92) from Hoshiarpur, who died of Covid at the hospital here, insisted on seeing the victim’s face before the cremation.They were, however, shocked to find that that the body sent by the Health Department, wrapped in a PPE kit as per the protocol, was actually of a woman. Sources at the college said a 37-year-old Amritsar resident, Padma, and Pritam Singh, both died last evening. Due to wrong marking on the bodies, the body of Pritam Singh was sent to Padma’s family for cremation. As the covering of Covid victims was not allowed to be opened, the family of Padma cremated the body of Pritam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-vicitms-bodies-swapped-at-amritsar-gmc-114879
