20-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Four colonisers booked for fraud||Railways to probe train derailmentAmritsar: The district railways authorities have constituted a committee to probe the derailment of a train loaded with at the Anngarh railway crossing on the night of July 14. The probe is being handled by the engineering wing of the Railways, which has constituted the four-member committee by drawing officials from various departments of the Railways. On July 14, four bogeys of a train loaded with goods had departed from the Bhagtanwala railway station. A few minutes later, some bogeys of the train derailed. TNSBoy’s body found in distributaryTarn Taran: The Chohal Sahib police found an unidentified body of around 15-year-old boy from a distributary in Lohar village, 30 km from here on Sunday. ASI Gurmit Singh, investigating officer, said the body had been kept at the Civil Hospital mortuary for identification. There were no injury marks on the body and the exact cause of death would be known after the postmortem, the police said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-colonisers-booked-for-fraud-115393
20-07-2020||Some say examinations must be held||UGC, state together must find a viable solution||UGC must review its decision on examsThe UGC is in favour of conducting exit exams while the Punjab Government is against them. It is important for students to take the exams for their bright future, but if they get infected with the virus, who will be responsible? The whole world is going through difficult times. Given the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases, it is important to stay home and stay safe. I feel the UGC should review its decision and exit exams must be cancelled.IzleenHold exams while taking precautionsIf we talk about the state's decision to not hold the exams, the UGC secretary has already said that states have no right to cancel exams as per the UGC Act. So, the state government has to allow universities to conduct exams. Moreover, the HRD Minister has clarified that if exams are not conducted, questions on the degrees might be raised in future. To avoid such a situation, the Centre has set the deadline for holding the exams. If the exams are not held this time and students get promoted, what would we do next year if the pandemic does not end? Do we again confer degrees on students without conducting exams? Besides, the UGC has also issued SOPs to ensure proper safety of students and staff. Therefore, the exams should be conducted while following social distancing norms.Abhishek Thakur QUESTIONSince decades, water-logging has been affecting the lives of Amritsar residents during the monsoon season. What steps should the civic body take to handle the perennial problem?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to                           amritsardesk@ tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 23).Exams of exit classes must be cancelledThe academic evaluation of students is very important in any education system. Exams instil confidence in students and reflect the level of competence, performance and credibility of students. At a time when Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly, it is not feasible to conduct the exams in Punjab. Conducting the exams will put both examiners as well as examinees to great health risks. Most students are in favour of cancellation of exams in view of a spurt in the number of cases in the country. Universities must adopt a pragmatic approach. Exams cannot be held in online mode as the UGC had suggested as an option since large sections of students, especially in rural areas and those coming from backward communities, do not have access to affordable and uninterrupted internet connectivity. So, it is unfair to conduct the exams amid the pandemic. The UGC must hear the voice of students. The exams should be cancelled and students given degrees on the basis of past performances.Amarjit KalsiCancelling exit exams is no solutionThe exit exams have become a bone of contention between the UGC and the Punjab Government. The UGC insists that exit exams are a must because of their intrinsic worth and fundamental need as an integral part of educational programme. Hence, it is bent on conducting them in accordance with the guidelines issued by it. On the other hand, the Punjab Government has already announced the cancellation of the exit exams. It has urged the Centre to intervene. The tussle between the two is turning out to be a little slugfest. And the students are being kept on tenterhooks for no faults of theirs. But the scales seem to be tilted in favour of the UGC as it can take action against the states which cancel exams. It has made it mandatory to conduct exams by September 30. But circumstances are not favourable as Covid-19 has spread its tentacles in the country. But if the pandemic does not end, will the degrees be granted without exams for years together? The cancellation of exams is no solution. Hence, the UGC and the Punjab Government should put heads together to find a viable option to the tangle. Although the exams today do not at all assess the real worth and intelligence of the candidates, they are a necessary evil and will have to be conducted sooner or later.Tarsem S BumrahUGC must withdraw its notificationThe UGC has issued a notification for holding exit exams by September 20 this year, without consulting stakeholders such as students, institutions/universities or state governments. This is a basic requirement in a democracy. Our government departments are quick to take prompt decision in matters where they do not have share the responsibility of the consequences. According to the UGC notification, final year students can take the exams either through online, offline or blended mode. A majority of students do not have facilities for online exams and the only option they have is to appear in offline exams. For this, the UGC has issued a standard operating procedure and guidelines, which make wearing mask, gloves, sanitising pupils, disinfecting examination halls, ensuring physical distancing etc, compulsory. But what about the transport? How will the students travel to the examination centres as many of them do not own a vehicle. The UGC must withdraw its notification, discuss the issue with the stakeholders and come up with a plan which is best for the health and safety of students.Naresh JoharPass students on basis of past performanceStudents are the future of the country and we can't put their lives in danger. The UGC should immediately cancel the exams for exit classes and pass the students on the basis of previous exam results. If the body is so concerned about the exams, it can tell students to make projects and upload these on the university website and then pass the students on the basis of project evaluation. One fails to understand why the boy is concerned about marks. It must instead focus boosting creativity of students to ensure their overall development.Rohit Kumar SehdevPunjab must stand by its decision on examsGiven the fact that the coronavirus is infecting over 30,000 people in the country everyday and is also spreading its tentacles rapidly in Punjab, the situation is not conducive at all to hold university/college exams. The Punjab government should stick to its guns and do not exams as has been done by Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and some other states. It's not only about the safety of the students and teachers, but it has also to do with containing the spread of the pandemic. The unfortunate thing has been the flip-flops by the UGC on the issue, which has resulted in uncertainty and utter confusion in the minds of stakeholders, especially the students. The UGC guidelines released on April 29 had left the decision to hold exams entirely on the universities, advising that any such decision should be taken while according top priority to the health and safety of all concerned. Then on June 25, the apex body recommended scrapping of final year/semester exams and also advised universities/colleges to evaluate students on the basis of their previous performance and internal assessment. There was another somersault on July 6, when the body revised its guidelines, based on Kuhad Panel Report, and instructed the universities to complete the process of exams by September, with the advice that the evaluation on the basis of exams is crucial to ensure academic credibility and progress of the students globally. The apex body must understand that academic standards do not get affected by the hard decisions taken in unusual times in the general interest but are built and maintained over the years and that unprecedented problems require out-of-box or off-the-shelf solutions. As education falls in the Concurrent List, the Centre should come forward to resolve the stalemate.HS WaliaStudents among those worst hit by crisisIt is a tragedy of our times that during the pandemic, the Centre is taking unilateral decision on matters concerning student, without any concern for their mental and emotional well-being. As the students step into an uncertain future, the Centre needs to stand with the youths and not against them. One of the core duties of the governments during natural disasters like the ongoing coronavirus pandemic is to soften the blow of the crisis. Students in colleges and universities are among those who have borne a disproportionate burden of the crisis. But they do not appear to have the ear of the Centre. The UGC is bent on worsening their plight. The worse hit are final year students who ordinarily graduate in June, but this year, they are finding themselves at the mercy of the UGC. The Centre and the state governments should join hands for the betterment of students.Sukhpreet Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ugc-state-together-must-find-a-viable-solution-115394
20-07-2020||ASHiSH LUTHRA is director of Luthra Bottles Private Limited||‘Sale of glass bottles, vials yet to pick up pace’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Since a large number of companies using our glass bottles and vials had shut their operations for almost two months during the lockdown, there was almost no demand from them for packaging solutions. There was a slowdown in production in most industries owing to the shortage of labour which upset the supply chain. The payment cycle has been adversely affected, resulting in liquidity crunch.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Since we are an integral part of pharma packaging material supply chain, our business was closed for a few days in March. We geared up and motivated our teams in all the three cities to resume operations quickly while taking all precautions. Though we have started operations, our sales have been severely affected.Did you pay salaries to your employees during the lockdown period?We paid salaries to all employees on time all these months. There has neither been any delay nor any deductions in their salaries.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading in our line of business is negligible.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The best lesson I have learned from the lockdown is to prepare for the worst and hope for the best. The present scenario sometimes evokes the image of science fiction but now the reality is sinking in that we are passing through one of the worst global crisis ever. One can face many more adversities in the coming months. It seems mother nature is going to teach us quite a few harsh lessons.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?I consider the present crisis as a tough challenge, it cannot be considered anything less. A case in point being the recent announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the government would provide free grains to 80 crore people of the country. That implies that almost 62 per cent of the population is living on government alms. A grim situation indeed which raises doubts over the Niti Ayog figures of only 30 per cent of the population being below the poverty line. The actual figure seems to be much higher. He believes that only those companies will be able to tide over the present crisis which have saved enough for the rainy day.What are your expectations from the government?The maximum rate of direct tax (corporate as well as personal) should be reduced to 10 per cent, which will help in faster capital formation and also enable companies to achieve global scales and competitive edge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sale-of-glass-bottles-vials-yet-to-pick-up-pace-115396
20-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Covid effect: Field staff of civic body adopt new ways of public dealing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 19Field staff of Municipal Corporation adopted new parameters of public dealing after the Covid-19 outbreak. The estate wing of the MC has been acting strict on the shopkeepers, who have been flouting the Covid-19 protocol.On the directions of the Local Government Department, the estate office initiated action against commercial establishments and shopkeepers for violating the government directions concerning Covid-19. Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Punjab, gave directions to urban bodies to crackdown on shops and commercial establishments violating the prescribed norms for the success of the Mission Fateh campaign of the state government. Officials are on a drive to implement the government orders and also send daily report about actions taken against violators.Generally, the estate wing officials used to take action against the vendors posing hurdle in traffic movement and seize goods from various shops and commercial establishments, which were illegally displayed. Now, the officials aim at observing the number of persons standing in the shop. They also check the masks, sanitisers and social distancing. They take action in case of violation.In the past few weeks the estate wing of the MC removed several vends where people seen violating the social distancing norms. Such actions were taken at Lawrence Road, Mall Road, Putaligarh Chowk, Majitha Road, Heritage Street, Bus stand area and Railway station.Officials of the MC stated that these restrictions are meant to prevent large gatherings of people so that the virus does not spread through human contact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-effect-field-staff-of-civic-body-adopt-new-ways-of-public-dealing-115385
20-07-2020||---||Man kills self  after being thrashed; sarpanch booked||Amritsar, July 19Disturbed over being thrashed by the sarpanch of the village, a man identified as Sardool Singh (48), committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in the Daburji area here on Friday. He died in the hospital late Friday night.He was cremated at his village after the post-mortem examination on Sunday. Gurnam Singh, investigating officer, said the police had registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Baljinder Singh, the sarpanch of the village. He was on the run since the incident.Victim’s son Mandhir Singh stated to the police that on Friday at around 11am he along his paternal uncle Ranjit Singh was going for work and reached outside Daburji where they saw Baljinder Singh thrashing his father Sardool Singh publicly. On seeing them, he left him and used abusive language against them. He said the accused thought that his father was creating hurdles in digging up of a pond which was the reason behind the incident.Feeling insulted over this Sardool got perturbed. He returned home and consumed sulphas tablets. He was immediately rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he died on late Friday night. Gurnam Singh said further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-self-after-being-thrashed-sarpanch-booked-115387
20-07-2020||---||Firing case: Notorious criminal among 14 booked after 18 days||Amritsar, July 19Around three weeks after a firing incident on the Bhai Manjh Singh road, the police on Sunday registered a case against a notorious criminal and his associates here. Nevertheless, the complainants had expressed dissatisfaction over the FIR while alleging the Sultanwind police were working under the influence of a local MLA who was sheltering the criminals.They alleged the accused were influencing doctors, thereby delaying the medico-legal reports to favour the accused. The victims had appealed to Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu seeking their intervention to provide justice to them.According to the victims, the police registered a weak FIR against Saba, Manjot Singh, Raja, Captain, Navi, Deepu and eight other unknown persons while their medical reports were kept under observation.Parneet Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said the necessary amendments would be made in the FIR after getting medical reports. He denied the charge of working under political pressure and termed the allegations baseless.The victim, Anil Bhandari, alleged that the police deliberately did not include sections regarding mobile theft, firing with illegal weapons and criminal trespass even as they had mentioned everything in their written complaints.He alleged that Saba was wanted by the Chheharta police in a murder case registered last year. He said on July 1, he, along with his friends, was having a small party at a resort where the accused barged into the resort and indulged in firing and injured them. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter was brought to his notice and would be investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-case-notorious-criminal-among-14-booked-after-18-days-115388
20-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Downpour floods Heritage Street in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 19Tall claims made by the Municipal Corporation about desilting of drains have fallen flat after heavy rain lashed the city on Sunday morning.Various places, including low-lying areas, walled city and outer ring road, were waterlogged.Several sewer lines remained choked, leading to accumulation of rainwater on the BRTS track, elevated road near Mall of Amritsar, Taylor Road, Madan Mohan Malviya Road, Batala Road outside Celebration Mall, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Majitha Road, SSSS Chowk and Fatehgarh Churian Road. Roads leading to many tourist places, including Partition Museum and Heritage Street, were also waterlogged. Besides, the rainfall also brought forth the true picture hidden behind the glitter of the Rs250-crore Golden Temple Heritage Street project.Just before the monsoon season, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and senior MC officials had claimed that they were prepared and equipped to tackle the problem of water-logging in the city. They had claimed that the work of desilting of drains was done. People residing in low-lying areas flayed the authorities for poor arrangements to deal with water-logging.Ajay Khosla, a resident, said: “I am surprised after seeing water-logging even after the desilting of sewer lines. The problem of water-logging near historical sites is common and it is unfortunate that concrete steps have not been taken to resolve the issue.”Hardev Singh, a resident of Partap Nagar, said: “It is tough for people to commute safely on city roads. The water-logging problem can be seen on every road.”Most of the city areas are deprived of a storm-water drainage system. The city is dependent on sanitary sewer. It takes time to drain out rainwater. The authorities have covered all open drains, leading to a flood-like situation after a spell of rain.Despite repeated attempts, Anurag Mahajan, Superintending Engineer (Operation and Maintenance), MC, could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/downpour-floods-heritage-street-in-amritsar-115377
20-07-2020||---||60-year-old is Amritsar’s 63rd casualty||Amritsar, July 19With the death of a 60-year-old man, the toll due to Covid-19 in the district reached 63 on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Sukhdev Singh of Sham Nagar in Majitha, was also suffering from diabetes and cancer. He passed away on his way to Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital and tested for Covid-19 posthumously.The district also reported 28 new positive cases in the past 24 hours. The new patients include 16 persons with influenza like illness (ILI) and 12 contacts of Covid patients. The count of Covid cases in the district reached 1,272 on Sunday. The number of active cases is 221.The ILI cases include five staffers of a private hospital and one case each from Shappea Wali village, Hathi Gate (Katra Moti Ram), Sadar Bazaar (Cantonment) Jandiala Guru, New Partap Nagar, Partap Nagar, Lahori Gate, Sham Nagar (Majitha), Sultanwind village and Beas.According to the authorities, 10 contact cases from a private hospital in Beas and one each from Chheharta and Sunder Nagar were reported.A total of 13 patients have been discharged after recovery since Saturday evening. The district has reported 988 recoveries and 63 deaths from the disease.Meanwhile, Cabinet minister Om Parkash Soni has asked village panchayats to join the fight against Covid-19 by creating awareness among villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-year-old-is-amritsars-63rd-casualty-115378
20-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Woman found dead: In-laws booked on charge of murder||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 19Over two and a half months after a woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances in New Gurnam Nagar area, the police on Sunday booked four members of her in-laws’ family on the charge of murder.The case was registered after the autopsy report confirmed that the victim, identified as Balwinder Kaur, alias Kulwinder Kaur alias Lovely, died of asphyxia caused by strangulation.Those booked were identified as the victim’s husband Tejinder Singh, his parents Kulwant Singh and Kashmir Kaur and brother Arwinder Singh. They are yet to be arrested.Hardev Singh, father of the victim, told the police that his youngest daughter, Lovely, was married to Tejinder Singh in January 2011. He said her in-laws would demand money for an under-construction house in Verka. He said that accused used to harass and assault her for not giving birth to a baby boy.He said on April 23, they got the information of Lovely’s death. He said he, along with his family, went to her house in the New Gurnam Nagar area where her body was lying on a bed in the verandah. He said after seeing the body they got suspicious as there was injury marks on her body.They informed the police who reached the spot and took the body into their custody. The body was sent for a postmortem. A medical board conducted the autopsy the report of which came two days ago. The police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC against four members of her in-laws’ family.Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said raids were on to nab the culprits.In-laws sought dowry||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-found-dead-in-laws-booked-on-charge-of-murder-115379
20-07-2020||---||Goods worth lakhs gutted in fan factory fire||Amritsar, July 19  A major fire broke out at a ceiling fan manufacturing unit situated in the Tej Nagar area on Sultanwind Road here on Sunday. Though no loss of life was reported, goods worth lakhs were gutted in the incident. According to information, flames started billowing out of the factory early in the morning. The Fire Department received a call at 7.35 am and fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Fire officials said the paint division of the factory was gutted in the incident. The Station Fire Officer, Lovepreet Singh, said, “Our fire tenders immediately reached the spot. It was a major fire as flammable material was stored inside. We made use of six fire tenders. The firefighters doused the flames on the third floor by using new equipment. It was a challenging job, but we managed to control the flames within an hour.” The reason of fire is not clear yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goods-worth-lakhs-gutted-in-fan-factory-fire-115380
20-07-2020||Amritsar||Beopar Mandal flays govt’s move to hike NOC fee for fire||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has denounced the government for increasing the NOC fee for fire for commercial establishments.  The NOC fee for fire was increased from Rs5,000 to Rs20,000 in a recently issued notification. It means that all commercial establishments, whether hospital buildings, malls, multi-storey structures, filling stations, godowns, cinema halls, hotels, marriage palaces and others would have to pay this much amount.  Sumit Jain, general secretary of the PPBM, said all commercial establishments have to pay hiked NOC fee every year during its renewal. As per the government norms, each commercial unit is to renew the NOC for fire a year after the date of issuing the certificate.  In addition, the government in the notification released on July 13 mentioned that the NOC fee would be hiked by 10 per cent every year.  He said it seemed the government was passing on the entire burden of Covid-19-induced lockdown on entrepreneurs.  Sunil Mehra, an industrialist and a senior functionary of the PPBM, questioned the logic of government behind hiking the fee when the industries and businesses were struggling to re-establish themselves after the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beopar-mandal-flays-govts-move-to-hike-noc-fee-for-fire-115381
20-07-2020||---||Man kills brother over Rs 1,500||Amritsar, July 19In a shocking incident, a man stabbed his brother to death over a monetary dispute in the Mohkampura area here on Sunday evening.The deceased was identified as Vishal. The police have registered a case and launched a probe.According to information, both brothers were rendered unemployed by the Covid-induced lockdown. Sikander had lent Rs1,500 to Vishal and had been demanding the money back. In the past 15 days, the brothers had altercations on multiple occasions. On Sunday, they again quarreled over the issue and during the dispute, Sikander repeatedly stabbed Vishal with a sharp weapon. Vishal died on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-brother-over-rs-1-500-115382
20-07-2020||---||Chainpur sarpanch attacked over land dispute, six booked||Amritsar, July 19A dispute over panchayat land turned ugly when several armed persons attacked the sarpanch of Chainpur village and his son leaving the latter seriously injured here on Saturday.The Rajasansi police have booked six persons on the charge of murder bid and arrested one person, identified as Jaskaran Singh, in this regard. The others booked are Malak Singh, Gurcharan Singh, Harcharan Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Arshdeep Singh, all residents of the same village.The victim, Ajit Singh, told the police that he, along with his son Gurdev Singh, was returning home after working in his fields. He said Jaskaran Singh, who was standing on the way, stopped them and entered into an altercation and abused them. He said later at around 12 noon when his son Gurdev Singh came out of the house for some work, the accused intercepted him. He said after hearing noises, he came out and saw the accused threatening his son while pointing a .12 bore rifle at him.He said Kulwinder shouted to teach them (the victims) a lesson for demarcating panchayat land. He said the accused attacked Gurdev with a datar (a sharp-edged weapon) and badly injured his wrist. He said when he raised the alarm, the accused fled the spot and he rushed his son to a private hospital.Investigating officer Vijay Kumar said while Jaskaran was arrested, the remaining suspects were on the run. A case under Sections 307, 341, 323 and 324 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them. Raids were on to nab the absconders, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chainpur-sarpanch-attacked-over-land-dispute-six-booked-115383
20-07-2020||Amritsar||ASI assaulted by fraud case accused in Amritsar||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) was allegedly assaulted by several persons when he went to Mehta Chowk for arresting a fraud case accused here on Saturday.The victim, Gurmit Singh, was posted at Tarn Taran. He stated that he had gone to arrest Harpreet Singh and Manpreet Singh who were allegedly booked in a fraud case registered with the Tarn Taran police in August 2019.He said he, along with his police party, raided at their suspected hideout at Chowk Mehta at around 3.35 pm on Saturday. He said the accused, Harpreet Singh, Manpreet Singh and Harjinder Singh, all residents of Daburji, along with six unknown persons, attacked him and tore his uniform besides hitting an iron rod on his head. He alleged the accused also snatched his wallet in the melee. His colleagues admitted him to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital.The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186, 379-B, 342, 323 and 506 of the IPC against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-assaulted-by-fraud-case-accused-in-amritsar-115384
20-07-2020||---||Two workers suspended over swapping of bodies, probe on||Amritsar, July 19A day after the bodies of two Covid victims were swapped at the Government Medical College here, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon today ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. Dhillon said it was a serious lapse and the responsibility for it needed to be fixed. Dr Shivraj Singh Bal, SDM, Amritsar-II, would conduct the inquiry.The college authorities, too, have formed a committee to probe the incident. They have suspended two Class IV workers. Officials said the goof-up occurred due to wrong tagging on the bodies. The inquiry committee has been asked to submit a report in two days, GMC Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan said.‘Authorities looking for scapegoats’The authorities are looking for scapegoats. Nurses and workers are not responsible for the goof-up. We have demanded an impartial investigation so that the blame is not shifted onto lower-rung workers. —Narinder Kumar, Employee union leaderOn the other hand, nurses and Class IV workers have threatened to go on a strike. “The authorities are looking for scapegoats. The nurses and workers are not responsible for the goof-up,” said employee union leader Narinder Kumar. He said they had demanded an impartial investigation so that the blame was not shifted onto lower-rung employees.Meanwhile, the body of 37-year-old Padma, who died of Covid on Friday, was handed over to her family members after its return from Hoshiarpur this afternoon.The college had handed over Padma’s body to the family of Pritam Singh, a 92-year-old Covid patient from Tanda, who also died at the GMC the same day. Padma’s father Davinder Heera said, “We were instructed by district administration officials that the body would not be unwrapped. We had no reason to doubt them.” He said it was only later that they came to know that they had cremated someone else.Padma’s brother Vikas said: “We feel sorry for the family members of Pritam Singh as they could not cremate him. At the same time, we are indebted to them for unveiling the truth by insisting onseeing the body.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-workers-suspended-over-swapping-of-bodies-probe-on-115140
20-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar railway station facelift worries experts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 19Residents and heritage experts are sceptical of the Union Government’s move to redevelop the Amritsar railway station through a private company on the lines of the international airport. They feel the heritage character of the station may not remain intact after the makeover.Not Yet Received Makeover Guidelines: DRMThe Indian Railways Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) is in the process of finalising a company to redevelop and beautify the over 150-year-old railway station into a modern entity with residential flats, shopping malls and educational institutes with a budget of Rs 375 crore.The holy city is among the four places, including Nagpur, Gwalior and Sabarmati, where railway stations are to be redeveloped.Prof Balvinder Singh, spatial conservation planner and former head of Sri Guru Ram Dass School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said any development work, despite being on the lines of contemporary architecture, must take into account the historic value of the structure.Heritage lovers are irked with the Railways over the changes being made on the façade of the Victorian-style architecture of the local railway station, which came into being in 1859. As per the guidelines of the International Council on Monuments and Sites, the colour, texture, scale and design of heritage buildings should not be changed. The guidelines entail that the originality, traditional material, techniques and craftsmanship of century-old buildings should be maintained.Mohan Singh, a retired professor, said the local railway station was of historic importance as it was among the first railway stations constructed by the British in Punjab.Railways officials said the new design for the railway station was introduced in conformity with the Sikh architecture about a decade ago and the architectural designs of the Golden Temple and Khalsa College were taken as role models.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said his office had not yet received any guidelines regarding the proposed beautification plan of the railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-railway-station-facelift-worries-experts-115154
20-07-2020||Amritsar||Portrait at Jallianwala gallery triggers row||A portrait two of semi-naked women identical to those at Ajanta and Ellora caves at Jallianwala Bagh’s gallery has mired in controversy.Ironically, these portrait have been placed adjacent to a portrait of Guru Nanak Dev and Sikh monarch Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The International Sarv Kamboj Samaj has complained to the Akal Takht and PM Narendra Modi, who is a chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.Shinder Pal Singh, president, Kamboj Samaj, said, “It is a matter of concern that such obnoxious portraits have been installed at a pious monument. We urge the Akal Takht and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to punish the guilty.” The renovation work was being supervised by Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, who is also a member of the Trust.Malik said, “I have got it verified through officials concerned, who deny having any such portrait. Some mischievous elements have circulated morphed pictures.”Sunil Kapoor, great grandson of Lala Vasu Mal Kapoor, who was shot dead on April 13, 1919, said the PM should take action against the guilty officials. Recalling the killing of his grandfather Lala Hari Ram in the massacre, Mahesh Behl, said, “The originality of the site has been destroyed in the name of renovation. What do they want to portray by setting up portraits of semi-nude women in the gallery?”Vikas Hira, SDM, Amritsar-1, who visited the Bagh today said, “It’s a routine visit. The ‘portrait’ controversy has come to my notice. The higher authorities are working on it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portrait-at-jallianwala-gallery-triggers-row-115155
