24-07-2020||---||77-yr-old man dies, toll reaches 65 in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23The district reported the death of a 77-year-old man due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll to 65.The deceased has been identified as Gurnam Singh, a resident of Boparai Kalan village. The patient had co-morbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease.The district has reported 36 new positive cases in the last 24-hours. The new cases include three Central Jail employees and a cop from PCR team. With the new patients reported on Thursday, the total count of Covid patients in the district has reached 1,396.Of the new cases, 25 are influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 11 are contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each has been reported from Krishna Nagar (Batala Road), Baba Bakala, D Block (Ranjit Avenue), Verka, Jujhar Singh Avenue, Golden Avenue, Shivala Colony, Kot Baba Deep Singh, Namak Mandi, Preet Nagar, Bal Khurd Village, Ekta Nagar (Chamrang Road), Singh Nagar (Gilwali Gate), Canal Colony (Near Railway Station), Gurman Nagar, Ajnala, Ranjitpura (Chehharta), Kot Atma Singh (Ram Bagh), Feruman Village, Friends Avenue (Majitha Road), Tandon Nagar and Police Control Room. Two ILI cases have been reported from Jandiala Guru.Of the contact cases, three have been reported from Central Jail and one each have been reported from Ram Nagar Colony, Guru Gobind Singh Nagar (Majitha Road), Ivy Hospital, Beas Hospital, Guru Ramdass Nagar, Green Avenue, Friends Avenue (Majitha Road) and Tandon Nagar.A total of 16 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the last 24-hours. The total number of recoveries has reached 1,039 in the district. At present, the district has a total of 292 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/77-yr-old-man-dies-toll-reaches-65-in-amritsar-117333
24-07-2020||---||Man commits suicide; wife, in-laws booked for abetment||Amritsar, July 23Perturbed over the alleged harassment by in-laws, a man identified as Balwinder Singh (33), committed suicide by hanging with a ceiling fan at his house in Sanghna village falling under the Chatiwind police station here on Wednesday.On a complaint by his sister Paramjit Kaur, the police have booked deceased’s wife Sarabjit Kaur, her mother Lakhwinder Kaur, brother Joga Singh, all residents of Maulvi Kot village and Kulwinder Kaur, an aunt of Sarabjit Kaur, on the charges of abetment to suicide.Paramjit Kaur, a resident of Gola village in Tarn Taran, stated to the police that she had come to meet her parents at Sanghna village. She said they went to sleep on Tuesday night, but her brother did not come out of his room on Wednesday despite repeated knocks. Later, they found him hanging from the ceiling fan.Sub-Inspector Harmeet Singh, investigating officer, said Balwinder’s wife Sarabjit Kaur was a nurse and used to work at a private hospital. Balwinder was a taxi driver. He had asked Sarabjit to leave her job, but she was not ready for it. This became a reason for frequent quarrels between them.Around four months ago, Sarabjit went to her parents home with her 9-year-old child and did not return. This left him disturbed and he committed suicide. A case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC was registered against four persons, including his wife, and further investigations were underway. He said efforts were on to arrest them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-commits-suicide-wife-in-laws-booked-for-abetment-117335
24-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Nod to canal-based water supply in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23Finally, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved the project to provide canal-based water supply to the city.The project has been the long-pending demand of the residents as the city has been facing serious water crisis for the past few decades. Moreover, water depletion and groundwater contamination has made it tough for the civic body to meet the routine potable water demand from the residents. The Municipal Corporation spends a good amount on sinking of tube wells every year.The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank Group, would finance 70 per cent of the cost and the rest would be borne by the Punjab Government. The decision to this effect was taken in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh held through video conferencing on Wednesday.Sandip Singh, academics, said: “The project was proposed in 2015 by the SAD-BJP government and the approval took five years to come. We welcome the move of the government as it is the need of the hour. It will also help to address the problem of water depletion in the region.”Surabh Sharma, a resident said: “The canal-based 24X7 water supply is a much-needed project. The government should implement it at the earliest. Residents of the walled city and several other localities often receive contaminated water supply. The existing infrastructure is inadequate to meet the demand from city residents.”The Punjab Government, in June 2018, requested the World Bank for support in implementing the 24X7 canal-based water supply project in the city. A pre-feasibility report was prepared by the World Bank in 2015, and updated in 2019, which pointed out the need to migrate from rapidly depleting and contaminated decentralised groundwater supply source to a centralized and treated surface water source.The 40-acre land requirement for the construction of water treatment plants, along with treated water collection tanks and pumping stations close to the canals, has been met by acquiring land along the Upper Bari Doab Canal at Vallah village at a cost of Rs 36.40 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nod-to-canal-based-water-supply-in-amritsar-117336
24-07-2020||Amritsar||2 yrs on, 4 booked for duping man of Rs 5 lakh||After two-year-long probe, the rural police have booked four Gurdaspur residents, including a woman, for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs 5 lakh on the pretext of providing his son and son-in-law government jobs. Those booked were identified as Narinder Masih, Emanual Masih, Happy Masih and Babbli. They were booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code by the rural police on Wednesday.Balkar Singh, a resident of Chachowali village submitted a complaint to the Additional Director General of Police on April 24, 2018, for holding probe and registering a case against the suspects. He stated that they took Rs 5 lakh from him while promising to get his son Harmanjot Singh and son-in-law Jagtar Singh recruited in government departments.Amanjit Singh, investigating officer, said that a probe was conducted by the DSP (Crime against property) in this regard. After taking legal opinion, an FIR was registered against them at Kathunangal police station here. He said that raids were on to nab the suspects who were on the run now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-yrs-on-4-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-5-lakh-117337
24-07-2020||---||Missing grillwork at stretch of BRTS corridor on GT road invites mishaps||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23The Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor stretching from Cherherta to railway station is more prone to accidents than before. The cause is missing of the iron grills. The entire stretch has several points missing the grillwork, hence paving way for trespassing and accidents. The bus service here has been restored after the lifting of the lockdown and so has the misuse of corridor only meant for metro buses increased with each passing day.Shivinder Singh, a shopkeeper on the stretch outside Khalsa College, says that the road is witnesses heavy traffic and road mishaps time anad again. “The open space provided by broken iron grills give freeway to traffic rules violators, who drive inside the BRTS lane at high speed causing accidents. Also, it creates nuisance for commuters on GT road as people use the BRTS lane for interlane crossing,” he shares.At some points, rehris have been installed by some vendors to encroach the corridor or to make an illegal passage for them to cross the road. The dysfunctional streetlights at these junctions are only propelling the possibility of accidents as it creates a problem for driving at night. "The stretch here was the cause of a freak accident a year back," Shivinder recalls, before adding, "It must be kept under strict check."Moreover, residents allegations connect the missing points to the theft of iron grills by miscreants and the suspension in maintenance works by MC and PWD during the lockdown. "Many drug addicts and petty thieves steal the iron grills to sell in scrap market to generate money, says Puran Chand Narang, a resident of Shori Nagar, near GNDU BRTS junction. He also points the finger of blame toward shopkeepers. "Sometimes its shopkeepers who break these grills to make passages. With these vulnerable spaces open for traffic violations, the number of road mishaps at the GT Road too is high," he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-grillwork-at-stretch-of-brts-corridor-on-gt-road-invites-mishaps-117338
24-07-2020||---||Odd(balls) no more? Parents relieved as lavish birthday parties subdued||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23For some parents throwing a lavish birthday party for their pupils – the school-goers — was a usual thing, more so for the well-off families, but since the pandemic struck, all plans of kind were thrown into disarray.This was sure to happen – subdued celebrations and no glitzy shindig of a night. Many would think of it as an upset, but strangely enough, most folks have heaved a sigh of relief that they no longer have to organise birthdays for kids with their classmates and neighbourhood friends, which had become the rule in recent times. Understandably, it is a fact hard to digest, really an odd one — but they are at peace.“If your child is going to a good school and if the parents of a child send invite for such a party, it sets up a chain reaction. It means all other parents would have to maintain the standard or otherwise their child would feel bad,” said a parent, who did not wish to be named.With no elders, except for a few from the family to oversee the arrangements, these parties had included snacks, music, dance and fun games for children. As the party culture goes, the invitees were also required to bring a gift.Now, all social customs have been amended. No such parties are being organised these days, no festivities on the same degree are being celebrated as it used to be. When the turn is touted and seen as a wrong one by most — the banquet owners leading the pack – it has undeniably also come as a reliever for many people.Its more of a social obligation. Consider this. The folks not only had to buy gifts for their children whose occasion their son or daughter was to attend but are also highly expected to throw a bash for the class when their turn comes. “Education these days is a costly business. And it is not only about the school fee and other expenses. The children do not want to look bad in front of their class,” said another parent.However, many parents stated that though they organised outing for the children on their birthdays they could not due to the virus threat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/oddballs-no-more-parents-relieved-as-lavish-birthday-parties-subdued-117339
24-07-2020||---||‘It will take 6-7 months for  manufacturing to pick up pace’||Even after nearly two months of lifting of curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the micro, medium and small scale industries (MSME) are yet to find their feet. The recent times have had catastrophic socio-economic impact on the industries and embroidery industry is no exception. Going by the current scenario, the professionals of the industry feel that it would take around six months to pick up the pace again. Amit Khanna, who owns an embroidery unit ‘Amit Embroideries’, shares his narrative with PK Jaiswar. Exerpts:Most of the labourers had returned to their native states following the fear of the virus. Currently, we have only 25 per cent of workers working in the unit and are paying full salary to them. Those who left for their native states were also helped financially besides providing essentials. — Amit Khanna, Owner of Amit EmbroideriesThe enterprises have suffered amid the lockdown. How badly has the embroidery industry been hit?The unprecedented health crisis and the restrictions imposed thereafter had brought the MSME on their knees. Many of them are struggling daily for survival and embroidery industry is no different. Embroidery is an value addition item and at a time when the people are spending time in their track pants — you can imagine the current crisis the industry is facing. Embroided clothes are desired for special occasions like marriages, parties etc and when there are no ‘special occasions’, no more is the demand. Only essentials items are required these days.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The consumption power among the people has diminished and there is fear among the public. We get cloths for embroidery from Surat in Gujarat or Mumbai and the health crisis are getting serious there. With the current scenario prevailing in the country, I think it would take another six to seven months for things to become normal.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?Most of the labourers had returned to their native states following the fear of the virus. Currently, we have only 25 per cent of workers working in the unit and are paying full salary to them. Those who left for their native states were also helped financially besides providing essentials.Are current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?I would describe it as a ‘challenging opportunity’. At present we are not thinking too far and taking the challenges on day to day basis.What are your expectations from the government?The Centre should have waived the interests for a certain period before asking the banks for granting loans. We need working capital for survival for next several months and only providing loans would not suffice. The interest should have been waived for the MSME.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-will-take-6-7-months-for-manufacturing-to-pick-up-pace-117340
24-07-2020||---||Saplings planted on District Courts Complex||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, July 23Saplings were planted at the District Courts Complex on Earth Day here Wednesday. A function in this regards was organised under the chairmanship of Harpreet Kaur, District and Sessions Judge. She expressed her concern over the cutting of trees in the past decades which were the cause of extreme hot and cold weather. She stressed on plant saplings to make the atmosphere pleasant. Other judicial officers too plated sapling on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saplings-planted-on-district-courts-complex-117341
24-07-2020||---||19 students win online shabad recitation contest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23In a series of ceremonies dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur by the state government, the School Education Department announced block-level results of the online shabad recitation competition organised on Thursday. Students with special needs also participated in all the three categories.Disclosing this here today, Deputy District Education Officer Rekha Mahajan said 19 students from different blocks of Amritsar district were declared winners. They would take part in the district-level competition and then winners at the district level would be selected for the state-level competitions.Rekha Mahajan congratulated all students, their guide teachers, head teacher, center head teacher and block education officers. She thanked them for their cooperation to polish the skills of student. She appealed to all block officers and teachers to motivate as many students as possible to participate in the next competitions.The Deputy District Education Officer said the names of the first and second place students were as follows: Harmandeep Singh, Rajbir Kaur, Suman, Anspreet Kaur, Harleen Kaur, Guni ,Shivanya , Manpreet Kaur, Rajwinder Kaur, Krista , Prince Singh, Jasleen Kaur, Rojpreet Kaur, Neha Kaur, Vipandeep Kaur, Anpreet Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur and Simranpreet Kaur.Rekha Mahajan informed that teachers Gurmeet Kaur, Ravinder Kaur, Harpreet Singh, Shelly Sharma, Charanjit Kaur, Gurpreet Singh, Pawan Shorey, Tarunveer Singh, Karamjit Singh, Aman Bhagat, Karamjit Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Satnam Singh, Rekha Kumari and Harpinder were guide teachers of winner students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-students-win-online-shabad-recitation-contest-117342
24-07-2020||---||NGO demands permission to manage SPCA shelter home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23The Society for Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals (SPCA), the only shelter home in the city for animals might get support from the People for Animals (PFA), an NGO working in animal rights and rescue. The NGO has written to the Deputy Commissioner, requesting permission to look after the SPCA shelter home.Shalini, patron, PFA, has been appointed as the new head of the anti-cruelty wing that will be established in the city by the PFA, in collaboration with the SPCA.Giving details of the initiative, Shalini said the move was aimed at scaling up animal rescue and rehabilitation efforts in the city. “Maneka Gandhi, the national patron of the SPCA nationally, has appointed me as the head of the animal anti-cruelty wing under the People for Animal,” she said. She has since been working for animals at a shelter home in Rani Ka Bagh. Now Shalini said the SPCA shelter home would be rebuilt and stocked to take care of animals and rehabilitate them, medically as well as otherwise.“A shelter home should not be like a prison for animals, our job is to rescue them, treat them and then offer them for adoption. That is why the PFA would now urge the DC to hand over the shelter home to them. We will look for funding to establish shelter-cum-adoption home here,” she said.The SPCA shelter is in dire need of attention because of its dismal infrastructure. Situated outside the Hathi Gate, the shelter is a refuge for deserted animals and birds. At times, injured stray dogs, monkeys, cows, calves or avains are brought here for treatment and refuge. It requires huge funds to provide them with food and medical aid and the SPCA has off late been struggling to make available the money required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-demands-permission-to-manage-spca-shelter-home-117343
24-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Police register theft case after 1 month||The Sadar police on Wednesday registered a case over an incident that took place a month ago in which 495 cartridges were stolen from a gun house situated in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here.The case has been registered under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC on the complaint of Gurpreet Singh, brother of Ramneek Singh Khera, who is proprietor of the gun house. He said miscreants took away bullets by breaking wall of the building on the intervening night of June 24-25. Sub-Inspector Baljit Kaur, SHO, and ASI Vipin Kumar, investigating officer, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-register-theft-case-after-1-month-117344
