26-07-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Racket involving Indian, Pak smugglers busted||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 25In what is being termed as a significant development in their drive against cross-border smuggling of drugs, the Gurdaspur police have busted a module of couriers, also known as ‘Pandis’ in local parlance, by arresting a mother-son duo, who was in touch with their Pakistani counterparts through social media sites.One kilogram of heroin was also recovered from the possession of the accused. Last week, the BSF had seized 60 football bladders of heroin worth Rs300 crore from Dera Baba Nanak. As far as quantity is concerned, today’s seizure by the Gurdaspur police may not be rivalling the BSF’s cache, but nevertheless, officers admit, it will definitely help identify local people involved in smuggling from across the border.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal claimed that for the last few days, inputs had been pouring in that people, having residences near the wire fencing, were acting as ‘Pandis’ for some big fish. Subsequently, he constituted a team, jointly led by DSP (Investigation) Rajesh Kakkar and DSP, Kalanaur, Bharat Bhushan.Both accused also acted as couriers, besides giving them support at the local level. Sohal said for every kilogram of heroin smuggled the couriers would get Rs2.5 lakh.“This is just the tip of the iceberg. Investigation is still on. We are also looking into who the real beneficiaries were. Both Ravinder and Surjit have been booked under the NDPS Act. The couriers used social media sites to work out the modalities like informing their Pakistani counterparts what was the best time and location to smuggle in the dope,” said the SSP.DSP Kakkar said they had stumbled on some vital inputs pertaining to the ‘Pandis’ movement and would nab them soon. Sources say the police have information about the route taken by the couriers who managed to escape with 4 kg of the contraband and would nab them soon.Startling Disclosures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/racket-involving-indian-pak-smugglers-busted-117897
26-07-2020||---||Fake Covid reports: Victims meet Police Commissioner||Amritsar, July 25The victims of the alleged fake Covid reports scam met Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, who is heading the special investigating team formed by the Punjab Government to probe the matter.They urged the Police Commissioner to immediately arrest the suspects, who were still on the run even after a month of registering the FIR by the Vigilance Bureau in the case. They pointed out that the local court has rejected the bail application of three doctors, while three other suspects had withdrawn their bail application from the court.Two doctors, Dr Robin Tuli and Dr Mohinder Singh, have now approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for bail. As they are rich and influential, the police are dithering from nabbing them. —RK Khullar, ComplainantRaj Kumar Khullar, father-in-law of a victim and complainant in the FIR registered with the Vigilance, said two doctors, Dr Robin Tuli and Dr Mohinder Singh, had now approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for bail.Nevertheless, he said Dr Gill has assured that teams headed by DSP Vishaljit Singh have been constituted to arrest the suspects.Even though the claimed that the accused had switched off their mobiles and it was difficult to get clues about their whereabouts, the complainants said the (suspects) were continuously in contact with their kin. If the police want, they could be arrested. It clearly indicates that they were working under influence or suspects were being sheltered, the complainants said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-covid-reports-victims-meet-police-commissioner-117898
26-07-2020||---||Girl gangraped: Three booked||Amritsar, July 25The Amritsar rural police have booked three unknown persons on the charge of gang-raping a girl at a powerhouse in Beas here. Though the incident occurred in December 2019, a complaint was lodged with the police only on Friday when the girl became pregnant.In her complaint lodged with the police, the 21-year-old victim stated that she had gone to power house in Beas for bringing fuel where three youths allegedly raped her. However, shocked over the incident, she did not tell anyone about this.On Friday, when the girl complained of stomach pain, her family took her to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital for a check-up. They were shocked to learn that she was eight months pregnant.Shocked over the incident, the family asked the girl about this and she narrated the incident to them. The police have registered a case under Section 376-D of the IPC in this connection against unidentified persons.Kiranjit Singh, Station House Officer, Beas police station, said after the medical examination of the girl, investigation was being made and the police were trying to identify thesuspects.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Harpreet Kaur said the medical examination of the victim was being conducted by a medical board.She said the victim belonged to a family of daily wagers. As the victim was weak, the family could not judge that she was pregnant. The victim also seemed to be under shock as she did not tell anyone about the incident.“We are asking her about the incident, but she told that she did not know the accused. Therefore, a case was registered against unknown persons for now,” Sub-Inspector Harpreet Kaur said, adding that further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-gangraped-three-booked-117899
26-07-2020||---||49-year-old woman dies of virus in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 25With the death of a 49-year-old woman reported on Saturday, the toll has increased to 66 in the district. The deceased, identified as Paramjit Kaur, a resident of A-block Ranjit Avenue, was admitted to a private hospital.District StatsAt present, the total number of active cases in the district is 305The district Health Department also reported 46 new positive cases, including seven contact cases from the Central Jail here. The total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 1,491 in the district.Of the new cases, 27 are ILI cases and 19 are contact cases. The district has reported as many as 219 cases in the last six days starting Monday. A spurt in positive cases has worried the health administration and residents.Two ILI cases each were reported from Fatehgarh Churian road and Nawa Kot locality. One ILI case each was reported from Mehdipur village, Akaash Avenue, Mohkampura Tungpai, Chota Haripura, Chogawan village, Kashmir Avenue, Bagh Ramanand, Partap Nagar, Loharka Road, Race Course Road, Government Medical College, Chand Avenue, Mohan Nagar, Batala Road, NRI Colony (Loharka Road), Sundar Nagar (Ajnala Road), Green Avenue, Pandori Lubana village, Nawa Kot village, New Amritsar, A-block Ranjit Avenue, Guru Nagar (Verka) and Shri Hargobindpur Nagar.Apart from seven contact cases reported from the Central Jail, three cases from Shareefpura, two each from Akash Avenue, Chand Avenue and Shivala Colony and one contact case each from Arjan Dev Nagar, Majitha Road bypass and Talwandi Khuman village were reported.Seventy-one 71 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. At present, the total number of active cases in the district is 305. Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said of the 46 new cases, 40 are from the city and only six from rural areas.The Civil Surgeon attributed the recent spurt in the number of cases to extensive contact tracing being done by the health teams. Of the active cases, 12 were on oxygen support and 24 on ventilator support, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/49-year-old-woman-dies-of-virus-in-amritsar-117900
26-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Nimrat third in online educational competition||Nimrat Bawa, daughter of Harjinder Singh, a student of Class XII of Guru Amar Das Adarash Institute, Goindwal Sahib, has bagged the third position in the district in the online educational competition organised by the state Education Department recently.Manisha Sood , principal of the institute, said Nimrat Bawa was a talented girl and was an all-rounder. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nimrat-third-in-online-educational-competition-117901
26-07-2020||---||PAU regional centre selling substandard basmati seeds||Amritsar, July 25Experts from the district agriculture department visited basmati fields in Jandiala Guru and Verka blocks after the farmers complained against regional centre of Punjab Agricultural University alleging sale of substandard basmati seeds.The farmers alleged that they had purchased seeds of 1509 basmati variety from the regional centre. They complained that some plants in the fields attained greater length than others and then started dying.Farmers from Nizampura village, Harjit Singh and Gurjeet Singh, said, they had started uprooting the diseased plants from the fields. “It has increased our labour cost and the lesser number of plants will result in reduced yield,” said Harjit Singh.He demanded that an investigation regarding how the substandard seeds were sold to farmers should be conducted. The late sown basmati variety is mostly sown by vegetable growers.Vegetable Growers Organization president Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said, “Hundreds of farmers have been affected by the negligence of the PAU’s regional centre. We will start a protest against the centre if the administration failed to take any action.” He said the credibility of the agriculture university has also come under suspicion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pau-regional-centre-selling-substandard-basmati-seeds-117902
26-07-2020||---||Ranjit Sagar Dam engineer arrested||Pathankot, July 25A day after the Vigilance Bureau (Amritsar Range) filed an FIR against 12 people involved in corrupt activities in the Batala Municipal Committee, sleuths arrested an executive engineer (XEN) posted at Ranjit Sagar Dam in Shahpur Kandi of this district for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income.Amritsar Range SSP Parampal Singh said there was a complaint that Jaswinder Pal Singh was indulging in corrupt practices following which the department held a probe.“Expenditure and income charts were prepared for the period spanning from April 1, 2013 till March 31, 2019. The official income was pegged at Rs1.49 crore while his expenditure came out to be Rs 1.71 crore.It has also come to light that the officer was operating a stone crusher in the name of his wife, Sonalika Jangral. This was done to evade legal hassles as he himself cannot operate the crusher by virtue of the fact that he is a government employee,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ranjit-sagar-dam-engineer-arrested-117903
26-07-2020||Amritsar||Online admissions on for colleges, GNDU||In the wake of Covid-19, major colleges in city have commenced with online admissions for the current and new sessions in 2020-21. Going digital, the GNDU has also set up infrastructure for the online admissions and conduct of online classes in its new session.Meanwhile, Khalsa College has set up a website for admissions and for students specifically reaching out to the college for any administrative and academic queries. It has also been collecting through online portal. Principal Mehal Singh, informed that the college has set up two e-portals for the purpose. “The students may reach out to college website (www.khalsacollege.edu.in) and e-governance software (www.kccsasr.com) for the admission purpose and the complete online admission process will help students to take admission in any of the streams,” he said. He added as per the directions from the management headed by Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, secretary of Khalsa College governing council, they have adopted online method of reaching out to the students in the present Covid-19 scenario. “Online facilities to students are a necessity in these times and can save time, as it is simple and secure,” he said.Other prominent colleges, DAV and BBKDAV too have set up e-portals for online admissions. The applicants need to upload only their admission specific information along with a deposit of fee through digital mode to secure a seat in tehri preffered course. GNDU has already instructed its main campus and affiliate colleges in the region to conduct online academic classes and admissions this session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-admissions-on-for-colleges-gndu-117904
26-07-2020||Amritsar||ATM robbery cracked, 3 held||With the arrest of three persons, the city police today cracked a case of ATM robbery that took place in Chheharta area, over a month ago. Those arrested were identified as Daljit Singh, alias Sonu of Harike in Tarn Taran, Wadali road, Chheharta, Jaswinder Singh and Karan Singh, alias Billa of Mana village in Jandiala Guru, now residing in Drumma Wala Bazaar here.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutta Sharma said on June 7, some unknown persons broke open the Punjab National Bank ATM located at Partap Bazaar area and decamped with Rs 2.8 lakh. The gas cutter and the car used in the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/atm-robbery-cracked-3-held-117905
26-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pay property tax with rebate by July 31: MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has been making announcements to inform the public about 10 per cent rebate on one-time settlement (OTS) of property tax. Officials of the property tax wing flagged off five e-rickshaws to spread awareness on the issue.However, there is no significant rise in the recovery of tax even after this offer. The MC got a lukewarm response as residents and traders claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic hit their businesses badly. The property tax wing had recovered only Rs1 crore tax between April 1 and June 30.Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer of the property tax wing, said: “We are focusing on awareness about the offer of the government. We urged the residents to take the benefit of the offer. The residents have to deposit the pending tax till July 31”.The property tax officials stated that the residents can get 10 per cent rebate on the principal amount. “The residents, who still fail to deposit the due amount by July 31, will liable to pay a penalty at the rate of 20 per cent on the amount due along with interest at the rate of 18 per cent from the due date,” said the nodal officer.Earlier, the government had extended the last date for the one-time settlement scheme of property tax till June 30. The Department of Local Government had decided to extend the deadline to pay the outstanding property tax, without any penalty, till July 31, considering the hardships faced by residents amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said those who had not deposited property tax can deposit the principal amount in lump-sum to avail a rebate of 10 per cent on the amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-property-tax-with-rebate-by-july-31-mc-117906
26-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Theft case registered||The district police on Friday registered a case in an incident that took place a month ago in which three mobiles were stolen from the house of Boor Singh Tanda, a resident of Amritsar Road here.The victim said on the night of June 26-27 miscreants entered his house and took away three mobile phones kept outside the room. A case had been registered against unknown persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theft-case-registered-117907
26-07-2020||Amritsar||One arrested with 9 stolen bikes||5 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated five unclaimed mobile phones, a data cable and two mobile chargers from the premises, apparently thrown from the boundary fence by an unknown person at night. Bhagwant Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Jail, said during patrolling, the staff found three packets wrapped in plastic tape. They found five mobile phones with battery and without SIM cards. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act. TNSgovt Elementary School gets gymTarn Taran: The Government Elementary School, Dadehar Sahib, has become the first elementary school in the district to set up a gym. Block Elementary Education Officer (BEEO), Chohla Sahib, said on Saturday that Gurwinder Singh head teacher in association with the sports committee of Desh Bhagat Baba Wishakha Singh, set up the apparatus at the gym hall. He said it would be made functional for students when the school reopens. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-with-9-stolen-bikes-117911
26-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Let's talk coronavirus! Pandemic seems the only thing on people's mind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25So, what’s brewing? Well…the coronavirus!This is what most of the chit-chats these days consist of. If cricket, weather and politics used to be the favourite topics of a discussion, however, the virus has run them over same as the world. It’s remedies and new positive cases in the neighborhood are among hottest discussed topics.Among the wide range of other talks on virus, the infection and its impact on life are other fresh additions to the list. Amarjit Singh, a shopkeeper, says, “The disease and its impact is all I keep hearing all day. With not much interest in cricket being played these days due to the disease, people have nothing to talk about.” Singh quips, before adding, “Even politics and Pakistan are not relevant topics for conversing these days.The residents state that they also search news or ask neighbours every morning to know any person from their mohalla or lane has tested positive. “A positive case near your residence can really worry you,” says a customer at Singh’s shop.People are by and by adopting to the degree of normalcy the pandemic struck times have to offer these days. Not visiting others and inviting guests is being taken seriously by many. The citizens state that they have stopped visiting homes of their friends and relatives.“It is not that people have stopped entertaining guests. Nobody is ready to be a guest these days!” says Sukhwinder Singh, a senior citizen, taking into considering his age, he adds, “I don’t allow anybody to visit me.”Meanwhile, social media streams are being flooded with messages claiming home remedies and boosting immunity, but that is only leaving residents confounded. “It is very confusing. Somebody is advising turmeric and someone is advising other foods,” says Gursahib Singh, a college student.Then, there are corona related memes which are keeping people entertained and occupied amid these pandemic times, even if for a while.SPEAKING OUTPeople are really scared. They panic when they see that others are not worried. I hear many blame others for not taking ample precautions or not staying home. With cinemas and cricket closed, there is no other topic as hot as the virus. —Satpal SinghThe coronavirus has changed the way we lived our lives. It has changed our food, lifestyle and so many other things. You start any conversation and it would end up at the Covid-19 pandemic. The growing number of cases is worrying people. —Inderpreet Singh The memes on the present situation are keeping people entertained. Many jokes related to the pandemic are being shared. The disease seems to have overshadowed everything else. Politics used to be a hot topic but nothing much is happening locally. —Jatinderpal SinghSearching about nearby patients on COVA Punjab mobile application is the new habit many have acquired. Many of my friends use the application to know about the number of cases from a particular area, if they are about to visit it. —Amarinder Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lets-talk-coronavirus-pandemic-seems-the-only-thing-on-peoples-mind-117913
26-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||MC turns a deaf ear as institute for blind complains of waste outside||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25The 15 pupils putting up at the Institute For The Blind near Lohgarh Chowk cannot see, but for sure can smell the miasma of heaps of garbage being piled up day after another outside their safe haven amid these Covid-hit times.And the Municipal Corporation seems to have turned deaf to their pleads. “From councillor to Mayor to MC Commissioner, we have contacted everyone pleading them to lift the large garbage bin from outside,” laments Sushil Kumar, caretaker of the institute.The problem has been existing for many years and the organisation’s authorities have gone on to remind MC’s time and again but no one seems to hear them, they don’t even bat an eye. “For past 10 years we have sending reminders to the civic authorities. It is apparent they care nothing about the plight of the visually challenged students here,” Sushil adds.Further doubling their their woes, several shopkeepers had also discarded unserviceable vehicles outside the institute. During hot and humid conditions, summers the situation there aggravates. The niff emanating from the spot make their lives all the more difficult than it already is.“Some shopkeepers have dumped old cars near the entrance. It has become the spot for the party of drug addicts,” he points out, before revealing more, “The nearby vegetable market also dispose off throw their trash in the bin located at the site which lures the stray dogs and cows from the closely located gaushala.”The placing of garbage dump near an educational institute also depicts the unprofessional and unthoughtful behaviour of the MC. It clearly hints that there was no thought process behind selecting the spaces for putting up these large garbage bins – at least here. There are roughly 18 wards in the walled city where there is no door to door lifting of waste. Therefore, there are designated places where these large bins are placed.“It should never be installed in residential areas especially near educational institutes as it becomes a major health hazard for those living nearby,” says Anil Vinayak, a former banker. He goes on: “The civic authorities should do a proper survey in selecting spaces keeping in mind the health of the people.”Though civic authorities have their own logics, but the situation is pathetic for the inhabitants. Similarly, a bin was placed in the densely populated Bambay Wala Khuh and Katra Moti Ram area in the past. There are two schools in the vicinity besides a Suwidha Centre. If not for the agitation by the people, it would have never been shifted from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-turns-a-deaf-ear-as-institute-for-blind-complains-of-waste-outside-117914
