31-07-2020||JUST as the global education sector is witnessing a paradigm shift due to the Covid-19 pandemic||‘Shift to online mode of education must not be permanent’||How has Guru Nanak varsity tackled the challenges posed by Covid-19?Initially, we were like all others — forced to adopt the digital mode of teaching. But gradually, we are preparing our faculty and students to adopt more efficient method of conducting online classes. Workshops are regularly being conducted for the faculty, training them in several web-based teaching applications. We are soon going to begin with flip classroom system of teaching, an experimental method, where students will deliver subject-specific lecture during online classroom and the teacher will later answer the questions. We have also put in place a multi-level screening process to ensure that all safety measures on the campus are followed to a T.What will be your biggest concern once universities and colleges re-open?Our biggest concern would be the housing and hostel accommodation facilities for students. We have 7,000 students (approximately), availing residential facilities and roughly 1,500 rooms. With social distancing norms and safety guidelines in place, it will definitely be a big challenge to accommodate students without having to compromise on their health. We are building new hostels, but even then, a lot needs to be taken into consideration.Do you think the digital shift in education, especially higher education, will be permanent?Absolutely not, and it must not be so. I believe that due to the pandemic, the education sector was suddenly forced to change their way of functioning and depended largely on digital conduct of classes. But there is no replacement for face-to-face teaching and such a personal discourse on education is also important in higher education. Nearly 30 per cent of the non-essential subjects can be permanently taught through online mode, but if we adopt the method permanently, it will definitely hit the quality of education.What has been the status of research projects in GNDU over the years?We became Category-I university in my previous term and I would be focussing on tapping funds for more research projects. We already have got Rs100 crore from Central agencies for carrying out 46 research projects in the past few years. I believe that in the coming years, the academics have to become ambitious and proactive in the field of academic research. There is no dearth of funds, only lack of intent.GNDU received Rs432 crore grant from the Centre this year to establish the centre for interfaith studies. What is the status of the project?We will be the first university to set up such an institute of higher learning. We have already received the first instalment of Rs176 crore and will commence the work on the building within three months. The institute will be built on 20 acres and one of its highlights would be a symphony of religious music, a global compilation of religious music.What infrastructural and academic upgrades are in-line for GNDU in the next three years?We will soon be announcing the launch of our e-office, becoming the first university in the north to adopt a completely digital mode of administration. This is being done under the Department of Governance Reforms, Punjab. We became the first university to issue e-transcripts in the north. Our per-teacher productivity has been 7.6 on ratings, which is higher than the per-teacher productivity ratings of Punjab. We will soon launch a single access card-based system for student as well as faculty.GNDU became the first vehicle-free zone university in Punjab. What’s next?We have also started electric carts for ferrying students for free within the campus. These carts will offer hop-on service. Also, we became the first zero discharge university and switched to solar power. Our botanical garden and conservatory has international quality horticulture research infrastructure. We will soon become the first paperless university as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shift-to-online-mode-of-education-must-not-be-permanent-120273
31-07-2020||Amritsar||Covid claims 67-yr-old’s life in Amritsar||With the death of a 67-year-old city resident due to Covid-19, the district death toll increased to 74 on Thursday. The health authorities also reported 67 new cases, which took the number of cases to 1,788. The district had 448 active cases on Thursday.Samples of DCP’s staff takenThe deceased has been identified as Prem Kumar, a resident of Aakash Avenue in Kot Khalsa. The patient was being treated at the EMC hospital. Of the new cases, 42 were persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 25 are contacts of Covid patients. The Ramanand Bagh area of the city has emerged as new hotspot of Covid-19 cases, with 12 contact cases being reported from there. Two contact cases each were reported from the SBI branch at Manawala, CIA staff, Sundar Nagar, Khandwala (Chehartta) and Guru Nagar (Verka). Three contact cases were reported from Majitha.One ILI case each was reported from Green Avenue, Daal Mandi, Albert Road, Indira Colony, Varindavan Garden (Batala Road), Kacheri Road, Islamabad, Sohian Kalan, Friends Avenue (Pallah Sahib Road), Ganda Singh Colony, Fatehpur, Narangpur Butala, New Azad Nagar, Ajit Nagar, Kesari Bagh, Tej Nagar, Friends Avenue, Noneke Sidhar, Khasa Cantonment, Ranjit Avenue, Shastri Nagar, Jandiala Guru, Jasso Nangal, Uttam Nagar (Tarn Taran Road), Boparai, Hussainpura, Kale Village (Chehartta), Railways workshop, Jagdambey Colony, Pawan Nagar, Jandiala, Sundar Nagar, Green Field, office of the Commissioner of Police and Guru Amardass Avenue. Two cases each were reported from Guru Harkrishan Avenue and Guru Arjun Dev Nagar and three were reported from Mehta.With 29 more recoveries reported in the past 24-hours, a total of 1,256 patients have defeated the virus. The spread of the virus is accelerating with 214 new cases being reported in the past three days. The district administration has notified three micro-containment zones, namely Shastri Nagar, Shareefpura and Kot Khalsa.Bagh Ramanand could also be notified as a containment zone soon, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-claims-67-yr-olds-life-in-amritsar-120274
31-07-2020||Amritsar||No Sunday lockdown for shops selling sweets, rakhis in Amritsar||In view of the Raksha Bandhan festival, administration has given a relaxation to shops selling sweets and Rakhis. While shops are not allowed to remain to open during weekend due to lockdown, the permission has been granted owing to the festival. However, the administration has made it mandatory for these shopkeepers to give at least two masks to their customers for free.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the idea was to spread awareness on the need for wearing the masks during the present Covid-19 situation. He said even the siblings should gift masks to each other as protection from the virus is of prime importance.The DC urged people to celebrate the festival after exercising precautions.He added that a facility for asymptomatic mild positive cases with 1,000 beds is operational at the Meritorious School, besides a separate unit for asymptomatic mild cases is also running at Mannawala. He added that for critical cases, Government Medical College and a few private hospitals are also functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-sunday-lockdown-for-shops-selling-sweets-rakhis-in-amritsar-120275
31-07-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||7-yr-old girl murdered in Tarn Taran village, 1 held||Mystery over the murder of a seven-year-old girl of Gandiwind Sran village, 25 km from here, was resolved after the suspect was held by the police. Local DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the accused had been identified as Sawinder Singh Kali of the same village.The DSP said the deceased had been identified as Navjit Kaur, daughter of a 27-year-old man, Charanjit Singh.He said the suspect confessed to having committed the crime. He said he was passing through the spot when the girl was taking bath in the open yard of her house. He took her to a nearby abandoned room where he tried to sexually abuse her. He later strangled her to cover up his crime.Charanjit Singh, in his statement to the police, said, his daughter Navjit Kaur had gone to a tubewell to take bath on Wednesday but failed to return home till late night. Her family members went to look for her. She was later found locked in an abandoned room in the village. Her arms and legs were tied with ropes. She was brought to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead.SP (Detective) Jagjit Singh Walia and DSP Sucha Singh Bal visited the spot and collected the relevant evidence. The police had detained a few suspects and the arrested Sawinder Singh Kali was also among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-yr-old-girl-murdered-in-tarn-taran-village-1-held-120276
31-07-2020||Amritsar||BRTS employees end strike, buses hit the road again||Staff of the Metro Bus, being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), resumed its services on Thursday after assurance regarding payment of pending salaries from officials of the company running the buses. The BRTS authorities had started plying 40 buses on all routes on July 6 but the service got suspended on July 14 after the employees went on strike over pending salaries.At a meeting with company officials on Wednesday, office-bearers of the BRTS Employees Association decided to resume the service after the company officials told them that salaries for days on which the buses remain off the road would not be paid.The company officials assured the employees of payment of salaries for the next month in time. The company has also offered an annual pay hike. Salaries for the lockdown period would be given in accordance with directions of the Labour Court.Jagir Singh Sandhu, president, BRTS Employees Association, said: “The next date of hearing in the case is August 3. We have resumed the service on the assurance that we will be paid salary in time next month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-employees-end-strike-buses-hit-the-road-again-120277
31-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Activist objects to auction of Amritsar Improvement Trust’s old office building||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 30In his complaint to the Secretary, Local Bodies Department, a local activist has raised an objection over the auction of Amritsar Improvement Trust’s (AIT) old office building near the Golden Temple and demanded its cancellation. The AIT had advertised an auction notice and invited bidders for its 1,100 sq yard built-up property on July 14. The reserve price of the property is Rs12.84 crore.Alambeer Singh, a resident of Sandhu Colony, has alleged in the complaint that the actual price of the property is far higher but officials of the AIT to accommodate their near and dear one are selling the commercial building for Rs 12.84 crore.“There is something fishy in the auction as a few years back, customers of same property were ready to pay Rs 15 crore. The AIT constructed the building by spending Rs 3 crore, but now selling it on Rs12.84 crore only. There must be connivance of AIT officials with buyer of the property. It would be major loss of AIT. So I have written to secretary local bodies to cancel the auction”, alleges complainant Alambeer Singh.When contacted, AIT Chairman Dinesh Bassi refuted the allegation and said, “Secretary Local Bodies Department had written to our office for remarks on the complaint. We have responded that there was no bidder when the reserve price was Rs 15 crore, a few years back. Then we advertised the same building and fixed the reserve price of Rs 14 crore but no one came forward to buy. In March, we got approval from the government and fixed the reserve price of Rs 12 crore but we did not advertise due to Covid-19. Now, as per the government’s rule we have called the bidder with a seven per cent price hike that comes to Rs 12.84 crore. The allegations are baseless as it is online bid and everyone can participate”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activist-objects-to-auction-of-amritsar-improvement-trusts-old-office-building-120278
31-07-2020||Amritsar||1 booked for woman’s murder in Amritsar||Over four months after a woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her residence at Baba Darshan Singh Avenue here, the police on Wednesday booked Avtar Singh of Sunny Enclave on a charge of murder. The case was registered after an anonymous letter was received by her family, claiming that Avtar had killed the woman. Avtar has been booked by the Chheharta police under Section 302 of the IPC on the complaint of Gurmukh Singh, the husband of the deceased.The complainant told the police that the victim, Satpal Kaur (55), lived at Baba Darshan Singh Avenue in Kale Ghanupur area in Chheharta while he, along with his son, lived separately at Sandhu Avenue. He said on March 5, he went to meet his wife at her house, but found the house locked. He said he called his relatives to know her whereabouts, but got no information. On March 12, he came to her house again and broke the locks, only to find Satpal dead on her bed, he said. The police then initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.He said on Wednesday, he received an anonymous letter, claiming Avtar of Sunny Enclave in Chheharta had killed his wife and the person also had ornaments of his wife. Rajwinder Kaur, Station House Officer, Chheharta police station, said the matter was being investigated and no arrests had been made.Police team attacked, vehicle lifter, family members booked A police team was attacked and assaulted by a vehicle lifter and his family members when it raided the residence of the accused for his arrest. The police have recovered a stolen bike from the possession of the accused, identified as Manjit Singh of Gaggarbhana village.ASI Udham Singh of the Mehta police station stated to the police that while patrolling near Gaggarbhana, the police got a tip-off that the suspect was involved in stealing vehicles and later sold them after forging documents. The police registered a case in this connection and raided his residence in the village.He said as the police team tried to nab him, his family members resisted the police team and attacked them. Manjit tried to flee from the spot and in the melee tore the uniform of ASI Udham Singh. He told that the accused also damaged their private vehicle besides disrupting a government servant from discharging his duties. A separate case was registered against them for attacking the police party.Besides Manjit Singh, among others who were booked included Mandip, Kuldip, Kulwant, Simranjit and Rupinder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-booked-for-womans-murder-in-amritsar-120279
31-07-2020||Amritsar||Police rescue woman, family from detention in Amritsar||A woman and her family members were kept in illegal detention by her husband and several other persons in Rania village. The incident came to light when the victims called on police helpline number 112.A police team from the Lopoke police station that went to investigate the matter and rescue the victims, was attacked by Malkeet Singh, his brother Pira Dutta, both residents of Rania village and their three unknown accomplices.ASI Nishan Singh said on Wednesday they got a call in which Sharanjit Kaur wife of Malkeet Singh told that Malkeet and Pira Dutta had thrashed her and her family and kept them under illegal detention. A team headed by ASI Nishan Singh went to the village at around 9.30 pm where they were attacked bricks and stones by the accused. Constable Sarabjit Singh and Punjab Home Guard jawan were injured.Nishan immediately sounded an alert at the Kakkar Kalan police chowki from where chowki in-charge ASI Rajpal Sharma and his team reached the spot and rescued them. On seeing them the accused fled the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-rescue-woman-family-from-detention-in-amritsar-120281
31-07-2020||Amritsar||Kidnapped youth rescued by police in Amritsar||The police have rescued a youth who was kidnapped and kept in detention by some persons over monetary dispute. The victim has been identified as Jatin Mahajan who was working at a shoe company in Panchkula.Those arrested were identified as Ramesh Kumar of Prem Nagar area and Ajay Kumar of Krishna Gali,a resident of Ram Bagh area. The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the IPC.Nitin Mahajan, brother of the victim, and the resident of Mohindra Colony here said on Wednesday around 2.30 am, he got a phone call from an unknown person who told Jatin was in their custody and if they wanted him alive they should give them Rs95,000.The kin of the victim approached the police and the cops rescued the youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kidnapped-youth-rescued-by-police-in-amritsar-120282
31-07-2020||---||NGO lends helping hand to those in need||Amritsar, July 30The Dhan Guru Ram Das Ji Langar Seva from Hoshiarpur today launched a daily langar service outside the railway station to help the needy.The service was inaugurated by DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon. He said the organisation was providing a free langar service in 25 hospitals of the state and was also providing three meals a day for free to the needy. He also said this langar service organisation prepared langar for about 72,000 sangats everyday.“The initiative of distributing free langar to the needy is being taken on the pattern of the Sanjhi Rasoi, a community kitchen concept. We realised how many people were in need of food and housing. So such initiatives are a welcome for the larger good of society. This NGO has been offering similar langar sewa in Ludhiana, Jallandhar and Hoshiarpur as well,” he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-lends-helping-hand-to-those-in-need-120283
31-07-2020||Amritsar||Civic body gets shop vacated||‘Curb illegal sale of sanitisers’Amritsar: The Punjab Chemist Association has expressed concern over “unrestricted sale of sub-standard hand sanitisers” in the state. The association has written to the PM and the CM, requesting steps to check the illegal sale. Surinder Duggal, the president of the association said sensitive products such as sanitisers should not be allowed to be sold from any place, other than a pharmacy. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-gets-shop-vacated-120284
