26-07-2021||News||Why BS Yediyurappa matters for the BJP in Karnataka?||Exactly two years after he assumed the chief minister’s post in Karnataka, BS Yediyurappa has tendered his resignation. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to name his successor. The fact that there is no obvious front-runner despite Yediyurappa’s resignation being in the works for months underscores his importance in Karnataka’s political landscape. There are two key challenges facing the BJP at the moment. One, making sure that Yediyurappa does not rebel against it , like he did in 2012, and two, maintaining the party’s support base in the Lingayat community, of which the outgoing CM is the tallest leader. Here are three charts which explain this.Also Read | Not going anywhere, will work for Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa on next stintLingayats voted overwhelmingly for the BJP in 2019 The BJP achieved its best ever performance in Karnataka in the 2019 elections winning 25 out of the 28 Lok Sabha seats. While the party had high levels of support across Hindus, it was an overwhelming 87% among Lingayats, who account for almost 16%-17% of the state’s population. The Congress-JD (S) government fell immediately after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and Yediyurappa, a Lingayat, was made the chief minister.Lingayats have been the core support-base of the BJP in Karnataka, but they are also loyal to Yediyurappa.Karnataka is the first and only southern state so far where the BJP has been able to capture power on its own. The BJP’s success story in the state is tied with Yediyurappa who has mobilised the Lingayats for the party. In the 2013 assembly elections, the BJP party realised the hard way that it cannot take Lingayat support for granted if Yediyurappa is not on board. Yediyurappa parted ways with the BJP and formed the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) after he was made to resign as the chief minister in 2011. The KJP did massive damage to the BJP in the 2013 assembly elections in which its performance was the worst since the 1994 state polls.A comparison of community-wise vote shares from the 2008 and 2013 CSDS-Lokniti surveys shows that the Lingayats deserted the BJP in a big way in the 2013 elections. The Lingayat support returned in the 2014 elections (it was 63% according to CSDS-Lokniti), by which time Yediyurappa had been brought back into the BJP fold.BJP’s social engineering problem in Karnataka Caste politics has always been important in Karnataka. In its heydays, the Congress, under the leadership of Devraj Urs perfected what it called the AHINDA coalition which included minorities, backward classes and dalits. The Congress fell between two stools in the 2018 elections, while trying to play the AHINDA card on the one hand and wooing Lingayats with a separate religious status on the other. While it did gain some ground among the Lingayats, it lost the support of other sections. The BJP, which is enjoying the peak of its political popularity in Karnataka if the 2019 results are any indication, will face a similar problem. It cannot alienate the Lingayats who are its most loyal supporters but must also be seen as offering a bigger share of power to other Hindus. Whether or not Yediyurappa’s successor is a Lingayat is the BJP’s first challenge on this front. We will know soon enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-b-s-yediyurappa-matters-for-the-bjp-in-karnataka-101627293517669.html
26-07-2021||News||HT Explains: What we know about the evidence underpinning the Pegasus Project||Beginning July 18, a consortium of 17 news organisations reported on a mass mobile device surveillance operation by, possibly, multiple state actors. The expose involves a scale that is unprecedented, and involves targets not just typical sought by countries with slack democratic values – for instance journalists and human rights defenders – but also those more likely shielded from usual surveillance targeting — heads of state, judges and industrialists.At the heart of the disclosures is what the consortium says is a list of 50,000 phone numbers. The data was first obtained by a French nonprofit called Forbidden Stories, which collaborated with the consortium that includes Washington Post, The Guardian and India’s The Wire.The reports have described the list as being of numbers “selected for targeting” by clients of Israel-based NSO Group, which makes the infamous Pegasus – a mobile device surveillanceware that could intercept communications, retrieve photos and videos, log all key strokes and turn the device’s camera and microphone on.You can read more about the Pegasus Project by the consortium here and what the NSO Group as well as nation-states suspected of these spying campaigns have said here.The consortium of journalists and Forbidden Stories have not shared more details of the nature of the list, its origin and how exactly it ties in with the deployment of NSO Group’s Pegasus, but statements from both sides and past discoveries about NSO Group and its associations provide some clues.Also Read | Project Pegasus: India is at the crossroadsTo be sure, these constitute clues in the public domain at present, and the nature of the evidence could change when the journalists disclose their source.What is the list?One of the Washington Post reports described it as: “...list of more than 50,000 numbers that are concentrated in countries known to engage in surveillance of their citizens and also known to have been clients of the Israeli firm, NSO Group... The list does not identify who put the numbers on it, or why, and it is unknown how many of the phones were targeted or surveilled.”Where they found evidence of a Pegasus was by testing the devices of some of the listed numbers: “But forensic analysis of the 37 smartphones shows that many display a tight correlation between time stamps associated with a number on the list and the initiation of surveillance, in some cases as brief as a few seconds”.But over time, more clues have emerged for what this list could possibly be. One of these is that it could be data off queries to a mobile network routing database, known as the Home Location Register (HLR). Originally, it came from an NSO Group statement, which said: “NSO Group has good reason to believe that claims that you have been provided with, are based on misleading interpretation of leaked data from accessible and overt basic information, such as HLR Lookup services, which have no bearing on the list of the customers’ targets of Pegasus or any other NSO products.”What is an HLR lookup? An HLR lookup is when mobile network operator sends another mobile network operator requests to check if a particular mobile number is registered – that is switched on and active on the network.This information previously included data such as the location of the tower it is active on, the network on which the user is actually a subscriber and their home location before some safeguards were brought in. But, according to telephone networking information company xConnect, HLR Lookup “still supports basic number validation and low volume message routing applications”. Essentially, an HLR lookup can, at least, determine if a phone is switched on.Why is it relevant?For one, this may be a precursor to a hack by those operating Pegasus. Forbidden Stories cites a source with direct knowledge of NSO’s systems saying: “...an HLR lookup is a key step of determining certain characteristics of a phone, such as whether it is turned on or in a country that allows Pegasus targeting.”The second reason has to do with a company called Circles and, once again, clues from a recent interview by NSO Group’s CEO and co-founder Shalev Hulio. Here, some things are noteworthy:NSO was approached with a list of numbers from a data broker a month ago. “He (the broker) said that there is a list circulating in the market and that whoever holds it is saying that the NSO servers in Cyprus were hacked and that there is a list of targets there and that we should be careful. We looked into it. We don’t have servers in Cyprus and don’t have these types of lists.”This is where Circles may fit into the story. Citizen Labs, a University of Toronto-based cyber research group, published a report in December, 2020 that determined Circles was “a surveillance firm that reportedly exploits weaknesses in the global mobile phone system to snoop on calls, texts, and the location of phones around the globe”, and that “Circles is affiliated with NSO Group”.Hulio’s responses in the interview suggest he maintains that NSO has no servers in Cyprus. The interview does not touch upon Circles. But a report from Vice from 2020 seem to confirm the presence of Circles offices in Cyprus and that NSO shut it down that year.What does all this mean?NSO’s suspicion that the data is of HLR lookup data, its CEO’s mentioning of a data broker with a list numbers purportedly hacked out of Cyprus, and the known presence of an NSO Group associate Circles – which has also been implicated in providing surveillanceware – potentially offer the closest known trail of clues. It is a possibility that these numbers may have been part of a log of HLR lookups, which could in itself have been a precursor to an infection with Pegasus – or it alone may have constituted a less sophisticated breach.But it is still important to note that these are circumstantial indications. Unless further evidence is disclosed, it is not possible to conclusively link all of the 50,000 numbers – except for those forensically confirmed to have been infected with Pegasus – to the NSO group’s malware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/ht-explains-what-we-know-about-the-evidence-underpinning-the-pegasus-project-101627285357607.html
