27-07-2021||News||Why the Northeast has hot internal borders||NEW DELHI: Peace in India’s northeast, home to a dazzling array of ethnic communities and distinct cultures, was shattered when police forces of Assam and Mizoram clashed over a border dispute on Monday. Five policemen from Assam died. The violence shocked the country. Northeastern states have a history of ethnic strife. Internal border disputes go back at least a century. The triggers for them often are disputed claims over land, forest resources, perceived encroachment, ethnic differences, even rumours.Assam’s many longstanding interstate border disputes have their roots in how the state was carved up to form other states in the region. Mizoram was once part of Greater Assam.Also Read | Assam MP asks Mizoram to apologise for clashes at borderThe Northeast, a region also tethered to international boundaries with China, Myanmar and Bangladesh, was once an amalgamated region comprising three large states: Assam, Tripura and Manipur.Assam was carved up into Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland. What was once known as the North-East Frontier Agency became Arunachal Pradesh in 1987. Nagaland’s formation happened in 1963. Meghalaya became a separate state in 1972 and Mizoram was declared a Union Territory the same year. It became a state in 1987. Borders were never properly demarcated or unquestionably accepted by all sides, leaving states to feud.Legal pluralism, a concept that refers to a situation where there is more than one source of law, including traditional customs, is widely practised in the region which influences dispute resolution.The Constitution’s Sixth Schedule, which applies to tribal areas in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram, grants the region’s tribal populations considerable autonomy through autonomous councils, which have powers to enact laws on land, agriculture, forests and health etc. They have sway over political matters, including land disputes.Assam has border disputes with Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh. There have been several attempts, overseen by federal authorities, to reach settlements.The latest flare-up in Assam’s Cachar district, according to reports, began when Mizoram Police objected to an Assam Police post in the area. The chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga, who goes by one name, sparred, each accusing the other of transgressing. The firing by Mizoram police, leading to the death of five Assam policemen, heightened tensions.Hot bordersAssam-Mizoram: Mizoram attained statehood in 1987. Chief minister Zoramthanga, a three-time head of the state, is a former militant and was deputy to Laldenga, a revered Mizo insurgent who led a secessionist movement that was peacefully settled with the signing of the Mizo Accord.Back in 1875, a colonial notification demarcated the Cachar Hills (present-day Assam) and Lushai Hills (present-day Mizoram). Mizoram disputes its current borders with Assam which go back to that year.Three districts of Mizoram, Aizwal, Kolasib and Mamit, have a 169-km-long border with south Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts. Monday’s clashes took place in an area near Kolasib. The first recorded clashes happened in 1972.Assam-Nagaland: Assam’s most serious border dispute has been with Nagaland. Clashes there date back to the 1960s with the worst spiral in 1985 over parcels of land in Merapani, a northern subdivision half of which lies in Assam’s Golaghat and the other half in Nagaland’s Wokha. Nagaland does not agree to a 1963 border demarcation.Assam-Meghalaya: When Meghalaya was part of Assam, Assam’s capital was Shillong, an idyllic hill station the British called Scotland of the East. The main dispute spans swathes of areas in Meghalaya’s West Garo Hills and Assam’s Kamrup district that includes Guwahati. In 2010, a fatal skirmish between Khasi and Garo tribes and Nepali inhabitants of Assam erupted. Clashes recurred in 2012 and 2018.Assam-Arunachal Pradesh: A border dispute north of Assam began radiating in the late 1980s, with the Assam government approached the Supreme Court regarding its claims in 1989. Both sides started accusing each other of transgressing. In 2007, a major clash involving locals took place. The dispute before the apex court is yet to be settled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-northeast-has-hot-internal-borders-101627377129231.html
27-07-2021||News||How the pandemic and lockdown disrupted labour markets||The 2019-20 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), which was released last week by the National Statistical Office (NSO) shows a fall in unemployment rate from 5.8% in 2018-19 to 4.8% 2019-20. Since PLFS follows a July-June rather than the fiscal year (April-March) period, the 2019-20 report includes the 68-day long complete lockdown period.Does this mean that there was no distress in labour markets during the lockdown?An HT analysis suggests that the headline employment numbers in the latest report might be misleading, and a careful reading of the report and the unit-level data does show signs of pandemic driven distress in labour markets. Here are five charts which elaborate this argument.What do the headline numbers show?The three most important numbers in the PLFS report are labour force participation rate (LFPR), work participation rate (WPR) and unemployment rate (UR).LFPR is the share of population in a given age group which is either working or looking for a job. WPR is the share of population which is actually working. UR is the percentage of unemployed persons in the labour force.There have been three PLFS reports so far, the latest one covering the period from July 2019 to June 2020. A comparison of the three reports shows that despite LFPR being the highest in 2019-20, unemployment rate was the lowest in the last three years. But these numbers hide more than they reveal. Here is why.The pandemic forced a distress-driven rise in rural employment Images of thousands of migrant workers walking back to their villages after the lockdown are among the most graphic memories of economic distress during the pandemic. The 2019-20 PLFS offers first official proof of this distress.In keeping with established wisdom on economic transformation, the share of agricultural employment in India has been falling gradually. 2019-20 was an exception to this trend when agricultural employment actually increased from 42.5% in the 2018-19 PLFS to 45.6% in the 2019-20 PLFS. A sector-wise comparison of absolute number of jobs shows that agriculture more than compensated for the job loss in every sector of the economy in the April-June 2020 period.The picture becomes even clearer once we look at the quarterly numbers for April-June 2020 and April-June 2019. On a year-on-year basis, urban India saw a reduction of 11.05 million jobs in the April-June 2020 period and rural areas saw the addition of 14.7 million jobs.However, unemployment rate — or the share of people looking for jobs who didn’t find one — increased in both rural and urban areas. As is obvious, unemployment rate increased more sharply in urban areas (from 8.9% to 20.8%) than in rural areas (from 8.7% to 12.2%). The reason unemployment numbers did not increase on an annual basis despite a sharp rise during the lockdown months is simple. Unemployment rates had decreased sharply in the July-September and the October-December quarters, and to a lesser degree even in the January-March quarter.That there was distress in urban job-markets was obvious from the quarterly PLFS report for April-June 2020, released in March this year which covers only urban areas. Where the annual report really offers an insight is the rise in what seems to be distress-driven rural employment.What happened to wages during the lockdown? The short answer is they fell sharply. PLFS gives wage data for three kinds of employment categories: regular wage/salaried, casual workers and self-employed.The self-employed were the worst hit during the lockdown, while regular wage workers suffered a contraction only in rural areas. The plight of self-employed workers was the worst in urban areas, where real wages became 3/4th of what they were a year ago. While regular wage workers do show an increase in wages at the national level, they only account for about a quarter of total workers in the PLFS data.Underemployment increased as well To be sure, both employment and wage statistics do not capture the actual stress in labour markets after the pandemic. This is borne out by another statistic in PLFS; the average number of hours for which work was available to different kind of workers.An average worker worked for 46.5 hours in a week in the April-June 2019 period. This came down to 37 hours in the April-June 2020 period. Urban areas saw bigger reduction because both regular wage and self-employed had big decrease in hours worked. Self-employed were biggest losers in urban areas, while regular wage-earning workers were the biggest losers in rural areas.“An unprecedented increase in share of agricultural employment underlines the rise in distress driven employment during the pandemic”, said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “It is a well-known fact that more people join the workforce during periods of economic distress to compensate for the loss of incomes and the situation must have become worse given the fact that the government offered very little in terms of direct support during the pandemic”, he addedAll numbers except annual numbers are based on current weekly status (based on a 7-day recall period). The annual numbers are based on 365 day recall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-pandemic-and-lockdown-disrupted-labour-markets-101627372148741.html
