29-07-2021||News||Covid-19 pandemic has fed on existing inequality to generate more inequality||In its latest update to the World Economic Outlook (WEO) database, the International Monetary Fund has kept its global growth forecast for 2021 unchanged at 6%. However, there is a catch. Advanced countries will now grow at 5.6% instead of the 5.1% projection of April 2021. As is obvious, this means that the countries outside the advanced world will now grow at a lower-than-expected pace. This is yet another evidence of the pandemic’s disproportionate burden on the poor. In fact, it can now be argued that the Covid-19 pandemic has fed off existing inequalities in the world to generate more inequality.Advanced countries have further closed their growth gap with the rest of the world Between 2001 and 2010, advanced countries saw an average economic growth of 1.7%. This number was 6.2% for developing economies and emerging markets. The latter kept losing their growth advantage vis-à-vis the advanced world and the difference between GDP growth for these two groups came down to just 2 percentage points in 2015. This is a reflection of the hangover of the 2008 crisis on the world outside advanced economies, part of which was a result of slowdown in export demand from the developed world.Also Read | Cognitive bias explains the inconsistent citizen response to Covid-19While these numbers did not improve significantly thereafter, at least there was no deterioration. Then came the Covid-19 pandemic. Advanced economies suffered a bigger contraction (4.6%) than those of developing countries and emerging markets (2.1%) in 2020. However, the former have seen a relatively stronger recovery. As a result, the GDP growth gap between these two groups is now much narrower levels than it was before the pandemic. The latest WEO projections suggest that GDP growth in developing countries and emerging markets will exceed that of advanced countries by just 0.7 and 0.8 percentage points in 2021 and 2022. Advanced economies have significantly higher per capita incomes than their developing economy and emerging markets counterparts. The fact that the latter will witness a relatively slower economic growth means that inter-country inequalities have increased after the pandemic.A bigger, but also cheaper, fiscal stimulus is what drove the growth recovery in advanced economies The stronger growth rebound in advanced economies is a direct function of fiscal support by governments. Fiscal deficit numbers are a testimony to this. Fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP was 2.5% in 2018 and 3% in 2019 in advanced economies. These numbers were 3.8% and 4.7% in emerging market economies and 3.4% and 3.8% in low-income developing economies. The situation changed completely when the pandemic hit. In 2020, advanced economies ran the biggest fiscal deficit at 10.9% of GDP, a more than three-fold increase compared to the 2019 level. Emerging market economies and low-income developing economies increased their fiscal support by a much smaller margin: their deficit rose to 9.7% for the former and 5.5% for the latter group in 2020. Advanced countries are likely to enjoy a higher fiscal support in 2021 as well.One of the reasons advanced countries could run higher fiscal deficits, financed from borrowing, is that they have lower borrowing costs than their emerging market and low-income peers. For example, the interest rate on 10-year US government bonds is less than 2%. This number is more than 6% for India and more than 12% for Nigeria. When countries are borrowing to fund fiscal deficits, debt sustainability, which is also a function of borrowing costs, is always a big determinant of the fiscal stimulus a country can provide.Lag in vaccination in poorer countries will continue to generate headwinds for growth The reason Covid-19 pandemic is different from any other economic crisis is that economic recovery is also contingent on there being no fresh outbreak of infections. India’s growth forecast for 2021-22 has been cut by IMF from 12.5% to 9.5% after the second wave of infections. There was a level playing field on this count as long as vaccines for Covid were not available. This is not the situation anymore. There is a huge difference between the pace of vaccination in rich and poor countries as the later struggle with sourcing and affordability issues. Countries that placed bulk orders even before the vaccines were proven successful -- a function of resources, research ability, a well developed pharma sector, and the presence of local vaccine manufacturers -- have had an advantage over others in sourcing vaccines.According to the July WEO update of IMF, 34.7% of the population of advanced countries have been administered vaccines so far, compared to just 9.8% and 1.1% in emerging markets and low-income countries.A blog by IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath has identified vaccination progress as the critical factor behind growth upgrades and downgrades compared to the April projections. “Faster-than-expected vaccination rates and return to normalcy have led to upgrades, while lack of access to vaccines and renewed waves of COVID-19 cases in some countries, notably India, have led to downgrades”, Gopinath wrote. As of July 29, 10.4% of India’s adult population had received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while another 26.9% had received their first dose.Employment loss has been bigger for the poor workers and poor countries An inequality in growth recovery is not the only fallout of the pandemic. In India, there has been ample evidence of what has been termed as a profit-led as opposed to a wage-led recovery. As the fear of infections and new waves persists, blue collar workers, especially in contact-intensive industries continue to suffer more than their white-collar counterparts. The latter have the luxury of working remotely.The IMF update has also underlined this fact. “Moreover, the employment recovery is highly uneven, with youth and low-skilled workers across economies and women in emerging market and developing economies remaining harder hit”, it said. “A combination of factors may explain why employment rates remain subdued. They include a continuation of the health crisis, which still prevents a full reopening, workers’ concerns about health risks in the workplace, and firms’ reluctance to hire new workers, given lingering uncertainties about the recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-covid-19-pandemic-has-fed-on-existing-inequality-to-generate-more-inequality-101627555675157.html
29-07-2021||News||The battle for UP: Assertive Yogi vs a fragmented Opposition||The battle lines for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls have been clearly drawn and defined: It’s an assertive chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath versus a divided Opposition.And while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), after months of dissent and disagreement, has closed ranks, the Opposition remains fragmented, damaging each other’s electoral prospects rather than defeating the mighty BJP.Though politics is all about imponderables, it’s getting clearer by the day that the Opposition space is becoming overcrowded with political parties making the electoral battle easier for the ruling BJP and allies, which swept the state by winning 325 of the 403 seats in 2017. The BJP had then independently polled 39.67% of votes and won 312 seats.The trust deficit in the Opposition The three prominent Opposition parties – the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress — partly share a common vote base. For instance, minorities and Dalits have been supporters of the Congress in the past and are now divided between the SP and the BSP.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav resumes his state tour ahead of next year’s UP assembly pollsAs of now, the SP, along with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), is the front-runner in the Opposition camp, followed by the BSP and the Congress, somewhat a repeat of the 2017 tally, albeit with a difference. The SP had an ally in Congress then. The asap had contested 298 seats and the Congress, 105, of which they won 47 (21.82% votes) and seven (6.25%) seats, respectively. The BSP had won 19 of the 403 seats contested.Although the Congress has started making some feeble noises about its search for a poll partner, severe mistrust prevails between the three prominent groups and it stems from their bitter experience of recent alliances.In the 2017 elections, the SP and the Congress’s tie-up was touted as the coming together of two young leaders – Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi. The alliance miserably failed as their camaraderie before the camera did not reflect in the field.Similarly, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati’s decision to sink their decades-old differences to form a mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) took the political world by storm. But it did not translate into votes with SP leaders accusing the BSP of betraying their trust. While the BSP gained, the SP felt it had suffered huge losses. For its part, the BSP felt that the alliance had electorally helped the SP but SP’s votes didn’t transfer to BSP candidates.Besides, there are smaller parties, with pockets of caste or regional influence, threatening to taking away a chunk of Opposition votes if there is no deal with either the SP or the BSP.Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha includes nine smaller parties. These are the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) of Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party of Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party of Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party of Anil Singh Chauhan. Om Prakash Rajbhar, chief of SBSP, made an effort to rope in the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also, but was rebuffed.Opposition’s base, on the groundMaulana Zulfiqar Ali of All India Imam Association, Muzaffarnagar, is a worried man because of the religious divide. He contends that though Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra fought for the minorities, who were allegedly subjected to atrocities during the five-year BJP rule, the Congress remains a weak party.According to him, the fight will narrow down between the BJP and the SP, as the Muslims have seen Owaisi’s role in Bihar and West Bengal. His statement comes in the background of the speculations about Owaisi’s growing influence over younger Muslims.Also Read | Success of Brahmin conferences has left oppn worried: MayaAli says Tejashwi Yadav lost Bihar because of Owaisi, who — Ali claims — defeated Yadav in 25 seats and won five. But in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee formed the government as Muslims, according to Ali, could see through Owaisi’s game.Om Prakash Rajbhar twice met Akhilesh Yadav for an alliance for the 2017 polls. However, the talks ran into trouble because of Owaisi, who is also a member of their front. He said the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha is open to an alliance with SP or BSP. But Mayawati has already ruled out an alliance with smaller parties, though she also faces challenges from Bhim Army in West UP.SK Dwivedi, former head of the political science department at Lucknow University, told HT that the major political parties cannot ignore the role of smaller parties in garnering votes.Rajesh Singh from Gorakhpur feels that people are on the lookout for a viable political alternative, the question is the presence of the Opposition. According to him, a divided Opposition is not a matter of concern as people do pick their best option. Akhilesh Yadav will have to assert himself and be that alternative.Nonetheless, the battle will be ugly, with mudslinging campaigns from both sides, much of which will be fought on social media and have a communal and political subtext. SP workers in Agra were booked for allegedly raising Pakistan Zindabad slogans during their statewide protest against the misuse of official machinery in the block pramukh elections. And a day after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived in the state capital and staged a dharna, Lucknow police lodged cases against state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and 600 workers for violating Covid-19 protocols and police restrictions.State Congress President Lallu told HT that as many as 100 cases have been slapped against him in the last year and a half. Besides about 20,000 party workers have been jailed for three months in this short period. But, he said, “We will continue to strengthen our organisation and raise voice against oppression of any kind.”The BJP’s script The electoral battle has already started with Prime Minister Narendra Modi blowing the bugle from his constituency of Varanasi, where he also gave a clear message by endorsing the CM’s performance and governance of the state. A few days later, the BJP’s national president JP Nadda did the same, in a way silencing the CM’s detractors within the party who, till then, were insisting that, like the 2017 assembly polls, Modi will be the face of the party in the elections.It may be recalled here that barring Modi, the BJP hoardings did not carry any other face – in some constituencies, not even of the candidate. It was the party symbol and Modi. Thus, the election was fought without a CM face.June 2021 saw a lot of drama with senior BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders holding brainstorming sessions in the party office amid rising voices against the government’s handling of the Covid-19 second wave. Many lawmakers also protested against the CM’s purported style of functioning.But those who were hoping for a change of leadership were snubbed by the prime minister, who while condemning “mafia raj” and “bhai bhatija vaad” of earlier regimes, lauded the CM for following the policy of vikasvaad (development), changing the political discourse in his party from the change of leadership to certifying Adityanath and his performance.Till the PM-CM meeting in Delhi on July 9, speculation was rife about Delhi’s plan to clip the CM’s wings by inducting Modi’s close aide AK Sharma, former bureaucrat-turned-politician, in the state cabinet or moving the CM to the Centre as then the Union Cabinet expansion exercise was on.What transpired between the PM and the CM is not known, but many feel that the CM might have presented his report card and asserted his ability to win UP for the party or could have even offered to resign instead of shifting his base from Lucknow to Delhi.The fact remains that the BJP cannot afford to have a sulking Adityanath who has not only emerged as an icon of Hindutva, but has cultivated a strong base amongst Rajputs and Hindu hardliners. And now he is the party’s face in the elections.However, the party high command is concerned about the caste calculus which they tried to set right by inducting backward castes in the Cabinet. Yet, some castes such as Brahmins and Nishads are still feeling neglected. Adityanath may go for a Cabinet expansion even though the new ministers will get the position for a few months with the huge responsibility of mobilising their respective castes in the polls than governing the state.As political analyst SK Srivastava told HT, the BJP won the 2017 assembly elections with the support of the non-Yadav backward castes, non-Jatav Dalits, as well as upper-caste Brahmins and Rajputs. The BJP leaders were now working to retain the support of these caste groups by wooing their leaders, he said.As the UP battle intensifies, the current landscape is marked by this contest between an emboldened Yogi Adityanath and a fragmented Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-battle-for-up-assertive-yogi-vs-a-fragmented-opposition-101627547034615.html
29-07-2021||News||Bommai Senior and the legal foundations of a historic verdict||As Basavaraj Bommai takes charge of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) government in Karnataka, his anointment has also achieved a rare feat. This is the second time in Karnataka’s political history that a father-son duo have held the chief minister (CM)’s post. Basavaraj’s father SR Bommai became the CM in 1988 in the wake of then CM Ramakrishna Hedge resigning over snooping charges. The other father-son duo to have achieved this feat are Janata Dal (Secular) supremo and former Prime Minister, HD Deve Gowda, and his son, HD Kumaraswamy. Apart from the political feat, Basavaraj’s appointment also brings the focus back on a legacy in law that has been associated with his father, SR Bommai for almost three decades now. Senior Bommai’s name is synonymous with one of the most important cases in the judicial history of the country when it comes to polity and governance, Centre-State relationship and imposition of President’s Rule. Also Read | As Basavaraj Bommai rises, how his father changed the course of Indian politics“Awesome” is not a word routinely used in Supreme Court judgments. But when the nine-judge Constitution Bench sat down to deliver the historic verdict in Bommai’s case, it called the authority under the Constitution for imposing President’s Rule an “awesome power indeed”. It is the apex court’s judgment in SR Bommai Vs Union of India, delivered in March 1994, that defined the contours of Article 356 of the Constitution, which allows for President’s Rule in states, and acknowledged various perplexing issues in the realm of Centre-State relations. It laid down legal principles for a lawful and valid exercise of the power under Article 356, while underscoring the federal structure and roles of the President and Governor. Who was SR Bommai? In 1985, the Janata Party won the assembly elections in Karnataka and Ramakrishna Hegde became the CM. Hegde had to leave the throne following the snooping charges and he was replaced by SR Bommai, also of the Janata Party, in 1988. A few months later that year, Janata Party merged with Lok Dal, forming the Janata Dal, and 13 new ministers were inducted into Bommai’s cabinet. However, some legislators defected from the party and presented a letter to Governor P Venkatasubbaiah stating their decision to withdraw support to the Bommai government. In April 1989, the Governor sent a report to the Centre recommending President’s Rule citing breakdown of constitutional machinery, as provided under Article 356. This report was sent despite the Governor receiving 19 letters from Bommai asking for an opportunity to prove his party’s majority in the assembly. Bommai had also the presented him with a copy of the resolution passed by the Janata Dal legislature party in his support but the Governor chose not to pay heed to the demand of a floor test. Later that month, the government of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at the Centre dismissed Bommai’s government using Article 356, without giving Bommai a chance to prove his majority, and imposed President’s Rule. Bommai challenged the proclamation of President’s Rule and the Governor’s report in this regard before the Karnataka high court but to no avail. He subsequently challenged this before the Supreme Court that noted substantial constitutional issues were involved in the matter, warranting interpretation of legal provisions and issuance of pertinent guidelines. What were other instances before the Supreme Court in Bommai’s case? When the nine-judge bench set about to examine the validity of proclamation for the state of Karnataka, it also scrutinised similar proclamations for some other states too. In 1988, the Nagaland government was dismissed on the basis of a report sent by the Governor to the President. The Governor had cited horse-trading and relationship of some legislators with the insurgents as chief reason for imposition of the President’s Rule. In October 1991, the President issued a proclamation dismissing the Meghalaya government on grounds of unconstitutional governance. The assembly was dissolved immediately after. After the demolition of the Babri Masjid in December 1992, the Centre dismissed not just the government of Uttar Pradesh, but also the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Himachal Pradesh. In Bommai’s case, the top court highlighted frequency of using Article 356 to dismiss governments in states and Union territories. Up to 1991, President’s Rule in states had been imposed on 82 occasions by invoking or resorting to Article 356, and on 13 occasions, President’s Rule had been imposed in union territories. On 23 of a total of these 95 occasions, assemblies were dissolved on the advice of the CMs or due to their resignations. Issues in Bommai’s case and the six judgmentsThe nine-judge bench ruled on three chief issues.One, is the Proclamation issued by the President under Article 356 amenable to judicial review? Two, if yes, what is the scope of judicial review in this respect? And three, what is the meaning of the expression “A situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution” used in Article 356(1)? Of the nine judges on the Supreme Court Bench that heard the matter, six authored separate judgments, adjudicating on various aspects of the issues raised. But all were unanimous that the use of Article 356 was not untouchable for the constitutional courts and was indeed amenable to judicial review. Justice P B Sawant, writing for himself and Justice Kuldip Singh, rejected the argument that the President had unrestricted power to issue proclamation under Article 356: “If… pluralist democracy and the unity and integrity of the country are to be preserved, judiciary… is the only institution which can act as the saviour of the system and of the nation,” they held. Describing democracy and federalism to be parts of the basic structure of the Constitution, the judges maintained that the power vested de jure in the President but de facto in the Council of Ministers under Article 356 has all the latent capacity to emasculate the two basic features of the Constitution. “Hence, it is necessary to scrutinise the material on the basis of which the advice is given and the President forms his satisfaction more closely and circumspectly… Such scrutiny will also be within the judicially discoverable and manageable standards,” they ruled. The judges further asserted that the federal principle, social pluralism and pluralist democracy, which form the basic structure of our Constitution, demand that the judicial review of the proclamation issued under Article 356 is not only an imperative necessity but is a stringent duty and the exercise of power under the said provision is confined strictly for the purpose and to the circumstances mentioned therein and for none else. “It also requires that the material on the basis of which the power is exercised is scrutinised circumspectly...any situation short of (total constitutional breakdown) does not empower the issuance of the proclamation,” the judges said. Justice SR Pandian wrote that Article 356 should be used very sparingly and only when President is fully satisfied that a situation has arisen where the government of a state cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. “Otherwise, the frequent use of this power and its exercise are likely to disturb the constitutional balance. Further if the Proclamation is freely made, then the Chief Minister of every State who has to discharge his constitutional functions will be in perpetual fear of the axe of Proclamation falling on him...,” held justice Pandian. On his part, Justice K Ramaswamy cautioned that Article 356 should never be used for political gain or to get rid of an inconvenient state government. Frequent elections would belie people’s faith in the parliamentary system, he said, and warned that loss of belief in the democratic process would sound the death-knell for the parliamentary system. Justice JS Verma, authoring a separate judgment for himself and Justice Yogeshwar Dayal, said: “The facts which attract the legal fiction that the constitutional machinery has failed are specified and their existence is capable of objective determination. It is, therefore, reasonable to hold that the cases falling under Article 365 are justiciable.” Justice AM Ahmadi, in his judgment, held: “To exercise power under the said provision and to dissolve the State Assemblies solely on the ground of a new political party having come to power at the Centre with a sweeping majority would, to say the least, betray intolerance on the part of the Central Government clearly basing the exercise of power under Article 356(1) on considerations extraneous to the said provision and, therefore, legally mala fide.” He added that the power conferred by Article 356 is of an extraordinary nature that must be exercised in grave emergencies. The judge clarified that that a proclamation for emergency can be challenged on the limited ground that the action is mala fide or ultra vires of Article 356 itself. Justice BP Reddy, writing for himself and Justice SC Agrawal, proceeded to hold that not only a constitutional court had the power to examine a proclamation for emergency but it would also be open to the court to restore a state government to its office in case it strikes down the proclamation as unconstitutional. “If this power were not conceded to the court, the very power of judicial review would be rendered nugatory and the entire exercise meaningless,” they said. The two judges further noted that when a proclamation is challenged by making out a prima facie case with regard to its invalidity, the burden would be on the Union government to satisfy that there existed sufficient material to impose President’s Rule. In appropriate cases, the court will have power to restrain the holding of fresh elections to the Assembly as an interim measure to ensure a legal challenge to a proclamation is not defeated through an election. Floor test to prove majorityBommai’s judgment unequivocally laid down the supremacy of the floor test in determining the support enjoyed by the party in power. Justices Reddy and Agrawal held that in cases where a government is alleged to have lost majority, a floor test is the valid method of proving majority. The judges said: “Wherever a doubt arises whether the council of ministers has lost the confidence of the House, the only way of testing it is on the floor of the House except in an extraordinary situation where because of all-pervasive violence, the Governor comes to the conclusion and records the same in his report that for the reasons mentioned by him, a free vote is not possible in the House.” The two judges wrote extensively on the necessity of a floor test before the Governor makes any recommendation under Article 356. “If only one keeps in mind the democratic principle underlying the Constitution and the fact that it is the legislative assembly that represents the will of the people and not the Governor the position would be clear beyond any doubt,” said the judges, holding that the floor test is obligatory. The judgment ruled in favour of Bommai and the proclamation was struck down for being malafide and unconstitutional. However, by the time the judgment came, elections had since been held to the legislative assembly of Karnataka and a new House had come into being. The judgment still resonates Bommai’s ruling prescribes important constitutional guarantees against the abuse of Article 356 and for the maintenance of the federal structure. Bommai’s judgment has earned the distinction of being the most quoted verdict in the country’s political history, and continues to resonate in contemporary times. Take just a few recent instances. This judgment was relied upon by the Supreme Court in 2016 while restoring the Nabam Tuki Government in Arunachal Pradesh and criticising the Governor for “humiliating the elected Government of the day”.In the same year, the central Government imposed President’s Rule in Uttarakhand just a day before chief minister Harish Rawat was to take a trust vote to prove his majority. The Centre justified its actions on the basis of a sting operation showing Rawat allegedly indulging in bribery with some of the legislators. But the Supreme Court, citing Bommai’s case, ordered a floor test, which ultimately led the dismissed government being reinstated. In May 2018, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) approached the Supreme Court against the order of Karnataka Governor to allow BJP’s BS Yeddyurappa to form the government in the state. Lending credence to Bommai’s judgment, the court, after a pre-dawn hearing, ordered an immediate floor test. Yeddyurappa later resigned on the floor of the House without facing the floor test. Similarly, in November 2019, the top court ordered a floor test on a petition by Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Congress alliance which complained against the manner in which Devendra Fadnavis took power, in a secretive oath ceremony. Fadnavis resigned hours later and the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance formed government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bommai-senior-and-the-legal-foundations-of-a-historic-verdict-101627539473703.html
29-07-2021||News||As Basavaraj Bommai rises, how his father changed the course of Indian politics||The elevation of Basavaraj Bommai as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s chief minister (CM) in Karnataka is an occasion to commemorate his late father and predecessor in the office, SR Bommai, who was ousted in 1989 on being denied a fair chance to prove his majority in the assembly.President’s rule was imposed in the state when governor P Venkatasubbaiah refused the senior Bommai a floor test. Pressing home the discretion then available to the Centre’s agent, the governor also rejected a resolution of the Janata Dal legislature party in the CM’s support. To claim a majority, the party communiqué accounted for the return of several legislators who had earlier defected.Justice was delivered five years later, not as much to Bommai, who couldn’t be retrospectively rehabilitated to the position from which he was ejected, but for succeeding generations of democratically elected CMs and their dispensations. The law enumerated by a nine-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court (SC) has since stood in the name of the new Karnataka CM’s father.Also Read | Bommai remains tight lipped on new cabinet, says decision after Delhi visitOften referred to as the (SR) Bommai case, it makes floor tests mandatory in disputes over numbers commanded by an existing regime; the process is as much applicable when elections throw up a hung House. The court’s simultaneous decree that the President’s powers in the matter weren’t absolute, made proclamations under Article 356 justiciable.The loss of a majority or the numbers flaunted by rival claimants to power couldn’t be decided any more in the confines of Raj Bhawans. The proof of the pudding, so to speak, was in democracy’s kitchen, which is the legislature. It was that judicial recipe which had Basavaraj’s benefactor and the outgoing CM, BS Yediyurappa first lose, and then wrest power, vis a vis the post-poll Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress alliance on May 19, 2018 and July 24, 2019 respectively.In the first instance, the SC intervened when a friendly governor, Vajubhai Vala gave Yediyurappa a partisan 15-day window to prove his majority despite clear signs of the numbers stacked against him in the House with an effective strength of 221. Asked to prove his majority the next day, the CM resigned rather than take the trust vote, leading to the fall of his three-day-old BJP government.The roles were reversed a year later when a clutch of legislators from the JD (S) and the Congress switched loyalty to the Lingayat strongman.Senior Bommai was twice unluckyForever a gentleman politician, the senior Bommai was a follower of MN Roy. He had strong views on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideology.A couple of years after winning the historic court battle, he was close to becoming the prime minister when the Congress withdrew support in 1997 to the United Front regime of a fellow Kannadiga, HD Deve Gowda. Amid the search for a substitute, Bihar’s Lalu Prasad Yadav acked Bommai’s candidature when the influential Marxist leader, HS Surjeet, pitched for Uttar Pradesh’s Mualayam Singh Yadav. In the end, the Yadav chieftains cancelled each other out, paving the way for Inder Gujral. Bommai for his part continued as human resource development minister in both short-lived United Front governments.It was some happy coincidence for Bommai and Lalu Prasad when the Rabri Devi government of Rashtriya Janata Dal was reinstated on March 8, 1999 after being dismissed in February the same year by the AB Vajpayee-led Centre. The salvation lay in the SC’s Bommai case judgement which, while holding that the President’s powers weren’t absolute, made a regime’s dismissal contingent on its approval by both Houses of Parliament. As the ruling National Democratic Alliance lacked a majority in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress stepped in to revive the Rabri regime in Bihar.Judgement put Centre-State relations on even keel That Rabri government’s resurrection was the first proof, if one was required, of the judgement being a milestone in Centre-State relations that constitute the core of the Constitution’s federal features.The March 11, 1994 Bommai verdict had laid down a framework of restrictions for sending a state government packing. The judgment counted the number of times regime-dismissals were triggered between 1950-91 through proclamations under article 356 of the constitution and section 51 of the government of union territories act, 1963.The 41 years of the Republic, it noted, saw President’s rule being imposed on 95 occasions in states and UTs. Out of these, the assemblies were dissolved 23 times on the CM’s advice/resignation and, on 18 occasions, the suspended houses were revived.“We may hasten to add that the proclamations were made on different occasions on the advice of the council of ministers of the central government belonging to different political complexions,” wrote Justice Ratnavel Pandian in a separate but concurring judgement. He said some of the states (where assemblies were) dissolved “valiantly fought, honourably bled and pathetically lost their legal battle”.The case thus made out was that powers under 356 should be used “very sparingly” and only when the President was “fully satisfied” that a situation has arisen when a state cannot be run in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. “Otherwise, the frequent use of this power and its exercise are likely to disturb the constitutional balance leaving the CM of every state in the perpetual fear of the axe of proclamation falling on him.”In a separate judgment, Justice AM Ahmadi referred to the Constituent Assembly debates in which parallels were drawn between the emergency powers of the British governor General and governors under the colonial era Government of India Act, 1935 and those vested in the Republic’s President under Article 356 of the Indian Constitution.BR Ambedkar’s response to these apprehensions was that while he shared the sentiments, the “proper thing we ought to expect is that such articles will never be called into operation and that they would remain a dead letter. I hope the President who is endowed with all these powers, will take proper precaution before actually suspending the administration of the provinces.“Against this backdrop and the fact of Article 356 having been invoked over 90 times, Justice Ahmadi concluded that Ambedkar’s hope (that in rarest of rare cases only there will be an occasion to invoke the emergency provisions) stood belied. “What was therefore expected to be a dead letter has in fact become an oft-invoked provision,” he wrote while desisting from inquiring into the circumstance that led to frequent resort to the use of emergency powers by the President.The law was interpreted therefore to suit a polity divided on party lines. It has broadly served the purpose but a lot more needs to be done, by way of political consensus or judicial diktat, to keep the sanctity of popular mandates. The Constitution’s unitary plinth must not cloud its federal visage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-basavaraj-bommai-rises-how-his-father-changed-the-course-of-indian-politics-101627534313130.html
