01-01-2021||Shimla/Chandigarh||Chandigarh, most of Punjab and Haryana, colder than Shimla; read why||Chandigarh and most of the plains in Punjab and Haryana were on Friday colder than the 'Queen of Hills' —Shimla.The reason: the sun is shining brightly in Himachal Pradesh these days while a thick blanket of fog refuses to lift off from most parts of the northern Indian plains.Many places on the plains—Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Ambala and Hisar were colder than hilly tourist destinations Shimla, Kufri, Dharamsala and Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh, the Met Office in Chandigarh said.Chandigarh, located in the Shivalik foothills, recorded a minimum temperature at 6.1 degrees Celsius, while Shimla, located around 7,000 feet above sea level, saw a low of 6.8 degrees, Kufri 4.8 degrees, Dalhousie at 7 degrees and Dharamsala 3.2 degrees Celsius.Shimla, the Queen of Hills, is recording the 'warmest' days owing to long sunny spells, while cities like Chandigarh, Amritsar, Karnal, New Delhi and Lucknow, located in the plains, are reeling under a severe cold wave as the sun remains fogged out. Some parts of Delhi recorded 1.1 degree Celsius, coldest so far this season.Hill destinations have been experiencing long hours of sunny weather for over a week and the day temperatures in most places have risen. The dry weather would prevail till January 4, the Met office in Shimla said.But nights and mornings are intensely cold.Data accessed from the weather bureau indicates the weather in hill destinations of Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Chail, Kasauli, Dharamsala, Palampur, Dalhousie and Manali is 'warmer' in the day, perfect for a break from the biting chill of the plains."What a pleasant sun in Shimla. In Delhi, basking under the sun these days is a rare occasion," said tourist Sahil Khanna."We are enjoying the long sunny days," his wife Shilpi added.Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological department in Shimla, told IANS that the maximum temperatures increased by one-two degrees due to prevailing dry weather.He said the humidity level of plus 80 per cent causes fog."In the plains it is more than 80 per cent. However, in the hills it's around 50 per cent these days."Hisar in Haryana shivered at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, while it was 0.2 degree in Narnaul, 4.4 degrees in Ambala and 3.5 degrees in Karnal.Punjab's Faridkot recorded a low of 0.2 degree Celsius."It will be bright and sunny till January 4, when there are chances of widespread snow and rain in the state," added Singh. This will be along with other parts of northern India where rainfall is forecast by the IMD. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-most-of-punjab-and-haryana-colder-than-shimla-read-why-192240
01-01-2021||New Delhi||Kangana Ranaut returns to Manali; shares pictures of shoe collection, calls herself 'a slave of own possessions'||Actor Kangana Ranaut is all set to enter 2021 like a 'Queen' as she returned to her hometown Manali after visiting Mumbai.The 'Tanu Weds Manu' actor took to Instagram on Thursday to share a picture of her amazing shoe collection.Surrounded by her wide range of stylish shoes, the 33-year-old actor can be seen cleaning her shoes and arranging them in an organised manner."Ever since I have come home, been only cleaning cleaning and cleaning," she captioned the post."They say what you own, owns you as well, after incessant cleaning of days I feel like a slave of my own possessions. Hopefully I will be done today and enter 2021 like a Queen," she added.Ever since I have come home, been only cleaning cleaning and cleaning. They say what you own, owns you as well, after incessant cleaning of days I feel like a slave of my own possessions. Hopefully I will be done today and enter 2021 like a Queen 👑 pic.twitter.com/EYyq1DeUKI  Ranaut had earlier in the week visited Mumbai to pay a visit to the Mumbai Devi and Siddhivinayak temple with her family. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangana-ranaut-returns-to-manali-shares-pictures-of-shoe-collection-calls-herself-a-slave-of-own-possessions-192218
01-01-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Shortage of urea hits Paonta, Shillai farmers||Tribune News Service Solan, December 31 The shortage of urea  has severely hit farm operations in Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas of Sirmaur district for over a month.  Urea is chiefly used by wheat growers during sowing, which begins from November 15. The Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing and Consumer’s Federation (HIMFED) is the state’s nodal agency for supplying fertilisers  to farmers. Besides,  IFFCO has also been authorised to   enrol cooperative societies  for supplying  fertilisers to farmers. A  HIMFED field  official, while agreeing to the shortage of urea in the Paonta Sahib area, said the supply was much less than the demand and the stock of societies was nil in December. She  informed that the societies generally secured urea from IFFCO and in case they were unable to get the requisite stock, they are provided by HIMFED. “The supply of urea has been much less than the requirement since the last few months. Against the requirement of about 10,000 to 15,000 bags for Paonta Sahib used last year, barely 6,000 to 7,000 bags were available this year since November 15.” Grown over 26,700 hectares, the district produces 53,400 metric tonnes of wheat  annually. The crop which is sown from November 15 to December 15 is generally harvested in April and May. Managing Director, HIMFED, KK Sharma said the quota of fertilisers is allocated by the Government of India and the rack amounting to 26,000 metric tonnes has already been exhausted by the state. He  said about 10 metric tonnes of urea, which was an additional requirement,  would be made available from National Fertilizers Limited tomorrow in the Paonta Sahib area. Other areas battling with the shortage will also be provided urea at the earliest, he assured.  Congress leader Aninder Singh Notty said the shortage of urea has been plaguing the Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas and sowing of wheat was severely hit. It was neither available in time not in adequate quantity, and officials  of HIMFED were unable to give any satisfactory response. He alleged that the capacity of urea-producing plants had been reduced by 33 per cent by the Union Government since 2019  which will lead to lesser  agrarian produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-urea-hits-paonta-shillai-farmers-192128
01-01-2021||Hamirpur||118 in fray in Hamirpur||As many as 118 candidates were left in fray for elections of four Urban Local Bodies in the district after last day of nomination withdrawal here today. The four local bodies include Municipal Committee, Hamirpur, and three Nagar Panchayats of Nadaun, Sujanpur and Bhota. Devashweta Banik. Distrcit Returning Officer, said 45 candidates remained in fray in 11 wards of Hamirpur MC, 35 candidates in nine wards of PN Sujanpur, 19 in seven wards of NP Bhota and 19 in seven wards of NP Nadaun. All candidates were issued poll symbols for the polling on January 10, she added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/118-in-fray-in-hamirpur-192129
01-01-2021||Una||Staff on duty seek virtual polling||The District Non-Government Officers (NGO) Federation has demanded that the District Election Department should create facilities for online polling for employees on duty for the upcoming elections to panchayats and urban local bodies.  A press release by president of the federation Ramesh Thakur said they also demanded stringent Covid safety norms at polling booths to ensure the safety of the staff.  He said a meeting of the District Consultative Committee was held today under the chairmanship of DC-cum-district electoral officer Raghav Sharma where federation office-bearers put up their demands. He said at a time when all meetings were being held virtually, the employees should be issued e-ballot papers to cast their votes.  Ramesh said most of the government employees had to be deployed to ensure proper conduct of the polls. In such a situation, the employees, particularly those serving outside their home districts, were not able to exercise their franchise. Ramesh said Covid SOPs should be followed to ensure the safety of the polling staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-on-duty-seek-virtual-polling-192130
01-01-2021||KULLU||82 in fray for Kullu civic body elections||A total of 82 candidates are in the fray for elections to four civic bodies in the district after 27 candidates withdrew their names today on the last day of nomination. Kullu DC and District Election Officer Richa Verma said a total of 109 candidates had filed their nomination papers in two municipal councils (MC) of Kullu and Manali and two Nagar Panchayats of Bhuntar and Banjar, and 27 of them withdrew their names today. According to the notification of the state government, the poll will be held for the newly formed Nagar Panchayat, Anni, and Nagar Panchayat, Nirmand, in March 2021. The DC said 30 candidates are in the fray in 11 wards of Kullu MC and 21 candidates will contest in the seven wards of Manali MC. She added that 16 candidates were in the fray in seven wards of Nagar Panchayat, Bhuntar, and 15 candidates remained in the electoral field in seven wards of Nagar Panchayat, Banjar. She said the list of candidates was finalised and the poll symbols were allotted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/82-in-fray-for-kullu-civic-body-elections-192131
01-01-2021||---||Team inspects rain losses in Solan dist||Solan, December 31 An inter-ministerial team inspected rain damage losses in Solan. The district suffered losses worth Rs 52.27 crore in the monsoons this year. DC, Solan, KC Chaman, said the inter-ministerial Central team yesterday visited various areas affected by monsoon rains. The areas visited by the team included Kondi on the Baddi-Sai Road, Kanahal khud in Nalagarh  and Bhojnagar and Nerikalan in Dharampur block. Various roads, bridges, buildings, cowsheds, houses, etc., had suffered damage.  The team took stock of the losses as projected by the district administration. The losses were suffered on account of soil erosion, floods, landslides, etc as various roads, bridges, buildings, cowsheds, houses were damaged. The DC said damage worth Rs 52.27 crore was suffered in the monsoons from June 15 to September 30. The Public Works Department suffered the maximum loss of Rs 32.92 crore while Jal Shakti Vibhag suffered losses worth Rs 14.51 crore. The power department suffered losses worth Rs 35.34 lakh and losses worth Rs 2.84 crore were suffered by the national highways authority.   The team will assess rain damages in Shimla on December 31 and will hold meeting with the Chief Secretary on January 1, informed the DC. The DC, SDM Nalagarh Mahinder Pal and officials accompanied the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-inspects-rain-losses-in-solan-dist-192134
01-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Nominees told to carry Covid negative report||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 31The nominations for panchayat and municipal council elections started today.However, those who are contesting and campaigning will have to keep Covid negative report with them.As per the directions issued by the government, the candidates and those accompanying them would have to keep Covid negative report and show it to people or electors when they visit their homes to seek votes.Anyone found violating these directions is liable to be prosecuted under Section 188, 269, 270 of the IPC and Sections 111 and 114 of the Himachal Pradesh Police Act, 2007.The panchayat elections in the state but for Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti will be held on January 17, 19 and 21.Taking precautions due to Covid spread in Himachal, the government has made it mandatory for all candidates and supporters accompanying them to get themselves tested negative before their door-to-door canvassing which will be direct contact with electors or individuals.They have been asked to approach their nearest health centre or block medical officer to get themselves tested for Covid.The contesting candidates have also been directed to ensure proper adherence of the Covid protocols as social distancing, wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers and other guidelines. The CMOs of all districts have been directed to make arrangements for conducting tests of all the contesting candidates and their supporters.Sources here said the government had issued strict guidelines for candidates of panchayat elections as rural areas of Kangra, Shimla, Kullu and Mandi districts had seen spurt in positive cases. After the government relaxed the restrictions in Himachal in September, social functions as marriages were held in rural areas where Covid protocols were ignored. Due to sudden rise in infection in rural areas, Himachal became No. 1 in small states in terms of Covid positivity rate.DC, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati said the directions would be implemented stringently during panchayat elections and anyone found violating them would be prosecuted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nominees-told-to-carry-covid-negative-report-192136
01-01-2021||---||MTech, PhD in UIT from next session||Shimla, December 31  The Himachal Pradesh University Executive Council has approved to start MTech and PhD from the next academic session in University Institute of Technology (UIT) in computer science, IT, civil, electrical and electronics and communication engineering.  The EC has also approved the appointments of all those teachers who joined after the issued orders in different departments of the university. Besides, the EC has also approved the opening of accounts by HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank for online counselling of B.Ed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mtech-phd-in-uit-from-next-session-192137
01-01-2021||Una||Don’t blame bureaucracy: Agnihotri to CM||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri today flayed Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for his remarks against the bureaucracy, alleging that the latter was merely passing on the blame of the government’s non-performance to bureaucracy rather than introspecting the performance of the political leadership in the state.Agnihotri, who was addressing mediapersons here today, claimed that during the three years in power, the BJP government had shuffled officers like a pack of cards. He criticised CM’s alleged remarks against some bureaucrats, terming them non-performers. He claimed that during the performance review meetings on the completion of the three years of government in power, when the CM failed to get feedback of performance, he put the blame game on the bureaucracy.The leader said non-performance was a criminal waste of time and resources, for which there should be accountability.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dont-blame-bureaucracy-agnihotri-to-cm-192138
01-01-2021||imla||Vaccination dry run  in Shimla tomorrow||Even as new Covid cases today declined to 163, the lowest in the last few days, the Health Department has decided to hold a dry run of vaccination at three places here on January 2.The three places where the dry run will be held are DDU Hospital, Government Senior Secondary School, Kasumpti and Tenzin Hospital, Panthaghati.The total number of positive cases reached 55,277 while three persons, one each in Una, Kangra and Shimla, succumbed to the virus.The highest number of 39 cases were reported in Kangra, 34 cases in Shimla, 19 in Solan, 17 each in Una and Sirmaur, 10 each in Chamba and Hamirpur, six in Bilaspur, five in Kullu, three in Mandi and Kinnaur. With this, the total number of active cases was 2,615 . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-dry-run-in-shimla-tomorrow-192139
01-01-2021||---||Tourists rush to Shimla, Kufri||Solan, December 31 Holiday revelers queued up on the Kalka-Shimla national highway throughout the day to travel uphill to celebrate the New Year. A major chunk of the crowd was headed for Shimla, Chail, Kufri and Kasauli where hotels have made elaborate arrangements to welcome the New Year. Those who failed to get bookings in hotels were seen returning back in the evening in the biting cold weather. DSP Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta, who was monitoring the traffic influx on the highway, said, “It is being ensured that the tourists remain in discipline and hooliganism did not take place on the roads. Several tourists, who were roaming on the Mall Road at Kasauli and nearby areas, have been challaned as police were strictly ensuring compliance of the Covid norms.” Though hotels were packed to capacity, fewer tourists were seen on the roads in Kasauli and Chail as compared to previous years in the biting cold weather. A large number of tourists preferred to go to Manali to see the Atal tunnel, informed a police official. With snow eluding Kasauli and Chail, the tourists were left high and dry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-rush-to-shimla-kufri-192140
01-01-2021||---||Covid curbs fail to deter revellers||Shimla, December 31New Year revellers made a beeline to the “Queen of Hills” as over 9,000 vehicles entered the town, leading to massive traffic jams and crowded markets, throwing all social-distancing norms to the winds.The night curfew, which will come into force from 10 pm, failed to dampen the spirits of tourists, who have arrived here to ring in the New Year. According to the police, till 8 pm today, 8,966 vehicles entered Shimla, while 5,645 vehicles left the town. Data showed that from December 29, a total of 22,910 vehicles had entered Shimla while 15,966 vehicles had returned. The huge influx resulted in most parking lots being packed to capacity, forcing visitors to park along the roads.The influx of such a large number of tourists despite night curfew in Shimla has brought cheer to the beleaguered hotel industry which has been reeling under the impact of Covid since March. Most hotels have received good bookings after a long gap since Christmas, which is expected to continue through the week. The hoteliers were demanding lifting of the night curfew but the government chose to tread cautiously and continued with the restrictions.The tourists danced to the tune of music being played on The Ridge to ring in the New Year with police personnel having a harrowing time, asking everyone to keep their masks on. However, all festivities will have to come to a halt at 10 pm when night curfew starts.Certain parts of the town, especially Cart Road where parking lots are located, witnessed traffic jam though in other parts, traffic continued to move at a snail’s pace. The trial run of the musical fountain on The Ridge, next to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi, proved to be a new attraction for tourists as well as locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-curbs-fail-to-deter-revellers-192141
01-01-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Night curfew plays spoilsport in Manali||KULLU, DECEMBER 31Despite a heavy tourist rush, the New Year celebrations were a low-key affair in Manali due to the curfew after 10 pm due to Covid-19.The administration used to arrange bonfires on the Mall Road and a large number of tourists used to dance to the DJ beats till late night, but this year tourists had to conclude celebrations before 10 pm. The indoor parties were restricted to only 50 persons and DJs in such places were only allowed as per guidelines.The Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) did not organise events for visitors at Club House. Anil Taneja, DGM, HPTDC, Manali, said the New Year queen competition and various competitions for children had been cancelled. He said all hospitality units had been witnessing 100 per cent occupancy for the past three days till January 3.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said teams had been deployed to monitor gatherings and ensure adherence of Covid norms. About 35 volunteers and over 250 police personnel were there to ensure compliance of Covid rules in Manali, Solang, Dhundi, Naggar, Kasol, Manikaran, etc. Tourist vehicles were allowed to go to the Solang Nullah and through Atal Tunnel till 3 pm. A large number of revellers enjoyed snow despite being stuck in traffic at some places.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said vehicles were allowed till the Sissu helipad and were sent back at 5 pm. He said 1,765 vehicles crossed Atal Tunnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/night-curfew-plays-spoilsport-in-manali-192142
01-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Bookings cancelled, courtesy strict Covid guidelines||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 31The strict directions issued by the district administration, Kangra, led to cancellation of bookings in Dharamsala and other parts of the district.The district administration of Kangra had issued directions today that no one would be allowed to stay on roads after 10 pm for New Year celebrations. The directions also stated that anyone organising gathering of more 50 people even within hotels will have to seek permissions from the magistrate. The directions were issued keeping in view high number of positive cases being reported in Kangra district.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary, Smart City Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, said after the directions were reported in the media many tourists cancelled their reservations. “In my hotel five persons cancelled their reservations. The occupancy of hotels that was expected to be around 70 per cent will now be around 50 per cent,” he said.Ashwani Bamba, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dharamsala, said though the bookings had been cancelled, it was a good sign that tourists had returned to the area. He said the influx of tourists had once again brought to the fore basic problems in the area.The main parking in McLeodganj at the HRTC bus stand was thrown open to the public by the district administration. However, the main parking of the area was now occupied by the taxi drivers and local shopkeepers and there was no place for tourists to park their vehicles, he said.Tourists were back in McLeodganj, the epicentre of tourism in Kangra district. The shops and alleys of McLeodganj were back in business with people enjoying tea and coffee at cafeterias and shopping around. A fine of Rs 1,000 was imposed by the state government for those not wearing masks at public places to ensure that the tourists adhere to Covid protocol.The guidelines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bookings-cancelled-courtesy-strict-covid-guidelines-192143
01-01-2021||Stray dog menace has become a cause for concern for the residents of Mandi town. Stray dogs can be seen roaming in the town at Chauhta Bazaar||Stray dog menace cause for concern||— Rajesh Kumar, MandiPoor show by councillorsthe councillors put up a forgettable show in their monthly meeting a few days back. In the widely circulating videos, they could be seen screaming and shouting at each other. As representatives of the public, they are expected to behave appropriately.— Vikram Kumar, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dog-menace-cause-for-concern-192147
01-01-2021||---||Ice hockey squad enthralls residents||Shimla, December 31For Shimla, a 15-member ice hockey squad from Kaza rang in the New Year through a nice demonstration at the city’s Ice Skating Rink. On their way to Gulmarg for a national camp, the squad, comprising children aged eight to 15 years, halted at Shimla to exhibit their skills.It’s for the first time that ice hockey players have been selected for a national camp from the state. Incidentally, the ice hockey rink was constructed at Kaza last year by the local administration and within one year 15 children have been picked for the national camp. “The response to the sport has been fantastic. At the moment we are training 180 children in the age group of eight to 20,” said Ajay Banyal, a government official accompanying the team.He said the entire project – from constructing the ice hockey rink to arranging kits and travel expenses of the players – had been funded by the local administration. “Their gear and skates are quite costly, which is borne by the administration. Besides, these children will fly to Gulmarg from Chandigarh,” said Banyal.He said the administration was keen to promote the sport even more in Kaza. “The rink is of international size and we have snow for five months a year. So there is a lot of scope for winter sports and the administration is keen to exploit favourable conditions for promoting the sport.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ice-hockey-squad-enthralls-residents-192148
01-01-2021||The HPU has allowed filing-up of vacant seats in some teaching departments and institutions following the demand of student organisations. The VC has given permission to the teaching departments/institutes of HPU||Vacant seats to be filled||Sanjauli student in state-level contestMrinal, a student of Government College, Sanjauli, has been selected for state-level 'Yuva Sansad Pratiyogita'. A NSS volunteer of the college, Mrinal will represent Shimla district in the competition. Mrinal emerged topper in the district-level competition, in which students from seven colleges took part.HPUTA demands review of decisionsThe HP University Teachers' Association (HPUTA) has asked the VC to review some of the decision taken by the Executive Council. The foremost being authorising the VC to open envelopes of selected candidates, instead of the Executive Council. The HPUTA said not following UGC guidelines in recruitment process will affect the image of the university. The HPUTA also demanded review of the decision to extend the tenure of deans and department chairpersons from two to three years.Construct girls’ hostel : ABVPThe ABVP, Government College, Sanjauli, submitted a memorandum to the principal regarding its various demands. Most prominent among these are the construction of hostel for girls at the earliest, providing parking space for students on the college premises, starting Hons course for history, English, economics, BSc and sociology, filling up of BCA and PGDCA seats,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vacant-seats-to-be-filled-192149
01-01-2021||---||6-day working in offices from today||Shimla, December 31With a considerable decline in Covid cases, all government offices will revert to six days functioning from tomorrow (January 1) with full strength though the night curfew in four districts of Shimla, Kullu, Mandi and Kangra will continue from 10 pm to 6 am.The Department of Personnel today issued fresh orders where government offices will be back to six days working with complete staff which will include Class I to IV and all other categories, including contractual, daily wages, part-time and outsourcing basis. However, on January 2, all employees have been asked to work from home.The government had ordered five-day week and Saturday work from home for all its employees due to a sudden spike in Covid cases in the state in October. This was done to have a three-day gap to ensure a break in the Covid chain transmission. Now with the average cases on a daily basis hovering between 200 and 300, a decision has been taken to revert to normal functioning.The Health Department has also issued an order where all medical officers and paramedical staff, whose services were extended from time to time through the year in view of Covid pandemic, will retire from service today. With this order the services of re-employed medical officers and paramedical staff would stand terminated.Despite a dip in Covid cases, the government has decided to stick to restrictions of 50 persons in all social, entertainment, cultural, religious, political, marriage and funeral to ensure social distancing norms. The condition of seeking prior permission and intimation before holding a marriage or a gathering will continue to enable inspection and videography to avoid any violations of norms.During the night curfew in four districts, there will be a complete ban on movement of persons and vehicles except those involved in essential or emergency services. Inter-state as well as intra-state buses will operate at 50 per cent of the capacity.Fresh service order out||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-day-working-in-offices-from-today-192181
