02-01-2021||---||Probe HPU teachers appointments: Cong||Shimla, January 1Alleging irregularities and violation of UGC norms, Congress today demanded a high level probe into appointment of teachers made by Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) in September last year.Addressing a press conference here today, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore urged Governeor Bandaru Dattatreya, who is the Chancellor of the HPU, to order a probe. “Ineligible candidates were appointed in haste in gross violation of UGC norms, thereby raising doubts in the minds of everyone,” he alleged.He said the UGC keeps issuing norms from time to time for appointment of Professors, Associate and Assistant Professor which have been completely violated in these appointments. “The screening committees made for appointment in the sociology and economics departments were constituted with retired faculty, excluding the regular teachers from these departments,” he alleged.He alleged that the candidates, who were not eligible to be made Assistant Professors, were given the post in violation of all norms. “What raises even more doubt is the fact that the instead of getting the appointments approved and recommended by the HPU Executive Council, the HPU administration was handing over appointment letters, which has happened for the first time in the history of the HPU,” he alleged.The Congress chief said there had been violation of the Central Government guidelines for appointments as the validity of the advertisement, which was for one year, was extended for another six months. He alleged that all this had been done to give undue benefit to some teachers, who were working in private educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-hpu-teachers-appointments-cong-192530
02-01-2021||Shimla||Horticulture Department to import 9 lakh plants from US||The Horticulture Department will import around nine lakh plants and planting material of temperate fruits grown in the state from the US this year. “It’s around 50 per cent more than what was ordered last year,” said Director, Horticulture, JP Sharma.  “This time, we have ordered a lot more rootstocks, so the number has increased,” said an official associated with the process of importing the plants. “We are planning to develop the varieties ourselves as per demand. So, a lion’s share of the import will be rootstocks this time,” he added.  The planting material, which the department is trying to import in the month of January, will be available to the orchardists next year. For one year, the imported planting material will be kept in Post Entry Quarantine (PEQ) at government facilities to ensure it’s free from any pests and disease.  Meanwhile, the demand for planting material from the orchardists this year is close to nine lakh. “The Department has around three lakh plants available with it – around 90,000 we have in our nurseries and around two lakh is available in our PEQ facilities from the last year,” said Sharma. “The rest of the demand will be met through our university and registered private nurseries.” There are close to 500 nurseries, with 458 run privately and 39 by the government. The orchardists, while being appreciative of the government’s initiative to import planting material, feel the government should import rootstocks and varieties. “It needs less water and shows better growth,” said Lokender Bisht, president of Progressive Growers Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/horticulture-department-to-import-9-lakh-plants-from-us-192531
02-01-2021||Shimla||193 Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||The state recorded 193 Covid cases today, taking the total tally to 55,470. Besides, two persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours — one person each died in Shimla and Hamripur. The highest number of 60 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 46 in Kangra, 25 in Solan, 20 in Shimla, 12 in Hamirpur, seven in Kullu, six each in Kinnaur and Sirmaur, five in Bilaspur and three each in Una and Chamba. The total number of active cases stood at 2,394. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/193-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-192532
02-01-2021||---||Classes X, XII regular exams to be held from May 4 in Himachal||Shimla, January 1The state Education Department has decided to hold regular examinations for board classes X and XII from May 4 next year. The decision follows the announcement of the dates for the CBSE examinations by the Central Government.Govind Thakur, Education MinisterPracticals between March 15 and 30The date sheet for Classes X and XII under the HP Education Board will be issued shortly. In order to ensure that there is no overcrowding, the Class X exams will be held in the morning while the Class XII exams will be held in the afternoon. The practical exams will be held between March 15 and 30.The Education Department has also decided to hold regular examinations in schools for the non-board classes in all government schools in the state April 10 onwards. This is being done to ensure that there is no overcrowding and the examinations of the non-board classes are over before May 4, when the exams of the board classes are scheduled to begin.Education Minister Govind Thakur today said that as the Covid situation was under control, it had been decided to hold the annual examinations for all classes, barring Class X and XII, from April 10. The announcement is significant as it was being felt that due to the Covid situation, online examinations would be held for the non-board classes.Thakur said that the date sheet for Class X and XII under the HP Education Board would be issued shortly. “In order to ensure that there is no overcrowding, the Class X exams will be held in the morning while the Class XII exams will be held in the afternoon session,” he said. He added that the practical exams would be held between March 15 and 30.The government has taken the decision in consultation with the education board, teachers and parents of students. Now, it has become clear that promotion to the next class would be subject to regular examinations and not online exams, as was being expected.Thakur said that the practical exams for the board classes would be held between April 15 and 30, before the final examinations commence. The decision comes in the wake of the fact that the Covid situation has improved considerably as only 200 to 300 cases on an average are being reported daily.The Education Department has also decided that teachers on examination duty will have to get their Covid tests done. However, students will not require a test but strict enforcement of social distancing, and wearing of masks will be ensured during the exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/classes-x-xii-regular-exams-to-be-held-from-may-4-in-himachal-192404
