04-01-2021||Shimla||Don’t cross legal limits while dealing with public: Himachal DGP to cops||A day after a video showing a man being thrashed by a constable and the BRO staff in Rohtang’s Atal Tunnel surfaced online, Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu on Monday directed police personnel not to cross legal boundaries while dealing with the public.In a letter to SPs of Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Mandi’s Pandoh-based commandant of the 3rd India Reserve Battalion (IRB), the DGP said, “In no case, police personnel should transgress boundaries set by law.”The DGP said some travellers violate laws and do not follow necessary guidelines, especially the Motor vehicle Act, while crossing the tunnel.It is imperative for police personnel deployed there to strictly enforce law but remain polite and firm in interaction with the public, he added.The DGP said the 3rd IRB Battalion Commandant should train police personnel for soft skills on dealing with the public travelling through the tunnel.All police personnel deployed on tunnel duty should receive such training before their induction, he said, adding that their soft skills should be reviewed and upgraded regularly through in-service courses.Earlier on Sunday, Himachal Pradesh Police initiated a probe after the video clip surfaced on social media. The incident took place on Saturday, police said on Sunday. In the around two-minute-long video, the man is seen bent over with his arms looped behind the legs to hold his ears. He is kicked in the face and slapped by the personnel. On December 24, 10 tourists from Delhi were arrested and their cars impounded after they stopped inside the tunnel and danced, leading to a traffic jam.On December 27, 15 more tourists, including seven from Delhi, were arrested and two vehicles seized for obstructing traffic inside the tunnel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dont-cross-legal-limits-while-dealing-with-public-himachal-dgp-to-cops-193619
04-01-2021||Kinnaur||Landslide in Himachal’s Kinnaur leaves hundreds of people stranded||Hundreds of people have been left stranded after a landslide at Malling Nullah near Naco in Kinnaur district blocked the Kinnaur-Kaza national highway on Monday, a district official said.The road link of Kaza subdivision in Lahaul-Spiti district and several villages of Kinnaur district have been cut off from the other parts due to the landslide that followed snow.The Border Roads Organisation is trying to remove the debris to clear the Kinnaur-Kaza road.Hundreds of vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the road due to the landslide, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-in-himachals-kinnaur-leaves-hundreds-of-people-stranded-193504
04-01-2021||Subhash Rajta||Infra upgrade of medical colleges soon||tribune news serviceShimla, January 3Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) and five other medical colleges will soon see upgrade in their academic infrastructure. The Centre has asked the medical colleges to submit proposals for infrastructure upgrade against the increased MBBS seats under the EWS quota implemented last year. “We had a meeting in New Delhi a couple of days back. The government has approved Rs 1.2 crore per seat increase under the EWS quota,” said IGMC Principal Rajnish Pathania.The Centre had increased MBBS seats last year but the corresponding increase in infrastructure had not been done. In Himachal, the MBBS seats in all six government colleges had been increased from 100 to 120, taking the total number of seats from 600 to 720.“At the moment we have lecture theatres that can accommodate only up to 100 students. We will try and enhance the seating capacity to 180 students,” said Pathania.Besides, other facilities like furniture, equipment, etc would be enhanced.The 90 per cent share of the expenditure will be borne by the Central Government, while the remaining will come from the state.“We had submitted a proposal amounting to Rs 47 crore, but we will need to submit a fresh proposal. We will soon complete the DPR and submit it within 10 days,” said the Principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infra-upgrade-of-medical-colleges-soon-193358
04-01-2021||---||‘No work, no vote’ banner greets PRI poll nominees||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR, JANUARY 3A hoarding “No work, no vote” on the entry of Dudhar village in Rit gram panchayat here is welcoming the candidates contesting the elections of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).The villagers lodged a protest against the apathy of the gram panchayat and the government for not constructing the village approach road and announced to boycott the elections.Up in arms against the government apathy, villagers lamented that the political leaders, seeking votes for their party candidates, had made hollow promises.Shamili Pathania of the village said residents of Dudhar had been struggling for the construction of an approach road to their village for the past five years, but in vain. Ambani Singh, Jogesh, Aman Pathania and Ruchi said the residents were facing hardships during rainy days.“If our village approach road is not constructed, the residents will boycott even the Assembly elections due in 2022,” they warned.Babita Rani, the outgoing pradhan of Rit gram panchayat, said she had tried to address the problem but due to unavailability of funds and problem of water drainage in the village, the approach road could not be built.“The drainage has to pass through the adjoining fields, but locals didn’t allow it,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-work-no-vote-banner-greets-pri-poll-nominees-193359
04-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan boy shines in CAT, scores 99.99 percentile||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 3Solan youth Vishesh Garg (23) dreams of doing something extraordinary in the field of management after attaining 99.99 percentile in the Common Aptitude Test (CAT) as the result were declared yesterday.Inspired by Sunder Pichai and Satya Nadella, who head tech companies like Google and Microsoft, Garg said, “Indians lead big tech companies and I will definitely try to do something like them though I don’t know if I can do something as big.”An electronic engineer by profession, Garg was pursuing a job at Bangalore but had come back to Solan in the Covid pandemic to work from home.He is the eldest of two siblings and his younger brother is also pursuing engineering from NIT Hamirpur. His father is a businessman and his mother is a housewife.“I missed the interactive classroom study while preparing from home as it has its own limitations”, informed Garg who purused his engineering in electronics and communications from NIT Hamirpur. He is an alumnus of St Luke’s, Solan.While talking to The Tribune he shared his success mantra. Overwhelmed at his success, Garg was now hoping to get admission in one of the Indian Institute of Managements and was preparing for the subsequent group discussion and interview.With a job at hand, Garg utilized the weekends to the hilt and put in nearly 10 to 12 hours in honing his skills. Having appeared for the coveted CAT earlier, he had a fair idea of his strengths and weaknesses. “My first attempt gave me a fair idea of where I lagged behind and I specially focused on improving those”, said Garg.“Mock tests helped in improving areas like speed and devising an effective strategy to improve my performance”, said Vishesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-boy-shines-in-cat-scores-99-99-percentile-193360
04-01-2021||---||Dodra Kwar cut off after heavy snowfall||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 3The remote Dodra Kwar area of Shimla district was cut off from the rest of the state following heavy snowfall at Chanshal in Rohru subdivision. Tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti received another spell of moderate snow while mid hills were lashed by intermittent rains.Gondla received 21 cm of snow, followed by Koksar with 13 cm of snow, Pooh 10 cm, Manali 9 cm, Sumdo 8 cm and Kalpa 7 cm. Manali with 11 mm of rains was the wettest, followed by Keylong and Dharamsala 9 mm each, Bilaspur and Jhandutta 8 mm each, Amb 7 mm, Nagrota Suriyan and Chamba 6 mm each, Kandaghat, Kasauli, Palampur and Nadaun 5 mm each and Gaggal, Shimla and Solan 3 mm each.The MeT office has warned of a thunderstorm and lightening in low hills and heavy rain and snow in middle and high hills on January 4 and 5 and predicted heavy snow at isolated places in Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts with the possibility of a disrupted transport system, electricity and water supply.The minimum temperatures increased by 2 to 4 degrees with Keylong witnessing a low of minus 6.1. Maximum temperatures increased by a few notches and Una recorded a high of 21.6 degrees C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dodra-kwar-cut-off-after-heavy-snowfall-193361
04-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Use of painting by Punjab govt unethical: Sobha Singh’s daughter||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 3Gurcharan Kaur, daughter of legendary painter Sobha Singh, has expressed resentment over “unauthorized use of a painting” of Guru Teg Bahadur by the Punjab government in its calendar for the year 2021.Gurcharan Kaur who stays in Andretta village near Palampur and manages the Sobha Singh Art Gallery, while talking to The Tribune, said that she has been informed that the public relations department of Punjab was publishing official calendar for 2021 with copy of painting created by the legendary artist. “It is unethical on the part of the Punjab government to use painting without our permission. It was also a violation of the Copyright Act and I have written to the Chief Minister, Punjab, Capt Amarinder Singh regarding this illegal act of the Punjab government”, she said.The painting of Guru Tegh Bahadur in controversy was created by Sardar Sobha Singh in the year 1972. He got it registered and obtained copyright for it in the year 1984. After the death of Sobha Singh the copyright for the painting was in the name of his daughter Gurcharan Kaur.Gurcharan Kaur said that she was not objecting to the authorized use of the painting by the Punjab government authorities. It was a question of ethics. Recently, Hallmark printed 300 gold coins with painting of Guru Nanak etched over it, in England. Since the painting was created by Sardar Sobha Singh the Hallmark took permission from her.A large numbers of paintings of Sobha Singh were being printed across Punjab in an authorized manner. “We have been complaining to various authorities in Punjab to check the authorized use of paintings of Sobha Singh. In some cases the action was also taken by the authorities. However, in case the government does an illegal act of copying the paintings, it would encourage other also,” she said.Anindita Mitra, Director, Public Relations Punjab, when contacted, that said she would take the charge tomorrow and knows nothing about it at present.Senu Dugggal, joint director, Public Relations, Punjab, when contacted, said that she does not know anything aboutthe matter.Ravi Bhagat, outgoing Director, Public Relations Punjab was not available for comment despites calls on his mobile number.Gurcharan Kaur who lives in the house of Sobha Singh in Andretta village also runs a Sobha Singh Memorial Art Gallery in the house. Thousands of visitors from across the world visit the gallery every year. The gallery has more than 50 original works of the legendary painter displayed forthe visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-of-painting-by-punjab-govt-unethical-sobha-singhs-daughter-193363
04-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Peddling of loose sedative capsules a new trend||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 3Those involved in the smuggling of sedative drugs are now carrying smaller quantities of loose capsules without wrappers in a bid to escape the police eye.As many as 4,778 sedative capsules have been seized in the bordering Paonta Sahib subdivision by the police since October. This includes a maximum of 3,640 capsules in the Puruwala area and 1,138 in Paonta Sahib. As many as 910 capsules were confiscated in the last two weeks alone from the Puruwala area, said police officials. In recent cases of sedative drug seizures in Paonta Sahib subdivision in Sirmaur district, it was found that loose capsules are being smuggled as this helps a peddler conceal its source of manufacturing.“A peddler can conceal the content of a capsule if there is no wrapper. Such capsules have to be examined by a forensic science lab to ascertain the content. The peddler is then booked either under the Narcotic Drugs and other Psychotropic Substances Act or under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, depending on the salt present in the seized capsules,” said Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur.“In case a capsule contains a salt which falls under Schedule H1, its sale is restricted without a prescription. Tracing backward links of such capsule seizures have revealed that chemists from nearby states of Haryana have been selling such drugs in bulk to peddlers after removing the wrappers. This is done to conceal the batch number and manufacturer’s name in a bid to to dodge the police net,” added Bahadur.As such sedative drugs are habit-forming, they are repeatedly bought by those addicted to it. Their sale fetches good revenue to the peddlers who devise new ways and means to smuggle it from nearby states.DSP Bahadur said peddlers had been arrested in Paonta Sahib as well as the neighbouring Uttarakhand, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh due to the coordinated efforts of police. Saharanpur, Khidrabad Herbatpur and Vikas Nagar are the key areas from where peddlers procure these capsules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/peddling-of-loose-sedative-capsules-a-new-trend-193364
04-01-2021||---||Tibetans vote in first round of poll for Sikyong||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 3The Tibetans today voted for the first round of elections for president of the Tibetan government-in-exile (Sikyong). There were 80,000 registered voters who voted in polling booths set up across the world.In Dharamsala, the seat for Tibetan government-in-exile, the polling booths were set up in McLeodganj.Registered Tibetan voters carrying their green books which are their identity cards came out for voting. Covid protocol such as social distancing was maintained at the polling stations.Tibetan voters have to indicate their preference for contesting candidates in the ballot paper. The percentage of votes a candidate gets is decided on the preference indicated by voters for him in the ballot paper.Eight candidates are in fray for the post of Sikyong. These are: Dongchung Ngodup, Dalai Lama’s representative in New Delhi; Penpa Tsering, former Speaker of Tibetan parliament in exile and former envoy in Washington DC; Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang (Kaydor), who has been special advisor to Sikyong Lobsang Sangay and the Dalai Lama’s representative to North America; Dolma Gyari, former minister in Tibetan government-in-exile who is the first woman candidate to contest for the post of president; Acharya Yeshi, Deputy Speaker; Lobsang Nyandak, former minister based in New York; Tashi Wangdu, former CEO Federation of Tibetan Cooperative Societies, Bangalore; and Tashi Topgyal, who is based in Shillong.The results of the first round of elections would be declared on February 8. The election result would decide the top two candidates who would run for final phase of elections that is likely to be concluded in the month of May this year.The new president of the Tibetan government-in-exile would be succeeding Lobsang Sangay the present incumbent who served two consecutive terms as President from 2011 to 2021. Sangay, a Harvard law graduate, was the first democratically elected president of Tibetan government in exile. The passing Tibet Policy and Support Act 2020 by the US Senate that was later signed into law by US President Donald Trump was considered as biggest achievement of Lobsang Sangay. The Act declared US support to the Dalai Lama to decide his successor and talks of imposing sanctions on Chine in case it interfered in succession of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama handed over his political authority to the elected leader of Tibetan government in exile in the year 2011.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetans-vote-in-first-round-of-poll-for-sikyong-193365
04-01-2021||---||State broadens Public Service Guarantee Act||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 3The government has notified seven services of the Urban Development Department under the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Guarantee Act to ensure time-bound service to the people.“Service within stipulated time is key to good governance. Soon, more services of the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) will be brought under the Public Service Guarantee Act,” said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj. The services brought within the ambit of the Act are trade licence, road-cutting permission, inspection carried out for granting road cutting permission and verification to ensure proper restoration, property tax/vacant land tax, signage licence, sanction for storage of construction material and movie shooting.He said the time limit for issuing a trade licence had been fixed at seven days, with assistant commissioners of Municipal Corporation and executive officer of nagar panchayat being the designated officers. For road cutting permission, the same officials could be approached and the time limit is 15 days. Bhardwaj said the architect planner in the Municipal Corporation area and Executive Officer in the Municipal Council and Secretary in Nagar Panchayat would have to carry out inspections for road cutting permission and verification to ensure proper restoration within seven days. For property and vacant land tax, the designated authorities have to issue bills within 30 days from the completion of the financial year.Bhardwaj added that one could apply on a prescribed form for obtaining a signage licence and 15 days had been fixed for service delivery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-broadens-public-service-guarantee-act-193366
04-01-2021||Solan||Teenager hangs self||A 13-year-old Class VII student of Haripur Tohana village in Paonta Sahib sub-division of Sirmaur committed suicide last evening by hanging himself with an electrical wire in his home.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said the boy was a brilliant student who often watched YouTube and conducted experiments. He had bolted his room on the first floor as well as the staircase where he had done some experiment by burning some material before taking the extreme step.He is survived by an elder sister. The family broke open the door when he did not come down after having locked himself for a few hours. He has also left behind a suicide note in which he has not blamed anyone for taking this extreme step. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teenager-hangs-self-193367
04-01-2021||---||Restore Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway service: Residents||Our CorrespondentNurpur, January 3Residents of lower Kangra district have been demanding the restoration of train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway line for the past a few months, but the Northern Railway authorities have taken no initiative for the restoration of the service. The trains had been suspended in March last year amid pandemic-induced lockdown.The train service in Harsar Dehri, Jawali, Nagrota Surian, Haripur, Guler and Dehra is considered the lifeline for thousands of people in the region as the road transport facility is scanty in the region.The train service on the Kalka-Shimla rail line has already been restored a few months ago whereas people of Kangra have been deprived of this economical transport means notwithstanding repeated requests by the locals.The train service that was suspended nine months ago has virtually left the residents of the district high and dry and the state government has also “failed” to take up this issue with the Union Railway Ministry.This railway line also plays a significant role in trading activities in Kangra as it is linked with Pathankot, a major business centre in Punjab. Prior to the pandemic, six trains were plying onthis route.Senior Congress leader Chander Kumar has alleged that the train service was not restored because of the indifferent attitude of sitting area MP Kishan Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-pathankot-jogindernagar-railway-service-residents-193368
04-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||89 pc believe in unanimous rural polls: Survey||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 3As much as 89.2 per cent people feel that the elections to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) should be unanimous to avoid conflicts in functioning while 87.8 per cent opine that developmental work suffer due to political conflicts.A survey, conducted by the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies, Institute of Integrated Himalayan Studies, Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), on “Challenge of public participation in strengthening PRIs”, revealed that 50 per cent people said electing PRI representatives through consensus was difficult but efforts must continue.The survey was conducted online from December 20 to 26 and 552 adults, including 77.2 per cent men and 22.8 per cent women from 333 gram panchayats of 60 blocks of 12 districts participated.The sample included 72 per cent from general category, 15 per cent from the Scheduled Caste, 13 per cent from the Scheduled Tribe, said principal investigator Baldev Singh Negi.Further, 75.1 per cent people say that the PRI elections were contested on the non-party basis, but political parties declare their candidates and as such the elections should be held on party symbols while 60.4 per cent felt that the code of conduct should be imposed on the pattern of Lok Sabha and Assembly polls.However, 52.2 per cent people were of the opinion that if the PRI polls were held on party lines, the responsibility of implementing the developmental works would be on the party and the Opposition would be more vocal.Another fact that came to notice was that the members did not attend the Gram Sabha meetings which was postponed due to lack of quorum and 55.7 per cent said the formalities were completed by getting the registers signed by going from village to village.Most people (97.1 per cent) wanted that all village development schemes should be passed in Gram Sabha meetings in a transparent manner.The issue of public participation was highlighted after the department conducted a survey of 60 Gram Panchayats of five districts in October 2019 which revealed that 83.1 per cent Gram Sabha meetings were postponed in October and 72.9 per cent meetings in July due to lack of quorum.The findings of the survey assume significance as panchayati raj institution elections are in progress in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/89-pc-believe-in-unanimous-rural-polls-survey-193369
04-01-2021||---||45 polling stations declared hypersensitive in Chamba district||Our CorrespondentChamba, January 3Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana, who is also District Election Officer (Panchayat), today said the district was all set for the smooth conduct of elections to the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs).As many as 45 polling stations have been identified as “hypersensitive” and 147 as “sensitive” out of the total 971 polling stations set up in the district for the poll scheduled for January 17, 19 and 21 in three phases.He said the highest polling station was Chask Bhatori, situated at an altitude of 4,500 metres in Sechu panchayat of the Pangi tribal area.“There are 7 polling stations in the district where the poll staff would have to tread a long distance,” the DC said.“There is a possibility of snowfall at 323 polling stations which are located in snowbound high altitude areas of the district. As many as 121 polling stations do not have the mobile connectivity,” the DC said.However, efforts are being made to connect these polling stations by a wireless mode, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/45-polling-stations-declared-hypersensitive-in-chamba-district-193370
04-01-2021||---||Shanta ’s kin shifted to Mohali hospital||Our CorrespondentPalampur, January 3Shanta Kumar’s daughter-in-law and two granddaughters were today shifted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, for treatment.All three had tested positive for Covid last week with Shanta Kumar. His wife Santosh Shelja died of the Covid infection.Family sources said though they had no serious issues, but the family did not want to take any risk after the sudden death of Shelja and preferred to shift them to Mohali for better healthcare and proper Covid treatment.Shanta Kumar and his son Vikram Sharma are already in the Mohali hospital since January 30, where they are recovering and their condition is stated to be stable. The family is likely to be back in Palampur after January 11.With 67 new cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases reached 55,686. Besides, six deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.While three persons died in Kangra, one each succumbed in Una, Mandi and Hamirpur.The highest number of 19 cases was reported in Kangra, 16 in Una, 10 in Solan, seven in Mandi, five each in Chamba and Shimla, three in Hamirpur and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu.With this the total number of active cases in the state today was 1,830.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shanta-s-kin-shifted-to-mohali-hospital-193371
04-01-2021||---||CM tears into Cong over corruption||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 3After the completion of three years of the BJP regime in the state, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur appeared aggressive against the Opposition today.Targeting the Congress, the Chief Minister stated that had the Congress been in power during the Covid crisis, there would have been corruption on the pretext of delivering sanitisers, masks and other health equipment.Addressing a press conference here, he stated that the Congress had given a false bill of Rs 12 crore to its party high command regarding Covid relief spent by the state Congress to help the people.The CM also targeted Congress leader Ashray Sharma and said he should learn a lesson from his defeat in the Lok Sabha election.“It is true that the Covid crisis has hampered the speed of development. Despite that, progress has been made across the state. As a result, a large number of projects have been inaugurated and foundation stones laid in each assembly segment,” he said.In reply to a query, he stated, “The state government is focused to generate employment opportunities for the youths. The government is attracting private investors here and three pharma hubs will be set up in the state. It will open the door of employment among the youth. Apart from this, the government is planning to develop basic infrastructure for the growth of tourism industry in the state, which would play a key role in providing jobs to the youth.”He stated, “The government is studying the pros and cons of controlled cultivation of cannabis plants in the state in a legal way and final decision will be taken after the complete conclusion of analysis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-tears-into-cong-over-corruption-193372
04-01-2021||Mandi||Man thrashed in Atal Tunnel by cop, BRO men;  probe ordered||A video clip showing a youth being thrashed by a police constable and some BRO personnel in Atal Tunnel has gone viral on the social media, which prompted the police authorities in Kullu district to initiate a probe.According to sources, the incident took place on Saturday. In the 1.8-minute video, the person is seen bent over with his arms looped behind the legs to hold his ears. He is kicked in the face and slapped by the personnel.SP, Kullu, Gaurav Singh said prima facie, a police constable and some BRO personnel were seen involved in this video. A probe had been initiated.On December 24, 10 tourists from Delhi were arrested and their cars impounded after they stopped in the tunnel and danced, leading to a traffic jam. On December 27, 15 more tourists, including seven from Delhi, were arrested and two vehicles seized for obstructing traffic.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-thrashed-in-atal-tunnel-by-cop-bro-men-probe-ordered-193373
04-01-2021||Palampur||Palampur MC to take over assets of 14 panchayats||The government, in a notification, ordered the transfer of all assets of 14 panchayats in the vicinity of Palampur to the newly formed Palampur Municipal Corporation. It had already merged these panchayats with the corporation, following the approval of the state Cabinet in November.These orders have paved the way for the new Municipal Corporation to take up development works in the merged areas, which had earlier come to a standstill in the absence of legal and procedural formalities.Official sources told the Tribune that assets which would be transferred to the Palampur MC included panchayat nidhi of all panchayats in their bank accounts or chest, community halls, Panchayat Bhavans, school buildings, panchayat land and other panchayat buildings.Three garbage treatment plants situated in the Ghuggar, Aima and Choki panchayats will also be taken over by the corporation with immediate effect.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-mc-to-take-over-assets-of-14-panchayats-193374
04-01-2021||Shimla||CM to launch online facility for MLAs||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will launch a Vidhayak e-mitra Seva, on his birthday on January 6. This facility will be provided through the mobile app ‘Shikhar Ki Or Himachal’, which is already operational in the state.This facility to the MLAs will be provided under an additional tab named the MLA Corner, a spokesperson for the state government said here today and added that through this app, the MLAs would be able to take stock of the works online.He said on the request of MLAs, the Chief Minister had directed officers to devise a technology so that the MLAs could know the work progress without visiting different offices time and again. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-to-launch-online-facility-for-mlas-193375
04-01-2021||---||NIT Director: Need for smart energy solutions for buildings||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, January 3Energy-efficient building technology will minimise energy requirements, said Dr Lalit Awasthi, Director, National Institute of Technology, while inaugurating an e-workshop on Energy Efficient Building Technology (EEBT) here today. The e-workshop was organised by the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Architecture to discuss innovative designs for energy-efficient buildings.Dr Lalit Awasthi said there was a need for smart energy solutions for buildings and advised experts to establish a master plan for buildings of NIT here as energy-efficient structures. He said a 1-MW solar energy plant would be setup in the institute. He said NIT would collaborate with other national and international institutes to exchange and share technology and knowledge with masses.He said his vision was to transform NIT as a multidisciplinary research and study university with a capacity to teach over 25,000 students in thenext 10 years.Dr Debashish Das, convener of the event, said experts from various colleges and universities across the country were participating in the e-workshop. He said resource persons from the fields of climatic responsive architecture, wind energy, air conditioning, urban planning and energy efficiency would share their expertise with the participants during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-director-need-for-smart-energy-solutions-for-buildings-193376
04-01-2021||Solan||Woman wounded in attack||The woman, who was brutally wounded by accused Anil Kumar alias Neelu at Dasana village in Pacchad in September 2015, did not succumb to her injuries. She was referred to the Regional Hospital at Solan and recovered later. It was inadvertently mentioned in the columns of The Tribune on Sunday that the victim had died.The accused Anil Kumar was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Nahan court yesterday, said the public prosecutor at Nahan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-wounded-in-attack-193377
04-01-2021||Mandi||West Bengal native dies in Manali||A 26-year-old tourist died in Manali yesterday. He had arrived here on December 29 along with his friends. The deceased has been identified as Arvind Roy, a native of West Bengal. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said, “The statement of victim’s friends has been recorded. These four came to Manali on December 29 and stayed at a hotel. Yesterday, they went to the Atal tunnel and in the evening, Arvind got sick. In the morning they found him unconscious. They brought him to Mission Hospital, Manali, where he was declared brought dead.” He denied any foul play. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/west-bengal-native-dies-in-manali-193378
04-01-2021||KULLU||Snag in Larji generation unit||A generation unit in the Largi hydroelectric power house had developed a fault since December 30. The authorities said the water discharge was low, so the power generation had not been affected.They said any machine could develop a fault and it was not because of negligence. Sources said the generation might be affected if the fault was not reparated by June. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snag-in-larji-generation-unit-193379
04-01-2021||The Himachal government seems to have taken the parents of students of private schools for a ride on the issue of charging full fee during Covid 19 pandemic. After a meeting with management of private schools||Parents taken for a ride on fee issue||Slack bureaucracyChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has not minced words in expressing his disappointment over the performance of bureaucracy in the state. He has openly expressed his displeasure over the lackadaisical attitude of the “babus” in ensuring implementation of government schemes and projects. It is no secret that the BJP leaders, including minister and MLAs, have too blamed lethargic and insensitive babudom responsible for the BJP regime drawing flak on many issues. But the question remains does the Chief Minister have a choice? Now with two years left, the BJP regime would to contend with bureaucracy even if its slack!Doubt on health screening figureThe Health Department claims to have screened 80 per cent population of Solan district for Covid and other disease from November 25 to December 28. One hardly sees health workers doing the screening unlike a few months ago when they had visited all households. This so-called door -to door campaign has come under scanner. Even a WHO representative pointed out where the details of 408 Covid cases detected in the campaign were during the review meeting. The health officials could give no clear reply as the daily Covid figures merely reflect testing of contacts and volunteers. If this is the state of affairs in the home turf of state’s health and family welfare minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, one wonders how serious the government was in dealing with this pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parents-taken-for-a-ride-on-fee-issue-193380
04-01-2021||Professor in the Himachal Pradesh University Dr Pramod Sharma presented his book titled 'Steve Jobs' to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan. The Governor appreciated the writer and said the book on the life of Steve Jobs||Book on Steve Jobs presented to Guv||Research centre at varsity soonThe APG Shimla University has decided to work on new research projects for which a research project centre will be established on the campus, said Vice-Chancellor Prof Dr Ramesh Kumar Choudhary. He said the objective was to provide a platform for Himachali students and youth in the field of science and technology for honing their research thoughts and skills. He stressed the need to work on research works along with quality education for motivating research capacity and job-creating capacity among students.Webinar on bioengineeringThe Shoolini University School of Bioengineering and Food Technology has started a webinar series on diverse areas in the field. It was inaugurated by university Chancellor Prof PK Khosla. He emphasised on the role of food in maintaining good health and highlighted the research being undertaken in the university. Dr R Sharma from Palampur dwelt upon "Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods: Role in Healthy Aging". He highlighted the role and uses of functional components from plant sources to maintain health and to delay the aging process. He also emphasised on the role of probiotics in improving immunity and healthy aging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/book-on-steve-jobs-presented-to-guv-193381
04-01-2021||Stray dogs roaming about or sitting in packs at public places in Nurpur town have become a public nuisance. The apprehension of rabid dogs has been haunting residents for many months. Many stray dogs in the town are ferocious and aggressive. They can be seen fighting on the streets||Stray dogs scare residents||Masks slip as cops busyThere's an endless stream of vehicles from Shimla to Kufri and beyond these days. Tourists can be seen enjoying the snow at several point. In their enthusiasm, they forget to keep their masks on. The policemen, who used to promptly remind the tourists to pull up their masks till sometime back, are too occupied with managing the traffic to notice such violations. — Rajesh Dogra, KufriWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dogs-scare-residents-193382
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Restore P’kot-Jogindernagar rly service: Residents||Nurpur, January 3 Residents of lower Kangra district have been demanding the restoration of train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway line for the past a few months, but the Northern Railway authorities have taken no initiative for the restoration of the service. The trains had been suspended in March last year amid pandemic-induced lockdown.  The train service in Harsar Dehri, Jawali, Nagrota Surian, Haripur, Guler and Dehra is considered the lifeline for thousands of people in the region as the road transport facility is scanty in the region.  The train service on the Kalka-Shimla rail line has already been restored a few months ago whereas people of Kangra have been deprived of this economical transport means notwithstanding repeated requests by the locals.  The train service that was suspended nine months ago has virtually left the residents of the district high and dry and the state government has also “failed” to take up this issue with the Union Railway Ministry.  This railway line also plays a significant role in trading activities in Kangra as it is linked with Pathankot, a major business centre in Punjab. Prior to the pandemic, six trains were plying on this route. Senior Congress leader Chander Kumar has alleged that the train service was not restored because of the indifferent attitude of sitting area MP Kishan Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-pkot-jogindernagar-rly-service-residents-193396
04-01-2021||Mandi||Man thrashed in Atal Tunnel by cop, BRO men; probe ordered||A video clip showing a youth being thrashed by a police constable and some BRO personnel in Atal Tunnel has gone viral on the social media, which prompted the police authorities in Kullu district to initiate a probe. According to sources, the incident took place on Saturday. In the 1.8-minute video, the person is seen bent over with his arms looped behind the legs to hold his ears. He is kicked in the face and slapped by the personnel. SP, Kullu, Gaurav Singh said prima facie, a police constable and some BRO personnel were seen involved in this video. A probe had been initiated.  On December 24, 10 tourists from Delhi were arrested and their cars impounded after they stopped in the tunnel and danced, leading to a traffic jam. On December 27, 15 more tourists, including seven from Delhi, were arrested and two vehicles seized for obstructing traffic.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-thrashed-in-atal-tunnel-by-cop-bro-men-probe-ordered-193403
04-01-2021||jiv Mahajan---||Migratory birds’ death: Pong area declared alert zone||NURPUR, JANUARY 3 The toll of migratory birds in the Pong wetland in lower Kangra district has touched 1,700 today. The cause of the deaths of the winged visitors is yet to be ascertained by the Wildlife authorities, but their mysterious death  due to an epidemic likely has set the alarm bells ringing among the locals, bird lovers and environmentalists. The dead birds are of 15 species.   Taking a serious note of the death surge, the Kangra administration has restricted fishing, tourism, movement of livestock and human beings in the Pong area.  In an order issued by Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati last evening, the one-km radius of the wetland has been declared an alert zone where all activities have been banned. The 9-km radius has been declared a surveillance zone where government departments will keep a strict vigil. The additional police force has also been deployed to enforce the orders.  Nine teams comprising 50 employees of the Wildlife Department wearing PPE kits have been deployed around the wetland for counting and identifying the dead birds  and their disposal in a scientific way.  The Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Wildlife, Hamirpur, Rahul M Rahane, who has been monitoring the exercise for the past one week, told The Tribune that the samples of the dead birds had been sent to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar, the Virology and Physical Laboratory, Bareilly, and the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for ascertaining the cause of the migratory birds’ death. “The NIHSAD will prepare a detailed report to confirm the disease that has resulted in the death of winged visitors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/migratory-birds-death-pong-area-declared-alert-zone-193408
04-01-2021||---||67 new cases, 6 succumb in state||Tribune News Service     Shimla, January 3    With 67 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 55,686. Besides, six deaths were reported in the state in the last 24 hours.  While three persons died in Kangra, one each succumbed in Una, Mandi and Hamirpur taking the fatality figure to 932. The highest number of 19 cases was reported in Kangra, 16 in Una, 10 in Solan, seven in Mandi, five each in Chamba and Shimla, three in Hamirpur and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu.  With this the total number of active cases in the state today was 1,830.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/67-new-cases-6-succumb-in-state-193416
04-01-2021||BQ-- The apex court has issued directions to ensure scientific disposal of hazardous waste ||No treatment plant at Nalagarh despite polluting units||Ambika Sharma  Tribune News Service  Solan, January 3The State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) is yet to set up  a common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for the Nalagarh industrial area which houses several red category industrial units considered highly  polluting. This is despite the apex court directions to ensure the scientific disposal and treatment of hazardous waste generated by the units in all states.  According to an estimate, about 11 million litres of effluent is  generated in Nalagarh every day. It is treated in-house by the industry. On the other hand, the   CETP at Baddi is barely treating  about 15 to 18 mld waste as against its capacity of 25 mld. Despite  operating below capacity ever since its inception in 2005-2006, the proposal to link it to the industry in Nalagarh has not materialised.   “The proposal to send the  effluent from the Nalagarh-based industry  for treatment to the Baddi-based CETP had been deliberated upon. It was proposed to be collected   through tankers  as  laying pipelines was not considered feasible. It has, however, not found favour with SPCB officials”, said an official  of the CETP.    Cases of  the erring units dumping untreated toxic effluents  into the water bodies come to the fore.   Senior Environmental Engineer, SPCB, Praveen Gupta, said since the units were upgrading to zero discharge system where the waste water was recycled, a CETP would be of little use.  He added that the  officials swung into action whenever  effluents were found dumped into a river and nullahs.“A coordinated approach between civic bodies and officials of the  transport department and the police  is required  to check  nuisance of tankers dumping effluents into water bodies,” said Gupta.   The Nalagarh industrial area continues to fall under the non-attainment category where the water quality is far from the  laid down norms. Even the comprehensive environment protection index, which takes into account both air and water pollution parameters,  continues to be adversely rated here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-treatment-plant-at-nalagarh-despite-polluting-units-193417
04-01-2021||---||BJP offices in all dists soon: Khanna||Shimla, January 3 Three Ks – karyalay (office), karykarta (worker) and karykram (programme) -- plays a vital role in building an organisation, said state BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna.He said the BJP would soon have its district offices in all 17 organisational districts and the BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda had  inaugurated six. These offices would be well-equipped with the latest technologies, meeting hall and equipment. This would give a big boost to the organisation, he added. Without workers, a political party was nothing on ground. He said in HP, all workers were energetic and results of the upcoming panchayat elections would be a reflection of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-offices-in-all-dists-soon-khanna-193418
04-01-2021||---||Shortage of urea in Ponta Sahib, Shillai ares||Ambika Sharma    Tribune News Service     Solan, January 3    Delay in the supply of urea in Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas of Sirmaur district for rabi crops like wheat has exposed the chinks in the system.  “The supply of urea has been much less than the requirement for the last few months. As against the requirement of about 10,000 to 15,000 bags for the Paonta Sahib used last year barely 6,000 to 7,000 bags were available this year since November 15”, informed a field official of the Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing and Consumer’s Federation  Grown over 26,700 hectares, the district produces 53,400 metric tonnes of wheat annually. The crop, which is sown from November 15 to December 15, is generally harvested in April and May.  Though HIMFED is state’s nodal agency for supplying fertilizers to the farmers, Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperatives Limited (IFFCO) has also been authorized to enroll cooperative societies for supplying fertilizers as well.  “About 800 societies have been enrolled by the IFFCO in Himachal ever since its inception about two decades ago. A large number of farmers purchase fertilizers from them and in case their demand is not fulfilled, HIMFED fills the gap”, informed its managing director, KK Sharma.  He added that the shortage of urea in the Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas was caused as the IFFCO failed to get the requisite allotment from the union government in time. They have, however, secured a rack of about 26,000 tonnes capacity and it would soon make available adequate urea to the farmers in Sirmaur.  Sharma said a proposal to bring all fertilizer distribution under the ambit of HIMFED has been put before the state government. This will ensure that such shortages did not arise in the future. Though unforeseen circumstances like the disruption of rail traffic and farm agitation did pose some problems in supply but it was a temporary phase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-urea-in-ponta-sahib-shillai-ares-193419
04-01-2021||   WEATHER||City page for January 4||Forecast (January 4): Rain and thunderstorm at many places in low hills, rain and snow at many places in middle and high hills.   Temperatures:        Shimla: 16.4 (max), 5.9 (min) Degrees Celsius, Sunrise: 7:20 am, sunset: 5:32 pm Dharamshala: 11.2 (max), 5.4 (min) Degrees Celsius Manali: 9.0 (max), minus 3.8 (min) Degrees Celsius    READERS’ SAY   Stray dogs scaring residents Stray dogs roaming about or sitting in packs at public places in Nurpur town have become a public nuisance. The apprehension of rabied dogs has been haunting residents for many months. Many stray dogs in the town are ferocious and aggressive. They can be seen fighting on the streets, making it difficult for pedestrians and commuters to cross. The local civic body authorities and administration have failed to check the growing menace in the town. The administration should immediately address this problem. The menace of rabid dogs can turn the situation from bad to worse. - Madhur Mahajan, Nurpur   Masks slip as policemen manage heavy traffic  There’s an endless stream of vehicles from Shimla to Kufri and beyond these days. Tourists can be seen enjoying the snow at several points on the stretch up to Kufri. In their enthusiasm, unfortunately, they forget to keep their masks on. The policemen who would promptly remind the tourists to pull up their masks sometime back are now too occupied with managing the traffic to notice violations of Covid-safety norms. – Rajesh Dogra, Kufri     EDUCATION NOTE   Book on Steve Jobs presented to Guv (Pix)Professor in the Himachal Pradesh University Dr Pramod Sharma presented his book titled 'Steve Jobs' to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan. The Governor appreciated the writer and said the book on the life of Steve Jobs, who was an American business magnate, industrial designer, investor and media proprietor, would motivate young generation, particularly new entrepreneurs.   Research centre at APG Shimla varsity soon  The APG Shimla University has decided to work on new research projects for which a research project centre will be established on the campus, said Vice-Chancellor Prof Dr Ramesh Kumar Choudhary. He said the objective was to provide a platform for Himachali students and youth in the field of science and technology for honing their research thoughts and skills. He stressed the need to work on research works along with quality education for motivating research capacity and job-creating capacity among students.   Webinar on bioengineering, food techThe Shoolini University School of Bioengineering and Food Technology has started a webinar series on diverse areas in the field. It was inaugurated by university Chancellor Prof PK Khosla. He emphasised on the role of food in maintaining good health and highlighted the research being undertaken in the university. Dr R Sharma from Palampur dwelt upon “Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods: Role in Healthy Aging”. He highlighted the role and uses of functional components from plant sources to maintain health and to delay the aging process. He also emphasised on the role of probiotics in improving immunity and healthy aging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/city-page-for-january-4-193420
04-01-2021||Parents taken for a ride on fee issue ||Himachal Diary||The Himachal government seems to have taken the parents of students of private schools for a ride on the issue of charging full fee during Covid 19 pandemic. After a meeting with management of private schools, the government announced that only tuition fee would be charged but no notification has been issued so far. Last year also the government issued orders directing private schools to charge only tuition fee but later withdrew the orders. “We fail to understand why the government has not issued the orders and not taken any tangible step to rein in the private schools through a legislation”, said an affected parent.   Slack bureaucracy   Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has not minced words in expressing his disappointment over the performance of bureaucracy in the state. He has openly expressed his displeasure over the lackadaisical attitude of the “babus” in ensuring implementation of government schemes and projects. It is no secret that the BJP leaders, including minister and MLAs, have too blamed lethargic and insensitive babudom responsible for the BJP regime drawing flak on many issues. But the question remains does the Chief Minister have a choice? Now with two years left, the BJP regime would to contend with bureaucracy even if its slack!   Doubt on health screening figure   The Health Department claims to have screened 80 per cent population of Solan district for Covid and other disease from November 25 to December 28. One hardly sees health workers doing the screening unlike a few months ago when they had visited all households. This so-called door -to door campaign has come under scanner. Even a WHO representative pointed out where the details of 408 Covid cases detected in the campaign were during the review meeting. The health officials could give no clear reply as the daily Covid figures merely reflect testing of contacts and volunteers. If this is the state of affairs in the home turf of state’s health and family welfare minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, one wonders how serious the government was in dealing with this pandemic.     Contributed by Bhanu Lohumi, Pratibha Chauhan and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-193421
04-01-2021||---||3 held on murder charge||Shimla, January The police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of 46-year-old Ram Lal, who was beaten up by three persons in Lal Pani area of the town late last night and succumbed to injuries at IGMC here today.The deceased was working as a Class IV employee at the IGMC. As per the son of the deceased who is also the complainant and eyewitness, his father had a verbal dual with some people few days back. He said last night when his father was returning home, Sandeep, Sagar and Jagjit again indulged in war of wards near Lal Pani School and threw his father into a nullah. The family members reached the spot, informed the police and rushed the injured to the hospital.The height from where Ram Lal was thrown was not more than 10 metres but he sustained head injuries which proved fatal. “A case of murder under Section 302 of IPC has been registered and all the three accused have been arrested,” said SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-held-on-murder-charge-193422
