05-01-2021||Our CorrespondentNurpur||Migratory birds’ toll touches 2,700 in Pong Wetland's Wildlife Sanctuary||The unabated deaths of migratory birds with avian flu (H5N1) in the Pong Wetland’s Wildlife Sanctuary have touched a new high of 2,700 till Tuesday evening causing more concern to the state government authorities.However, of the fifteen species of migratory birds falling prey to the outbreak, bar-headed goose coming from Mongolia and China is the highest.Meanwhile, a team of scientists from Wildlife Institute of Indian, Dehradun, headed by Dr Suresh on Tuesday arrived in the Wildlife Sanctuary for taking stock of the situation and after visiting the affected Pong Wetland area, examined the dead birds.Read also: J-K, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu on alert; culling of chickens and ducks starts in KeralaAs per the official information, the team has to submit a detailed finding report to the Government of India within the next two days.The vendors selling poultry products and mutton closed their vends today in all four sub divisions Fatehpur, Jawali, Indora and Dehra sub divisions in Kangra district following order of the district administration.A panic like situation is prevailing among the people living in the surroundings of Pong Wetland after rising toll of migratory birds.Meanwhile, Rahul M Rahane, DFO Wildlife, Hamirpur, who has been camping in the Wildlife Sanctuary for the past one week, told The Tribune that following the directions of the Chief Wildlife Warden, Himachal Pradesh, all recommended measures were being compiled with for prevention of avian influenza.“The expert opinion of veterinary officer, wildlife, is being taken for a preliminary understanding of the disease and requisite protective measures are also being taken like wearing of PPE kits, gloves and masks while dealing with dead birds,” he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/migratory-birds-toll-touches-2-700-in-pong-wetlands-wildlife-sanctuary-194104
05-01-2021||---||Night curfew lifted in four Himachal districts, coaching classes allowed||Shimla, January 5With a considerable improvement in the Covid situation in the state, the Himachal Cabinet on Tuesday lifted night curfew in the four districts of Shimla, Mandi, Kullu and Kangra from Wednesday.The decision was taken by the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, after a presentation was made by the Health department. The Cabinet deliberated upon the improving Covid situation where the number of positive cases on an average was hovering between 100 and 200.The Cabinet also decided to allow coaching classes with 50 per cent capacity all over the state. There was a demand from students and parents that coaching be allowed as was being done in other states. The Health department will prepare the SOPs for holding coaching classes.  “In September-October-November, there had been a spike in positive cases and fatality because for which the night curfew was imposed along with several other restrictions,” said Suresh Bhardwaj, Urban Development Minister. He said it has been decided to lift night curfew and shortly operationalise the three makeshift Covid hospitals at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla; Tanda Medical College, Kangra and Community Health Centre, Nalagrah.The Cabinet also gave relaxation in training of staff for election duty due to less time. All other restrictions of a maximum of 50 persons on social gatherings will continue.It has also been decided to return to six days working days in all government offices. In buses, social distancing norms will have to be adhered to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/night-curfew-lifted-in-four-himachal-districts-coaching-classes-allowed-194073
05-01-2021||---||Sri Sri Tattva-Himachal launches campaign for herbal medicines||Chandigarh, January 5 As the world battles Covid, the Himachal Pradesh unit of Art of Living’s Ayurveda arm Sri Sri Tattva has launched a campaign in Shimla highlighting the benefits of its immunity-building medicines such as amruth, turmeric plus, kabasura kudineer, shakti drops and chaywanprash. Shakti drops is a proprietary product from Sri Sri Tattva, known for its anti-oxidant properties. Having its origin in Tamil Nadu, kabasura kudineer is a traditional formulation used by siddha practitioners for effectively managing common respiratory ailments such as flu, cough and cold.These symptoms are common among Covid patients. Widely researched and available at all major online platforms, these medicines have strong anti-inflammation, anti-viral and anti-oxidant properties, claims Sri Sri Tattva-Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sri-sri-tattva-himachal-launches-campaign-for-herbal-medicines-194047
05-01-2021||Lalit Mohan and Rajiv Mahajan||Avian flu killed birds in Pong wetland: Reports||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala/Nurpur, January 4Avian flu (H5N1) virus has killed migratory birds in the Pong wetland. The toll has crossed 1,900 till this evening, whereas wildlife teams continued counting the dead birds.As per reports received by the district administration from the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, Veterinary College, Palampur, and National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, avian flu (H5N1) has caused the death of aquatic birds in the lake. After the reports were received, the administration today declared the 1-km area from the lake as red zone to contain the spread of the virus in poultry birds and humans.Rakesh Prajapati, DC, Kangra, admitted that the birds’ death was caused by avian flu.The district authorities have banned the sale of poultry products in Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora. The areas lie along the lake.Prajapati said, “If avian flu spreads, we may have to cull poultry birds too.” Besides the migratory birds, there were reports that some local birds, such as crows, had been found dead in the wetland area.Also read:Amid bird flu scare, alert at Harike, other wetlands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avian-flu-killed-birds-in-pong-wetland-reports-193779
05-01-2021||---||Avian flu led to birds’ death in Pong lake||Dharamsala/Nurpur, Jan 4Avian flu H5N1 virus has killed migratory birds in the Pong wetland. The toll crossed 1,900 till this evening whereas Wildlife teams continued counting the dead birds.As per reports received by the district administration from the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and the Veterinary College, Palampur, and the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, avian flu H5N1 has caused the death of aquatic birds in the lake. After the reports were received, the administration today declared the 1-km area from the lake as red zone to contain the spread of the virus in poultry birds and humans.DC, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati admitted that the birds’ death had been caused by avian flu.The district authorities have banned the sale of poultry products in Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora. The areas lie along the lake.He said, “If avian flu spreads, we may have to cull poultry birds too.” Besides the migratory birds, there had been reports that some local birds such as crows had been found dead in the wetland area.HPCC secy writes to CMDirectives of district adminAs per the Centre for Disease Prevention, avian flu or influenza refers to the disease caused by infection with avian influenza viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and animal species. Avian flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However, sporadic human infections can occur.Avian influenza A viruses are ontagious among birds and some of these viruses can sicken and even kill certain domesticated bird species, including chickens, ducks, and turkeys. The infected birds shed avian influenza A viruses from their saliva, nasal secretions and faeces and the susceptible birds catch the infection.The centre’s site also states that although avian influenza A viruses usually do not infect people, rare cases of human infection with these viruses have been reported. Human infections with bird flu viruses can happen when enough virus gets into a person’s eyes, nose or mouth or is inhaled. This can happen when the virus is in the air (in droplets or possibly dust) and a person breathes it in, or when a person touches something that has virus on it and then touches their mouth, eyes or nose. Illness in people has ranged from mild to severe.There is panic among the people living around the Pong lake due to the avian flu killing the birds in their area. HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to send teams of specialists to control the spread of avian flu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avian-flu-led-to-birds-death-in-pong-lake-193648
05-01-2021||Dipender Manta||BRO begins clearing snow from Manali-Leh highway||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 4The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has started clearing snow from the Manali-Leh highway beyond the Atal Tunnel towards Keylong to connect the Lahaul valley.Residents of the Lahaul valley are cut off from the rest of the state for the past two days, as heavy snowfall blocked traffic movement beyond the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway. Heavy snowfall was reported near the tunnel and Sissu on Saturday.The entire area from the Solang valley up to Keylong is prone to snow avalanche and hence it is a challenging task for the BRO to keep the road open between Manali and Keylong via the Atal Tunnel.According to official sources, the BRO has engaged its workforce and machinery to clear snow for traffic movement on the highway between Manali and Keylong. Till the filing of the report, the road was cleared up to Tandi in Lahaul from Manali. “The construction of the world’s longest Atal Tunnel at Rohtang at above 10,000 ft in the eastern Pir Panjal ranges of the Himalayas is an impressive feat achieved by the BRO,” said an official.“The tunnel has been instrumental in connecting Kullu and Manali with the Lahaul valley, a task which seemed impossible a few years ago. The achievement will seem lesser without the mention of the 100-metre hybrid bridge constructed by the BRO on the Chandra river in a record time to connect the north portal of the tunnel with the National Highway-3 towards Leh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-begins-clearing-snow-from-manali-leh-highway-193649
05-01-2021||---||Tourists told to avoid Kullu high hills||Mandi, January 4Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, Richa Verma today issued an advisory to tourists as well as locals to avoid venturing into high-altitude areas in the coming days as the Meteorological Department had predicted snowfall and rain.She said in the areas, weather changes suddenly. As a result, it starts snowing heavily, which might trap the visitors. In the past, such incidents were reported in the district, when tourists had been trapped in the snow-bound areas for days and later rescued by the administration.“The tourists visiting Kullu-Manali are advised to follow the guidelines of the district administration to avoid any untoward incident,” she added.The DC also asked hoteliers and travel agents to make the tourists aware about the advisory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-told-to-avoid-kullu-high-hills-193650
05-01-2021||Shimla||Delay in projects to be viewed seriously: CM||The progress in various projects must be uploaded immediately in the Him Pragati portal so that these could be monitored at the highest level and the unnecessary delay in the execution could be avoided, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a meeting to review the progress of major projects.He said officers must ensure the time-bound completion of all projects as almost one year had been wasted due to the pandemic. The works must be executed with greater vigour to meet the deadlines.He also added that thrust must be laid on the projects nearing completion. This would not only check price escalation in the project cost, but also benefited people.Thakur said MoUs on various projects must be followed up proactively. He said MoUs signed in the field of agriculture, education, housing and industry must be expedited.He said appropriate sites must be identified for dumping of muck so that the executers did not face inconvenience.The entrepreneurs must be provided all clearances within stipulated time period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delay-in-projects-to-be-viewed-seriously-cm-193651
05-01-2021||Shimla||Tourist assault: DGP calls for police training in soft skills||After a video of policemen beating a tourist for violating a law inside the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang (ATR) went viral, state DGP Sanjay Kundu today directed the Commandant of 3rd India Reserve Battalion to train police personnel in soft skills for interacting and dealing with public.Taking serious view of the incident, the DGP said it should be ensured that all police personnel deployed for ATR duties receive such training before induction and their soft skills be reviewed regularly as the tunnel had become popular with tourists since its inauguration in October.“A large number of tourists are crossing the ATR from both the North Portal and South Portal. Some of them are violating laws and not following the prescribed guidelines, especially provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. The police should strictly enforce the law but, at the same time, be polite,” he said.The video has a police constable and some Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel slapping and even kicking a tourist who was kneeling down. Sources said the incident occurred last Saturday. A probe has been ordered by the Kullu SP in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-assault-dgp-calls-for-police-training-in-soft-skills-193652
05-01-2021||---||Staggered sale of fruit plant material from today||Solan, January 4The sale of plant material of temperate fruits by Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni will begin from January 5 in a staggered manner.This will be done to ensure the compliance of Covid norms and facilitate smooth sale of material during the pandemic. “The demand has poured in from as far as Orissa, Rajasthan as well as neighbouring Uttrakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, besides within the state. More than 1.5 lakh plants were distributed last year. Since there was an overwhelming demand from various states, an effort is being made to provide plants of various fruits like kiwi, apricot, pear, peach, plum, parsimony and apples of low chilling varieties,” said an official.Will try to accommodate maximum growersThe plant material has been raised based on demand generated on an online booking form circulated in November. An effort will be made to accommodate maximum growers. —An official“The plant material has been raised based on demand generated on an online booking form circulated in November. An effort will be made to accommodate maximum growers,” the official said.He said farmers, who had filed their online demand form within the stipulated date, should look for their names in the allotment list on the university’s website and secure material as per the allotted time.A copy of the allotment list as well as the Aadhaar card would have to be produced by the farmer at the time of collecting their plant. Details like time and university nursery from where the plants can be collected are also mentioned. Nurseries in Department of Seed Science, Fruit Science and Model Farm located on the main campus at Nauni and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Solan, have been earmarked for collecting plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staggered-sale-of-fruit-plant-material-from-today-193653
05-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Fatehpur villagers demand polling booth for PRI elections||Nurpur, January 4As many as 97 voters of Sath Kuthera village, situated in the island of one of the largest man-made wetlands, will have to travel in boats for 2 km or walk 6 km to reach the polling station at Barri in Fatehpur of Kangra district to cast their votes in the panchayati raj elections.During the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, they had cast their votes at a polling booth set up in a temple serai in the village. Enquiries reveal that the village has 97 voters, including 55 women. The State Election Commission had, for the first time, set up a polling booth in this village in 2012. Since then, the village voters had been voting there. The village is part of Ward number 1 of Barri gram panchayat.During the PRI elections scheduled on January 19, every voter will cast five votes to elect panchayat pradhan, up-pradhan, ward member, Block Development Committee (BDC) member and Zila Parishad member.Request to Election CommissionIf the State Election Commission can set up a polling booth for the panchayat elections for merely 17 voters at Bara Bhangal in Baijnath, why a polling booth cannot be set up at the village for around 100 voters. —VillagerHarbhajan Singh, Kehar Singh, Munish Kumar, Shamsher and Tarsem Lal of Sath Kukhera village have appealed to the State Election Commission to set up a polling booth at the village keeping in view the hardships faced by the voters.“If the State Election Commission can set up a polling booth for the panchayat elections for merely 17 voters at Bara Bhangal in Baijnath, why a polling booth cannot be set up here for around 100 voters,” they question.Balwan Chand Mandotra, SDM, Fatehpur, said that the polling booth for voters of Sath Kuthera village had been notified at Barri village. He admitted that during the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, the voters had exercised their right to franchise in their village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fatehpur-villagers-demand-polling-booth-for-pri-elections-193654
05-01-2021||Solan||31,320 to  cast vote for MC poll on Jan 10||As many as 31,320 voters will exercise their right to franchise in three municipal committees (MCs) of Nalagarh, Baddi and Parwanoo and Arki nagar panchayat (NP) on January 10.Additional deputy commissioner AC Sharma said 133 nominations have been received for the three MCs of Parwanoo, Baddi and Nalagarh and NP at Arki.There were 7,503 voters in Nalagarh MC, 15,118 voters in Baddi MC, 6,530 voters in Parwanoo and 2,169 voters in Arki NP. As many as nine,14, nine and 7 polling booths have been set up respectively in Nalagarh, Baddi, Parwanoo and Arki NP.In Baddi MC 47 nominations have been received while in Nalagarh 41 have been received, in Parwanoo 25 and in Arki 20 nominations have been received for these polls. As many as 39 poll parties have been deputed to ensure fair polls in these civic bodies. Polling would be held on January 10 from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm and counting would begin soon after the polling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/31-320-to-cast-vote-for-mc-poll-on-jan-10-193655
05-01-2021||Our Correspondent||DC calls for career counselling of youth||Chamba, January 4Deputy Commissioner DC Rana emphasised the need for career counselling and awareness among students of the district. For the purpose, the youth should be guided by local officials of various departments in schools and colleges of all subdivisions.Rana gave these directions while presiding over a meeting of district-level skill development committee constituted under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) here today.He said for this, an action plan for skill development should prepared based on local demand, in addition to hydropower projects, road and other construction works, transport sector, electricians, plumbers, paragliding, river rafting, homestays, repair of agricultural equipment, beekeeping, tissue culture etc.Rana asked the employment department to organise employment fairs in the district in the forthcoming months so the youth trained in different skill development trades could be given placement for livelihood at their doorstep. He also stressed the need to create a database of skilled people.“The objective of this scheme is to enable a large number of youth to take up industry-relevant skill training that will help them in securing a better livelihood,” said Rana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-calls-for-career-counselling-of-youth-193656
05-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Several polluting units, no treatment plant at Nalagarh||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 4The State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) is yet to set up a common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for the Nalagarh industrial area which houses several red category industrial units considered highly polluting. This is despite the apex court directions to ensure the scientific disposal and treatment of hazardous waste generated by the units in all states.According to an estimate, about 11 million litres of effluent is generated in Nalagarh every day. It is treated in-house by the industry. On the other hand, the CETP at Baddi is barely treating about 15 to 18 mld waste as against its capacity of 25 mld. Despite operating below capacity ever since its inception in 2005-2006, the proposal to link it to the industry in Nalagarh has not materialised.Effluents dumped in water bodies“The proposal to send the effluent from the Nalagarh-based industry for treatment to the Baddi-based CETP had been deliberated upon. It was proposed to be collected through tankers as laying pipelines was not considered feasible. It has, however, not found favour with SPCB officials”, said an official of the CETP. Cases of the erring units dumping untreated toxic effluents into the water bodies come to the fore.Senior Environmental Engineer, SPCB, Praveen Gupta, said since the units were upgrading to zero discharge system where the waste water was recycled, a CETP would be of little use. He added that the officials swung into action whenever effluents were found dumped into a river and nullahs.“A coordinated approach between civic bodies and officials of the transport department and the police is required to check tankers dumping effluents into water bodies,” said Gupta. The Nalagarh industrial area continues to fall under the non-attainment category where the water quality is far from the laid down norms. Even the comprehensive environment protection index, which takes into account both air and water pollution parameters, continues to be adversely rated here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/several-polluting-units-no-treatment-plant-at-nalagarh-193657
05-01-2021||---||Shortage of urea in Shillai, Paonta exposes system||Solan, January 4Delay in the supply of urea in Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas of Sirmaur district for rabi crops like wheat has exposed the chinks in the system.“The supply of urea has been much less than the requirement for the last few months. As against the requirement of about 10,000 to 15,000 bags for the Paonta Sahib used last year barely 6,000 to 7,000 bags were available this year since November 15”, informed a field official of the Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing and Consumer’s FederationGrown over 26,700 hectares, the district produces 53,400 metric tonnes of wheat annually. The crop, which is sown from November 15 to December 15, is generally harvested in April and May.Supply much less than requirementThe supply of urea has been much less than the requirement for the past few months. As against the requirement of about 10,000 to 15,000 bags for Paonta Sahib used last year barely 6,000 to 7,000 bags were available this year since November 15. —Field official, hp state cooperative marketing and consumer’s federationThough HIMFED is state’s nodal agency for supplying fertilizers to the farmers, Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperatives Limited (IFFCO) has also been authorized to enroll cooperative societies for supplying fertilizers as well.“About 800 societies have been enrolled by the IFFCO in Himachal ever since its inception about two decades ago. A large number of farmers purchase fertilizers from them and in case their demand is not fulfilled, HIMFED fills the gap”, informed its managing director, KK Sharma.He added that the shortage of urea in the Paonta Sahib and Shillai areas was caused as the IFFCO failed to get the requisite allotment from the union government in time. They have, however, secured a rack of about 26,000 tonnes capacity and it would soon make available adequate urea to the farmers in Sirmaur.Sharma said a proposal to bring all fertilizer distribution under the ambit of HIMFED had been put before the state government. This will ensure that such shortages did not arise in the future. Though unforeseen circumstances like the disruption of rail traffic and farm agitation did pose some problems in supply but it was a temporary phase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-urea-in-shillai-paonta-exposes-system-193658
05-01-2021||Mandi||Candidates of 9 Kaza panchayats elected unopposed||The public representatives for elections to panchayati raj institutions under nine panchayats of Kaza block in Lahaul and Spiti district were elected unopposed yesterday.These panchayats are Losar, Hal, Kibber, Langcha, Dankhar, Lalung, Gue, Kungri and Sagnam. Additional District Magistrate Kaza Gyan Sagar Negi said due to mutual understating of people in these panchayats, representatives for the posts of pradhan, vice-pradhan and ward members of gram panchayats were elected unanimously. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/candidates-of-9-kaza-panchayats-elected-unopposed-193659
05-01-2021||Shimla||MC to allot parking lots, shops by open bidding||The Shimla Municipal Corporation has decided to allocate its parking lots for a period of two years through open bidding. As many as 16 parking lots are up for grabs, with 12 falling in domestic category and four in commercial. The bidding will take place on January 6 at 12 noon at Metropol car parking.Besides, the MC will also allot shops and stalls built by it across the city thorough open bidding for a period of ten years on January 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-to-allot-parking-lots-shops-by-open-bidding-193660
05-01-2021||---||Government hoardings in heritage zone violate norms: CPM||Shimla, January 4The CPM has objected to the state government putting up its promotional hoardings on The Ridge and The Mall Road commemorating its three years in office. While there are two giant hoardings of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at The Ridge proclaiming three years of good governance, there’s an equally big billboard of BJP state president Suresh Kashyap on The Mall Road congratulating people on the government completing three years in office.“The government’s action is regrettable as it violates not only the heritage zone regulations but also the High Court orders banning the use of hoardings in the heritage zone,” said CPM leader and former Shimla Mayor Sanjay Chauhan. “A hoarding of the Chief Minister has been put up at the State Library, which is a heritage building,” said Chauhan. He slammed the Municipal Corporation, too, for allowing these hoardings in the heritage zone.However, Mayor Satya Kaundal said, “What’s the big deal if some hoardings have been put up? The government has done so much development in these three years. What’s wrong in conveying its achievements to the public?”Chauhan said, “If the MC does not remove these billboards immediately, we will go to court and also mobilise people for an agitation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-hoardings-in-heritage-zone-violate-norms-cpm-193661
05-01-2021||Shimla||Minor sexually assaulted by kin||A 15-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by her brother-in-law in Theog subdivision of Shimla district.As per the complaint, she had visited her sister’s house in Theog on January 2. During the day, when her sister was away to the town for some work, her brother-in-law allegedly sexually assaulted her.The victim told her family members, following which they approached the police and a case was registered under Section 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of POCSO Act. The accused has been arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-sexually-assaulted-by-kin-193662
05-01-2021||---||Soon, BJP offices in all districts: Khanna||Shimla, January 4Three Ks – karyalay (office), karykarta (worker) and karykram (programme) — plays a vital role in building an organisation, said state BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna.He said the BJP would soon have its district offices in all 17 organisational districts and the BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda had inaugurated six.These offices would be well-equipped with the latest technologies, meeting hall and equipment.This would give a big boost to the organisation, he added. Without workers, a political party was nothing on ground. He said in HP, all workers were energetic and results of the upcoming panchayat elections would be a reflection of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-bjp-offices-in-all-districts-khanna-193663
05-01-2021||On the road leading to the Mall Road from the Sabji Mandi||Filthy steps an eyesore||Shift bus stand: ResidentsRESIDENTS of Avahadevi market in the Sarkaghat Assembly segment have been urging the state government to shift the local bus stand from the market area to other place. Due to the lack of adequate parking place at Avahadevi market, it causes traffic chaos. The state government should shift the bus stand to some other place. — Amar Singh, SarkaghatWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/filthy-steps-an-eyesore-193666
05-01-2021||---||122 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, January 4With 122 new cases being reported today, the total number of Covid cases in Himachal has reached 55,808.Besides, two positive persons have succumbed to the virus in the state in the last 24 hours.One person each died in Kangra and Shimla, taking the total deaths in the state due to the infection to 934.The highest number of 28 cases were reported in Solan district, followed by 15 each in Shimla, Hamirpur and Kangra, 14 in Sirmaur, 13 in Mandi, eight in Bilaspur, four each in Una and Chamba, three in Kullu, two in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul and Spiti district.With this, the total number of active cases was 1,646, out of the total of 55,808 positive cases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/122-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-193668
05-01-2021|| NSUI state secretary Rajat Rana has demanded that youth be given a relaxation of one year in age while applying for jobs and recruitments. Giving a memorandum to the Governor through the Kangra DC||Give age relaxation to youth||Awards for 6 Shoolini varsity facultySix faculty members of Shoolini University have been awarded outstanding research achievement award amounting to Rs 10 lakh. The awardees include Dr Amrit Pal Singh, Assistant Professor from Advanced School of Chemical Sciences, along with his research collaborators at Linkoping University, Sweden, who have identified an organic polymer that can possibly replace expensive platinum in hydrogen fuel cells. This work was published in journal "Advanced Energy Materials" with impact factor of 26. Dr Gaurav Sharma, Associate Professor from Advanced School of Chemical Sciences, has also been shortlisted as one of the highly cited researchers in the list published by Web of Science. He has also been given the cash award for his achievement.Applications for online counsellingThe post basic BSc nursing students, whose name figure in the merit list released on December 28, can apply for online counselling up to January 15. The aspirants need to visit the university website or the State Bank of India website to apply for counselling. The first list of college and category-wise allocation will be released on January 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-age-relaxation-to-youth-193674
05-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Avian flu killing migratory birds in Pong dam||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 4Avian flu has killed over 1,700 aquatic migratory birds in Pong Dam wetland. As per the reports received by the district administration from Jalandhar and Palampur, avian flu has caused deaths of aquatic birds in Pong Dam lake in the last few days.After the report was received the district administration today declared 1 km area from the Pong Dam lake as a red zone to contain the spread of virus in poultry birds and humans.As per directives of district administration Kangra in red zone declared around Pong Dam, no human and domestic livestock activities shall be allowed in and around 1 km periphery of Pong Dam Reservoir till further orders.Next 9 km of alert zone will be under surveillance zone where all departments shall keep vigil and watch. All tourist activities shall be suspended in Pong Dam reservoir till further order.Anyone violating the order shall be prosecuted under Section 188, 269, and 270 of the IPC.The deputy commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati when contacted admitted that it has been confirmed that the bird deaths have been caused by avian flu. However, the type of flu that has causes death would be confirmed after the reporters are received from Bhopal tomorrow.The district authorities of Kangra have banned sale of poultry products in all Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions of Kangra district. All these sub divisions lie along he Pong Dam lake. In the last few days more 1,700 migratory birds have died along the lake.The deputy commissioner said as precaution sale of poultry products as eggs and poultry meat has been banned in Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions.'If avian flu spreads in poultry we might have to cull the poultry birds also. Besides the migratory birds there have been reports that some local birds like crows have been found dead in Pong Dam wetland area,” he said.Read also: Bird flu outbreak in two Kerala districtsAs per centre for disease prevention government of India, Avian flu or influenza refers to the disease caused by infection with avian influenza viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and animal species. Avian flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However, sporadic human infections with avian flu viruses have occurred.Avian influenza A viruses are very contagious among birds and some of these viruses can sicken and even kill certain domesticated bird species, including chickens, ducks, and turkeys. Infected bids can shed avian influenza A viruses in their saliva, nasal secretions, and faeces. Susceptible birds become infected when they have contact with the virus as it is shed by infected birds. They also can become infected through contact with surfaces that are contaminated with virus from infected birds.The centre disease prevention site also states that although avian influenza A viruses usually do not infect people, rare cases of human infection with these viruses have been reported. Infected birds shed avian influenza virus in their saliva, mucous and faeces. Human infections with bird flu viruses can happen when enough virus gets into a person’s eyes, nose or mouth, or is inhaled. This can happen when virus is in the air (in droplets or possibly dust) and a person breathes it in, or when a person touches something that has virus on it then touches their mouth, eyes or nose. Rare human infections with some avian viruses have occurred most often after unprotected contact with infected birds or surfaces contaminated with avian influenza viruses. Illness in people has ranged from mild to severe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avian-flu-killing-migratory-birds-in-pong-dam-193602
05-01-2021||---||Migratory birds’ death: Pong area declared alert zone||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR, JANUARY 3The toll of migratory birds in the Pong wetland in lower Kangra district has touched 1,700 today. The cause of the deaths of the winged visitors is yet to be ascertained by the Wildlife authorities, but their mysterious death due to an epidemic likely has set the alarm bells ringing among the locals, bird lovers and environmentalists. The dead birds are of 15 species.Taking a serious note of the death surge, the Kangra administration has restricted fishing, tourism, movement of livestock and human beings in the Pong area.In an order issued by Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati last evening, the one-km radius of the wetland has been declared an alert zone where all activities have been banned. The 9-km radius has been declared a surveillance zone where government departments will keep a strict vigil. The additional police force has also been deployed to enforce the orders.Nine teams comprising 50 employees of the Wildlife Department wearing PPE kits have been deployed around the wetland for counting and identifying the dead birds and their disposal in a scientific way.The Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Wildlife, Hamirpur, Rahul M Rahane, who has been monitoring the exercise for the past one week, told The Tribune that the samples of the dead birds had been sent to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar, the Virology and Physical Laboratory, Bareilly, and the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for ascertaining the cause of the migratory birds’ death. “The NIHSAD will prepare a detailed report to confirm the disease that has resulted in the death of winged visitors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/migratory-birds-death-pong-area-declared-alert-zone-193362
