07-01-2021||Shimla||After struggling for survival, Himachal tourism industry in revival phase following removal of curbs and night curfew||The tourism industry which struggled for survival due to COVID-19 pandemic lockdown for nearly eight months is in the revival phase following lifting of curbs and night curfew in four districts and hoteliers are upbeat after surge in tourist inflow during Christmas and New Year.Occupancy in hotels was nearly 90 per cent during Christmas and all hotels in state capital Shimla were packed to capacity on New Year’s Eve and snowfall towards end of the year also contributed to surge in tourist inflow.The hoteliers are upbeat as the occupancy was 60 to 70 per cent in spite of the fact that snowfall eluded the capital, said president of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood adding that “lifting of night curfew and opening of shops on Sundays, provided much needed breather to tourism industry and we are expecting good business in coming days and hopefully forget the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown as a nightmare”.Meanwhile, the inter-state Volvo buses which were suspended due to ongoing pandemic resumed today after ten months and the hoteliers are optimistic that snowfall in the coming days would further increase the tourist inflow.Large number of tourists who have thronged Shimla and adjoining areas are also enjoying the chilly weather but touts of hotels are creating nuisance and chasing the tourists.“We were taken for a ride by the touts who claimed to provide rooms in four star hotels with parking but when we reached the destination it turned out to be a lie,” said Jaipdeep, a tourist from Delhi.Tourists should make advance booking online and directly walk into the hotels and not fall in the trap of touts, who take the tourists to the hotels of their choice and fleece them, he cautioned.About 1.5 lakh vehicles crossed (to and fro) Shimla from December 25, 2020 to January 5, 2020 and accommodating such huge tourist inflow became a daunting task for 450 police personnel deployed for traffic management in the town as all parking lots were full and roads were chocked.The need for more parking lots at the entry point near Shoghi, better transport and shuttle service and expediting construction of rope way near New ISBT was felt.During unlock phases, the state government had allowed the hotels to open but stringent conditions like negative COVID-19 report, minimum five days booking in hotels, fifty per cent occupancy, night curfew and closure of markets on Sundays played spoilsport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-struggling-for-survival-himachal-tourism-industry-in-revival-phase-following-removal-of-curbs-and-night-curfew-195132
07-01-2021||Shimla||Keylong, Kalpa, Manali in Himachal Pradesh shiver at sub-zero temperature||Keylong, Kalpa and Manali in Himachal Pradesh shivered at sub-zero temperatures as the mercury dropped by three to four notches after recent snowfall in the state, the meteorological department said on Thursday.  Keylong received 15 cm snowfall in the last 24 hours, followed by Kalpa (6 cm) and Pooh and Kothi (5 cm each), Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.       Besides some other parts, including Reckong Peo (23 mm), Nadaun (13 mm), Dalhousie (12 mm), Dharamshala (11.8 mm), Manali (9 mm) and Chamba (8 mm) witnessed light rain in the last 24 hours, he added.The tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 11.6 degrees Celsius, Singh said.               Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Manali in Kullu district recorded a low of minus 5 and minus 1.2 degrees Celsius respectively, he added.             The minimum temperature at Dalhousie and Kufri was 2.9 and 3.3 degrees Celsius respectively.     Shimla registered a low of 3.9 degrees Celsius, Singh added.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Bilaspur at 20.5 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature rose by one to two notches with the highest temperature in the state in Bilaspur at 22.5 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-kalpa-manali-in-himachal-pradesh-shiver-at-sub-zero-temperature-195108
07-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Migratory birds at Pong wetland started dying two months ago, claim villagers||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 7The mortality in migratory birds in Pong Dam lake due to avian flu started two months ago, claim residents of Sugnara village. Besides, the virus has also travelled in local population of birds as jungle fowl, mynah and crows and caused their mortality.Sugnara village is located right on the banks of Pong Dam lake and many residents are fishermen who catch fish from the lake.When The Tribune team visited the village today the villagers alleged that besides the migratory birds many local varieties of birds, including jungle fowl, crows and mynah, were also dying mysteriously.Pardeep Kumar, a villager who is also fisherman, said he started noticing dead birds in lake about two months ago. About 20 days ago they started dying in large numbers and could be seen floating dead on the lake surface. “I had 50 hen out of which 45 died about 20 days ago,” he said.When asked how he disposed his dead hen, Pardeep Kumar said he buried them.Joginder Pal, another resident of Sugnara, said he started noticing dead ‘Mugabis’ (bar-headed geese) in Pong Dam lake 25 days ago when he went for fishing. Thereafter local birds like crows and mynahs also started dying. Joginder alleged that two of his goats have also died and he suspected that they might have died due to avian flu. “I am going to a veterinary doctor today to get my goat checked,” he said.There was panic and despair in residents of villages located on the banks of Pong Dam lake. On one hand, they faced health risk, on the other hand they lost their livelihood due to a ban on fishing.Chief Conservator wildlife, Dharamsala, Upsana Patial when asked about the claims of villages that migratory birds started dying two months ago, said they first noticed death of migratory birds on December 28. Immediately the district authorities were informed about the spread of epidemic, she said.About the claims of villagers, she said earlier deaths might have been due to natural causes. About the death of local birds and hen, she said it was for the animal husbandry department to look into the matter.The toll of migratory birds as of today has gone up to 3,410. All precautions are being taken to contain the spread by immediate disposal of dead birds, she said.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said teams of animal husbandry department have been asked to visit Sugnara village and verify the claims of villagers. All steps were being taken to contain the spread of virus, he said.In another incident a dead pigeon was found in residence of BJP MP from Kangra, Kishan Kapoor. A team of animal husbandry department went and collected the dead pigeon. A team of Dharamsala MC also reached the residence of MP and sanitised his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/migratory-birds-at-pong-wetland-started-dying-two-months-ago-claim-villagers-195102
07-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Dead chicks found dumped on Parwanoo-Solan highway for second day||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 7In an act of utter negligence, 250-300 dead white chicks were found dumped near Chakki Ka Mor on the Parwanoo-Solan national highway for second consecutive day on Thursday.Since avian flu has been detected as the cause of bird mortality in Pong wetland, the incident has created a scare among the residents. This callous act can trigger disease outbreak in case the chicks were found infected with avian flu.Preliminary inquiries indicate that the dead birds were dumped near Chakki ka Mor in a nullah at night. This was despite the fact that the police had been instructed to maintain strict surveillance at the inter-state borders over vehicles carrying dead or sick birds. The chicks were packed in gunny bags in order to avoid detection at the inter-state barrier.The miscreants appear to be conversant with the area as they dumped them short of the excise and taxation barrier erected at Chakki ka Mor as their mischief could have been detected. Officials opine that it appears to be the handiwork of habitual offenders as they had dumped dead chicks last year too near Jabli.The officials of the animal husbandry department rushed to the spot to lift samples and also dispose the dead birds as per health and safety protocol, said deputy director Dr BB Gupta.“The samples have been sent to Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab to ascertain the cause of mortality. Though a report should be received within 48 hours, given the rush of samples at the lab which caters to the entire region, it could take more time,” Dr Gupta added.The dead birds were buried in deep pits and the site was thoroughly sanitised.Dr Gupta said an FIR has been registered against the miscreants. A case under Section 269 and 270 of the IPC has been registered at Parwanoo for a negligent act likely to spread infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dead-chicks-found-dumped-on-parwanoo-solan-highway-for-second-day-195071
07-01-2021||---||Bird flu scare in Himachal's Bilaspur||Shimla, January 6Death of over 50 crows at Jamthal village in Bilaspur district today sparked fears of bird flu outbreak in the Gobindsagar lake area. Samples of dead crows have been sent for testing. Dr Lal Gopal, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Bilaspur, said the agencies concerned were already on alert.Rural Development and Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar said there were five poultry farms in Jwali, Fatehpur, Indoar and Nurpur areas of Kangra. In case, bird flu virus was detected in the samples, the entire poultry stock would have to be culled, he said.The Animal Husbandry Department, along with other departments concerned, has constituted 17 teams to keep a check on the quality of poultry being brought into the state from the Bilaspur border.Meanwhile, rapid response teams (RRT) have been pressed into service for the collection and safe disposal of dead birds in the Pong area where the outbreak of bird flu has been confirmed through lab reports. In all, 2,736 migratory birds have died in the Pong area so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bird-flu-scare-in-himachals-bilaspur-194937
07-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||NGT orders closure of non-compliant units||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 6The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) to close the industrial units, which discharge waste for which the Baddi-based common effluent treatment plant (CETP) is not designed, until such units make their own arrangements for treating effluent.DirectionsThe tribunal, on January 4, also directed the board to undertake water audit of the red category non-compliant industrial units. It further stated that the units, having effluent generation of more than 200 kilo litre per day, might be directed to treat the effluent and recycle or reuse the maximum effluent and reduce the fixed dissolved solids (FDS).The working of the CETP at Baddi has again come under the scanner with the NGT further pointing out that the plant had still not complied with the environmental norms for which remedial action needed to be taken by the SPCB.Around 80 units in Baddi are highly polluting. These emit effluent having high FDS for which the CETP is not designed. The CETP management has also been directed to construct a pipeline to increase the connectivity for an additional 5.8 km.Adopting a stern posture on such units, the tribunal stated that the number of industries, which sent effluent to the plant for disposal, might be considered non-compliant, if these do not undertake primary treatment.The NGT further directed units to make their own arrangement for treating their effluent to reduce the load of inlet in the CETP.At an average, 17 million litres of effluent is treated by the CETP daily and 449 industries are sending their effluent to it. Four textile units have already been directed to close their dyeing units and a penalty of Rs 1.86 crore has been levied on these for various violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-orders-closure-of-non-compliant-units-194810
07-01-2021||---||Two Rohtak youths die in accident near Narkanda||Shimla, January 6Two tourists, both residents of Rurki in Rohtak district from Haryana, were killed as their vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a gorge near Narkanda last night.Preliminary investigations revealed that the slippery conditions on the road following snowfall led to the accident.The deceased have been identified as Ashish (25), son of Ram Rattan, and Naveen (28), son of Vijender, both belonged to Rurki village in Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-rohtak-youths-die-in-accident-near-narkanda-194811
07-01-2021||---||Parwanoo industrial unit devastated in fire||Solan, January 6Huge loss was suffered by a Parwanoo-based industrial unit in a massive fire which erupted in its store last night around 10:19 pm.Firemen were pressed into service to douse the flames which spread quickly due to the presence of inflammable material to other areas of the unit. The industrial unit manufactures wrappers for soaps and uses inflammable material and chemicals like metalized polyester films, polypropylene film, aluminum foil solvent, printing cylinder paper code cable, ink, etc., which were housed in the store.Commandant, Home Guards Dr Shiv Kumar Sharma said four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire as the fire-fighting operation continued till 12:30 pm this afternoon.“The unit had a valid NOC for fire fighting but since fire led to disruption of the power supply it rendered the equipment ineffective. The staff too lacked training to operate the equipment which further delayed fire-fighting operations”, said Sharma. He added that goods worth Rs 5 crore were saved by the efforts of the fire staff.The prolonged fire-fighting operations continued. Fire-fighting foam was arranged and fire was finally doused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parwanoo-industrial-unit-devastated-in-fire-194812
07-01-2021||Our Correspondent||One booked for rape, blackmail||NURPUR, JANUARY 6Following a complaint by a woman (25) of a nearby village, the Nurpur police registered a case against Balwinder Singh of Suliali last evening.The police said the accused, after allegedly trapping the woman, had raped her on December 28. He also allegedly took some photographs of her, which he used to blackmail and threaten her with the intention of taking away her jewellery.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 376, 506 and 385 of the IPC against the accused.Sub Divisional Police Officer, Nurpur, Ashok Ratan said the medical examination of the victim had been conducted and her statement had been recorded before the Judicial Magistrate on Wednesday under Section 164 of the CrPC.He said further investigations had been started and a police team had been dispatched to arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-booked-for-rape-blackmail-194813
07-01-2021||---||Himachal CM celebrates 56th birthday||Shimla, January 6 The 56th birthday of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was celebrated with great zeal and enthusiasm here today. People from all walks of life gathered at his official residence Oak Over and wished him healthy and long life. Wife of Chief Minister and Chairperson, State Red Cross Hospital Welfare Section, Dr Sadhna Thakur was also present. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Union Ministers, Chief Ministers of various states telephonically wished the Chief Minister a happy and prosperous birthday. Ministers, State BJP President and MP Suresh Kashyap, MLAs, Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen of various Boards and Corporations, senior Civil and Police officers and people from all over the State were present. Chief Minister planted a sapling of Rudraksh at his official residence Oak Over.  He also launched the wall calendar 2021 of the Forest Department, the theme of which is to highlight the scenic beauty of forests of the state and table calendar on the theme of spreading awareness about medicinal plants of the state. Jai Ram Thakur was presented the State Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation  action plan under which there is Rs 102 crore plan to be implemented in five years. The Chief Minister also unveiled a book titled “Leadership in Forest Management” written by Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Force) Dr Savita. The book focuses on the essential ingredients of leadership in the context of a multifaceted discipline like forestry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-celebrates-56th-birthday-194814
07-01-2021||Solan||33 gram panchayats elected unopposed||As many as 33 of the 259 gram panchayats (GPs) in Sirmaur district have been elected unopposed. DC, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said 10 GPs each were elected unopposed in Shillai and Paonta Sahib blocks while five each were elected in Rajgarh and Sangarh, two in Pacchad and one in Nahan block.  Apart from this, 21 of the 120 panchayat samiti ward members were also elected unopposed in the six panchayat samitis. As many as 292 candidates are in the fray for the remaining seats. No unanimity, however, arrived at between the candidates for 17 zila parishad wards where 47 candidates were in the fray.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/33-gram-panchayats-elected-unopposed-194815
07-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Death count rising, red alert sounded||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 6Mortality among migratory birds is rising in Pong Dam lake area due to avian flu even as wildlife officials of the state are trying to contain the spread of epidemic among local poultry. The number of birds killed due to avian flu in Pong Dam lake has gone up to 3,055.What is worrying the authorities is the death of about 12 crows in the Fatehpur area along the Pong Dam lake. The death of crows has raised apprehensions that avian flu might have spread to local birds also. The samples of dead crows have been sent to a Bhopal laboratory.Minister for Forests Rakesh Pathania said a red alert had been issued in the state and wildlife and forest officials had been asked to keep vigil at all lakes and ponds that receive migratory birds in the winter.The Wildlife Department has pressed 10 teams into service to gather the dying migratory birds and dispose them of in a scientific manner. The wildlife officials wearing PPE kits are gathering the dead birds and burning them in pits.Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) Himachal Archana Sharma, who surveyed the Pong Dam lake area today, said that emphasis of the department was on containing the spread of flu among local birds. Therefore, the efforts were on to dispose of the dead birds as quickly as possible.Archana said that 90 per cent of dead birds are bar-headed geese. The remaining 10 per cent birds are common pochard and grey-legged geese that stay near banks of Pong Dam lake. About the origin of avian flu, she said that nothing could be said as of now. The aquatic birds generally carry this virus in them but what caused fatality could only be said after a scientific report was received.The Pong Dam lake receives the largest flock of bar-headed geese in winter in the entire world. In 2015 over 70,000 species of the birds were recorded in the lake. This year till December over 25,000 bar-headed geese had arrived in Pong Dam lake. The authorities are apprehending that the avian flu might have been transported to Pong Dam lake by the bar-headed geese that travel here from cold deserts of Mangolia and Tibet.There was panic among people living along the Pong Dam lake after the outbreak of avian flu. The people are alleging that stray dogs were feeding on dead birds that might bring virus to their residential areas. Many water supply schemes in Dehra area are located on the banks of Pong Dam lake. The people are scared that their water resources might get infected. The IPH Department has taken samples of water from the schemes located near lake.Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati said that a team of wildlife experts had collected samples of the dead birds. It would conduct a detailed study to find out the cause of deaths. He said that strict orders had been given to restrict all kinds of movement in one-km periphery of the Pong Dam lake.PCCF visits Pong Dam||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/death-count-rising-red-alert-sounded-194816
07-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Dead chicks dumped along Solan highway create scare||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 6About 500 white dead chicks found dumped near Chakki Ka Mor on the Parwanoo-Solan national highway created a scare among the locals this morning.The police swung into action after receiving information from the locals.SDM, Kasauli, Sanjeev Dhiman, said a team of officials from the Animal Husbandry, PWD, forest and police departments visited the spot and lifted the samples of dead birds.He said an FIR would be lodged to identify and punish those who had dumped these chicks. Vigil had been stepped up along the highway.Since poultry items from Haryana and Punjab enter the state through this highway, the probability of outsiders having dumped the dead poultry couldn’t be ruled out.Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Dr BB Gupta, who visited the spot, said the samples had been sent to Jalandhar’s Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab. The area was sanitised, as per the health and safety protocol.“It appears that the dead chicks were dumped by miscreants from other states as no white chicks were there in the area,” he said.“Rapid response teams comprising animal husbandry officials have been constituted at the sub-divisional and district levels. Helpline numbers are being made public so that any incident of mass bird mortality could be reported for immediate action,” added Gupta.A high alert had been sounded and surveillance stepped up. If any avian death occurs due to this flu, an alert would be sounded within one-km area and culling of birds be undertaken within a 10-km radius, he said.Solan SP Abhishek Yadav said vigil had been stepped up at the inter-state barriers at Parwanoo to ensure that no dead birds were dumped in the area.Samples sent to diagnostic lab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dead-chicks-dumped-along-solan-highway-create-scare-194817
07-01-2021||Shimla||105 found infected, 2 deaths in state||As many as 105 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the total tally to 56,015. Besides, two persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/105-found-infected-2-deaths-in-state-194818
07-01-2021||Shimla||Prefabricated Covid hospital inaugurated||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated a 18-bed prefabricated Covid hospital at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, besides dedicating e-clinic, e-court evidence, video conferencing and telemedicine facilities to the people of the state.He also inaugurated a blood donation camp where 75 units of blood were donated. He presented sweaters to the blood donors.Thakur honoured incharge of Lok Kalyan Samiti Rajesh Saraswati and his associates for rendering their services for the cremation of those who died of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prefabricated-covid-hospital-inaugurated-194819
07-01-2021||Dipender Manta||Avalanche near Atal Tunnel blocks Manali-Leh highway||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 6Heavy snowfall crippled normal life in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district today. A snow avalanche occurred near the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway but no loss of life and damage to property was reported.Due to heavy snowfall in the region yesterday, the threat of snow avalanche had been looming on the Manali-Leh highway between the Solang valley and Keylong in the Lahaul valley.  100-m stretch hit According to sources in the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), a snow avalanche has covered 100-metre stretch of the highway near the South portal of the Atal tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway. (MSP-12). The snow avalanche was 265 cm high, which blocked the highway completely even for emergency vehicles between Manali and Keylong.The BRO authorities have pressed into service its workforce and machinery to clear the highway for traffic movement.According to the report of the District Disaster Management Authority, Lahaul and Spiti, 35.65 cm of fresh snowfall was reported at Sissu, while at Jispa it was heavier at 38.01 cm. In Udaipur 10.16 cm of snow was reported during the day.Due to the snowfall, traffic movement in Lahaul and Spiti came to a standstill. The residents of the Lahaul valley were cut off from the rest of the state after the road beyond the Solang valley towards Lahaul was blocked.The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE), Manali, has issued an avalanche alert in parts of Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti in the coming days. As a result, the deputy commissioners of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti have issued an advisory for common public to avoid venturing into snowbound areas.The movement of tourists has been restricted towards the Solang valley from Manali beyond Nehru Kund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avalanche-near-atal-tunnel-blocks-manali-leh-highway-194820
07-01-2021||---||Fresh snow, rain lash Himachal; 205 roads blocked||Shimla, January 7The tribal areas and other higher hills of the state received fresh snowfall while lower and middle hills witnessed widespread rains disrupting normal life. As many as 205 roads were closed due to heavy snow in the state.The minimum and maximum temperatures rose marginally even as the sky remained heavily overcast and icy winds, accompanied by showers, blew across the region. The local Met office has warned of dense fog at isolated places in lower and middle hills in Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi districts till January 9 and predicted rain and snow at isolated places in middle and high hills on January 8, followed by dry weather.As many as 140 roads were closed in Shimla zone, 38 in Kangra zone and 23 in Mandi zone and men and machinery have been deployed for clearing them. About 120 roads are expected to be opened tomorrow while the remaining 85 roads would be cleared later, sources in the PWD said.Kalpa in the tribal Kinnaur district received 77 cm of snow while Kothi, Khadrala and Keylong recorded 35 cm, 28 cm and 20 cm of snow, followed by Udaipur with 17 cm, Pooh 15 cm , Kufri 12 cm and Reckong Peo 5 cm.Manali was the wettest with 52 mm of rains while Dalhousie and Ghumarwin recorded 48 mm and 46 mm of rains, followed by Sangrah 35 mm, Wangtoo 32 mm, Sarahan 31 mm, Bangana 30 mm, Kotkhai, Bharari and Kasol 27 mm each, Seobagh and Jubbal 25 mm each, Kandaghat 24 mm, Reckong Peo and Karsog 23 mm each, Una 21 mm, Saloni, Baijnath and Jatton Barrage 22 mm each, Bajura, Rampur, and Nahan 19 mm, Dharamsala, Shimla ,Banjar, Narkanda, and Morang 18 mm, Kumarsein and Solan 17 mm each, Palampur, Jogindernagar and Baldwara 16 mm each, Sujanpur Tira 15 mm, Naina Devi 14 mm each, Dharampur, Berthin and Paonta Sahib 13 mm each, Gohar, Jubbar Hatti and Nadaun 12 mm each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snow-rain-lash-himachal-205-roads-blocked-194821
07-01-2021||Dipender Manta ---||Manali youths rescue 1K stranded tourists||Tribune News Service Mandi, January 6 Youths of Manali and nearby villages, along with the police, have rescued the stranded tourists from the Solang valley. Over 1,000 tourists were stranded last night between Solang and Palchan when a heavy snowfall occurred in the area. As a result, the road became slippery and vehicles started to skid off the road. When the Manali  youths Suresh Rana, Jony Singh, Chandan Sharma, Hitesh Sharma, Vishal, Veer Thakur, Manoj Malhotra, Vikas Kohli and Anmol came to know about it, they rushed to the Solang valley and rescued them. Most of the youths had 4x4 vehicles, which are safe for driving on snowy roads.  Suresh Rana and Jony Singh said the rescue operation continued throughout the night with the help of the police. In the past, too, the youths had played a key role in rescuing the stranded tourists from Rohtang. The Kullu police also did a commendable job. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Raman Gharsanghi also appreciated the youths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-youths-rescue-1k-stranded-tourists-194822
07-01-2021||Shimla||SJPNL told to issue monthly water bills, says minister||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today directed officials to solve water billing issues and give relief to the people of Shimla. He said that the billing should be on monthly basis. “The SJPNL has been directed to issue monthly bills. I have also asked the SJPNL to devise an effective grievance redress system that will be reviewed from time to time,” said Bhardwaj adding that people could pay their previous bills in installments. Bhardwaj held a meeting of Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) here today to review the proposed bulk water supply scheme to Shimla from Sutlej river at Shakrodi, implementation of continuous pressurized water supply in Shimla and sewerage system for Shimla town.  He also enquired about the details of the ongoing World Bank project. The bulk water supply project for Shimla from Sutlej amounting to Rs 422 crore was also discussed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjpnl-told-to-issue-monthly-water-bills-says-minister-194823
07-01-2021||---||New apps for MLAs, citizens||Shimla, January 6  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today launched three apps to facilitate MLAs, citizens and visitors to the front office at the CM Office in Shimla. He said, “The Vidhayak e-Mitra Seva will provide MLAs online service on the mobile app Shikhar ki or Himachal.” He said the app would help MLAs in effectively monitoring and following up projects being implemented in their respective constituencies. He said with this app, the MLAs would not have to visit various offices frequently for getting works done. All these softwares had been developed by the National Informatics Centre, Shimla. The Chief Minister said that another app launched today was a ‘Visitor Management Software’ for citizens and people who want to take appointment from the CM. Thakur said the MLA dashboard or Constituency Monitoring Dashboard would provide update of constituencies to MLAs related to developmental works, priorities, problems of citizens, references given to CM, details of beneficiaries of various schemes of the state government, development works of different schemes related to their constituencies at a click of button. A workshop and presentation will be held to acquaint MLAs with these apps. He urged MLAs to make the maximum use of technology for development of their areas. Later, the CM launched MyGov Himachal Digital News Letter. This monthly newsletter would carry information and write-ups regarding various policies, programmes and schemes of the state government and would be available on various platforms of social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-apps-for-mlas-citizens-194824
07-01-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Avian flu hits livelihood of 2K fishermen, poultry farmers||Tribune News Service  Dharamsala, January 6 Avian flu that has killed about 2,700 birds in the Pong Dam lake in Kangra district has also hit the livelihood of about 2,000 fisherman and poultry farmers of the region. After it was confirmed that it was avian flu H5N1 virus that was killing migratory birds, the district administration has banned all activities in 1-km periphery of the lake. The fishermen were asked to remove their nets from the lake area and all meat shops in four subdivisions of the district — Dehra, Fatehpur, Indora and Jawali — were closed down till further orders. Rakesh Kumar, a fisherman of Dehra, said, “Winter is the peak earning season for us. The demand for fish is more during this season and we get high prices for our catch. However, now that fishing has been banned in the Pong Dam lake, our livelihood will be hit badly”.  Sources said there are five fishing societies in the lake area each having over 300 members. Locals, who were members of the fishing societies, catch fish from the lake and sell it in fishing societies to traders from Punjab. Many families, which lost their lands to the construction of the lake, were now engaged in catching fish. Now, due to the avian flu threat, these fishermen were likely to lose their livelihood. Similar is the plight of poultry farmers. Naresh Sharma, a poultry farmer from Nagrota, said the demand for poultry products had come to a naught since the avian flu news spread in the region.  Ajay Mahajan, district president of the Congress, told The Tribune that the government should compensate fishermen and poultry farmers of the lake area for the loss of livelihood.   Rakesh Prajapati, DC, Kangra, said measures to ban the sale of meat and other activities in the lake area had been taken to prevent the spread of avian flu in humans. Asked about the financial losses to fishermen and poultry farmers, he said their grievances would be conveyed to the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avian-flu-hits-livelihood-of-2k-fishermen-poultry-farmers-194825
07-01-2021||---||Himachal CM talks to students on exam stress||Shimla, January 6Students must take examinations as a process to evaluate themselves and not as a burden, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while interacting with students through video-conferencing here on his birthday today.He said, “The examinations are a process to evaluate and assess the progress of students. However, it brings along stress, anxiety and fear among the students to fair well and attain good marks. A student needs to be prepared for the examinations beforehand to beat stress”.He urged the students to work with dedication to make their dreams come true. He told them to always respect their parents and teachers, as they were the real architects of their lives and careers. He said that there was no shortcut to success.The Chief Minister advised the students to be more careful during the pandemic. He said that coronavirus had adversely affected our lifestyles. The state government took several initiatives to ensure that the studies of the students did not suffer due to the pandemic. He added that there was no substitute for off-line classes, but online classes proved a boon to the students during this period.He said that the government had started ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ to ensure online classes were organised. He added that an optimum use of Doordarshan was also ensured to teach the students. As many as 2,000 students from different schools of the state participated in the interactive session.Bhawana Dhiman, a student from Bilaspur, said coronavirus had forced students to remain indoors. She urged the Chief Minister to start offline classes for at least two months before the examinations. Karun Kumar, a student from Chamba, suggested to the Chief Minister to provide adequate staff in government schools, particularly in remote areas of the state, while Neha Bhardwaj from Hamirpur said that doubt clearing sessions should be conducted every week under the ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-talks-to-students-on-exam-stress-194826
07-01-2021||The menace of stray dogs continues unabated in Shimla. These canines can even be seen at the Takka Bench on The Ridge||Stray dogs at tourists spots||Mayank, Tourist from DelhiMonkey scare continuesThe rising population of monkeys in the urban areas has made it difficult for the elderly to bask in the sun. Packs of monkeys not only hound those sitting outside but also attack children and elderly many times. The government has found no solution to this burning problem despite its tall claims.— Raj, SolanIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dogs-at-tourists-spots-194833
07-01-2021||The Yogananda Centre of Theology and Sri Sri Paramahansa Yogananda Gallery was inaugurated at the Shoolini University in Solan to commemorate the 128th birth anniversary of the yogi. His statue was also installed at the Yogananda Centre of Theology. The centre was inaugurated during a virtual event by Swami Smaranananda Giri||Varsity opens Theology Centre||Discussion held on pandemicIssues like the Covid-19 pandemic and Har Ghar Pathshala were discussed during a virtual programme organised in Government Model Senior Secondary School (Girls), Nurpur. Sixteen meritorious topper students from different streams joined the conversation through online media. Emphasis was laid on the implementation of the New Education Policy, need for government coaching cells and their benefits for bright students from government schools.Badminton tourney on January 12The Shimla district unit of the ABVP will organise a badminton championship on January 12 to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, which is observed as the National Youth Day. The competition would be held in the auditorium of Government College, Sanjauli, and the last date of entry is January 10. The winner and the runners up would be awarded cash prizes of Rs 3,100 and Rs 2,100, respectively, said district convener Mayank Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/varsity-opens-theology-centre-194842
