08-01-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal government alert to deal with bird flu: Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday that the state government is fully alert to deal with bird flu and there is monitoring of the areas around Pog Dam where over 3,400 birds have died so far.In the Cabinet Auditorium at Dharamshala, Thakur chaired a review meeting for bird flu preparedness and said that the district administration, animal husbandry and wildlife departments should work to prevent the spread its spread.Thakur said complete monitoring of the areas around Pong Dam is being ensured and rapid response teams have also been formed."So far, 3,410 migratory birds have died due to bird flu in Pong Dam area of Kangra district and these birds are being buried with full protocol so that there is no risk of infection at any stage," he said.The chief minister said 65 teams of the Animal Husbandry Department and the Wildlife Department are monitoring areas around Pong Dam. "In view of the seriousness of bird flu, samples of poultry have also been sent to RDDL Jalandhar for investigation by the Animal Husbandry Department. It is also necessary to make people aware about bird flu and departmental officers should also take necessary steps for this," he said.The chief minister also reviewed the steps taken to prevent spread of COVID-19 in Kangra, saying that there are around 1,200 positive cases in the state, including 300 in the district."After December 15, corona-positive cases have started to reduce, but still all people need to be vigilant. It is necessary to ensure compliance with the guidelines issued by the Government and Health Department," he said.Thakur said that preparations for the vaccination campaign for COVID-19 have also been completed in the state.He also reviewed the vaccination rehearsal at the zonal hospital here.Earlier, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati gave detailed information about the preparations to combat bird flu at Pong Dam. On the occasion, Veterinarian Vikram Singh and Chief Conservator Forest Upasana Patial of the Wildlife Department presented a powerpoint presentation based on bird flu prevention. Chief Medical Officer Gurdarshan gave detailed information about the current status of COVID-19.The meeting was attended by Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, MLA Arjun Thakur, MLA Vishal Naihari, MLA Rita Dhiman, MLA Ravindra Dhiman, Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan and other officials. --- PTINNNN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-alert-to-deal-with-bird-flu-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-195566
08-01-2021||Solan||61 crows found dead at Kedarpur in Paonta Sahib||The sudden death of 61 crows on private land at Kedapur village in Paonta Sahib sub-division of Sirmaur district spread fear of avian influenza outbreak in the area. A team of officials from the forest department, comprising divisional forest officer(DFO) Kunal Angrish, veterinary officer Dr Amit rushed to the spot after receiving information this afternoon.DFO Paonta Sahib Kunal Angrish while confirming crow mortality said, that as many as 61 crows were found dead on a private land having eucalyptus trees this afternoon. Samples of the dead crow have been drawn and sent to Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab to ascertain the cause of mortality. The carcasses of remaining crows were buried in deep pits and the area was thoroughly sanitized.In a bid to prevent the spread of the infection, the local residents have been directed to stay away from the spot which has been cordoned off. Officials said crows usually congregate in the said area owing to the presence of trees, and they were found dead this afternoon.The said the area lies about 200 m away from the Yamuna river.“With cases of bird mortality due to avian influenza coming to fore at Pong wetland, the officials of the forest department were in a state of high alert. All field officials were strictly monitoring bird mortality incidences in their area, especially along with the water bodies, to take immediate steps and curb the spread of infection,” informed Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Savita Sharma.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi said, that rapid response teams comprising officials of the animal husbandry and other departments have been constituted for immediate action in such cases. He informed that samples of four vultures which were found dead in Dadhu and Kafota area earlier this week have also been sent to the Jalandhar lab and its reports were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/61-crows-found-dead-at-kedarpur-in-paonta-sahib-195561
08-01-2021||Shimla||Nigerian, wife caught by HP Police for cyber fraud||Himachal Pradesh Police has arrested a Nigerian and his wife from Delhi in connection with a cyber fraud of around Rs 13 lakh, a senior police official said.    Nigerian Nwachukwu@Prince and his Manipuri wife Thanmhring were arrested from Uttam Nagar in Delhi on January 6 in connection with a cyber fraud case registered at Kihar police station in Chamba district, Chamba Superintendent of Police (SP) S Arul Kumar said.An FIR was lodged on January 4 after a complaint was received by a man regarding cyber fraud, he said.Sixteen SIM cards, nine mobile sets, six bank passbooks and other incriminating documents were recovered from them, he added.  The SP said that the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Nigerian High Commission have been informed regarding the arrests.  Informing about their modus operandi, he said that the accused befriended the victim through a fake Facebook profile where he wrote that he was from London.  He told the victim that he had sent him an iPhone and 30,000  pounds, the SP added.  Subsequently, he received a call that a parcel meant to be delivered to him was intercepted by the customs at the Delhi airport and he has to deposit money to release it, Kumar said. The victim kept depositing money totalling Rs 13 lakh, the SP added.The accused have been sent to five-day police remand, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nigerian-wife-caught-by-hp-police-for-cyber-fraud-195530
08-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Bird deaths first noticed two months ago, claim villagers||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 7Migratory birds started dying due to avian flu in the Pong Dam lake two months ago, claim residents of Sugnara village. Besides, the virus has also transmitted to the local population of birds such as jungle fowl, Mynah and crows, causing their mortality.Sugnara village is located on the banks of the Pong Dam lake and many villagers are fishermen. A Tribune team visited the village today. Villagers said that besides the migratory birds, many local species of birds such as jungle fowl, crows and ‘mynah’ had also died mysteriously.Pardeep Kumar, a fisherman, said that he started noticing dead birds in the lake about two months ago. About 20 days ago, the birds started dying in a large number and could be seen floating dead in the lake. “I had 50 hens and 45 of them died about 20 days ago,” he said. Asked how he disposed of the dead hens, Pardeep said that he buried them.45 hens of villager perishedI started noticing dead birds in the Pong lake about two months ago. About 20 days ago, the birds started dying in a large number and could be seen floating dead in the lake. I had 50 hens and 45 of them died around 20 days ago. —Pardeep Kumar, Fisherman‘My two goats may have died of virus’I noticed dead ‘mugabis’ (bar-headed geese) in the Pong Dam lake about 25 days ago when I went for fishing. Thereafter, local birds such as crows and ‘mynahs’ also started dying. Two of my goats also died and I suspect that the deaths occurred due to avian flu. —Joginder Pal, Resident of sugnara villageJoginder Pal, another resident of Sugnara, said that he noticed dead ‘mugabis’ (bar-headed geese) in the lake about 25 days ago when he went for fishing. Thereafter, local birds such as crows and ‘mynahs’ also started dying. He added that two of his goats also died and he suspects that the deaths occurred due to avian flu. “I am going to a veterinary doctor today to get my goats checked,” he said.There was panic and despair among the villagers. On the one hand, people faced a health risk while on the other, they lost their livelihood due to a ban on fishing.Asked about the claims of the villagers that the migratory birds started dying two months ago, Upsana Patial, Chief Conservator Wildlife, Dharamsala, said that they first noticed dead migratory birds on December 28. They immediately informed the district authorities about the spread of the epidemic, she added. She added that earlier bird deaths might have been due to natural causes.About the death of local birds and hens, she said that it was for the Animal Husbandry Department to look into the matter. Meanwhile, the death toll of migratory birds rose to 3,410. “All precautions are being taken to contain the spread of the virus by immediately disposing of the dead birds,” she added.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said that Animal Husbandry Department teams had been directed to visit Sugnara village and verify the claims of the villagers. All steps were being taken to contain the spread of the virus, he added.Meanwhile, a dead pigeon was found at the residence of Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor. A team of the Animal Husbandry Department visited his house and collected the carcass. A team of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation also visited Kapoor’s house and sanitised it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bird-deaths-first-noticed-two-months-ago-claim-villagers-195147
08-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Dead chicks dumped along highway again||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 7As many as 250-300 dead white chicks were again found dumped near Chakki Ka Mor on the Parwanoo-Solan national highway this morning.Since avian flu is the cause of birds’ death in the Pong wetland, the incident has created a scare among people. It can lead to the outbreak of disease, if the chicks are found infected with avian flu.Preliminary inquiries indicate that the dead birds were dumped in a nullah at night. This was despite the fact that the police had been instructed to maintain a strict vigil over vehicles carrying dead or sick birds. The chicks were packed in gunny bags.Samples sent to Jalandhar labMiscreants appeared to be conversant with the area as they dumped these near the excise and taxation barrier at Chakki ka Mor. Officials opined that it appeared to be the handiwork of habitual offenders as they had dumped dead chicks last year too near Jabli.Officials of the Animal Husbandry Department rushed to the spot to lift samples and also dispose these of as per health and safety protocol, said deputy director BB Gupta“The samples have been sent to the Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab to ascertain the cause of death. Though its report should be out within 48 hours, given the rush of samples at the lab, it could take more time,” said Dr Gupta.Dr Gupta said that a case under the IPC had been registered at Parwanoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dead-chicks-dumped-along-highway-again-195148
08-01-2021||---||Bird flu: Disaster Mgmt Act invoked in Solan||Solan, January 7The Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, today invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in view of recurring cases of dead poultry birds having been dumped along the border areas of the district.Though the lab reports of dead poultry were yet to be received, the possibility of infection and contagious disease can’t be ruled out. The entry of vehicles carrying poultry items has been restricted from 8 am to 8 pm. No pre-slaughtered bird would be allowed to enter the district from other states.Restrictions in placeThe Deputy Commissioner in his orders stated that in order to prevent the possible spread of any contagious disease and ensure health and safety of the public, the police and veterinary officials would man the entire border area, including porous entries, round the clock.The police has been directed to ensure strict vigil, surveillance and intense checking of poultry farms across the district by setting up check posts. Official of animal husbandry department would also be deployed to check vehicles carrying poultry items. The superintendents of police at Solan and Baddi have been directed to assist the officials of the animal husbandry department.Samples of all poultry birds kept in various poultry farms would also be drawn by veterinary officials in the district after every 15 days. They would be tested from the Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory.The district Food and Civil Suppler Controller has also been directed to check meat shops and ensure no unauthorised or unhygienic slaughtering was taking place.The Conservator of Forests and the deputy director, Animal Husbandry, would maintain record of mortality or sickness of birds in their respective areas. As another step towards preparedness the chief medical officer has been directed to stockpile necessary medicines, personal protection equipment and keep vigil on human transmission of the suspected avian influenza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bird-flu-disaster-mgmt-act-invoked-in-solan-195149
08-01-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 131 cases take tally to 56,146 in Himachal||As many as 131 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 56,146. One person died of coronavirus in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-131-cases-take-tally-to-56-146-in-himachal-195150
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Vendors selling chicken, eggs rendered jobless||NURPUR, JANUARY 7After going through economic hardships in the wake of Covid19 pandemic, hundreds of poor vendors running dhabas, kiosks and rehris selling chicken, eggs, fish and mutton in Fatehpur, Jawali, Indora and Dehra subdivisions in Kangra district have been rendered jobless after the outbreak of avian flu (H5N1) in the Pong wetland wildlife sanctuary.The district administration has imposed a ban on the sale of poultry products, fish and other such food items in these sub divisions to prevent spread of avian flu in the livestock as well as humans. The enforcement of the ban has rendered hundreds of vendors jobless. They have lost their source of earning for the time being. The entrepreneurs running hatcheries in lower Kangra district are apprehending losing their livelihood.Ajay Kumar, Manoj, Joginder and Chaman, who had been running fish food units at Khatiyar, said earlier they had kept their vends closed during Covid pandemic lockdown. Then they had to close business during fish breeding season in June and July last year. “Now when roaring fish sale had started avian flu had again rendered them jobless,” they rued.Shamsher Singh, a resident of Kotla in Jawali who was running his dhaba for selling chicken, eggs and fish lamented that he had no other source of earning and now after avian flu ban it had become difficult to sustain his family. Similar is the situation is of Hari Ram of Nagrota Surian, Dev Raj of Dehra, Raj Kumar of Rehan.As many as 16 fishery cooperative societies comprising as many as 2,800 fishermen have been engaged in fishing in the Pong wetland but after avian flu breakout their livelihood is at stake.Fishermen have appealed to the Chief Minister to release compensation to the affected fishermen as they were in financial distress after fishing ban in the wetland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendors-selling-chicken-eggs-rendered-jobless-195151
08-01-2021||---||Kalpa, Keylong witness fresh spell of snowfall||Shimla, January 7The cold wave sweeping most parts of Himachal intensified today and minimum temperatures plunged following snowfall and rain for the past five days. The MeT office has predicted a dry weather in the region over the next six days till January 13.High-altitude tribal areas received another spell of moderate snowfall while mid and lower hills received scattered rain. Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti, which received 15 cm of snow, was the coldest in the region with a minimum temperature of -11.5°C.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 6 cm of snowfall while Pooh and Kothi received 5 cm of snow. Intermittent rain was witnessed at many places in the state and Reckong Peo was the wettest with 23 mm of rain, followed by Nadaun 13 mm, Dalhousie and Dharamsala 12 mm, Mehre 10 mm, Manali 9 mm, Chamba and Sujanpur Tira 8 mm and Rampur and Una 7 mm.Dense fog prevailed at several places in the lower hills in the morning hours while water froze in supply pipes that burst at many places in the upper Shimla region. All natural water resources such as lakes, springs and rivulets were frozen in high-altitude areas, drastically reducing the discharge of water in the snow-fed Sutlej, Beas and Rabi and affecting hydropower generation.Meanwhile, apple growers and farmers are happy as snow is considered white manure for the fruit crop and rain has provided much-needed moisture for the crops.The high-altitude tribal areas reeled under biting cold wave conditions as the mercury stayed 12 to 18 degrees below the freezing point. Kalpa recorded a low of -5°C, followed by Manali -1.2°C, Bhuntar 1.9°C, Solan 2.2°C, Palampur 3.2°C, Kufri 3.3°C, Shimla 3.9°C, Dharamsala 4.6°C, Una 6.6°C and Nahan 10.9°C.The maximum temperatures rose by three to four degrees and Bilaspur and Hamirpur recorded high temperatures of 22.5°C and 22.3°C, followed by Una 21.6°C, Solan 21°C, Palampur 15.8°C, Shimla 15.6°C, Dharamsala 14.8°C, Manali 9.8°C, Kalpa 1.3°C and Keylong -3°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kalpa-keylong-witness-fresh-spell-of-snowfall-195152
08-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||No income source, bedridden mason awaits govt help||Palampur, January 7Bedridden Rajesh Kumar has been fighting for his survival for the past six months but none has come to his help.Rajesh worked as a mason. While casting a slab on the roof of a building, he fell and suffered paralysis. He made all efforts to get financial assistance from the government, but in vain.A Tribune team visited bedridden Rajesh, who along with his wife and daughter lives in a small shed on the forestland on the outskirts of the town. The hapless family has no source of income.Kamlesh Kumari, wife of Rajesh, says that after the accident, Rajesh is confined to bed and it has been difficult for the family to make ends meet. She adds that since Rajesh is in a critical condition, he cannot be left alone, and hence even she is unable to work. However, some locals are helping the family though no government aid has been provided so far.Disability certificateIf Rajesh gets a permanent disability certificate from the District Medical Board, he will be eligible for a one-time financial aid of Rs2 lakh, along with disability pension. —Dharmesh Ramotra, SDInformation gathered by The Tribune revealed that Rajesh was neither on the BPL list nor was he an IRDP Antodaya beneficiary. However, Ghuggar panchayat considered his name for the allotment of a house under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana but could not because Rajesh was landless. Rajesh and his wife were grateful to the Forest Department, which had allowed them to raise a roof on the land.A local NGO, the United Youth of Modern India, has helped provided him medical and financial aid.When the matter was brought to the notice of SDM Dharmesh Ramotra, he assured the family of all help. He said that if Rajesh gets a permanent disability certificate from the District Medical Board, he would be eligible for one-time financial aid of Rs 2 lakh, along with disability pension.Dr Nishant Mehata, president of the NGO, said he would take Rajesh to Dharamsala next week in an ambulance and present him before the medical board so that necessary formalities could be completed, paving the way for Rs 2 lakh financial aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-income-source-bedridden-mason-awaits-govt-help-195154
08-01-2021||Solan||Solan girl bags international scholarship||Chinmayee Awasthy (23) has done Solan proud by bagging a scholarship for a doctoral programme from Belgium-based Ku Leuven University, ranked 45th globally.She will pursue research on human fungal pathogens with a focus on candida species.With a strong molecular biology background with expertise in cloning and transformations, she also has a Felesa B certificate allowing her to work with animals. Chinmayee will get a monthly basic amount of Euros 1,600.She is the eldest of the two siblings and her younger sister is pursuing law. Her father Sanjay Awasthy said it was a proud moment for the family as his daughter had been chosen for this global university on the basis of her hard work and determination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-girl-bags-international-scholarship-195155
08-01-2021||Legal Correspondent||Justice Malimath assumes office as HC Judge||Shimla, January 7Justice Ravi Malimath today assumed office as Judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. He was administered oath of office by Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy.Prior to this, Justice Malimath was serving as the Acting Chief Justice of the High Court of Uttarakhand and recently was transferred to the Himachal Pradesh High Court.Justice Malimath was born on May 25, 1962. He enrolled as an advocate on January, 28, 1987, at Bangalore and practiced in constitutional, civil, criminal, labour and service matters, mainly at Karnataka High Court, Bangalore. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Karnataka on February 18, 2008, and permanent Judge on February 17, 2010. The Registrar General, Virender Singh conducted the proceedings.On this occasion, Judges of the High Court, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Justice Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Justice Anoop Chitkara and Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-malimath-assumes-office-as-hc-judge-195156
08-01-2021||Chamba||Rapid action force to be set up in Chamba||The district administration has issued orders for monitoring and controlling bird flu in the wake of the deaths of migratory birds in the Pong Dam lake area. Deputy Commissioner DC Rana stated in the orders issued here yesterday that the Department of Animal Husbandry and the Department of Forests had been directed to constitute a rapid action force.The Forest Department would provide daily reports to the district administration and the Animal Husbandry Department of the ‘unusual’ deaths of birds in the reservoirs of hydropower projects, various natural lakes and other places in the district, he said.He added that Animal Husbandry Department officials had been instructed to make arrangements for the sampling of poultry products brought from outside at various entry points of the district. The department would ensure that no purchase of poultry affected by bird flu happens in the district.“People should not consume poultry products till bird flu is controlled,” Rana said. The CMO had been asked to keep other arrangements, including medicines, ready in case the flu spreads. Simultaneously, Animal Husbandry Department officials would also conduct surprise inspections of meat shops.Rana appealed to the people that if they receive any unusual information in their areas, they could call at WhatsApp No. 98166-98166 and 1077 toll free number. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rapid-action-force-to-be-set-up-in-chamba-195157
08-01-2021||Shimla||Covid delays work on Ayurveda Dept’s pact with German centre||The partnership between the Department of Ayurveda, Himachal Pradesh, and Frankfurt Biotechnology Innovation Centre (FIZ), Germany, for research in the field of ayurgenomics and ayurnutrigenomics is yet to move beyond paper work. “The collaboration is at standstill due to the pandemic. We will contact the Germans once the situation improves,” said Ayurveda Director DK Rattan.An MoU was signed between the two institutes on the sidelines of the Global Investors’ Meet in Dharamsala in November 2019. Prior to that in June, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had visited Frankfurt and signed a generic MoU with FIZ.With the Chief Minister showing interest in the potential of the collaboration, things moved rather quickly in the beginning. By November, a working group, comprising professors and lecturers from Rajiv Gandhi Postgraduate Ayurvedic College, Paprola, was formed and it was given the mandate to follow-up with FIZ and identify specific collaborative projects. The group, it appears, has not been able to make any headway in more than a year.The two institutes had joined hands to work towards shifting the focus from curative to promotive and preventive health care. Also, the research on medicinal plants to enhance their genomic qualities was one key area of the collaboration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-delays-work-on-ayurveda-depts-pact-with-german-centre-195158
08-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Voters in Jawali wards to stay away||Nurpur January 7Around 1,000 residents of Nagreta, Pargod, Bareta, Kalru, Lehra and Barian villages situated in wards 5, 6 and 7 of Pargod gram panchayat in the Rait development block neighbouring Jawali subdivision have announced to boycott the upcoming Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) elections for ignoring their long-standing demand of dividing the existing gram panchayat for creating a new panchayat.The residents under the banner of the Pargod Sangharsh Samiti had submitted a memorandum to the DC, Kangra, on December 25 apprising him of their decision to boycott the elections scheduled for January 17. No candidate had filed his nominations for the election of ward members in these wards till the last date of filing of nominations on January 2.Enquiries reveal that Pargod is the existing gram panchayat of these wards, but its panchayat office is being functioned 8 to 13 km away from Lapiyana. As per government guidelines, residents of any panchayat should get panchayat office within 5 km radius.The residents of these villages who had been struggling in support of their demand for a separate gram panchayat and to accelerate rural development works had organised a rural chaupal (community meeting) a few months ago and constituted the Pargod Sangarsh Samiti.Mahinder Singh Shastri, president, and Hans Raj Mehta, chief adviser of the samiti, lamented that two buses of the HRTC to these villages had stopped 10 years ago, Batees Meel to Pargod bus service started in 2017 had discontinued after one year and a veterinary dispensary was shifted to Gubbar village.The residents also organised village chaupal on Tuesday to lodge a protest against the government’s apathy towards their demands.The DC, Kangra, had also written to the Director, Panchayati Raj, Shimla, on August 28 last year with his recommendation for the division of Pargod gram panchayat in view of the prevailing geographical conditions and more distance between the panchayat office and the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voters-in-jawali-wards-to-stay-away-195159
08-01-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||No health centre, voters to boycott PRI elections||Hamirpur, January 7Voters in Chakmoh gram panchayat have decided to boycott elections to the Panchyati Raj Institutions.All candidates for the posts of president, vice-president and ward member withdrew their nomination papers on the last day for the withdrawal of papers yesterday.This is learnt that people of the panchayat were annoyed over long delay in the construction of a health centre despite repeated assurances by the government.Now 2,973 candidates were left in fray for PRI elections in the district.As many as 34 persons had filed nominations for gram panchayat elections. Eight nominees had filed papers for president, 11 for vice-president and 15 for seven wards member.All of them had withdrawn their nominations. Hence, there would be no polling for the gram panchayat election in the panchayat though people may vote for members block development committee and zila parishad.Somdutt, a trustee of Baba Balak Nath Trust and voter of GP Chakmoh, said that the villagers had donated over 12 kanals of land for construction of 100-bed hospital here in 1990 when Shanta Kumar was Chief Minister. He said that over 30 years had elapsed, but even foundation stone of the health centre was not laid despite repeated assurances. People had decided not to participate in elections till their demand was not met.Devashveta Banik, DC, said the administration would look into the reasons behind the boycott decision of the panchayat. She said there was provision for bye-election in such situations. The election commission’s guidelines would be adhered to in this case.Villagers annoyedPeople of the panchayat were annoyed over long delay in the construction of a health centre despite repeated assurances by the government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-health-centre-voters-to-boycott-pri-elections-195160
08-01-2021||---||12,689 in fray in Mandi||Mandi, January 7District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, Rugved Thakur said after the withdrawal of the names for the elections to zila parishads, panchayat samitis and gram panchayats, 12,689 candidates were left in the fray in Mandi district.He said 16,916 candidates had filed their nomination papers of which 3,388 candidates had withdrawn their papers while 839 were elected unopposed, including two of panchayat samiti, 15 gram panchayat pradhan, 14 vice-pradhan and 808 of panchayat member.The DC said all arrangements had been made to conduct the free and fair elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/12-689-in-fray-in-mandi-195161
08-01-2021||RPUR||High Court bars village pradhan from contesting Chamba ZP poll||In a judgment, the High Court has debarred a gram panchayat pradhan from contesting the zila parishad election. He had filed his nomination papers from Banet in Chowari, Chamba district.Following the order, returning officer-cum-SDM, Chowari, Bachan Singh rejected his nomination papers yesterday.Nirmal Singh, outgoing pradhan of Kuddi in Bhatiyat Development Block, had been facing charges of fund misutilisation to the tune of lakhs of rupees in the construction of a village road. Following complaints, the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department, Chamba, had conducted an inquiry against him. A notice to recover Rs 13,88,582 within seven days had also been served on him. He had filed a petition in the high court against the recovery notice and also sought permission to contest elections. But the court rejected it.Bachan Singh told The Tribune that the locals had filed objections against his nomination on January 4.“After verifying the facts, his nomination was rejected on Tuesday,” he said. Nirmal Singh said the Panchayati Raj Department had conducted the one-sided inquiry against him and the recovery notice had served on him under political pressure. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-bars-village-pradhan-from-contesting-chamba-zp-poll-195162
08-01-2021||Palampur||Varsity to display pics of progressive farmers||The agriculture university has decided to display photographs of progressive farmers on its premises.Prof HK Chaudhary, VC, has ordered that select farmers adopting the new technology and spreading it among other farmers to be identified and their photographs with a brief biographical sketch be displayed in the Directorate of Extension Education and farmers’ hostel on the campus.All Krishi Vigyan Kendras have been directed to display the photographs of such farmers of their districts. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/varsity-to-display-pics-of-progressive-farmers-195163
08-01-2021||A large number of tourists visiting Shimla are facing inconvenience in clicking photographs as it is mandatory to wear mask in the wake of the pandemic. We have come here to enjoy||Face mask and photography||Bridge turns into death trapA bridge near Kalu Di Hatti on the Palampur- Pathankot road has turned into a death trap. In the last two years, six persons have lost their lives on this bridge which is also called a killer bridge. However, the state as well as the NHAI authorities have turned a blind eye towards this issue. Last week two persons lost their lives as a car fell into a stream. — Santosh, Kalu Di Hatti, PalampurWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEInvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/face-mask-and-photography-195164
08-01-2021||The Department of English at Shoolini University launched a desktop calendar for 2021 that showcases world literature ranging from the Panchatantra and Arabian Nights to the Jataka Tales and the tales of Brothers Grimm. Chancellor Prof Prem Kumar Khosla received the first copy of the calendar and congratulated the department for the initiative and motivated them to continue their efforts. Prof Manju Jaidka||Calendar on world literature||decision on coaching centres flayedThe Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) unit of the Students Federation of India (SFI) has criticised the decision of the state Cabinet to open coaching centres with 50 per cent students and keeping the university shut and threatened to launch an agitation in case the university and other institutions were not opened. "The university is closed since March 18 and students, particularly research scholars, are facing great hardship in completing their research projects and students of professional courses are also suffering as the library is closed," said president and secretary of campus unit Ravindra and Gaurav Nathan. The SFI had submitted a memorandum in this regard and explained the problems to the authorities concerned, but no action had been taken, they said.Online business quizThe BBA Department of Dharonacharya College organised an online business quiz on the theme of "Business Quality and Excellence". Six teams from the BBA first, second and third year participated in six rounds of competition. In the final round, two teams named Team Fayol (Aditya and Soham) and Team Drucker (Aman and Abhinav) competed. Head of department Mukesh Sharma announced the name of winner team Fayol and congratulated all participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/calendar-on-world-literature-195171
