09-01-2021||Dharamsala||4.2 earthquake hits Dharamsala||An earthquake measuring 4.2 on Richter scale shook Dharamsala on Saturday evening. Officials said it was a shallow quake at the depth of 10 km, with its epicentre at Kareri Lake, a place that's about 10 km away from Dharamsala. Tremors sent several people out of their homes in panic. No loss of either life or property has been reported yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-2-earthquake-hits-dharamsala-196132
09-01-2021||Shimla||Keylong shivers at minus 9 degrees Celsius in Himachal||Keylong and Kalpa shivered at sub-zero temperature in Himachal Pradesh, the Meteorological Department said.  The tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong were the coldest place in the state at minus 9 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius, he added.The minimum temperature in Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri were recorded at 1, 2.5 and 4.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Shimla registered a low of 5.1 degrees Celsius, Singh added.Meanwhile, the highest temperature in the state was recorded in Kangra at 22.3 degrees Celsius.The MeT centre has forecast dry weather in the state till January 15. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-shivers-at-minus-9-degrees-celsius-in-himachal-196127
09-01-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh police constable dies after car falls into gorge||A police constable died on the spot after his car fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district on Saturday, police said. The car in which Mandi's Pandoh-based 3rd India Reserve Batallion constable Ved Raj was travelling fell near government high school Shat Jari, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. The body has been shifted to Zonal Hospital Kullu for postmortem. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-police-constable-dies-after-car-falls-into-gorge-196064
09-01-2021||Palampur||Himachal: Search operation begins to trace missing pilot||The district administration on Saturday has pressed helicopters and drown cameras to trace para-gliding pilot Rohit Baloria who had taken off from Billing—the World famous para-gliding site—on Friday evening, but failed to land.Reports said, that Baloria took off from Billing last evening, but failed to land at Chogan—the registered landing site.The other para-gliders, who were also flying, said that his glider was last seen on the higher hills of Dhauladhar hills, near Utrala village, late in the evening, but it could not be confirmed whether he landed safely or crashed somewhere in snow-covered peaks.The Kangra police on Saturday morning started a major rescue operation under the supervision of DSP Baijnath B D Bhatia, who is camping at Bir.In a telephonic conversation, Bhatia told The Tribune, that the district administration had pressed a helicopter into service to locate the missing pilot.Besides, the police also used drown cameras to locate the pilot.Bhatia said, that the helicopter has been making an effort to locate the missing pilots since morning, but until now, the whereabouts of the pilot could not be ascertained. Missing pilots have no radio set with him.Dozens of local paragliding pilots and volunteers are also assisting the police. Though Baloria hails from Delhi, he has been living in Bir for the past few years, and was an experienced pilot.In Billing, last year, Singaporean pilot Kok Chang had died after his paraglide crash-landed in high mountains of Dhauladhar hills after he took off from Billing. His body was spotted by a rescue team trapped in dense forests.Besides two foreign pilots, one Russian and Latvian, sustained serious injuries when their gliders crashed near Jhatingari in Mandi district, and in Bundla hills of Palampur.Both the pilots had taken off from Billing.However, another missing pilot Jostewis lifted by rescue operation from high mountains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-search-operation-begins-to-trace-missing-pilot-196058
09-01-2021||UNA||35,000 to cast votes, 123 in fray in Una||As many as 35,509 urban voters living in three municipal committees and an equal number of nagar panchayats in Una district will exercise their franchise on Sunday to elect a total of 48 members to the urban bodies.Addressing media persons here today, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said elections will be held at the municipal committees of Una, Mehatpur and Santoshgarh besides nagar panchayats of Gagret, Daulatpur Chowk and Tahliwal. He said of the total 50 wards in the six urban bodies, elections to ward number 7 in Gagret and ward number 4 in Daulatpur Chowk Nagar Panchayats have already been concluded unanimously.The DC informed that a total of 51 polling stations will be set up, of which 30 have been declared as hyper sensitive and 12 sensitive, where security arrangements as per protocol will be made to ensure conduct of free and fair elections.In all, 123 candidates are in fray as the time for canvassing ended today at 4 pm. On the day of polling, candidates and their supporters will not be allowed to put up stalls or display election symbols and election material within 100 meters of the polling station and doing so will be a punishable office. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-000-to-cast-votes-123-in-fray-in-una-195617
09-01-2021||Our Correspondent||No fresh taxes in newly merged areas of Palampur civic body||Palampur, January 8Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today categorically stated that there would be no taxes in newly merged areas of three new municipal corporations set up in the state last year. He said necessary notification to this effect had already been issued by the state government.Addressing a news conference here this morning, the Urban Development Minister assured the residents of newly merged 14 panchayats of Palampur that the state government never wanted to burden the people with new taxes till these areas were fully developed and necessary amenities made available.Tax exemption for three yearsBhardwaj clarified that the state government had given exemption in taxes for three years in the first phase and it could also be extended after this period as government did in the case of Dharamsala MC.He clarified that Urban Employment Guarantee Yojna will also be started in the MC areas at par with MNREGA and in case there was no work, the government would pay a bonus of Rs 75 per day to eligible unemployed persons. Likewise, under PM Awas Yojna in MC areas Rs 1,85,000 would be sanctioned to the houseless persons whereas this amount was Rs 1,30,000 in panchayat areas.He asked the people not to be misguided with false propaganda of some vested interests who had stalled the development of Palampur for years. He quoted that municipal council of Palampur was first set up in 1952. Since then its limits were never extended. Palampur was represented by Congress MLA for 25 years but during this period not even an inch of MC limits was increased and Palampur was allowed to become a slum.He said the BJP government accepted the demand of the residents of Palampur and formed the municipal corporation despite opposition from the Congress. The issue was hanging fire since 2000.Earlier Trilok Kapoor, chairman, State Wool Federation, and general secretary state BJP, said that the state government had already ordered installation of street lights in merged areas and necessary budget had been sanctioned for this project. The MC Commissioner had been directed to start work within a week.Besides, the state government had given additional charge of different departments of MC to local officers till the new arrangements were made so that development works did not suffer. He said efforts were on way for seeking funds for half a dozen Government of India-funded projects for Palampur MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-fresh-taxes-in-newly-merged-areas-of-palampur-civic-body-195618
09-01-2021||Balkrishan Prashar---||Chamba-Bharmour NH in bad shape||Chamba, January 8 The condition of the Pathankot-Chamba-Bharmour national highway from Chamba to Rakh, Kharamukh and Bharmour is in a bad shape at various places. Commuters face problems while travelling on this stretch and are demanding its urgent repair. The dust generated due to the widening of the road is affecting the health of nearby villagers. Some portions on the road are dotted with potholes. Landslides occur even if there is a little spell of rainfall, thereby blocking the highway. Sharp curves on the road, which do not have parapets and crash-barriers, make travelling more risky. Big pits on the highway are damaging vehicles.  Commuters say that there is an urgent need to repair the road and install crash barriers. Several accidents have taken place due to the bad condition of the road.  Officials, however, say that they are working to improve the condition of the highway. Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor had directed the officials concerned at district-level meetings held at Chamba recently to improve the condition of the road, which is badly broken near Rajera, Jarangala and Dharwala due to landslides. The road is significant from the religious tourism point of view. The famous Manimahesh shrine is situated in the Bharmour hills and is visited by lakhs of devotees and pilgrims every year during the summer, besides tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-bharmour-nh-in-bad-shape-195619
09-01-2021||Mandi||Lone petrol station in Lahaul to shut on Jan 14||Amid snow avalanche threat at Tandi in the tribal district of Lahaul Spiti, the district administration has decided to shut down petrol pump from January 14.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul -Spiti Pankaj Rai said that after the recent snowfall there is a possibility of snow avalanche around the petrol pump area. Therefore, on the recommendation of Lahaul Potato Society (LPS), the administration is going to shut down the Churpak petrol pump from January 14 till further orders.This is the sole petrol pump in Lahaul valley operated by the LPS. The LPS authority informed the Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul Spiti that there is snow avalanche threat near petrol pump at Tandi in the coming days, which may cause harm to the employees of petrol pump or damage to the property. The DC stated that this decision was taken in view of public safety.District Food Supply Controller Brijender Pathania said for the convenience of consumers who have to stock petrol, the petrol pump will remain open on January 12 and 13. After taking stock of the situation in the month of February, the operation of the petrol pump will be started again with the order of the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lone-petrol-station-in-lahaul-to-shut-on-jan-14-195620
09-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Covid restrictions relaxed, tourism industry on revival path||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 8The tourism industry that struggled for survival due to the Covid-19 lockdown for nearly eight months is in the revival phase following lifting of curbs and night curfew in four districts. Hoteliers are upbeat after a surge in tourist inflow during Christmas and New Year.The occupancy in hotels was nearly 90 per cent during Christmas and all hotels in Shimla were packed to capacity on New Year’s eve. Snowfall towards the end of the year also contributed to the surge in the number of tourists. “The hoteliers are upbeat as the occupancy was 60 to 70 per cent in spite of the fact that snowfall eluded the capital,” said Sanjay Sood, president, Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association.“The lifting of night curfew and opening of shops on Sundays provided the much-needed breather to the tourism industry. We are expecting a good business in the coming days and hopefully forget the lockdown as a nightmare,” he added.Meanwhile, interstate Volvo buses, which were suspended due to the pandemic, resumed yesterday after 10 months. Hoteliers are optimistic that snowfall in the coming days would further increase the tourist inflow.A large number of tourists who thronged Shimla and adjoining areas are also enjoying the chilly weather, but “touts” of hotels are creating a nuisance and chasing tourists. “We were taken for a ride by touts who claimed to provide rooms in Four Star hotel with parking, but when we reached the destination it turned out to be a lie,” said Jaideep, a tourist from Delhi.Tourists should make advance booking online and directly go to hotels and not fall into the trap of touts, who take tourists to hotels of their choice and fleece them, he said.About 1.5 lakh vehicles crossed (to and fro) Shimla from December 25, 2020, to January 5, 2020, and accommodating such a huge tourist inflow became a daunting task for 450 policemen deployed for traffic management in the town as all parking lots were full and roads were chocked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-restrictions-relaxed-tourism-industry-on-revival-path-195621
09-01-2021||---||Government hoardings at The Ridge removed||Shimla, January 8The Department of Public Relations has removed the promotional hoardings it had put up at The Ridge and the Mall Road following government’s three years in office.CPM leader and former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan had objected to it, saying the hoardings had been put up in the heritage zone which not only violated the regulations related to the heritage zone but also repeated judicial orders in this regard.“The government and Municipal Corporation are there to enforce the law of the land. If they start violating the laws themselves, it’s extremely regrettable,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-hoardings-at-the-ridge-removed-195622
09-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Garlic, ginger growers to benefit from Central scheme||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 8Units engaged in mushroom, garlic and ginger processing will benefit from the Centre-sponsored Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME) scheme in Solan and Sirmaur districts.These crops have been selected under the ‘One District, One Product’ initiative of the Centre. Aimed at enhancing competitiveness of existing micro enterprises in the unorganised food processing industry, it is a key initiative of the Aatmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. With an Outlay of Rs 10,000 crore, the scheme will cover 2,00,000 enterprises across the nation.GS Chauhan, member secretary, Industries Department, Sirmaur, said, “There are about six cooperative societies, two farmer producer organisations and 20 self-help groups (SHGs) engaged in the processing of ginger and garlic in Sirmaur district. About 500 people will benefit from the scheme for which the groundwork has already begun”.Commissioner, Industries, Hansraj Sharma said that the scheme provided seed capital to the SHGs at the rate of Rs 4 lakh per SHG for extending loan to members for working capital and small tools. It also provides grants for backward/ forward linkages, skill training and hand-holding support for detailed project reports, technical upgrade, credit-linked capital subsidy, etc. Solan, which was acclaimed as the mushroom city of the country, will also receive a boost.Notably, 3,734 hectares are under garlic production in Sirmaur and 57,205 metric tonnes of crop was produced in 2019-2020. An area of 1,500 hectares was under ginger production in the district and 16,650 metric tonnes of the crop was produced in 2019-2020.The processing of cash crops such as ginger, garlic and mushroom will not only raise the economy of the entrepreneurs but also help avert post-harvest wastage.Hansraj Sharma said, “Entrepreneurs in apple-growing districts like Shimla, Kinnaur and Chamba will focus on apple, while in Kullu district, apple wine-based enterprises will receive a boost. In Hamirpur, milk producers will be benefited, while in Una district potato growers will reap its benefits. In the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti, the growers of sea buckthorn will receive a major push. In Kangra district, citrus fruit growers like orange stand to benefit from it, while in Bilaspur turmeric growers will reap its benefits as food processing units will be set up”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garlic-ginger-growers-to-benefit-from-central-scheme-195623
09-01-2021||---||Awareness drive to mark Road Safety Month||Shimla, January 8National Road Safety Month will be organised from January 18 to February 17 and road safety related information would be provided to people through various awareness programmes, said Principal Secretary K K Pant in a meeting held here.He said that a state level function would be organised on January 18 at the Ridge, which would be presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. During the programme a cycle rally and a Good Samaritan parade would be flagged off along with various awareness activities. Various programmes related to road safety would also be organised at district level.Pant said that an awareness campaign on providing protection to pedestrians and vulnerable groups such as old age persons, children and specially abled persons would follow on January 19 and 20 and from January 21 to 23 a campaign on adverse effects of over speeding, awareness about good samaritan and workshop on road safety would be conducted.During the month, a campaign on importance of wearing helmets and fastening seat belts would be organized. Awareness on adverse effects of rash driving and ill effects of drunken driving and over loading would be generated. Besides, a Rose Day will be observed to motivate drivers followed by an eye checkup camp for drivers.He informed that a signature campaign to motivate people to abide by traffic laws would be organised and a meeting on measures of road safety would be held with local bodies. Observance of Zero Tolerance Week would be organised from February 12 to 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/awareness-drive-to-mark-road-safety-month-195624
09-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Board exams from May 1st week||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 8Following the announcement of Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal that CBSE Board examinations of Class X and XII will be held between May 4 and June 10, the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education has decided to hold the “offline” board examinations from the first week of May.“We are planning to hold pre-board examination, tentatively scheduled from February 20 to March 10,” said Director of Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma, who has directed the deputy directors, principals and headmasters to submit the status report of syllabus covered by their respective schools.The pre-board examinations would be conducted to review the performance of students so that remedial measures could be taken to improve the performance of students who do not fare up to the mark, he added.The syllabus has been curtailed by 30 per cent and teachers have been asked to continue with the online teaching and make lessons more interesting by adding examples, models and illustrations and ensure that entire syllabus is covered.As per the status report the syllabus of most of the subjects barring Sanskrit, psychology, sociology has been completed and revision is going on. Teachers have been told to send mock papers so that students can prepare well for exams.The result of a majority of subjects of second term online assessment of Classes IX to XII is ready and compilation is underway and results of assessment will provide valuable inputs to gauge the performance levels.The winter closing schools have vacations till February 12 and the government has also closed summer closing schools, but the online teaching will continue in summer closing schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/board-exams-from-may-1st-week-195625
09-01-2021||---||Covid vaccine dry run at IGMC, health care workers feel relieved||Shimla, January 8The Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital conducted a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination on its premises today. Overall, the exercise was conducted at 36 centres in the state, three sites in each district.For the IGMC health care workers, the dry run marked the beginning of the end of their fears and sense of insecurity. “The last seven or eight months have been very challenging for the health care workers. They knew the danger the virus and the affected persons posed to them, yet they went about their job in the best way possible. So, knowing that a vaccine is around the corner is a huge relief for the medical fraternity,” said Dr Saad Rizvi, nodal officer for vaccination at the IGMC. For the record, more than 350 IGMC staff members have tested positive for Covid so far.For Vandana, a nurse who has been working in the Covid ward and the casualty ward regularly, the exercise has raised hopes of returning home to her little daughter without the fear of the virus. “I am a single parent with an eight-year-old daughter. As schools are closed and there is no one else to look after my daughter, I lock her inside a room to come for my duty,” said Vandana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-vaccine-dry-run-at-igmc-health-care-workers-feel-relieved-195626
09-01-2021||---||Measures to control avian flu reviewed||Dharamsala, January 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur held a meeting with officials of the district administration and the Animal Husbandry and Wildlife departments here today to review the arrangements to prevent the spread of avian flu in the state. He also reviewed the Covid situation and the dry run for the vaccination drive.He said the state government was prepared to tackle the bird flu. He said the Pong Dam and its adjoining areas were being monitored and quick reaction teams had been constituted in case the avian flu virus was detected in any other part of the state.He said to date, about 3,410 migratory birds had died of bird flu and these birds were being buried as per the protocol, to prevent the spread of the virus. As many as 65 teams of the Animal Husbandry and Wildlife Department were monitoring the Pong Dam and its adjoining areas. Samples of poultry have been sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar.He said there were 300 active cases in Kangra district. He added that there was a decline in Covid-19 cases since December 15, but it was still important to be careful.He took stock of the dry run for vaccination at the Zonal Hospital here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/measures-to-control-avian-flu-reviewed-195627
09-01-2021||ibune News Service---||Panic after 61 crows found dead at Paonta Sahib village||Solan, January 8 The sudden death of 61 crows at Kedarpur village in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district sparked fears of the outbreak of avian influenza in the area.  A team of officials from the Forest Department comprising Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Kunal Angrish and veterinary officer Dr Amit rushed to the spot after receiving information this afternoon. The DFO said 61 crows were found dead on a private land having eucalyptus trees this afternoon. Samples of the dead crow have been taken and sent to Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab to ascertain the cause of mortality. The carcasses of remaining crows were buried and the area was sanitised. In a bid to prevent the spread of infection, locals have been directed to stay away from the spot which has been cordoned off. Officials said crows usually congregate in the area owing to the presence of trees and they were found dead this afternoon. They said the area lies about 200 m away from the Yamuna river.  “With the cases of bird mortality due to avian influenza coming to the fore at the Pong wetland, officials of the Forest Department were in a state of high alert. All field officials were strictly monitoring bird mortality incidences in their area, especially along the water bodies, to take immediate steps and curb the spread of infection,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Savita Sharma.  Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi said rapid response teams comprising officials of the animal husbandry and other departments had been constituted for immediate action in such cases. He informed that samples of four vultures which were found dead in the Dadhu and Kafota area earlier this week had also been sent to a Jalandhar lab and its reports were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panic-after-61-crows-found-dead-at-paonta-sahib-village-195628
09-01-2021||---||3rd day: 200 dead chicks found||Solan, January 8More than 200 dead chicks were found dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan National Highway near the entry point of a tunnel from the Kumarhatti side on the Barog bypass for the third consecutive day today.“The inspection of dumped chicks revealed that they died at least 48 hours ago. It appears that they were dead when were dumped here. Their samples have been sent to Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab to ascertain the cause of mortality,” said Dr BB Gupta, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department.The dead chicks were lifted and buried in a deep pit, as per the safety protocol. The area was also sanitised to prevent the spread of virus in view of the mortality of birds occurring in other places due to avian influenza.Gupta added that the report of the fist samples of dead chicks sent to the Jalandhar lab on Wednesday was likely to be received tomorrow. Officials fear that if it is found that the birds died of a disease, a major issue of containing the virus will be created.Meanwhile, the regular recovery of dead chicks has increased the headache of the police. DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta said as there was strict vigil along the inter-state barriers as well as on porous routes from Haryana at Parwanoo last night, it appears to be the handiwork of miscreants from neighbouring Solan.He said they were coordinating with officials of the Animal Husbandry Department as well as the police of neighbouring districts to zero in on the offenders.Enquires conducted by the police confirm that traders supplying poultry items to upper areas of Shimla generally keep stocks in godowns to ensure an uninterrupted supply for days while hotels and shops in Solan district usually receive supplies from Haryana on a daily basis. A godown owner in a neighbouring district was supplied about 500 to 700 chicks by a Haryana trader last week and the birds, which might have died could have been dumped along the highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3rd-day-200-dead-chicks-found-195629
09-01-2021||---||293 more  birds die in Pong lake toll up to 3,702||Dharamsala, January 8As many as 293 more migratory birds died due to avian flu in the Pong Dam lake area taking the total toll in Kangra district to 3,702. The Wildlife Department in a press note issued here today said a control room had been set up in Nagrota Surian to receive all information regarding flu.Assistant Conservator, Wildlife, Chamba, has been posted at Nagrota Surian to assist the DFO, Wildlife, Hamirpur, in containing the outbreak of the flu.Meanwhile, sources here said a Jalandhar-based laboratory had confirmed that the crows that were found dead in the Pong Dam lake area died due to the avian flu. The samples would be sent further to a Bhopal laboratory for confirmation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/293-more-birds-die-in-pong-lake-toll-up-to-3-702-195630
09-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Panel on revenue reforms okays major amendments||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 8The committee on revenue reforms has recommended major amendments in four Acts, including the Tenancy and Land Reforms Act and Land Ceiling Act, keeping in view the problems being faced by not just entrepreneurs but also bona fide Himachalis.The committee headed by Revenue and Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh met here today to finalise recommendations on amendments in the Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, Land Ceiling Act, Land Revenue Act and Land Records Manual. The committee comprises six MLAs, including those from the BJP, the Congress and the CPM. The recommendations of the committee will be placed before the Cabinet for final approval.Land utilisation condition may be easedThe committee has recommended that the condition of mandatory utilization of the land bought in exemption of Section 118 of the Tenancy and Land Reforms Act within two years, besides one-year extension, needs to be enhanced.It was felt that since obtaining permissions for projects like hydel-power, cement plant or an industrial unit takes quite some time, the three-year put-to-use condition must be relaxed and investor be given more time.There is a clause that in case an investor does not utilise the land bought in exemption of Section 118, it can be vested in the government.The recommendation is in line with the demand of entrepreneurs to simplify some of the revenue laws as they were very cumbersome and a major hindrance in setting up of projects. These had prevented many industrialists from investing in the state and many had surrendered projects.Besides, this another very significant recommendation of the revenue reforms committee is that non agriculturist Himachalis, residing in Himachal prior to 1972 in the rural areas, should be allowed to purchase prescribed amount of land without seeking Section 118 permission. This has been recommended as this exemption has already been given to such Himachalis residing in urban areas.As such it was felt that the anomaly must be removed and any such person should be allowed purchase of limited land without permission from the government.The committee has also recommended that any society registered under the HP Cooperative Societies Act, having only HImachali members should be exempted from seeking permission under Section 118. However, there will be a rider where they will not be allowed to enrol a non-Himachali member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-on-revenue-reforms-okays-major-amendments-195631
09-01-2021||Dharamsala||Cong leaders meet villagers living close to Pong Dam||A committee of Congress leaders, including former minister Chander Kumar, district president of party Ajay Mahajan and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania today visited various villages along the Pong Dam lake and met the affected villagers.Later while talking to The Tribune, the Congress leaders alleged that the state government was not taking appropriate steps to prevent the spread of the virus. They said that the villagers residing along the lake were in panic. They fear that even the water bodies might have been polluted due to birds dying due to avian flu, said Kumar.Pathania said avian flu had started killing birds more than a month ago and it came to the notice of the wildlife authorities only on December 28. “The delay in detecting the virus smacks of slackness on the part of Wildlife Department,” he said.Mahajan claimed that the DFO, Wildlife, was the in-charge of the Pong Dam wildlife sanctuary and Gopalpur Zoo, but had been stationed in Hamirpur district where there was no sanctuary. The DFO should be posted on the Pong Dam lake where one of the biggest wetland of the country was located, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-leaders-meet-villagers-living-close-to-pong-dam-195632
09-01-2021||Shimla||136 fresh cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||With 136 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 56,282. Two patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/136-fresh-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-195633
09-01-2021||---||Manali-Leh NH restored to traffic||Mandi, January 8The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) today restored the Manali-Leh highway to traffic towards Keylong via the Atal Tunnel.Residents of the Lahaul valley were cut off from the rest of the state for the past four days after heavy snowfall near the Atal Tunnel and its nearby places blocked the highway. The district administration of Lahaul and Spiti restricted the entry of tourists to the Lahaul valley for the next few days because of slippery condition of the road. As soon as the BRO restored the highway, a large numbers of tourists thronged Manali to enjoy snow.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said that in view of public safety, only 4x4 vehicles would be allowed to move towards the Lahaul valley from the Manali side in emergency cases. Tourist vehicles were not allowed towards the Lahaul valley beyond the Atal Tunnel.Nehru Kund near Manali is buzzing with tourists for the past few days, as traffic towards the Solang valley has been restricted after snowfall. Hoteliers of Kullu and Manali are elated after the snowfall in Manali and its nearby tourist places. Compared to previous years, Kullu and Manali and the Lahaul valley are receiving a heavy rush of tourists even in January after the opening of the Atal Tunnel.According to hoteliers of Kullu and Manali, generally during the winter after January 1, a sharp decline in tourist arrivals in the district is witnessed. It is perhaps for the first time that Kullu and Manali is recording a considerable tourist footfall in January, which is a good sign for the tourism industry.Nehru Kund abuzz with touristsNehru Kund is buzzing with tourists for the past few days, as traffic towards the Solang valley has been restricted after snowfallPublic Safety In view of public safety, only 4x4 vehicles will be allowed to move towards Lahaul valley in emergency cases. Manav Verma, sp, lahaul-spiti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-nh-restored-to-traffic-195634
09-01-2021||---||Drone cameras to check illegal mining: DGP||Solan, January 8Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu today said drone cameras would be used to check illegal mining in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt.Addressing mediapersons in Baddi, he said the Mining Department had provided Rs 10 lakh to the department and they had demanded more funds for effective manning of the borders in the industrial belt.He said there were 1,150 CCTV cameras installed in the belt to keep a vigil on the traffic and a CCTV room would also be set up in the office of the Baddi Superintendent of Police (SP) for strengthening the surveillance. These cameras had helped in curtailing the hit and run cases and in maintaining law and order. The number of CCTVs will be increased to 2,000, he said.The DGP said an intelligent traffic management system and automatic number plate-reading mechanisms would also be introduced. The introduction of similar systems in Manali and Kullu have yielded productive results, he said. A sum of Rs 20 lakh has been provided by the local industry association for this purpose.The DGP inspected the local police stations and also interacted with the staff. Inspector General of Police (South range) Himanshu Mishra, Baddi SP Rohit Malpani were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drone-cameras-to-check-illegal-mining-dgp-195635
09-01-2021||Palampur||Rs 2 cr released, ‘more funds in pipeline’ for Palampur||Suresh Bhardwaj, Urban Development Minister, yesterday promised liberal funds for development works in newly set up municipal corporation at Palampur. Addressing state officers here, Bhardwaj said that Rs 2 crore had already been released by the state government and more funds were in pipeline.He said that the Jai Ram Thakur government was committed to the overall development of the state and setting up a municipal corporation in Palampur was the first step towards development of Palampur, a fast-expanding town of the state.Bhardwaj said that politics should not come in the way of development and people should support the government. He added that the setting up of the municipal corporation would usher in a new era of development in Palampur, which would witness development of facilities such as sewerage, streetlights, drainage, cemented roads and garbage removal and treatment system, etc.He said Palampur is one of the fastest growing towns of the state and needed planned development. Therefore, the government had taken a decision to set up an MC at Palampur. The minister said that 15 panchayats had been made part of the new municipal corporation with a population of over 41,000 and area of 15.6 sq km. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-2-cr-released-more-funds-in-pipeline-for-palampur-195637
09-01-2021||---||Effective steps needed to enhance GST revenue: CM||Shimla, January 8Effective steps must be taken to increase GST collection and check tax evasion so that the maximum resource generation could be ensured for the state, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a meeting of the State Excise and Taxation Department here yesterday.Despite the Covid crisis, the department collected Rs 4,703 crore during the financial year 2020-21 against Rs 5,066 crore during the same period last year.The Chief Minister stressed enhancement of departmental enforcement capabilities to detect tax evasion and plug leakages for enhancing the state revenue. He directed the department to ensure taxpayers’ ease by initiating regular interaction with them and creating awareness among them.He said that the department would be adequately strengthened and equipped with all facilities required for effective and efficient tax administration to maximise government revenue.Thakur said that greater stress must be laid on legacy cases resolution schemes to dispose of such cases by the payment of settlement fees. He added that although the last date to opt for this scheme had been extended from September 30, 2020, to January 21, 2021, Rs 72 crore recovered till December was not enough.He said that a strategy should be chalked out to dispose of legacy cases and achieve the targets set under the scheme. The department should adopt a proactive approach for revenue enhancement under the Goods and Services Tax Act, he added.The Chief Minister launched the GST FAQ booklet for awareness among taxpayers. He stressed enhancing professionalism in the department by way of conducting intensive and adequate training programmes for capacity building under various enactments and to emulate the best practices and models available in the country.Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, JC Sharma emphasised on regular monitoring of field officers’ performances. He also directed officials concerned to give special focus on physical verification of e-way bills, compliance of GSTR3B return filing, mismatches in returns filed by taxpayers to enhance the state revenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/effective-steps-needed-to-enhance-gst-revenue-cm-195638
09-01-2021||Ravinder Sood ---||Green cover shrinking in Palampur||Palampur,   January 8 Nestled in the foothills of the Dhauladhar range, the small town of Palampur is an ideal retreat for individuals seeking an escape from city life. However, like the other more famous hill stations of the state, Palampur, too, is in the danger of facing the consequences of indiscriminate human activity. Deforestation is a major problem that the town faces. Deodar trees are slowly disappearing without any systematic plantation work. Moreover, uncontrolled mining and extraction of sand, stone and gravel pose danger to roads and housing colonies. “Currently, the population of Palampur is around 60,000 and is expected to touch 70,000 in the next five  years. Indiscriminate human activity has taken us to the edge of environmental chaos,” says an environmentalist who has been fighting for the cause. “The banks of the Neugal, Bhiral and Mol streams have widened due to rampant mining. People are encroaching upon forestland. Erosion in  cultivated lands and even landslides have become a common feature. The  poor implementation of the polythene ban has  virtually made matters worse as today all water channels and forest lands are infested with polythene. The state government must  come out with a policy  to protect the environment, not only in Palampur but in others towns too,”  say  KB Ralhan and Subhash Sharma, local  environmentalists who have been working for environmental protection in  Palampur for the last 20 years.  “Scientists, engineers and civil servants who have settled in this town  must  share and contribute their expertise for the sustainable development of Palampur through the public-private  partnership for social and environmental change,”  says  Ashish Butail, Palampur MLA, who expressed concern over the   environmental degradation in the area. “We have the capacity to educate the people, assist the state government and work with other such organisations for achieving our objectives,” he says. The town does not face massive pollution as there are no major industries. However, the local populace is responsible for water pollution in the absence of any check from the state authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/green-cover-shrinking-in-palampur-195640
09-01-2021||Dipender Manta||Now, closer look on traffic violators on Leh highway||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 8Two ANPR CCTV cameras have been installed on the Raja Ghepan temple premises to keep tabs on the movement of vehicles on the Manali-Leh highway. These cameras will play a key role in helping the police to identify traffic rules violators and take action against them.After the opening of the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, traffic to the Lahaul valley has increased drastically. As a result, the police in Lahaul and Spiti is facing difficulties in managing traffic and keeping tabs on rules violators.According to Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma, the temple of Raja Ghepan, the chief deity of the Lahaul valley, is situated on the roadside on the Manali-Leh highway. He said that two automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) CCTV cameras had been installed at Raja Ghepan temple. They are overlooking the NH-3. These are first such cameras in Lahaul and Spiti district.The SP thanked the temple committee for providing funds for the cameras. The ANPR cameras would go a long way in keeping a vigil on traffic movement to the Lahaul valley.“Automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) is a technology that uses optical character recognition of images to read registration plates to create vehicle location data. It can use existing closed-circuit television, road-rule enforcement cameras or cameras specifically designed for the task,” said the SP.“The ANPR is used by police forces around the world for law enforcement purposes, including checking if a vehicle is registered or licensed. It is also used for electronic toll collection on pay-per-use roads and as a method of cataloguing the movements of traffic by highways agencies,” he added.“The ANPR can be used to store images captured by cameras as well as the text from the licence plate with some configurable to store a photograph of the driver. Systems commonly use infrared lighting to allow the camera to take the picture at any time of day or night,” said the SP.About the technologyAutomatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) is a technology that uses optical character recognition of images to read vehicle registration plates to create vehicle location data. The ANPR is used by police forces around the world for law enforcement purposes, including checking if a vehicle is registered or licensed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-closer-look-on-traffic-violators-on-leh-highway-195641
09-01-2021||Roads under the Solan Municipal Corporation are in a poor shape. In the absence of timely repair||Poor condition of roads||Shortage of potable waterThe residents of the Kalkhar ward under the Patrighat panchayat in Mandi district are facing an acute shortage of potable water for the past few days. The Irrigation and Public Health Department authority has been apprised of this problem, but there have been no efforts to restore the water supply. As a result, people have to fetch water from faraway sources. — Nisha Kumari, MandiWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-condition-of-roads-195643
09-01-2021||The MRA DAV Public School||Fitness week organised||Programme on waste managementA one-week faculty development programme (FDP) was conducted online by the Department of Civil Engineering, Jaypee University of Information Technology, Waknaghat, from January 4 to 8 on "Waste management for sustainable development". More than 100 people, including professors, research scholars, PWD employees, NGOs and other academic personalities, took part in the programme, which was inaugurated by Vice Chancellor Vinod Kumar. The conveners of the programme, Rishi Rana and Kaushal Kumar, stressed on the importance of sustainability for future generations by managing and utilising the waste effectively.Open library for students: ABVPThe ABVP on Friday submitted a memorandum to the library in-charge at the Himachal Pradesh University. ABVP president Vishal Saklani said along with routine life, students too had suffered a lot because of the pandemic. Saklani demanded that the library should be opened while maintaining Covid protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fitness-week-organised-195644
09-01-2021||---||Brace for fresh cold wave: IMD||New Delhi, January 8After fairly warm weather conditions in the past few days, cold wave conditions are set to return with a gradual fall in temperatures over the next four to five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said today.“Due to the prevailing northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperature will fall gradually by 3-5°C during the next four to five days, leading to cold wave conditions in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan on January 11-12,” the weather office said.Due to western disturbance, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad are witnessing scattered rain/snow and isolated rain/thundershower over Haryana, northeast Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh.Dense to very dense fog is very likely at isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and west Uttar Pradesh and dense fog over Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh in the morning hours over the weekend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/brace-for-fresh-cold-wave-imd-195718
09-01-2021||Legal Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh University decision not  to hold admission test illegal: High Court||Shimla, January 8The Himachal Pradesh High Court today declared the HP University’s decision of not holding entrance tests for admission to various undergraduate/postgraduate courses as arbitrary and illegal.A Division Bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua said, “Although we have held the action of university illegal, yet, considering the interest of students at large, who have already been admitted and taking classes for the past two months… we refrain from quashing their admissions.”The Bench asked the university to place the matter before its executive council within a week. The executive council would take appropriate decision on all aspects of the case and act against erring officials in three weeks, it said.Shivam Thakur, a student, had moved the court, claiming the admission process undertaken by the university was in violation of the UGC guidelines. There was no justifiable reason for the university to skip entrance tests, he claimed.The university counsel maintained the issue of entrance tests was deliberated upon by the executive panel. The panel did not find it proper to hold entrance tests for admission to all entrance-based courses due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-decision-not-to-hold-admission-test-illegal-high-court-195734
