10-01-2021||Shimla||Bird Flu: Over 200 migratory birds found dead in Himachal Pradesh||Carcasses of 215 migratory birds were found in Pong Dam Wildlife Sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district on Sunday, taking the total number of such birds suspected to have died of avian influenza to 4,235, officials said.Each day, hundreds of migratory birds were found dead in the lake area since December 29. Last Monday, the samples tested positive for H5N1, they said.Also, for the fourth day in a row, a large number of dead poultry birds were found dumped by the side of the Chandigarh-Shimla highway in Solan district. The remains of the birds were buried according to safety protocol and their samples sent to a disease diagnostic laboratory in Jalandhar.Earlier, dead chickens were found dumped twice near Chakki Mor and once at Barog bypass near the district headquarters.A joint team of animal husbandry officials from the Centre and the state visited Siyal in Dhameta wildlife range and Guglara in Nagrota Surian range of the sanctuary on Sunday to assess the situation, Chief wildlife warden Archana Sharma said. A number of crows were also found dead in different parts of the state over the last few days. Carcasses of over 60 crows each were found at Pong Lake sanctuary in Kangra and Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district while 12 were found dead at Taliara in Mandi district.Besides deaths of some crows were also reported in Bilaspur district. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bird-flu-over-200-migratory-birds-found-dead-in-himachal-pradesh-196570
10-01-2021||Shimla||Keylong in HP shivers at minus 8.8 degrees Celsius||Keylong and Kalpa in Himachal Pradesh continued to shiver at sub-zero temperatures on Sunday, the meteorological department said.The tribal Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong was the coldest place in the state yet again at minus 8.8 degrees Celsius, Shimla Met centre director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 4.3 degrees Celsius respectively, he added. The minimum temperature in Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri was recorded at 1, 4 and 4.4 degrees Celsius respectively.Shimla registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Singh added. Meanwhile the highest temperature in the state was recorded in Sundernagar at 23.2 degrees Celsius. The Met centre has forecast dry weather in the state till January 16. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-in-hp-shivers-at-minus-8-8-degrees-celsius-196567
10-01-2021||---||Former Himachal CM Shanta Kumar discharged from hospital||Mohali, January 5Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar and his family members, who had been admitted to the Fortis Hospital in Mohali for the treatment for COVID-19, were discharged on Sunday morning.A spokesman of the hospital said Shanta Kumar and his family members, who were admitted to the hospital 10 days ago, had tested negative and had recovered fully. He said the former chief minister and other menders of the family were discharged this morning.Shanta Kumar’s wife Santosh Shailja had died due to complications related to coronavirus on December 29. A day after, the 86-year-old leader and his son Vikram Sharma were admitted to Fortis Hospital on December 30 as a precautionary measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-shanta-kumar-discharged-from-hospital-196517
10-01-2021||Solan||MC polls in Solan, Sirmaur witness overwhelming turnout||An overwhelming voter turnout was witnessed in the civic body polls in Solan district on Sunday.The three municipal committees (MCs)— Nahan, Paonta Sahib and Rajgarh in Sirmaur district—registered 43.93, 48.72 and 62.57 per cent polling till 2 pm respectively, said Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi.In Solan district, Arki Nagar panchayat registered the highest polling of 61.08 per cent while the three MCs of Parwanoo, Nalagarh and Baddi recorded 56.70, 57.37 and 44.77 per cent voting respectively by 2:00 pm.Police ensured that social distancing norms were observed and masks were worn by the voters who had started lining up in the morning to cast their votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-polls-in-solan-sirmaur-witness-overwhelming-turnout-196516
10-01-2021||Solan||3 dead, 1 seriously injured in road accident in Sirmaur's Shillai||Three persons were killed, while one was grievously injured when their pick up vehicle plunged into a 200-300 feet gorge on the Kandi-Bhatnol link road in Shillai area of Sirmaur on Sunday evening.DSP Paonta Sahib Bir Bahadur said two persons were killed on the spot while one succumbed to his injuries while being taken to a civil hospital at Shillai. One injured person was referred to a higher medical institute. The search was also conducted by the staff of the Shillai police station with the help of the locals to locate other occupants. Since the vehicle had plunged deep into the gorge, it was an arduous task to retrieve the bodies.The deceased have been identified as Rohan (15), Nikhil (16), both residents of Bohal village and Golu (22), a resident of Bagna. The injured has been identified as Priyanshu (15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-dead-1-seriously-injured-in-road-accident-in-sirmaurs-shillai-196470
10-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Women drug peddlers in Nurpur cause for concern||Nurpur, January 9The involvement of young women in drug peddling in the Nurpur area, bordering Punjab, is a cause for concern. Even the police pressure on peddlers has failed to deter drug smuggling in the area.Damtal, Bhadroya and Chenni-Beli have become notorious for interstate drug peddling. Sources reveal that most interstate drug peddlers belonging to a tribal community have constructed palatial houses here by encroaching upon government land with earnings from the illegal trade.A police team led by Damtal police station in-charge Dev Raj nabbed two women peddlers with 16.2 gm of heroin during night patrolling at Bhadroya. They have been identified as Palvi (25), a resident of Bhadroya, and Anjali (20), a resident of Kathgarh.In another incident, the police seized 35.16 gm of heroin from the possession of Balwinder Singh, aka Billa, (52), a resident of Chhanni. Ashok Ratan, DSP, said that the police had arrested the three peddlers and booked them under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/women-drug-peddlers-in-nurpur-cause-for-concern-196333
10-01-2021||---||Volvo bus services to Delhi begin||Shimla, January 9The Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) has started its Volvo bus services on the Manali-Delhi and Shimla-Delhi routes.HPTDC Managing Director Kumad Singh said the services would provide an additional mode of travel to tourists willing to visit Himachal. “Special instructions have been issued to ensure the strict compliance of SOPs for Volvo services,” she said.She said the buses were being sanitised before the journey. Besides, the temperature of the passengers was also being checked before allowing to board the bus. “We ensure that all passengers wear face masks. The HPTDC takes special care of the passengers travelling in our buses,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volvo-bus-services-to-delhi-begin-196334
10-01-2021||---||Cong leader GS Bali accuses CM of defying poll code||Dharamsala, January 9The Congress had criticised a meeting of BJP leaders and workers with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in the Circuit House here.Senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali, while talking to newspersons here today, alleged that the meeting was a violation of the code of conduct for the local body elections. It was a matter of concern that the Chief Minister himself was violating the poll code by using the official machinery during the elections, Bali said. The use of a state helicopter for electioneering was also a violation, he added.Asked about the government’s claim that the Chief Minister had come to review the situation in Kangra in view of the outbreak of avian flu, Bali said that what were all MLAs and party leaders doing at the meeting in the Circuit House.He also objected to the statement of the government that it would give gratuity to employees, who are covered under the New Pension Scheme (NPS). The announcement was an attempt to influence the electorate, he alleged. The Congress would write to the Election Commission against these violations, he added.Bali said that the Congress would win all municipal council polls in Kangra district. The people would punish the present government for ignoring the area in the past three years. Many government offices and projects had been shifted out of the district. Even projects started during the previous Congress government such as the Smart City project were incomplete, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-leader-gs-bali-accuses-cm-of-defying-poll-code-196335
10-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Khanna tries to bring together warring BJP factions in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 9Avinash Rai Khanna, in-charge of BJP affairs in Himachal, has taken an initiative to restore order to the party in Kangra, the politically most significant district of the state.Khanna was in Dharamsala since yesterday and met various disgruntled BJP leaders. A significant development was that former minister Ravinder Ravi, who had been sidelined in the present government for the past three years, was also invited to the meeting at the Circuit House yesterday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Khanna chaired the meeting for the forthcoming elections to the Dharamsala and Palampur municipal corporations and other local bodies.Ravi, who lost the last Assembly elections from Dehra, owes allegiance to the group of former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. The differences between Ravi and some BJP leaders were so sharp that even an FIR was registered against him at Palampur recently for making viral a message on social media highlighting alleged corruption in the Health Department in the present state government.Sources said that Khanna also met disgruntled BJP leaders in the Dehra and Jawalamukhi Assembly constituencies. In Jawalamukhi, supporters of BJP MLA Ramesh Dhawala and organising secretary Pawan Rana have been at loggerheads.In Dehra, the BJP has been at loggerheads with Independent MLA Hoshiar Singh, who is considered close to the Chief Minister. Dehra BJP leaders have been alleging that they are not even informed about the programmes of ministers visiting the area.Asked whether he had tried to bring together the warring BJP groups in Kangra district, Khanna said that all leaders were important for the party. “The leaders are groomed with the efforts of the party and party workers over a long period of time. Ignoring them will be a waste of talent created by the party over a period of time,” he added.Khanna said that the party was preparing for the forthcoming local body elections as well as the next Assembly elections. “I have informed the party leaders that besides development works carried out by the state government, their availability to common people, honesty in doing work and even the behaviour of their family members will be instrumental in guiding people’s evaluation of their working,” he added. He said that he would be touring the state extensively in the coming months to improve coordination between the party and the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/khanna-tries-to-bring-together-warring-bjp-factions-in-kangra-196336
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Butail flays minister for ‘no development’ remark||Palampur,  January 9 Ashish Butail, local MLA and general secretary of the state Congress,   today criticised  Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj     for his remark against the MLA  in a press conference here yesterday.  Bhardwaj had stated that development remained standstill    in Palampur during the Congress regime. Addressing a news conference here this afternoon, Butail said his  father BBL Butail was elected from Palampur many times because  he had worked for the area and in the 2017 Assembly poll despite  the Modi wave, he was again elected with a big margin.   He said Bhardwaj had forgotten that  Palampur was one of the most developed towns and was the first choice of ministers, retired bureaucrats and   army  officers to settle.  He said the BJP always played a negative politics and tried to divided the people but at the same time, the Congress worked for  all section of society.  He said the Urban Development Minister had stated that the government had released Rs 2.8 crore for the development of Palampur, but the minister must tell when that money would be utilised. The money was lying in the bank as the Palampur Municipal Corporation had no plan in hand to spend the money.  He told  the minister that  development in the newly formed  Mandi Municipal Corporation had begun. Streetlights  were being installed and the construction of rain shelters had also been taken up  but in Palampur, the money had been kept in the bank. He said if  the BJP government was so much worried with its development, it should grant the district status to Palampur which was a long pending demand.  He said the Congress would fight the municipal corporation election and be able to  elect its mayor and deputy mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/butail-flays-minister-for-no-development-remark-196337
10-01-2021||Palampur||Search on for missing paraglider||The district administration today pressed a helicopter   and drone cameras into service to trace missing paraglider Rohit Badhoria, who had taken off from Billing last evening but did not land at Chogan.   Other  paragliders said that Badhoria’s   glider was last  seen in high Dhauladhar mountains   near Utrala village  late last evening  but it could not be confirmed whether  he landed safely or cashed somewhere in snow-covered peaks. The Kangra police today started a rescue operation under the supervision of   DSP, Baijnath, BD Bhatia. Bhatia, who is camping at Bir,   told The Tribune on the phone that the district administration had  pressed a helicopter and drone cameras into service  to locate the missing paraglider.    He said that Badhoria could not be traced till the filing of this report.  He added that if his location was found, rescue teams would be sent there. Badhoria had no radio set with him.   Several local  paragliding pilots and volunteers  are also assisting the police. Badhoria hails from Delhi but was living at Bir for the past few years. He was  an experienced paraglider.  In Billing last year,  Singaporean paraglider Kok Chang had died after his glider crash-landed  in  high mountains. Besides, a Russian and a Latvian   were seriously injured  when their gliders crashed  near Jhatingari in Mandi and in Bundla hills of Palampur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/search-on-for-missing-paraglider-196338
10-01-2021||Subhash Rajta---||Plan to import planting material from US hits a roadblock||Tribune News Service Shimla, January 9 The Horticulture Department’s plan to import over 9 lakh planting material of temperate fruits from the US has hit a roadblock due to the pandemic. A horticulture team is waiting to leave for the US for pre-dispatch inspection of the planting material, but it hasn’t received the required permissions yet for the trip. “Nurseries we have placed our orders with have the planting material ready, but the team is unable to leave because of the visa/ticketing issues. We have written to the agencies concerned, including the US embassy. Hopefully, we will get the permission soon,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma. The visit can’t be delayed for long because the ideal planting time for temperate fruits is from late January to March. In case the arrival of the planting material is delayed beyond the ideal planting period, the mortality rate in the post-entry quarantine facility, where the plants are kept for a year, rises significantly. The department has already burnt its fingers a few years ago when the delivery of planting material from Italy was delayed and as a result lakhs of plants could not survive in higher temperatures. “We don’t want a repeat of the incident. That’s why we are trying to get the material as early as possible,” said Sharma. What happens if the required permissions do not come in time? “In that case, we will ask some local organisations in the US to inspect the planting materials in the nurseries on our behalf and then get it dispatched,” he said. The lion’s share of the order comprises rootstocks this time around. “We want to prepare our own planting material to reduce dependence on others. That’s the reason why we are ordering so many rootstocks,” said Sharma. The Director added that planting material from the US was going to cost more than that imported from Italy. “I can’t tell the exact cost at the moment, but it could be anywhere between Rs 700 and Rs 800,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-import-planting-material-from-us-hits-a-roadblock-196339
10-01-2021||---||Student bodies hail HC rebuke of HPU for not holding admission test||Shimla, January 9 The state High Court order declaring the decision of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) not to hold entrance test for admission to campus-based undergraduate and postgraduate courses as “arbitrary and illegal” has caused it much-avoidable embarrassment while student organisations have hailed the judgment. The university neither sought approval from the UGC nor informed it about its decision to make admissions on the merit list of the qualifying examination. The action of the respondent-university to hold entrance tests only for admission to LLB, B.Ed and HPU-MAT and not for other campus courses was arbitrary and an infringement upon the valuable rights of the students, the court observed. The student organisations had been demanding admission to various courses through the entrance tests but the university made admissions on the basis of merit. However, the judgment would not benefit the students in any manner, as the High Court did not quash the admissions and the admission process had already been completed. Meanwhile, the university authorities said that the decision to make admissions on merit was taken in the wake of Covid-19, which was an unusual situation. The entrance is held in May when the pandemic was at its peak. A committee was constituted to take the decision, which was reported to the executive council. The ABVP hailed the judgment and said that the university charged a heavy fee of Rs 1,400 for the entrance test but did conduct it in spite of protests. It alleged that the university took several anti-students decisions under the garb of the pandemic.   The university filled seats in postgraduate courses without waiting for the results of the undergraduate courses such as B.Tech, BBA, BCA, ignoring the interests of thousands of students, said Vishal Verma, state secretary of the ABVP.    He urged the court to take action against the university for its illegal decisions  and also demanded the immediate removal of the Dean of Studies, who was allegedly responsible for the lapse. SFI campus president Ravinder Chandel said that the university had time as the results of the undergraduate courses were not declared when it took the decision. He added that when the final-year exams could be held why could not the entrance test. He demanded that the university should refund the entrance test fees it had collected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-bodies-hail-hc-rebuke-of-hpu-for-not-holding-admission-test-196340
10-01-2021||Mandi||DC: No animal slaughtering||Pankaj Rai, DC, Lahaul-Spiti, said the slaughtering of animals in the open was prohibited in the district. There was need to cover slaughterhouses. He said according to the directions of the High Court, slaughtering in the open was banned. Proper arrangements were necessary for the deep burial of animal waste. The secretary of the panchayats concerned would be responsible in case of any violation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-no-animal-slaughtering-196341
10-01-2021||ibune News Service---||3 new MCs BJP’s gift to Himachal: Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Dharamsala, January 9 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, addressing a press conference here today, said the government had given a push to development in the past three years. The Congress, in its rule of about 40 years in the state, gave just two municipal corporations. The BJP government gave three new MCs — Palampur, Mandi and Solan. He said the government had efficiently controlled the spread of coronavirus as well the avian flu. The government had shut poultry meat shops and and banned fishery in the Pong lake as precaution. While poultry had been affected in Haryana, in Himachalthe spread had been curtailed. He said a motor boat would be provided to the Wildlife Department to collect and dispose of the dead birds floating in the lake. The department had three boats, but they were insufficient. The completion of 50 years of statehood of Himachal would be celebrated on January 25 this year. Various functions would be held. About the expansion of the Gaggal airport of Kangra, he said the case for new international airport in Mandi district and expansion of the Gaggal airport had been sent to the Finance Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-new-mcs-bjps-gift-to-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-196342
10-01-2021||Solan||Labourer dies in Solan||A 39-year-old  migrant labourer, Brajesh, who hailed  from UP, died during the construction of a building at the Kaleen  area of Solan this morning. He sustained grievous injuries.  Though he was rushed to the Regional Hospital here  by the house owner, he was declared brought dead by doctors.   — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/labourer-dies-in-solan-196343
10-01-2021||Mandi||Snow avalanche blocks highway||A snow avalanche occurred at the Mooling bridge on the Manali-Leh highway in Lahaul and Spiti district today. However, no loss of life or damage to property in the incident was reported. According to sources, the snow avalanche occurred 10 km from Keylong towards the Manali side, blocking the highway. The BRO has pressed its machinery and workforce to clear the highway for traffic movement. Dharamsala: An earthquake of the magnitude of 4.2 on the Richter scale hit Dharamsala at 8.20 pm today. The epicentre of the quake was located at the Kareri lake, about 10 km from here. The buildings shook with the impact of the quake, creating panic among people. However, there was no loss of life and damage to property reported in the incident till the filing of this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-avalanche-blocks-highway-196344
10-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Kumarhatti junction a traffic bottleneck||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 9The Kumarhatti junction, if not widened, will continue to see congestion caused by vehicular traffic plying on five roads that converge there. The junction has been reduced to 32-metre wide when the Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway-5 is being widened to four-lanes.A carriageway of 45 m is being constructed for almost the entire stretch of the 39-km Parwanoo-Solan National Highway, which is being widened.Several concerns are being raised by the locals regarding this junction, which include the possibility of accidents due to congestion owing to the growing local traffic. Vehicles from Dharampur, Dagshai, Barog and Nahan will have to ply through the Kumarhatti junction if no slip roads are provided. Apple-laden multi-axle trucks, which ply from the Sultanpur-Nahan road, will also face problems while turning at the junction due to the lack of space. It is a fast developing commercial centre due to the presence of several educational institutes in its vicinity.“The presence of a medical and an engineering college and five universities in its precincts has led to rapid development of the Kumarhatti area besides a multiple increase in traffic. Multi-axle apple-laden trucks will add to the congestion as no slip roads have been constructed to connect local roads with the flyover till now,” said Vikas, a local resident.The four-laning, which had begun in September 2015, was supposed to be completed within 30 months. The project, however, has taken more than 60 months. As much as 93 per cent work has been completed and officials of GR Infraprojects are hopeful of completing it by June.The locals are also apprehensive whether parking lots or a bus stop will be provided for the Kumarhatti junction.“The absence of wayside amenities is also a cause of concern as the junction does not even provide adequate space to cross the road,” said Anand, a local.KC Chaman, Deputy Commissioner, Solan, said the Kumarhatti junction faced the heavy inflow of traffic in view of educational institutes around it.“Though the flyover will decongest the traffic plying from other states, the problem of local traffic will continue to plague the junction unless more land is acquired.Entering the Dagshai road from the highway is fraught with risk given the lack of space,” the DC added.“It is not only a bifurcation point for the Nahan highway but also a meeting point of roads from Dagshai, Barog and Dharampur. Officials have been asked to submit a revised land acquisition plan around this junction to construct slip roads, wayside amenities and parking lots as the present width is inadequate to accommodate the local traffic during peak hours,” Chaman added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kumarhatti-junction-a-traffic-bottleneck-196345
10-01-2021||---||Day 4: 100 dead chicks found||Solan/Mandi, January 9 For the fourth consecutive day today, around 100 dead chicks were found dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan highway, near Sanwara. There was fear in the nearby villages of avian influenza spreading in the area.  Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said an inspection of the site revealed that the chicks had died some days ago. They appear to have been dumped a day or two ago and locals noticed them when animals started hovering around in the area. The dead chicks were earlier recovered from Chakki Ka Mor and near the Kumarhatti tunnel. Their samples have been sent to Jalandhar-based Regional  Disease  Diagnostic Lab. However, the authorities are yet to trace and bring the offenders to book. Meanwhile, 12 crows were found dead at Sanyardi in Mandi district yesterday. An Animal Husbandry Department team took samples of the dead birds and sent these to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar. Divisional Forest Officer, Mandi, SS Kashyap said that a resident of Sanyardi informed the department about the death of the birds. A Forest Department team visited the spot and found 12 crows dead. “The carcasses have been disposed of according to the wildlife protocol,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/day-4-100-dead-chicks-found-196346
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Covid +ve to vote after 4 pm in Nurpur today||Nurpur, January 9 The Covid positive voters will cast their vote in the local Municipal Council (MC) elections after 4 pm tomorrow.  A nodal officer has been deployed by the Health Department to monitor and depute employees at the polling booth to facilitate them.  According to Returning Officer-cum-SDM, Nurpur, Surinder Thakur, the polling will start at 8 am and continue till 4 pm. Nine polling booths have been set up and 24 candidates are in the fray from nine municipal wards.  The elections to the Nurpur MC, which had always been dominated by Congress supporters for the past many decades, have become a prestige issue for local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania and Congress former MLA Ajay Mahajan. They have put in a lot of labour to garner urban voters’ support in favour of their candidates. They have undertaken door-to-door canvassing. First time in the history of the MC elections, an aggressive social media and a poster war have been witnessed. Interestingly, Congress candidates are contesting the elections in the name of the late MC president RK Mahajan, who died over one-and-a-half-months ago. His family had dominated the MC for the past five terms. The Congress is reminding the residents of social and community works undertaken by late Mahajan on his own.  Whereas the BJP is contesting on the issue of ‘Vote for Change’ and better civic amenities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-ve-to-vote-after-4-pm-in-nurpur-today-196347
10-01-2021||Solan||Nalagarh soldier martyred at Drass||Hawildar Kuldeep Singh (41) of 79 Medium Artillery Regiment, posted at Drass  for  Operation Snow Leopard,  was martyred on Thursday morning. He hails from Jogo village of Nalagarh subdivision and is the grandson of freedom fighter Dola Singh.  Kuldeep joined the Army in 1999. He is survived by his wife Renu Devi and two daughters aged 14 and nine years. His body is slated to  arrive at his native village this evening.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over his martyrdom and  extended condolences to the bereaved family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nalagarh-soldier-martyred-at-drass-196348
10-01-2021||Shimla||84 fresh cases, 3 deaths in Himachal||As many as 84 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the total tally to 56,366. Besides, three persons died of the virus in the last 24 hours. While two persons died in Shimla, one person succumbed to the virus in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/84-fresh-cases-3-deaths-in-himachal-196349
