11-01-2021||New Delhi||Every hydroelectric project under obligation to release minimum water downstream: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has directed state pollution control boards to ensure the release of minimum water downstream by hydroelectric projects, saying business or commercial interests cannot override the requirement of maintaining riverine ecology.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said every hydroelectric project (HEP) irrespective of the date of its commission is under an obligation to release minimum water downstream. “This is a mandate of ‘Sustainable Development’ which is part of the right to life. Accordingly, the tribunal directed compliance by all the Hydro-Electric Projects (HEPs), including in States of Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, West Bengal (North Region), Assam and Jammu & Kashmir,” the bench said.Environmental flow describes the quantity, timing, and quality of water flows required to sustain freshwater and estuarine ecosystems and the human livelihoods and wellbeing that depend on these ecosystems.The tribunal junked the submission of the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation seeking exemption from releasing water to maintain 15 per cent e-flow (the quantity and timing of water that is essential for the river to perform its ecological functions) during the lean period.“We do not find any substance in this submission. The mandate of ‘Sustainable Development’ has to be complied. We do not see any hurdle in doing so. Whatever changes are required for the purpose can certainly be done.“Technical and/or commercial limitations cannot be a ground to ignore the mandate of law. No business or commercial interest can override the requirement of maintaining riverine ecology,” the bench said.The green panel noted that the Ministry of Jal Shakti has not filed any report even though a period of nine months has passed since its direction.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Himachal Pradesh resident Vijay Kumar seeking enforcement of requirement of releasing minimum water downstream by the HEPs in the state.--- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/every-hydroelectric-project-under-obligation-to-release-minimum-water-downstream-ngt-196968
11-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Accused admits he embezzled funds via fake institutes in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 10The CBI has got a major breakthrough in the investigation into the Rs 250-crore scholarship scam with key accused Arvind Rajta reportedly confessing to his involvement in the crime.The CBI found that Rajta, the then Superintendent in the Department of Higher Education, had 33 per cent stake in the name of his wife in nine fake institutions.The institutes located in Una, Chamba, Sirmaur and Kangra districts in the name of Nilet, Skill Development and ITI were not affiliated and over Rs 28 crore of scholarship money was disbursed to these centres. There were three partners having equal share.CBI raids revealed that the centres were running from just one or two rooms. Rajta reportedly told the CBI that his wife had no involvement in the scam and he owned full responsibility. The CBI is now investigating the properties amassed by Rajta.Sources said the centres would submit a fake list of SC/ST and other eligible category candidates to the Education Department and Rajta would disburse the money without verification.Investigations revealed that the bungling was going on since 2012-13. The scholarship money was not credited to the accounts of over 32,000 students under 36 schemes. As many as 272 private educational institutions are under the scanner for cornering 80 per cent funds. Many centres enrolled ineligible candidates and opened fake bank accounts to siphon off funds.The modus operandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/accused-admits-he-embezzled-funds-via-fake-institutes-in-himachal-196869
11-01-2021||---||Una sees highest polling, Shimla lowest||Shimla, January 10 As many as 401 candidates were elected in the elections held for 50 urban local bodies in the state today. With the overall voting percentage being 68.70 per cent, district Una registered the highest voting percentage with 73.40 per cent and Shimla registered the lowest at 62.40 per cent. Nagar Panchayat Narkanda in district Shimla registered the highest voting percentage at 90 per cent. In district Shimla, elections were held in eight urban local bodies – three municipal councils and five nagar panchayats. Overall, women turned out in greater numbers than men to cast their votes in the district.  As against 61.88 male voting percentage, 62.97 per cent women turned out to cast their vote. The voting started at 8 am. Overall, 456 voting centres were established for the elections in 29 municipal councils and 21 nagar panchayats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-sees-highest-polling-shimla-lowest-196598
11-01-2021||---||BJP ahead as 76% cast votes in Una||Our CorrespondentUNA, JANUARY 10Voting for elections to the six Urban Local Bodies in Una district, which include the Municipal Committees of Una, Mehatpur-Basdehra and Santoshgarh and Nagar Panchayats of Tahliwal, Daulatpur Chowk and Gagret went off peacefully today with a total of 76.07 per cent voters exercising their franchise.Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma informed that a maximum voter turnout of 82.59 per cent was witnessed at Tahliwal, followed by 78.86 per cent at Mehatpur-Basdehra, 77.06 per cent at Gagret, 77.05 per cent at Santoshgarh, 73.32 per cent at Una and 72.12 per cent at Daulatpur Chowk.The BJP has claimed victories in Mehatpur and Tahliwal urban bodies where results of all wards have been received. In all, 25,538 out of a total 34,821 voters exercised their franchise at six urban bodies in Una district, which includes 10 Covid positive and 13 home quarantined persons, who voted after 4 pm at the end of the poll process.The list of the winning candidates with votes cast in their favour in Municipal Committee Mehatpur-Basdehra having nine wards is Balram Chandel (134 votes) from Ward-1, Som Nath (409 votes) from Ward-2, Banwari Lal (319 votes) from ward-3, Ritu Bala (262 votes) from Ward-4, Rajinder Kaur (471 votes) from Ward-5, Vipin Rana (393 votes) from ward-6, Harpreet Kaur (262 votes) from Ward-7, Anju Devi (306 votes) from ward-8 and Ajay Soni from ward-9In Tahliwal Nagar Panchayat, the winners from the seven wards are Sushma Kumari (145 votes) from Ward-1, Poonam Devi (196 votes) from ward-2, Gurnam Singh (160 votes) from Ward 3, Sushma Devi (173 votes) from Ward-4, Prakash Chand (203 votes) from Ward 5, Raj Kumari (190 votes) from Ward-6 and Raj Kumar from ward-7.Counting of votes in the remaining municipal bodies was still underway, while only three winning candidates from Santoshgarh Municipal Committee having a total of nine wards could be confirmed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-ahead-as-76-cast-votes-in-una-196599
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||BJP upbeat in Kullu||KULLU, JANUARY 10 Most BJP-supported candidates remained victorious in four civic bodies’ elections held here today. In the Manali Municipal Committee, five of the seven seats were won by the BJP-backed candidates, while two seats were secured by the Congress-backed nominees.  In the Banjar Nagar Panchayat, four BJP-supported candidates won while two seats were bagged by Congress-backed candidates and one seat  by an independent. In the Bhuntar Nagar Panchayat also, five BJP-supported candidates were victorious while two BJP rebels also secured victory. However, four Congress-supported candidates and one Congress rebel won from the Kullu Municipal Committee and three seats were bagged by BJP-backed contestants, while one Communist party-supported candidate won the elections and two independent stood victorious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-upbeat-in-kullu-196600
11-01-2021||---||68% polling in Chamba||Our CorrespondentChamba, January 10The Chamba Municipal Council recorded 68.47 per cent turnout, while Dalhousie and Chowari Nagar Parishad registered 72.21 per cent and 72.54 per cent voting today.The polling went off peacefully and voters cast their votes abiding by the Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/68-polling-in-chamba-196601
11-01-2021||Kullu||64.37 pc polling in Kullu||Kullu DC and District Election Officer Richa Verma said the district had recorded 64.37 per cent polling for four urban civic bodies. She said the polling was completed peacefully and no untoward incident was reported from any place in the district. She said 63.06 per cent polling was registered for the Kullu Municipal Council and 65.10 per cent polling was recorded for the Manali Municipal Committee. She added that 65.85 per cent polling was recorded in the Bhuntar nagar panchayat and 73.80 per cent polling was recorded in the Banjar nagar panchayat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/64-37-pc-polling-in-kullu-196602
11-01-2021||---||BJP sweeps Sirmaur MC poll, wins 18 of 33 seats||Solan,January 10The BJP won all three civic body polls in Sirmaur district comprising the nagar panchayat of Rajgarh and municipal committees of Nahan and Paonta by bagging 18 seats, while the Congress could win only 11 seats and 4 were bagged by Independents.In Nahan, BJP wins 8 seatsBeing the home district of state BJP president Suresh Kashyap, this is being seen as a key victory.The Opposition Congress dealt a severe blow to the ruling BJP by bagging five of the seven seats in Arki nagar panchayat (NP) polls for which were held today.Marred by factionalism, the local BJP failed to put up a show of strength and was trounced by the Congress which has dominated this nagar panchayat for the past several years.As much as 78.19 per cent polling was registered in the Arki NP. The winners are Nirmala Devi in ward number one, Surender Kumar in ward number two, Bharti Verma in ward number three, Anuj Gupta in ward number four, Hamender Kumar in ward number five, Dharampal in ward number six and Ruchika Gupta in ward number seven, informed SDM Arki Vikas Shukla. Only two BJP-supported candidates Surender Kumar and Bharti Verma emerged victorious.Rajgarh: BJP 4, Cong 2In Rajgarh nagar panchayat (NP) BJP won four of the seven seats while two were bagged by the Congress and an independent won one seat.The list of winners in Rajgarh NP included BJP-supported Sunita from ward number one, Congress-supported Suman Chauhan from ward number two, BJP-supported Ruby from ward number three, Congress-supported Jyoti Sahni from ward number four, an independent Kapil Thakur from ward number five, BJP-supported Amit Kashyap from ward number six and BJP-supported Dinesh Thakur from ward number seven.Nalagarh: BJP 5, Cong 3In Nalagarh municipal committee (MC) BJP showed its supremacy bagging five of the nine seats while the Congress managed to win three and an independent bagged one. Despite the presence of a Congress MLA, the Opposition failed to muster enough seats to oust the BJP from the civic body.In ward number one, BJP-supported Shalini Sharma won the poll, while in ward number two Vandan Bansal, an independent, emerged victorious. In ward number three Reena Devi supported by the Congress won the poll while in ward number four Sanjev Kumar of the BJP was declared the winner. In ward number five, Congress-supported Alka Verma won the seat while in ward number six BJP’s Mahesh Kumar Gautam won the poll.Congress-supported Amrinder Singh won from ward number seven while Sahar Sharma, a BJP-supported candidates, won from ward number eight. Tara Awasthi was earlier elected unopposed from ward number nine.Paonta Sahib: BJP 6, Cong 4The BJP-supported candidates won six of the 13 seats in Paonta Sahib municipal committee while Congress-supported candidates bagged four seats and independents emerged victorious on three seats.Parwanoo: Cong 4, BJP 3In Parwanoo municipal committee, Congress won four seats while the BJP emerged victorious in three and two independent candidates won the elections. State women commission chairperson Daisy Thakur also won.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-sweeps-sirmaur-mc-poll-wins-18-of-33-seats-196603
11-01-2021||Solan||Protest over delay in EVM arrival||A controversy erupted in Parwanoo municipal council polls today where the electronic voting machine (EVM) of ward number one from Government Senior Secondary School reached the counting station at municipal committee hall after big delay around 6:45 pm. The polling had ended around 4 pm. Congress candidates and their supporters gathered in strength and protested the delay. Congress leader Ramesh Chauhan alleged that the polling agents had also been turned out from the EVM room and it hinted towards some foul play. They raised slogans against the state government and the local MLA and termed it as an attempt to manipulate the results. DSP Parwanoo officials, Yogesh Rolta, however, stated they followed due protocols in transporting the EVM to the counting station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protest-over-delay-in-evm-arrival-196604
11-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||3-3 tie for BJP, Cong  in Kangra district||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 10Heavy polling was registered in eight municipal councils in Kangra district despite the Covid scare. In some areas of the Nagrota Bagwan Municipal Council, even Covid patients turned out to cast their votes, wearing PPE kits. The administration had made arrangement for Covid patients to vote after 5 pm.Inds, BJP, Congress equalBJP-supported candidates won most wards in Dehra, Nagrota Bagwan and Nurpur while the Congress claimed victory in the newly formed MCs in Shahpur, Jawali and Jwalamukhi. There was a setback for the Congress in Nurpur and Nagrota Bagwan Municipal Councils as the outgoing bodies were dominated by the party.DC Rakesh Prajapati said the maximum polling of 77.7 per cent was registered in the Jwalamukhi Municipal Council. As many as 3,070 cast their vote. The Congress claimed victory in six out of seven wards in Jwalamukhi while the BJP won just one. The Congress retained its hold over the Jwalamukhi MC.In the Dehra MC, 74.12 per cent polling was registered as 2,675 cast their vote. The BJP maintained its dominance in Dehra, winning all seven wards.In Nagrota Bagwan, 74.95 per cent voting was registered in seven wards. As many as 3,593 cast their vote. Six candidates, supported by the BJP, won and one independent triumphed.In the Nurpur Municipal Council, 72.63 per cent voted in nine wards and 5,573 cast their vote. The MC had always been a Congress stronghold, however, this time, the BJP did a turnaround. In the outgoing council, the Congress had seven ward members, while the BJP had two. Minister for Forest Rakesh Pathania claimed that the BJP had won six out of nine wards.In Kangra, 71.36 per cent voters cast their vote. In Baijnath-Paprola, 64.87 per cent cast their vote. In the Shahpur MC, which was formed recently, the first elections saw 68.29 per cent voting. The Congress claimed victory in four out of seven wards, while two wards were won by Independents and one supported by the BJP.In Jawali, 77.6 per cent voting was registered. Here 4,211 exercised their franchise. In Jawali, the Congress won six wards, while the BJP got just two.Elections were not held on election symbol and the candidates were just supported by leaders. Till the filing of the report, counting was on in Kangra MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-3-tie-for-bjp-cong-in-kangra-district-196605
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Landslide victory for BJP in Nurpur||Nurpur, January 10 The BJP registered a landslide victory in the Nurpur Municipal Council (MC) polls.  Six out of nine wards were swept by the party. BJP candidates won in ward number 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8, whereas Congress candidates won in ward number 4, 6 and 7.  In a direct contest in ward number 9, the Congress and BJP-supported candidates had a tie. Following the consent of both candidates and provisions of Election Commission guidelines, ‘by lot’ system was adopted and the BJP candidate was declared winner. This ward was considered prestigious one as outgoing MC Chairperson Krishna Mahajan had contested from here.  As per official information in ward number 1, Karnail Singh, in ward number 2- Rajni Mahajan, in ward number 3- Pravesh Kumar, in ward number4 - Gaurav Mahajan, in ward number 5 - Minakshi Devi, in ward number 6- Sonia Devi in ward number 7- Viney Ghyee, in ward number 8- Ashok Sharma and in ward number 9- Shivani Sharma won the elections. In Jawali Nagar panchayat, the Congress swept 7 out of 9 wards, whereas the BJP succeeded only in ward number 2 and 5. In Baijnath Paprola, Independents won seven out of 11 wards while the Congress and the BJP won two each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-victory-for-bjp-in-nurpur-196606
11-01-2021||Solan||Soldier cremated with state honours||Hawildar Kuldeep Singh (41) of the 79 Medium Artillery Regiment, who was martyred on January 7, was cremated this afternoon at Patalpuri near Kiratpur Sahib with full state and military honours.His two daughters — Navneet (14) and Amandeep (9) — lit the pyre along with his brothers Surinder and Joginder.The martyr’s body was brought to Chandigarh this morning by air and later taken to his native village at Jogo in the Nalagarh subdivision. A large number of people paid their last respect to the soldier.Officials from the local administration and MLA Lakhwinder Rana also paid tributes to the solider. He was posted at Drass for the Operation Snow Leopard, where he was martyred. He is survived by wife Renu Devi and two daughters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soldier-cremated-with-state-honours-196607
11-01-2021||---||3 die in Shillai accident||Solan, January 10 Three persons were killed and one was critically injured when the Mahindra pick-up vehicle they were travelling in plunged into a 300-feet-deep gorge on the Kandi-Bhatnol link road in the Shillai area of Sirmaur last evening. The occupants were on their way from Shillai to their village when the mishap occurred. Despite it being a goods vehicle, it had been challaned eight times for offences like carrying passengers, said Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur Singh.  While two persons were killed on the spot, one person succumbed to his injuries while being taken to the Civil Gospital at Shillai. The injured person was referred to a higher medical institute as he had sustained grievous injuries. A search was conducted by the  Shillai police with the help of the locals for other possible occupants. Since the vehicle had plunged deep into the gorge, it was an arduous task to retrieve the bodies. The deceased have been identified as Rohan (15), Nikhil (16), both are residents of Bohal village, and Golu (22) of Bagna. The injured person has been identified as Priyanshu (15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-die-in-shillai-accident-196608
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Experts visit Pong lake to assess situation||Nurpur, January 10 The mortality rate of migratory birds due to avian flu in the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary has been reported under control as dead birds count remained 215 today, whereas the total count touched 4,235.  Meanwhile, a joint team comprising veterinary experts Jasbir Bedi, Sukhdev Nandi and Gourav Sharma of the Union Animal Husbandry Department along with veterinary experts of the state Vikram Vashisht and Varinder Patiyal today visited Siyaal and Guglara areas of the wetland and assessed the present situation of the bird flu outbreak. Rahul Rohane, DFO Wildlife, Hamirpur, told The Tribune that the team was apprised of all measures being undertaken to control  the avian flu outbreak.  Meanwhile, the Animal Husbandry Department found 17 dead crows which were disposed of in a scientific way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-visit-pong-lake-to-assess-situation-196609
11-01-2021||Mohali||Shanta, kin  discharged from hospital||Former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar and his family members, who had been admitted to the Fortis Hospital in Mohali for treatment for Covid-19, were discharged on Sunday. A spokesman of the hospital said Shanta Kumar and his family members, who were admitted to the hospital on December 30, had tested negative and recovered fully. He said the former CM and his family members were discharged this morning. Shanta’s wife Santosh Shailja had died on December 29. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shanta-kin-discharged-from-hospital-196610
11-01-2021||---||Met predicts dry weather for 6 days||Shimla, January 10  Intense cold wave conditions persisted in most parts even as the region had a dry day and day temperatures rose marginally.  The minimum temperature hovered around freezing point in the lower hills while Keylong, Kalpa and Bhuntar recorded a low of minus 8.8 degree, minus 4.3 degree and 0.4 degree. Manali shivered at 1 degree while Kufri and Solan recorded 4.4 degree, followed by Dharamsala 5.4 degree, Shimla 5.5 degree, Palampur 6 degree, Una 8 degree and Nahan 10.3 degree. The local MeT office has predicted dry weather for six days till January 11. Shimla and its surrounding areas had a bright and sunny day but strong winds swept the region in the afternoon. The day temperatures increased by a few notches and Sundernagar with 23.2 degree C was the hottest in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-dry-weather-for-6-days-196611
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Congress has neglected Palampur, says Kapoor||Palampur, January 10 Trilok Kapoor,  state BJP general secretary and Chairman,  State Wool Federation, today said the Congress was responsible  for  the problems   being faced by residents of Palampur today.  He said the town was represented by the Congress for a longer period but it did not provide proper civic amenities  to the residents.  Despite vast urbanisation, the Congress had failed to extend the municipal limits because of  its political interests. Kapoor, who was addressing a press conference here this afternoon,   asked local MLA  Ashish Butail  to tell public  any major project sanctioned during the Congress  regime.   He said the agricultural university, the Institute of Himalayan Bio-Technology (IHBT-CSIR), the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary  Research Institute, the Northern India  Sanskriti Kendra, the Municipal Corporation,  the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project and the bus stand were   sanctioned and made functional during the BJP regime. He said  because of the efforts of Shanta Kumar,  Palampur had the municipal corporation.  He regretted that the Congress had neglected Palampur. He said the BJP was fully prepared for the  municipal council elections and it would win all 15 seats.  He stated the Congress  was a leaderless party and had even failed to play an effective opposition. He said the party would soon  finalise the ticket for the MC elections in Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-has-neglected-palampur-says-kapoor-196612
11-01-2021||---||Veterans flay decision to freeze DA, DR||Mandi, January  10 The Retired Honorary Commissioned Officers of Army, Navy and Air Force have objected to the Union Government’s decision to freeze 18 months of DA (Dearness Allowance) & DR  (Dearness Relief) from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, for serving armed forces personnel and veterans along with other government employees in the name of Covid-19. There is a strong resentment among the ex-servicemen against the Union Government. They are demanding the release of DA and DR from January 1, 2020. In a joint statement, Captain  Jagdish Verma (retd), president of Honorary Commissioned Officers’ Welfare Association of Himachal Pradesh, Captain Nanak Chand, Captain Jaswant Singh, Lieutenant (Navy) Jagnath, Flying Officer BL Dhiman and others said, “The Union ministers, who have all kinds of facilities, are not aware of the harsh and  inhospitable situations in which jawans are deployed, which is why they take such soldier-unfriendly decisions.”  “On the one hand, the government is taking credit for the valour shown by our soldiers in the Galwan valley of Ladakh where they are deployed face to face with the PLA of China in -30 degrees Celsius to guard our frontiers, and on the other hand, it is denying them increase in the DA for 18 months, which is unfair and condemnable,” they said.  Captain Verma said, “It is equally unfair to curtail the DR for ESM, Widows and Veer Naris because they have earned pension after experiencing a lot of difficulties in the most harsh regions and given their prime youth to protect the borders. ESM and their dependents have a small amount of pension as a single source of income and there is no logic in stopping their six-monthly increases in the DR on  one pretext or the other.” “Our association will write a letter in this regard to the President-cum-Supreme Commander of Armed Forces of India Ramnath Kovind to exempt serving personnel as well as veterans and their families from the freezing of DA/DR,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/veterans-flay-decision-to-freeze-da-dr-196613
11-01-2021||---||86 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, January 10With 86 new Covid cases coming to the fore today, the tally in Himachal reached 56,452.Besides, one person succumbed to the virus in Kangra, taking the death toll to 947.The highest number of 22 cases were reported in Shimla, followed by 21 in Solan, 20 in Kangra, six in Una, five in Bilaspur, three each in Chamba and Kullu, two each in Mandi and Hamirpur and one each in Sirmaur and Lahaul and Spiti. With this, the total number of active cases in the state now is 971.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/86-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-196614
11-01-2021||Chamba||Six held with contraband in Chamba||The police arrested three youths with 5.55 gm of “chitta” at the Lahru checkpoint in the district during a campaign launched against drug trafficking.  Chamba SP Arul Kumar said a vehicle in which three youths were travelling was stopped at the Lahru checkpost and during checking 5.55 gram of “chitta” was seized from their possession.  The accused have been identified as Ranjit Singh (30), Paras Pathania (31) and Manoj Singh (38). They had been arrested, the SP said, adding that a case had been registered against them.  In two separate incidents, the police seized 1.9 kg “charas” from the possession of three persons who were arrested during the last 48 hours, the SP said. The police had laid a naka at the Sillagharat bus stop and on suspicion checked the luggage of two persons, identified as Des Raj and Tilak Raj, and recovered “charas” weighing 1.5 kg from them.  In another incident, the police recovered “charas” weighing 395 gm from Parvesh Kumar (23) at Dhundiara Bangla.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/six-held-with-contraband-in-chamba-196615
11-01-2021||ibune News Service||Good to see a youngster fight for environment: Dalai Lama||Dharamsala, January 10The Dalai Lama today was engaged in a conversation on The Crisis of Climate Feedback Loops with Greta Thunberg, environmental activist, William Moomaw, lead author on reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the co-recipient of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize and Susan Natali, a renowned Arctic scientist here.During the conservation, the Dalai Lama said that climate change was a problem created by humans. Human beings are very special, yet they are also the biggest trouble-makers due to their desires. “Our generation has created problem of climate change.” he said. “When I heard Greta speaking on issue climate change I felt there was hope from younger generation. I really admire her. It was really encouraging that a younger member of human community was showing courage to fight for environment. We should let the younger generation help resolve the problem of climate change”, he said.The Dalai Lama further said that humans are self-centred. Individual’s best interest depends on community which now is entire humanity. Everyone wants to lead a happy life.Greta Thunberg thanked the Dalai Lama for his letter giving support to her fight against climate change. “We share a common goal to save the planet”, she said.Susan Natali said that affects of climate change have been more adverse in arctic region. The earth was losing arctic ice that was leading to it absorb more heat from the sun. It was leading to release of green house gasses into the environment. Permafrost was decaying creating hazardous conditions by release of carbon that was trapped in ice for thousands of years.Willam Moomaw said carbon dioxide emissions started increasing with industrialization. Forest loss is worsening carbon levels in the environment.The conversation was moderated by Diana Chapman Walsh, president, Emerita of Wellesley College, and is organized by the Mind and Life Institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/good-to-see-a-youngster-fight-for-environment-dalai-lama-196616
11-01-2021||Dipender Manta||7 posts of doctor vacant in Keylong, govt sleeps||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10Seven posts of specialist doctor are lying vacant in the District Hospital, Keylong, in Lahaul and Spiti for many years, affecting health services.The hospital caters to the entire Lahaul valley. The posts of specialist like gynaecologist, orthopaedician, eye specialist, surgeon, anaesthetist, besides posts in the ENT department are lying vacantMedical care missingAs a result, people are suffering in the absence of medical care in the district. The worst sufferers are expectant mothers, who face difficulties especially during the winter when the entire valley is covered under a thick blanket of snow. Roads get blocked for days, rendering the movement of patients out of the district very difficult.Residents rue that due to the apathy of the government, the posts have not been filled for many years. The local legislator has also failed to force the government to fill the posts on priority.Sudarshan Jaspa, a member of Lahaul and Spiti Zila Parishad, told The Tribune: “Expectant mothers, children and senior citizens have difficult time during the winter. It is the responsibility of the government to fill these posts on a priority”.Chief Medical Officer Dr Paljore said that seven posts of specialist doctor were lying vacant in the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-posts-of-doctor-vacant-in-keylong-govt-sleeps-196617
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Octogenarian pensioners feted||NURPUR, JANUARY 10 The HP State Pensioners’ Association organised its annual function at Jassur near here on Saturday and honoured eleven octogenarian pensioners of the area. The association, which was founded in 1995, has been organising a ‘Samman Samaroh’ for many years to honour octogenarian government pensioners.  Association president SL Gupta honoured CP Mahajan, Ved Prakash Dutta, Yash Pal Arya, Nirmal Singh, Chuni Lal, Sukhram Sharma, Tulsi Ram, Karam Chand, Kheer Sagar Sharma, Karam Chand and Balwant Rai and presented them with a shawl, cap and a memento.  Presiding over the event, Gupta talked about the activities being undertaken by the association in addressing grievances. He said a large number of pension-related grievances had been solved with the intervention of the association. “We have been organising a monthly meeting to take up the grievances of the pensioners with the authorities concerned,” he said. He also highlighted the longstanding demands of the association like pension increment of 5, 10 and 15 per cent, respectively, after 65, 70 and 75 years, besides a travelling allowance after every two years. He also urged the state government to implement the revised pay scale with effect from January 2016 for the government pensioners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/octogenarian-pensioners-feted-196618
11-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||One post, 2 XENs, HC transfers both||Palampur, January 10 The High Court has directed the government to immediately  shift  two executive engineers (XENs)   functioning against one post in the PWD division, Baijnath, since October last. One  of them is drawing salary without any work. PP Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, was shifted to  Baijnath against Sanjiv Sood,  who had been working here for the past two-and-a-half years. However, before joining by Singh, Sood  got   a stay on his transfer  from the High Court.  Interestingly, the top brass of the PWD had not assigned any work to Singh. On January 4, when the matter came before Justice Trilok Singh in  the High Court, he said the officers were posted at the place of their choice. Therefore,  both should be posted at the place  where they had never served.  The PWD transferred Sood to the MC Division, Shimla,  while Singh was directed to join the national highway division at Theog. Meanwhile, the Executive Engineer, Palampur, was asked to look after the Baijnath division till new arrangement was made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-post-2-xens-hc-transfers-both-196619
11-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||IAF to help trace missing paraglider||Palampur, January 10The government today sought the assistance of the Indian Air Force to locate missing paraglider Rohit Badhoria of Delhi.He had gone missing on Friday afternoon after taking off from Billing.Bad weather delays searchHe was supposed to land at Chogan but he did not return. Later, other pilots informed the authorities that Badhoria was last seen in the upper areas of the Dhauladhars.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati told The Tribune that the government had sent a request to the Indian Air Force.A team, along with a helicopter, was to reach Bir today, but because of bad weather at Sarsawa (UP), the chopper could not take off.He said the IAF team would reach tomorrow at Bir and the search operation would begin.A police team, headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Baijnath, BD Bhatia, made efforts to locate the pilot. A private helicopter made a number of sorties but failed to spot the paraglider.The Deputy Superintendent of Police said rescue teams would also be sent tomorrow to high-altitude areas of Utrala where the pilot was last seen.Though the paragliding at Bir-Billing has brought Himachal Pradesh on the international map, a rise in mishaps has raised serious questions on the safety and security of pilots.A French and a Singaporean pilots had died last year after their paragliders crash-landed in the Dhauladhars.However, a senior officer of the government claimed that the pilots, involved in recent mishaps, had adequate flying experience but because of a sudden change in weather, accompanied by high-velocity winds, lack of thermals took them to different directions, resulting in casualties. He said the government had taken all safety precautions and pilots were being allowed to fly after proper verifications of their documents.Pavi Sareen and Naveen Sareen, two brothers, who first introduced paragliding in Billing in 1990, said the flying in the Dhauladhars and Kullu valley without experience could be dangerous and fatal mishaps could not be ruled out.Most mishaps occurred when pilots had no knowledge of topography of the Dhauladhars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iaf-to-help-trace-missing-paraglider-196620
11-01-2021||Mandi||5-kg charas seized in Mandi; 4 held||The police seized 5-kg charas in Mandi district in two different cases today. Police sources said two accused were held along with 1.4-kg charas at Kufardhar under the Padhar police station in Mandi district, when they were sitting in a rain shelter in the area.  On suspicion, police checked their bag and found illicit contraband in it. The accused were identified as Hari Singh (22) and Ringu (23), both natives of Terang village. In another case, the police seized 4.78 kg of charas from the possession of Khoob Ram (45) and Sunil (42), both residents of Mandi, who were travelling in a car in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-kg-charas-seized-in-mandi-4-held-196621
11-01-2021||Shimla||Dr Bhardwaj bags best dentist award||Prof Vinay Bhardwaj from Himachal Pradesh Government Dental College and Hospital, Shimla, has been nominated the “Best Public Health Dentist” by the Indian Professional Award-2020. His name was nominated based on his academic credentials, research publications and mass awareness among the common man through print and electronic media during the pandemic. Dr Bhardwaj had won the best scientific deliberations in two out of four research papers presented in international conferences and had published about 100 research papers related to the significance of oral health and general health in national and international journals. He has organised oral and dental health camps in rural and far flung areas of the state and is actively involved in the tobacco cessation motivation and guidance among youth in the state.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dr-bhardwaj-bags-best-dentist-award-196622
11-01-2021||---||Lahaul residents oppose power projects at Jispa||Mandi, January 10 Residents of Lahaul and Spiti district are opposing the setting up of power projects on the Chenab.  Rigzin Heyreppa, social activist and president of the Jispa Dam Sangharsh Samiti, told The Tribune that despite opposition from the people of Lahaul and Spiti, the state government is planning to set up power projects on the Chenab. There is a proposal to construct a dam for a 300 MW power project at Jispa village in the Lahaul valley, which would lead to the displacement of a large number of families from the area.   “We, the tribal people of this valley, located along the banks of the Chandrabhaga river and its several glacial tributaries flowing freely in the upper Chenab belt, have been opposing the construction of over 12 mega hydropower projects proposed here in 2010. These projects were allotted to various private companies which are said to have given them up stating that these were economically not viable, technically not feasible and ecologically disastrous. Unfortunately, now all these projects are in the process of being taken over by companies such as the NHPC, NTPC, SJVPL and the HPPPCL, which is a matter of concern for us,” he said. “Lahaul and Spiti is known as a natural green house bestowed with floral and faunal biodiversity boasting of over 26 endangered high-altitude wildlife species like snow leopards, Himalayan Ibex and Brown bears, besides over 250 avian species,” said Heyreppa. “Pristine glaciers, glacial rivers, agricultural farmlands and meadows have already been adversely impacted due to various natural causes. Power projects, if set up, will prove disastrous for the ecology of the area,” he added. “We urge the government to shun the idea of setting up power projects in this tribal district to save the ecology of the area,” said Heyreppa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-residents-oppose-power-projects-at-jispa-196623
11-01-2021||---||BJP dominates in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10    In Mandi district 64.54 per cent polling was recorded in civic body elections today. The elections were held for 4 Municipal Councils and 2 Nagar Panchayats in the district.  District Election Officer Mandi Rugved Thakur said that the elections concluded peacefully in the district. He said voter turnout was recorded was 64.54 per cent. The total turnout of female voters was 64.25 per cent, while for male voters it was 64.83 per cent.  In four MC and two Nagar Panchayat election in Mandi, 21 BJP supported candidates emerged victorious, while 14 winners belonged to the Congress. Remaining wining candidates are independent.  In one Municipal Council at Jogindernagar out of total seven wards, Congress supported candidates won in four, while in three wards BJP-supported candidates emerged winners. In Nagar Panchayat Rewalsar, out of seven wards, five were bagged by the Congress supported candidates, while BJP and an independent won one each.  In Sundernagar MC, out of 13 wards, BJP supported candidates won eight wards, while three went to the Congress-supported nominees. Two independent candidates also won.   Similarly in Karsog Nagar panchayat out of seven wards, four wards went to BJP-supported candidates. In Sarkaghat MC five wards out of seven were won by BJP supported candidates, while two winners are independent candidates    Municipal Council Sundernagar recorded as 60.56 per cent polling. In Municipal Council Jogendranagar voting was 63.60 per cent, in Municipal Council Nerchowk it was 71.07 per cent and in Municipal Council Sarkaghat polling was 71.62 per cent. Similarly, in Nagar Panchayat Rewalsar it as 77.46 per cent and Nagar Panchayat Karsog voting was 69.28 per cent.  Out of 50 wards, votes were cast in 48 wards and in two wards no candidate contested the elections. These wards are Dador under Nerchowk Municipal council and ward number 7 under Karsog Nagar Panchayat in the district.  Out of total 37,838 voters, 24,421 voters exercised their franchise to elect the candidates in these civic body elections.  As many as 18 Covid-infected persons also exercised their franchise in the election. Nine corona positive persons voted in Nagar Panchayat, Karsog, and 12 in Municipal Council, Sundernagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-dominates-in-mandi-196625
11-01-2021||The NSUI has accused the Himachal Pradesh University administration of saffronising the university. Substantiating its allegation||NSUI demands action||promoting rural entrepreneurshipThe Department of Interdisciplinary Studies, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, organised a one-day workshop on promoting rural entrepreneurship in collaboration with the Mahatma Gandhi National Council for Rural Education (MGNCRE), Hyderabad. The MGNCRE has a scheme to create Rural Entrepreneur Development Cell in each university or college. Resource person from MGNCRE, Prof Chettan Kallkar, motivated the students to think about business plan based on rural areas, rural agriculture produce and rural traditional knowledge by integrating it with modern technology.ABVP welcomes HC decisionThe ABVP has welcomed the High Court decision that held the HPU's decision to grant admission without entrance test illegal. ABVP's Vishal Verma claimed that the university, on the pretext of the pandemic, had been taking arbitrary and dictatorial decisions. Verma said the ABVP had been stating from the beginning that entrance tests for admission to PG courses were important. The ABVP also demanded enquiry into the fiasco of the university uploading the B.Ed counselling notification with the ABVP logo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-demands-action-196837
11-01-2021||A police post should be set up on the highway for the Kumarhatti area. The Dagshai police post||Police post sought||— Ramesh, KumarhattiRestore bus serviceCommuters are facing a lot of hardships after the suspension of the HRTC bus service on Jassur- Jawali via Jonta- Mastgarh during the lockdown in March last year. The HRTC depot, Pathankot, didn't restore this service despite public demand even after over nine months. Hundreds of residents of nearby villages have to visit Jawali and Jonta for making purchases of their daily needs. The residents have to hire taxis for this purpose, which is expensive.— Balkar Singh, Bhalar village (Jawali)What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-post-sought-196838
11-01-2021||Shimla||HP civic polls see 66 pc voter turnout, several COVID-19 patients get inked||The local body elections in Himachal Pradesh recorded a total turnout of 65.80 per cent on Sunday with several COVID-19 patients casting their votes, state election commission officials said.With COVID protocol in place, around 1.97 lakh people cast their votes for 401 ward members in 29 municipal councils and 21 nagar panchayats of the state.Six newly-created nagar panchayats were not included in the election process.Una district recorded the highest voter turnout of 73.40 per cent, followed by Bilaspur (70.20 per cent), Hamirpur (69.80 per cent), Chamba (69.60 per cent) and Kangra (69.50 per cent).The lowest turnout was recorded in Mandi (55.80 per cent) and Solan (56.60 per cent) districts.A total of 66 people who were either COVID patients or those staying under quarantine cast their votes, they said, adding that the exact number of COVID patients who exercised their franchise was not immediately available.Following the safety protocol, COVID patients and people under quarantine were allowed to reach the polling stations and cast their votes. Sixteen such votes were cast in Mandi, 15 in Una and 10 in Bilaspur.Polling was held from 8 am to 4 pm and counting was underway at the municipal headquarters. The results are to be declared immediately after the counting of votes.A total of 1,185 candidates contested the elections, with Kangra district having the highest number of wards and candidates.Polling was not held in some wards where candidates were elected unopposed.Elections to the five municipal corporations in the state will be held later and elections to most panchayati raj institutions in the state are scheduled to be held in three phases beginning next Sunday.Municipal and panchayat elections in Himachal are not held on party symbols. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-civic-polls-see-66-pc-voter-turnout-several-covid-19-patients-get-inked-196589
11-01-2021||---||India’s first indoor ski park to come up at Kufri||Shimla, January 7The state government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Nagsons Developers to develop India’s first indoor ski park at Kufri in the suburbs of Shimla in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur yesterday.The Chief Minister assured the promoter of the project that the government would extend all possible support in developing the ski park. He said that the government was serious about making Himachal Pradesh one the best tourist destinations in the country by providing world class amenities.Thakur said that the project would boost tourism and adventure sports in Kufri round the year and also generate economic activities in Shimla and adjoining areas, besides encouraging tourists to increase their stay. He added that the project would generate employment avenues for about 1,000 persons.The total cost of the project to come up on 5.04 acres is Rs 250 crore, which includes an indoor ski park, a palatial mall, five star hotel, amusement park, gaming zone and a food court, shopping arcade and other amenities. It would also have a parking facility for more than 1,000 vehicles.Nishant Nag, promoter of the mega project and owner of Nagsons Developers, said that Infinity Design Studio, Mumbai, had designed the project and Unlimited Snow, Netherlands makers of Ski Dubai and Ski Egypt, would execute it. The work on the project is expected to start in March and the park would become functional by April 2022.Principal Secretary Onkar Chand Sharma and Director Tourism Yunus were also present on the occasion.To cost Rs250 croreThe total cost of the project to come up on 5.04 acres is Rs250 crore, which includes an indoor ski park, a palatial mall, five star hotel, amusement park, gaming zone and a food court, shopping arcade and other amenities. It would also have a parking facility for more than 1,000 vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indias-first-indoor-ski-park-to-come-up-at-kufri-195153
