12-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Removal of clauses which allow tea garden land sale proposed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 11The contentious issue of allowing sale of land under tea gardens is likely to once again come alive with the committee on revenue reforms recommending doing away with Section 6(a) and 7(a) of Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, which allows sale of land under tea gardens.Sources said that the BJP was keen to do away with these clauses which had been incorporated by the Congress regime under pressure from the powerful tea estate owner lobby. The general feeling is that as long as these clauses remain in the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, the powerful tea estate owners will keep seeking permissions to allow sale of land under tea garden which is violative of the very spirit of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972.‘Violative of spirit of Act’Party leaders felt as long as these clauses remain in the HP Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, powerful tea estate owners will keep seeking permissions to allow sale of land under tea gardens, which is violative of the very spirit of the Act.The committee on revenue reforms headed by Revenue and Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh will be placing the recommendations of the committee before the Cabinet for approval.The issue of allowing land sale under tea has been raised during successive Congress as well as BJP regime. Attempts by the tea garden owners lobby to get the previous Congress Government to allow sale of their property in the name of tea tourism failed to materialize.Now fresh attempts were made during the present BJP rule to allow sale of land under tea gardens. A proposal has been moved during the BJP regime to allow land under tea gardens for setting up of a cantonment. The matter has been referred to the law department and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has time and again reiterated the stand that he was not in favour of allowing land sale under tea as it was against the land ceiling Act.Since the tea garden owners were allowed to retain excess land over and above the permissible limit under Land Ceiling Act, legally they cannot sell this land. An attempt had been made during the previous BJP regime in 2011 and by the Congress Government in 2015 and later in 2016 to find a way out by which sale of land under tea could be made permissible.It was as per the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling of Land Holdings (Amendment) Act of 1999 that complete ban was imposed on the sale of land under tea cultivation and gave the government the power to acquire it if put to any other use. Tea cultivation is primarily confined to Kangra district and very small area of Jogindernagar contiguous to Palampur, which has some of the biggest tea estates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/removal-of-clauses-which-allow-tea-garden-land-sale-proposed-197037
12-01-2021||---||BJP misused govt machinery: Cong||Shimla, January 11While claiming that the party has done exceedingly well, the Congress today accused the BJP of misusing government machinery and muscle power to garner support in the panchayat and urban local body (ULB) poll.Addressing a press conference here today, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore accused the BJP of using unfair means to sway voters in its favour. “The BJP not only tinkered with the reservation roster but also misused government machinery to the hilt to ensure support for its backed candidates,” he alleged.Rathore dared the BJP to hold elections on party symbols if it was so confident of its victory and also issue a list of names of all party backed candidates who had won if they were so sure of their victory. “The claims of the BJP of winning 75 per cent victory is totally false and aimed at misleading the public about the party’s popularity,” he remarked.Rathore said despite the BJP misusing official machinery, people had backed a vast majority of Congress-backed candidates and it was after a long span of 25 years that the Congress had managed to gain majority in the Theog Municipal Council.“It was not just BJP ministers and MLAs but even some officials who tried their level best to win over some independent candidates to create an impression that the BJP had swept the poll,” he alleged.He said the Congress would not allow murder of democracy by the BJP which was desperate to register victory, be it by hook or crook.Rathore urged the independent candidates, who had won, not to get influenced and fall prey to the inducement being offered by the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-misused-govt-machinery-cong-197038
12-01-2021||---||75% BJP-backed nominees won panchayat, civic bodies: CM||Shimla, January 11While claiming 75 per cent victory of BJP-backed candidates in the first phase of the panchayats and civic bodies’ polls, Chief Minister Jai Ram Talking to mediapersons here today, Thakur dared the Congress to form the bodies if it had majority. “It is for the first time that the BJP has performed so well in the election, which reflects the faith people have in the BJP leadership and the government,” he said.Though the polls are not fought on party symbols, it was clear that the BJP had registered an impressive win in the first round.The polls for remaining panchayats are to be held in three phases on January 17, 19 and 21. The poll percentage yesterday was 73.People trust partyIt is for the first time that the BJP has performed so well in the elections, which reflects the faith the people have in the party leadership and the government. It is surprising that the Congress is making claims of victory. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister“It is surprising that the Congress is trying to make claims of victory. If they have performed so well, then they should form municipal councils and nagar panchayats easily,” he said.He claimed that the BJP-backed candidates had been elected in 76 of the 102 gram panchayats where there was unanimous elections. Besides, he said the BJP-backed candidates had clear majority in 22 of the 29 municipal councils and 18 of the 21 nagar panchayats. Of the total 414 ward seats, the BJP-backed candidates had won 221 and Congress affiliated in 22, while 49 were either from the CPM or independents.Thakur thanked the people for supporting the candidates and assured them that the BJP would ensure that there was overall development in the state. “I urge people to elect candidates with a clean image,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/75-bjp-backed-nominees-won-panchayat-civic-bodies-cm-197039
12-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Saffron party behind Cong in Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 11The ruling BJP faced embarrassment in the four civic body elections in Solan district yesterday as it won only 14 seats while the Congress won 18 seats. Independent candidates bagged four seats.The victory in the Nalagarh civic body poll was the lone face saver for the BJP while it lost the key Arki nagar panchayat and Parwanoo Municipal Committee (MC) elections.The BJP’s performance in the Parwanoo civic body elections was dismal despite it being the home turf of Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal. Candidates supported by the BJP could win only three of the nine seats while a woman candidate, who was denied a ticket, won as an Independent. Besides, wife of a local BJP leader, who was also denied a ticket, also fought the elections as an Independent and emerged victorious.The BJP had fielded eight women candidates for nine seats but only two emerged victorious. On the other hand, four Congress-supported candidates won in Parwanoo.The BJP could not muster a majority in the Baddi MC poll where it won four of the nine seats. The Congress also bagged four seats while an Independent candidate won one seat. The fate of the Baddi and Parwanoo MCs is now dependant on the Independent candidates.The Congress, on the other hand, has a slight edge in the civic bodies though it has secured a clear majority in Arki nagar panchayat. The Opposition will have to pull up its socks if it has to win the forthcoming panchayat poll, as the party lacks proper planning and a coordinated approach.The forthcoming panchayati raj and Solan MC elections would further throw light on the performances of the two parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/saffron-party-behind-cong-in-solan-197040
12-01-2021||Solan||Relief for BJP in Sirmaur||The ruling BJP won 18 of the 33 seats in three civic body elections in Sirmaur district yesterday, maintaining its stronghold among the urban voters. The Congress could win only 11 seats while Independent candidates and others bagged the remaining four seats.“The absence of proper planning and the failure to plug dissidence cost the Congress dear in the Nahan and Paonta Sahib MC elections where several rebels were in the fray. Though the Congress lost a few seats by a thin margin, the margins of defeat were big on other seats because of weak candidates,” observed a senior Congress leader.He added that the poll campaign was weak and lacked meticulous planning. The dismal performance of the Congress also exposed factionalism in the party, which does not augur well for the forthcoming panchayat poll.The Congress leaders were, however, hopeful that the party would perform better in the panchayat poll, as they claimed that it had won more than 17 of 35 panchayats elected unopposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/relief-for-bjp-in-sirmaur-197041
12-01-2021||Bir (Palampur)||IAF hunt on to trace Delhi paraglider||The Indian Air Force (IAF) today launched a massive search operation to locate missing paraglider Rohit Badhoria. A team, along with a helicopter, reached Baijnath this morning from Sarsawa, Uttar Pradesh. After a brief meeting with civil and police officials at Baijnath, the IAF started its operation immediately. The chopper flew over the Dhauladhars several times and used high-resolution cameras but till the evening, they could not succeed in the mission. A team from the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, Manali, also reached Baijnath and moved towards the Jalsu Pass in the Dhauladhars. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iaf-hunt-on-to-trace-delhi-paraglider-197042
12-01-2021||Shimla||69 cases take Covid tally to 56,521 in Himachal||With 69 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases reached 56,521. Two deaths were reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-cases-take-covid-tally-to-56-521-in-himachal-197043
12-01-2021||Rajesh Sharma||Work on PGI hospital in Una moves at a snail’s pace||UNA, January 11The work on a satellite hospital of the PGI, Chandigarh, in Una district, which was announced by then Union Health Minister JP Nadda on June 3, 2017, is moving at a tardy pace.Even the drawings of the building for the estimated Rs 350 crore project are yet to see the light of the day. Nadda, along with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, had laid the foundation stone of the hospital on March 7, 2019, in Malahat village on the outskirts of Una city.During the last two-and-a-half years after announcement, only two works pertaining to the hospital — the identification and transfer of land for the building and the approach road — have materialised. The only civil work to be seen on the ground is the ongoing work of the boundary wall.Works done under projectAs per information, bids have now been invited for consultancy to formulate a detailed building plan of the hospital. On completion of the tender process, the shortlisted company will be given nine months to formulate the building layout. Dr Rakesh Sehgal, nodal officer of the PGI satellite hospital, said the file for inviting consultancy bids had been sent to the Union Government for approval.Subsequently, on the basis of the building plan, bids will be invited for the construction work and the shortlisted firm will be given two years to construct civil structures, which means the hospital building will not be ready in the next three years. The installation of equipment and medical paraphernalia will take additional time.State Finance Commission chairman Satpal Singh Satti said that 402 kanals in Malahat village had been levelled and an approach road to the hospital from the Una to Chandigarh highway had been provided. He added that the state government had earmarked Rs 12 crore for subsidiary works, including adequate availability of water, an electrical sub-station and paving of the approach road.Satti said that three tube wells had been drilled in Rampur village to provide drinking water to the hospital and surrounding areas. He added that a 7-km pipeline would be laid to pump water from Rampur to Malahat. He added that the work on metalling the approach road would also be initiated soon.As per Nadda’s announcement, the PGI satellite hospital will have 300 beds for indoor patients, 125 doctors and about 1,000 nursing and paramedical staff. Once complete, the hospital will not only provide specialised health care services to people of lower regions of the state and adjoining districts of Punjab, but also ease the rush of patients at the PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-pgi-hospital-in-una-moves-at-a-snails-pace-197044
12-01-2021||r Correspondent---||Campaign to preserve folk art, Himalayan culture||NURPUR, JANUARY 11 The Youth Development Centre, an NGO of Sansarpur Terrace in Kangra district, has launched a special drive to generate awareness, especially among youngsters, for preservation and development of diminishing traditional folk art and Himalayan culture and cultural heritage. Under the direction of HP Language, Art and Culture Department seven virtual stage shows-cum-folk cultural events were organized in Chamba and Kangra districts recently by the centre.   The NGO, affiliation with the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, is nowadays working under the Centrally sponsored scheme ‘Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Himalayans’. The objective of the scheme is to promote, protect and preserve the cultural heritage of the Himalayan region spreading across Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Underlining the need to preserve diminishing traditional folk arts and folk cultural heritage, Karan Bhushan, director of the centre, said “Our old generation should take responsibility to pass on the importance of our rich cultural heritage and folk art to the coming generation”. “During the Covid-19 pandemic period, the centre is organising virtual folk cultural events with an objective of publicizing and promoting Himachal Pradesh’s rich cultural heritage and folk arts. The local folk artists are also getting a platform to exhibit their talent,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaign-to-preserve-folk-art-himalayan-culture-197045
12-01-2021||Shimla||Annual pulse polio drive postponed||The annual pulse polio drive scheduled from January 17 has been postponed apparently due to the Covid-19 vaccination drive starting from January 16. “We had anyway written to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to postpone the pulse polio drive in Himachal to February 14 because of the elections for the Urban Local Bodies and Panchatayi Raj Institutions,” said National Health Mission Deputy Director Gopal Beri.“The Ministry of Health has, however, asked all states and UTs to postpone the drive. So, it will be held as and when there are further instructions from the ministry,” said Doctor Beri.The Ministry sent a missive to all states and UTs on Saturday about the postponement. “This is to inform that due to unforeseen activities, it is decided to postpone the scheduled polio NID round from January 17 till further notice,” the letter stated. Until a couple of days back, there were no plans to postpone the campaign. On January 7, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had tweeted: “With the pulse polio drive set to begin on January 17, I urge my colleagues from states and UTs to go an extra mile to ensure that immunisation programmes are not affected due to Covid-19.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/annual-pulse-polio-drive-postponed-197046
12-01-2021||Shimla||First MBBS batch welcomed at AIIMS, Bilaspur||The inauguration ceremony of the academic session of the first MBBS batch of AIIMS, Bilaspur, was held today. Prof Pramod Garg, president of the institutional body, inaugurated it. The highlight of the event was the white-coat ceremony of the students.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, AIIMS, Bilaspur, welcomed the students. He said that medical students should lead a disciplined life. Garg said that AIIMS would go a long way in providing quality health care, imparting high-standard education and promoting research. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Dr Harshvardan for their vision in establishing AIIMS across the country to enhance medical services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-mbbs-batch-welcomed-at-aiims-bilaspur-197047
12-01-2021||---||Dry run for Covid vaccine in Mandi||Mandi, January 11 The district health authorities conducted a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at 111 health centres in Mandi district today. Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur was also present during the campaign organised at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College at Nerchowk and the Community Health Centre at Ratti to take the stock of the preparations for vaccination. Thakur said that all preparations had been completed in the district regarding Covid vaccination.  Today, a dry run was conducted at 111 centres in the district to assess the systemic capacity and readiness of the local health authorities. He added that vaccination would be done in a phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-mandi-197048
12-01-2021||Shimla||10,000 water consumers untraced: SJPNL||Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) is struggling to trace over 10,000 water consumers and over 20 million litres of unbilled water per day within the Shimla Municipal Corporation’s limit. Out of the total 33,000 consumers, the SJPNL has identified 19,000 till date. “We have not been able to trace rest of the consumers and their meters because many premises are still locked,” said SJPNL AGM Gopal Krishan.The water company suspects many people have deliberately removed their meters to avoid volumetric billing. “We can give the exact numbers of missing meters once we have tracked all consumers and their meters,” said the AGM. “As for the 19,000 identified consumers, we will start generating monthly bills by January 31,” said Gopal Krishan.The AGM said that water was being stolen at a large scale in the city. “We distribute 40-45 million litres per day in the city. However, we are generating bills for just 16 to 18 million litres, which means over 20 million litres are being stolen,” he said.Digvijay Chauhan, an independent director at the SJPNL, said the company would install the missing metres but the onus of its maintenance and security will be on the consumers.The CPM said that water management be handed back to the MC. Former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan alleged the government had not made any progress on the World Bank-funded project to improve water and sewerage service in the past three years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-000-water-consumers-untraced-sjpnl-197049
12-01-2021||Shimla||Additional charge given to 27 officers||The HP government today gave additional charge to 27 officers following deployment of nine IAS and 18 HP Administrative Services (HPAS) officers on election duty. The IAS officers deputed on election duty are Ashwani K Chaudhary, Rajeshwar Goel, KK Saroch, Neeraj Kumar, Manmohan Sharma, Ashotosh Garg, Arindam Chaudhary, Dr Ashwani K Sharma and Rupali Thakur. The officers who would hold additional charge are Rakhil Kahlon, Lalit Jain, Vivek Bhatia, Gopal Chand, Harikesh Meena, Kritika Kulhari, RK Gautam, Rahul Kumar and MP Gurjar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/additional-charge-given-to-27-officers-197050
12-01-2021||Keylong and Kalpa reeled under sub-zero temperatures on Monday||Keylong freezes at -10.3°C, Kalpa -3.3°C||Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district continued to be the coldest place in the state at -10.3°C, Shimla MeT centre Director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of -3.3°C, he added.The minimum temperatures in Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri were recorded at 0.6°C, 4.3°C and 4.7°C, respectively. Shimla registered a low of 7°C.The highest temperature of 24.5°C was recorded in Solan. The MeT centre forecast dense fog in plains and low hills on Tuesday. It also predicted dry weather till January 17. PTi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-freezes-at-10-3%C2%B0c-kalpa-3-3%C2%B0c-197051
12-01-2021||Shimla||Civic bodies to get chiefs before Jan 18||The urban local bodies, which went to the polls on Sunday, will get their chairpersons and vice-chairpersons before January 18. “There is not much time, they will need to be elected before January 18,” said Urban Development Director Ram Kumar Gautam. He said Deputy Commissioners would authorise the SDMs for oath ceremonies of the elected members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/civic-bodies-to-get-chiefs-before-jan-18-197052
12-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Nurpur MC to function without bias: Pathania||Nurpur, January 11After the BJP swept the civic body poll by winning six out of nine wards of the Municipal Council (MC), Nurpur, Forest Minister and local MLA Rakesh Pathania took out a rally to express gratitude to people in the town on Monday. Later, while addressing a press conference, Pathania thanked Nurpur residents for reposing their faith in the BJP. He said the new, BJP-supported MC would work for the development of the town without discrimination and political bitterness and try its best to bring a radical change in providing civic amenities to the residents.Pathania said the new MC’s slogan would be ‘Mera Nurpur, Swachh and Green Nurpur’. He said the contribution of the late philanthropist and former president of Nurpur civic body RK Mahajan would be recognised by installing his statue in the MC office complex.He convened an informal meeting with the newly elected BJP municipal councillors and announced that his priority would be to provide potable water supply, solve electricity problems, complete the ongoing sewerage system project this year and provide a solid waste management facility to residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-mc-to-function-without-bias-pathania-197053
12-01-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP all set to hold power in Una urban bodies||Una, January 11The BJP-supported candidates secured majority wins in five out of six Urban Local Bodies of the district elections to which were held on Sunday. Consequently, the party in power is all set to grab the posts of chairpersons and vice-chairpersons in all Urban bodies.In only one out of the six Urban bodies, which is Nagar Panchayat Daulatpur chowk, the BJP and Congress managed to get two seats each, but with three independents securing victories, the BJP has an upper hand to get their candidates elected for the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson since the party wields power in the state and independents can sway in favour of the BJP.In Una Assembly segment, where chairman of the state Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti leads the party, there are three Urban Local Bodies, namely Una, Mehatpur-Basdehra and Santoshgarh Municipal Committees. In Una, having a total of 11 municipal wards, six BJP-supported candidates won as against five of the Congress.In Mehatpur-Basdehra, six BJP supported and three Congress candidates won in a house of nine, while at Santoshgarh, seven BJP and two Congress supported candidates won in a house of nine. Among the three nagar panchayats, Tahliwal has seven wards, where the BJP won four, Congress won two and one seat went to an independent candidate.At Gagret Nagar panchayat, five seats went in favour of BJP candidates and two were independents. Satpal Satti said the mandate given to the party in the elections is clear in favour of the BJP government and proves that the performance of the Jai Ram Thakur-led government has been good during the past three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-all-set-to-hold-power-in-una-urban-bodies-197054
12-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Survey: Caste, religion, money still influence voting behaviour||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 11Factors like caste, religion, community, money, policy, ideology and affiliation to political parties still influence the voting behaviour in elections to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs).An online survey conducted by the Rural Development faculty, Department of Interdisciplinary Studies, Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), from January 5 to 9 on “Voting Behaviour in PRI elections in Himachal” revealed that people had high expectations from the elected representatives and they felt that they forgot the promises made to people after elections.The survey, conducted ahead of the PRI elections slated for January 17, 19 and 21, covered 327 gram panchayats of 67 blocks in 12 districts and included 514 respondents. The respondents covered the whole state and the highest share of 34 per cent was from Shimla district followed by Solan, Chamba, Sirmaur and Mandi.As many as 65.8 per cent respondents were in the age group of 18-25 years followed by 17.5 per cent in 26-35 years, 10.5 per cent in 36-45 bracket, 4.5 per cent in 46-55 years’ age group while 1.8 per cent were above 56 years.Further, 73.2 per cent were from the general category, 15.6 per cent from the Scheduled Caste and 8.4 per cent from the Scheduled Tribe and 2.9 per cent OBC and the ratio of men and women was 73.2 per cent and 26.8 per cent.A majority of respondents (51.9 per cent) were graduate, 26.1 per cent postgraduate and above and 20 per cent secondary level. Only 0.2 per cent respondents had no formal education. It included 59.7 per cent student,11.7 per cent government employees, 7.8 per cent unemployed youth, 5.7 per cent agriculturists and 5.4 per cent businessmen.About 67.7 per cent voters had the opinion that though the PRI elections were apolitical, still political parties take part in the elections while 79.8 per cent voters said they voted for the party, said project officer and principal investigator Dr Baldev Singh Negi and investigator Dr Devender Kumar Sharma (Assistant Professor).Contrary to the general trend with people casting votes on caste and clan considerations, 56.4 per cent respondents said they would not vote on the basis of caste and community while 64.8 believed that the young voters voted independently without the advice of their parents.As many as 71.8 people said people contested elections or were interested to be representatives just to earn money but 65.8 per cent believed that money use was increasing in the PRI elections. However, 85.5 per cent submitted that the candidates should not use money power while 27.6 revealed that supporters generally bore the expenditure of the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/survey-caste-religion-money-still-influence-voting-behaviour-197055
12-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Syringe producers in BBN area ramp up capacity||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 11Syringe manufacturers are ramping up their capacities to meet the expected overwhelming demand for their products as the government prepares to administer Covid-19 vaccine to people.Even though it is a pharmaceutical manufacturing hub, there are not many syringe manufacturers in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area.Nihal Health Care, Baddi, a leading syringe manufacturer of the area, has invested additional Rs 1 crore to enhance its manufacturing capacity in view of the increasing demand of syringes globally. The company specialises in disposable syringes applicable in almost all fields of therapy and has been operating since 2007.“As against manufacturing 10 lakh syringes on a daily basis, the plant capacity is being enhanced to about 12 lakh per day to meet the overwhelming demand for syringes in view of the Covid pandemic. Machinery worth Rs 1 crore has been ordered to ramp up production and it is expected to be installed by February end or the beginning of March,” said Gurbhej Singh, company’s Managing Director.“Syringe manufacturing is undertaken both manually as well on the auto loader basis. Our focus is to manufacture syringes of 0.5 ml and 1 ml auto disable (AD), which are likely to be used for Covid-19 vaccination,” he said.The company also exports syringes to various nations such as the UAE and several European countries.Manufacturers are also eying exports in view of a spurt in the global demand for vaccination. They say that syringe manufacturers could set up more plants in the BBN area if a medical devices park is sanctioned under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.They add that since profitability in syringe manufacturing is low not many investors prefer to invest in the sector. The manufacturers are, however, skeptical about investing more, as they feel that the spurt in demand is temporary. They cite the example of face masks and sanitisers saying the manufacturers incurred losses after a temporary spurt in demand when the pandemic peaked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/syringe-producers-in-bbn-area-ramp-up-capacity-197056
12-01-2021||---||Setting up of NDRF Bn at Balh to be expedited: CM||Shimla, January 11All the required formalities regarding identification and transfer of land for setting up of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) battalion headquarters at Balh in Mandi district would be expedited so that the battalion could start functioning smoothly, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.Disclosing this while presiding over the meeting with Commandant NDRF Baljinder Singh and other senior officers of the state government, he directed the revenue department to take all necessary steps in this direction and also asked the Forest Department for getting FCA approval at the earliest.He said the Government of India had sanctioned new NDRF 14th Battalion for the state keeping in view the geographical conditions and disaster vulnerability of the area. He said that this would ensure prompt response in case of natural calamities.Thakur said that the NDRF Regional Response Centres (Companies) would also be established in about six places of the state. He said that one company would be established at Baddi to deal with any chemical hazard as this area had maximum industrial factories. Commandant NDRF Baljinder Singh apprised the Chief Minister about various activities of the force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/setting-up-of-ndrf-bn-at-balh-to-be-expedited-cm-197057
12-01-2021||Shimla||Rs 19 cr  recovered from two firms||The Excise and Taxation Department recovered an amount of Rs 19.94 crore from JP Associates and JSW Hydro Power Limited Company in Kinnaur district under the legacy cases resolution scheme, 2019.The assesses had filed an appeal against the provisions of HP Tax on the entry of goods into the local area Act, 2010, in the High Court. Kinnaur Taxes and Excise Assistant Commissioner Surender Thakur apprised the company of the benefits of the scheme after which the appeals were withdrawn from the High Court and an amount of Rs 19.94 crore was deposited as tax yesterday.The department has launched a lucrative scheme for those dealers whose assessment has been framed and additional demand/arrears have not been deposited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-19-cr-recovered-from-two-firms-197058
12-01-2021||Palampur||Vehicles damaged at parking lot||Miscreants damaged many vehicles parked in the local parking lot here last night. Windowpanes of most vehicles were smashed with stones and iron rods.The incident had scared residents of the town. Many residents said if the vehicle in the parking area were not safe, what could be the fate of those vehicles which were parked on the roadside.Many vehicle owners were shocked to see their damaged vehicles. They said the police had stopped night patrolling, giving free hands to anti-social elements.Earlier, the police were regularly seen on the roads even in late night hours, but they had discontinued patrolling in gross violation of the DGP’s orders.Amit Sharma, DSP, said he had called for the explanation of the police team deputed for night patrolling in the town. Action would be taken in the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicles-damaged-at-parking-lot-197059
12-01-2021||---||Snow-clearing ops begin at Darcha||Mandi, January 11The BRO has started snow-clearing operation on the Manali-Leh highway from Darcha to Patsio to connect the road to Keylong in Lahaul Spiti.At Patsio, there is an observatory of Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE). SASE is also working on avalanche forecasting and structural control in snow-bound areas.This is for the first time that during the winter season, the BRO has decided to connect Patsio with Keylong. Every year, the BRO clears the highway up to Darcha from Keylong.The road towards Patsio from Darcha in Lahaul was blocked last week due to heavy snow. As a result, the Manali-Leh highway was blocked from Solang towards Lahaul valley. Similarly, internal road links like Udaipur-Keylong and Darcha-Keylong were blocked for days.According to official sources, the BRO has restored the Manali-Leh highway up to Darcha from Manali side. However, in view of public safety, the district administration has yet not opened Manali-Keylong road for traffic beyond Atal Tunnel as the road stretch beyond the tunnel up to Keylong is slippery due to deposit of snow on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-clearing-ops-begin-at-darcha-197060
12-01-2021||Dalhousie||Two held with 1.8 kg charas||A police party during a ‘naka’ laid at Kapahdi Mor in Chamba district intercepted a pick-up vehicle and seized charas (cannabis) weighing 1.874 kg from two persons travelling in the vehicle last evening.SP Arul Kumar revealed that a case under Sections 20, 29 of the NDPS Act had been registered against the accused identified as Bhupinder Kumar (44) and Luvkesh Kumar (35) at Tissa police station of the district.Both accused were arrested.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-with-1-8-kg-charas-197061
12-01-2021||The link road from Baru to Anu on the outskirts of Hamirpur is in a bad condition. Water overflowing from drains has made some patches really bad. The road near Anu Kalan village has developed potholes on the curves||Baru-Anu road in bad condition||Stray cattle cause for concernStray cattle have become a cause for concern for residents of Baldwara tehsil under the Sarkaghat Assembly segment. Herds of cattle can be seen damaging crops of farmers. Besides, these cattle are attacking and injuring people. Despite repeated requests to the district administration, no effective steps have been taken to deal with the menace. The government should find out a permanent solution and rehabilitate them elsewhere. — Jagdish Chand Verma, Baldwara (Mandi)WHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baru-anu-road-in-bad-condition-197062
12-01-2021||A week-long faculty development programme was conducted by the Department of Civil Engineering||Faculty development programme||NSUI demands resignation of VC, DeanThe NSUI has alleged irregularities in the appointments being made in the Himachal Pradesh University. NSUI state president Chatar Singh alleged that prior to interviews, the scrutiny panels had relatives of the candidates and members of the executive council in contravention of the rules. Singh accused the HPU administration of nepotism and corruption in appointing candidates of their choice. He demanded the resignations of VC Sikandar Kumar and Dean of Studies Arvind Kalia.Interviews at HPU soonThe Himachal Pradesh University will soon conduct interviews for assistant professors in visual arts, commerce, public administration, biology and psychology. Selection committee in-charge Arvind Kalia said the scrutiny committee will upload the marks of all candidates on the university website in the next couple of days. In case the candidates have some queries, they will need to approach the scrutiny committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/faculty-development-programme-197064
12-01-2021||Shimla||Salary cut despite charging full fee, Himachal Pradesh institutes put on notice||Taking note of complaints regarding payment of partial salaries by private educational institutions despite charging full fee from students, the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) has directed them to give details of courses offered, number of students enrolled and fee charged.Sources say courses are being offered without approval and without furnishing complete details of students enrolled and fee charged. The commission had, on August 20 last year, written to the institutions to submit complete details for the period 2013-14 to 2019-20, but most of them failed to respond.A teacher at a nursing college alleged that some private institutions were exploiting the faculty members by not paying them their dues citing pandemic even as they are charging full course fee from students.Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, HPPEIRC, has sent notices to the erring institutions. “There are complaints that private institutions are charging full fee from students, but have imposed a pay cut and reduced the staff strength,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/salary-cut-despite-charging-full-fee-himachal-pradesh-institutes-put-on-notice-197123
