14-01-2021||Mandi||Ancient stone idol found in Mandi||A unique stone statue of a sun deity was found during the excavation of the Mahishasur Mardini Mata temple at Dehri near Pangana, a historical site of Mandi district, yesterday.Locals said it seemed to be of 12th century.Himender Bali Him, president of Suket Culture, Literature and Jan Kalyan Manch, said, “The sun deity (Surya) is among the five deities as per the Hindu tradition. In the Indian deity worship system, worship of Ganesha, Surya, Goddess, Shiva and Vishnu is enshrined. Statues of these five deities have been excavated at the temple site near Pangana.”Jagdish Sharma, a resident of Pangana, said the idol had been kept at a safe place and officials of archeology wing would be informed about it.He said after the discovery of this unique century-old idol at the temple site, it seemed that a precious archaeological treasure related to a developed civilization was buried under the temple of Dehri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ancient-stone-idol-found-in-mandi-198055
14-01-2021||Shimla||MLAs’ priority meeting on January 28, 29||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur would preside over a meeting with MLAs for fixing their priorities in the annual budget for the year 2021-22 on January 28 and 29.The meeting with MLAs of Solan, Sirmaur and Shimla districts will be held from 10:30 am to 1:30 pm while meeting with MLAs of Mandi, Kullu and Bilaspur districts would be held from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm on January 28, a spokesperson of the state government said here today.The meeting with MLAs of Kangra and Kinnaur districts would be held from 10:30 am to 1:30 pm whereas the meeting with MLAs of Chamba, Una, Hamirpur and Lahaul-Spiti districts would be held from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm on January 29. The priority demands of MLAs would be considered in the meetings so that these could be incorporated in the budget. The issues such as economic measures, generating financial resources and better administration would also be discussed with the MLAs in the meeting, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mlas-priority-meeting-on-january-28-29-198072
14-01-2021||Shimla||First consignment of Covid vaccine for Himachal to arrive today||Himachal will receive its first consignment of Covid -19 vaccine prepared by the Serum Institute of India, on Thursday. “The vaccine will be airlifted from Pune to Chandigarh. Our team will bring it by road from Chandigarh,” said National Health Mission (NHM) director Nipun Jindal. Though the state will get 93,000 doses in the first consignment, only around 40,000 healthcare workers will be vaccinated. “It’s so because the beneficiaries will be given the second dose after 28 days. The doses for the second round will be saved from this consignment,” said Dr Jindal, making it clear that people will be given both the doses of the same vaccine. “We need to factor in around 10 per cent wastage, too, which happens during all vaccination drives,” he said.It means that more than half of the beneficiaries the state had identified for inoculation in the first phase will have to wait for the arrival of the second consignment. For the record, the state has identified over a lakh beneficiaries, with 75,000 being healthcare workers and the rest being frontline workers like the police and revenue officials. “We have no information at the moment about when we will we get the second consignment,” said Dr Jindal.The NHM director said all 46 sites selected for inoculation will get the vaccine by January 15. “A vial will contain 10 doses and once opened it will have to be finished within four hours,” he said. He added that it had been decided to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries at district hospitals, 80 at civil hospitals and 50 in community and primary health centres per day. “We have made elaborate preparations and are expecting no glitches at least in the first phase. The exercise will become more challenging when larger population will be vaccinated at later stages,” said Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-consignment-of-covid-vaccine-for-himachal-to-arrive-today-198079
14-01-2021||Una||5,400 frontline workers to benefit in phase-1||In the first phase of Covid vaccination in Una district, about 5,400 frontline workers, mostly from the Health Department, will be administered the first dose of vaccine within a week’s time.According to Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma, about 100 vaccinations will be given at each of the 40 designated centres in the district, for which dry run has been conducted at three places in the district.He said 1,200 persons had been trained to perform various duties concerned with the vaccination.The DC said the vaccination would be done through the web portal designed for the purpose, adding that an SMS would be sent to the mobile number of the person to be immunised. The person will have to show his phone with the message in it at the designated centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-400-frontline-workers-to-benefit-in-phase-1-198080
14-01-2021||Our CorrespondentChamba||Chamba locals want bus stand shifted||The Chamba Jan Hit Sangathan has sought the shifting of the newly constructed bus stand from Tatwani, saying it was an unsafe site. The members want it to be shifted to a safer place. They said the Bharmour zero point was the most suitable location.In a press note issued here, Sangathan convener Shadi Lal Sharma and president Kishore Baroo said prior to the construction of the new bus stand building, a zero point had already been identified and selected for the construction of the bus stand, but due to certain political reasons, the bus stand was constructed at Tatwani in the town.The sangathan office-bearers said the bus stand site at Tatwani was located on the banks of the Ravi. It is a risky site, as the area could easily get flooded. They added the sangathan had objected to the move even at the time of construction.They urged the state government to reconsider their demand in the interest of public safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-locals-want-bus-stand-shifted-198081
14-01-2021||Mandi||Hoteliers told to set up sanitary pad incinerators||The HP State Pollution Control Board (HPSPCB), on the directions of the NGT, has asked hoteliers of Kullu-Manali to set up sanitary pad/napkin incinerators and bio-composter digesters in hotels for the disposal of solid waste to keep the environment neat and clean.The HPSPCB has shot off a letter to the president of the Hoteliers Association Kullu-Manali and asked him to motivate the hoteliers to set up the equipment in their units as the earliest.It said, “The poor management of solid waste in hotels is a major threat to the environment, which may have a direct impact on the health of local residents”.“So, it is a must for them to comply with the order of the NGT. It will also play a key role in attracting tourists here,” an official said.The NGT has also directed the Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, to implement the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hoteliers-told-to-set-up-sanitary-pad-incinerators-198082
14-01-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||New education policy will stop brain drain: HPTU VC||The New Education Policy (NEP) will stop brain drain from the country and pave the way to achieve the goal of becoming ‘Vishav guru’ as envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU), said this while addressing educationists gathered here for initiating the execution of the New Education Policy in affiliated colleges of the HPTU. He said it was unfortunate that the country failed to preserve its intellect and the best brains had migrated. Quoting the example of NASA, he said more than 60 per cent scientists in NASA are from India.He said if executed in its true spirit, the policy would not only help in the overall development of students but also inculcate holistic values like Nalanda University had centuries ago. He said the HPTU would focus to develop 100 per cent vocational curriculum for its colleges so that students passing out from the university should get the best placements.He said the HPTU was poised to improve student intake to make colleges self-reliant and to enable them in developing as autonomous colleges in future. He said such multi-disciplinary colleges would be able to design their own courses and give degrees to students. He said the policy also stressed on creation of multi-disciplinary education and research universities for developing a versatile education system in the country.Narender Thakur, MLA, said the policies of the PM had attracted attention of the world towards India. He said professionals from all spheres, including education, investment, commerce and defence, were looking towards India and its growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-education-policy-will-stop-brain-drain-hptu-vc-198084
14-01-2021||In the absence of a proper garbage disposal system for panchayats in Kasauli tehsil||No garbage disposal system||Illegal constructions along Dharamsala-Gaggal NHIllegal constructions are coming up right along the Dharamsala-Gaggal national highway. Anyone passing on the road can see JCB machines pulling down hills to create space for raising commercial constructions. As per rules, nobody is allowed to raise any construction within 100 meters of the national highway. However, this rule is being flouted on the Dharamsala-Gaggal road and the authorities are turning a blind eye to the illegal activity. — Sanjay Sharma, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-garbage-disposal-system-198085
14-01-2021||Students of DAV Public School||Students interact with DSP||Group discussion at law varsityThe Campus Mentoring Cell, Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla, organised a group discussion on the occasion of the National Youth Day on January 12. The theme of the event was 'The Meaning of being a Young Indian: Roles and Responsibilities'. The event commenced with the discussion on the philosophy of Swami Vivekananda and its application and relevance in today's world. The event also included several sub themes like youth and crime, the attitude of the youth towards agriculture and the role of youth in eradicating problems related to gender inequality, class and caste divide, drug abuse, academic pressure and mental health.Online events at Shoolini varsityShoolini University's Loudspeakers Club celebrated the National Youth Day to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. To commemorate the occasion, virtual competitions in speech, poetry and poster-making were organised on five famous quotes of Swami Vivekananda. The event was organised by the Dean Students Welfare Poonam Nanda and was inaugurated by Chancellor Prof PK Khosla. In the virtual event, around 60 students participated in various competitions. Arjama from B.Tech was the winner while the second runner-up was Saurabh, also from B.Tech). The first position in poster-making was bagged by Anuj (B Pharma) and the second by Sibraj (Biotech). In the poetry competition, Sonia Rana (M Pharma) emerged first while the second position was bagged by Prashant (MSc Zoology).Direct interviewsThe Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission proposes to hold direct interviews/CBT in future for the posts of Radiation Safety Officer and Medical Physicist in the Department of Medical Education. Therefore, all provisionally admitted candidates are advised to submit the hard copies of their requisite documents along with an application form in support of their eligibility for the concerned posts within 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-interact-with-dsp-198087
14-01-2021||Solan||Congress ropes in Independents, secures majority in Parwanoo||Stealing a march over the BJP, the Opposition Congress today managed to rope in the support of two Independents to secure majority in the Parwanoo Municipal Committee (MC).The Congress-supported candidates — Thakur Dass, Sonia Sharma, Lakhwinder Singh and Chandrawati — had won four of the nine seats while the BJP could only bag three seats. Two independents had also won.Daisy Thakur, Kiran Chauhan and Ranjeet Thakur were the BJP-supported candidates who had won the ward poll.The Independents — Nisha Sharma and Monisha Sharma — were also supported by the Congress in the poll.Nisha Sharma had contested as an independent after being denied a ticket by the BJP. Her name had figured in the list of Congress candidates also.Congress leaders claim to have won the support of both the Independents and their collective number had gone up to six. This would enable them to secure a clear majority for electing the president and the vice-president.All seven members, including four Congress-supported candidates, today congregated at Haripur and they unanimously pledged support for Thakur Dass Sharma as the president and Sonia Sharma as the vice president.Addressing mediapersons at Parwanoo, the Congress spokesperson Ramesh Chauhan said unanimity has been arrived at for both the key posts of president and vice president among the six newly elected members, including two Independents. “The elected members have unanimously decided to elect Thakur Dass Sharma, also a former president, as the new president and Sonia Sharma as the new vice president and they will be administered oath on January 18,” he said.He said Sonia Sharma husband, Rajesh Sharma, has been a two-term councillor in the past.Despite being the home turf of health and family welfare minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, the BJP’s performance in this civic poll has been dismal. This was an indication of the eroding popularity of the ruling party in this urban belt despite development projects like bus stand and SDM office having been opened in the subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-ropes-in-independents-secures-majority-in-parwanoo-198088
14-01-2021||Dharamsala||Name missing, ex-minister alleges bungling in voter list||Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma, who has found his name missing from the list of voters for the forthcoming panchayat elections, has alleged large-scale bungling in voter lists.While talking to The Tribune, Sudhir Sharma said that he was away for the past about one month as the party had deputed him in Bihar and West Bengal. “I came to Dharamsala today and found that my name has been deleted from the list of voters”, he said.The former minister said that he was consulting his lawyers and would move Himachal High Court against removal of his name from the voter list.He also threatened to launch an agitation over the matter. “My name is there in the list of voters for the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections but it has been deleted in the list for panchayat elections. In the last panchayat elections I had voted from Rakkar panchayat near Dharamsala where I have my permanent residence. However, this year, my name was not there in the list,” he said.“I have made inquiries from people and supporters in many villages in Kangra district. They have told me that in many villages over 100 to 200 people are finding their names missing in the new voter lists for panchayats poll. It was clear that the present government has tried to rig the panchayat elections by deleting names of Congress workers from the voters list,” Sudhir alleged.Inquiries made by The Tribune revealed that while the elections for Parliament and Himachal assembly were conducted by the Central Election Commission the elections for panchayats, zila parishad and block samitis were conducted by the state election commission that comes under the jurisdiction of the state government. The state election commission maintains separate voter lists for panchayat elections which are not in synchronization with the voter lists of Central Election Commission.Earlier, Bharmaur residents had alleged that names of a number of voters had gone missing from the voters list.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/name-missing-ex-minister-alleges-bungling-in-voter-list-198089
14-01-2021||Solan||In Nalagarh, Congress springs a surprise||The Congress today sprung a surprise in Nalagarh by roping in the support of an Independent as well as a BJP-supported candidate to attain the magic figure of five. This will enable them to elect their president and vice-president in the civic body.Ahead of the January 18 poll for the two key posts, local Congress MLA Lakhwinder Rana spearheaded the move and managed to seek the support of Vandana Bansal and Mahesh Gautam, both of whom were former Congress leaders.The three Congress-supported candidates- Alka Verma, Rina Sharma and Amarinder Singh under the leadership of MLA Rana and Indian National Trade Union Congress president Hardeep Bawa met at Nurpur Bedi.In a bid to appease everyone, all five have been promised top posts in turns.Rana told The Tribune that all five elected members had decided to share the post of president for two-and-a-half year each by Vandana Bansal and Alka Verma, while Mahesh Gautam would be made the vice-president for the first three years. He would be followed by Amarinder Singh and Rina Sharma for one year each.The ruling BJP, which had won the highest number of four seats, has been made to eat a humble pie. It remains to be seen if the ruling party could spring any surprise on January 18 when the president and vice-president will be officially elected.This is the second shocker for the ruling party in Solan district after Parwanoo civic body rout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-nalagarh-congress-springs-a-surprise-198091
14-01-2021||Mandi||BJP expels 3 dissidents||The BJP has expelled its three local leaders from the party, who were contesting Zila Parishad election against the BJP-supported candidates in Mandi. These leaders are Kaushalya Devi from Balh Mandal, Sunita Devi from Darang Mandal and Kamal Kumar from Jogindernagar Mandal in the district.Kaushalya Devi has decided to contest Zila Parishad election against the BJP-supported candidate Priyanka Sharma from lower Rewalsar, while Sunita Devi from Darang Mandal is contesting election against the BJP-supported candidate Rekha from Ngavain ward. Kamal Kumar from Jogindernagar is contesting election against Bhagirath Dharwal from Bharadu ward.Ranveer Thakur, president of district BJP unit in Mandi, said Kaushalya Devi, Sunita Devi and Kamal Kumar had been expelled from the party for indiscipline. These leaders were trying to sabotage the BJP-supported candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-expels-3-dissidents-198092
14-01-2021||Solan||3 Independents hold the key in Paonta MC president poll||Three elected Independent councillors will hold the key in the election to the posts of president and vice-president of the Paonta Sahib Municipal Committee (MC), as neither the BJP nor the Congress could secure the majority in the civic body poll recently.The BJP-supported members have secured the highest number of six seats, but are one seat short of attaining the majority in the 13-member House. The Congress has won four seats and the support of three Independent councillors, namely Meenu Gupta, Madhukar Dogri and Rohtash Nangia, is the key in the election to the two top posts.Power Minister and Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chawdhary faces an uphill task in securing the support of an Independent councillor to attain the majority. While one of the three Independent councillors has already refused to extend support to the BJP, the party can hope to rope in one member.Chawdhary had to eat humble pie as his claim to have sought the support of Independent member Meenu Gupta in the afternoon fizzled out by the evening. The situation is not good for the Congress either which is riddled with factionalism. Humbled by yesterday’s open outburst, which backfired, both parties are now keeping their cards close to their chests.The home turf of the Power Minister has become a sore point for the BJP in the district, as the party-supported candidates could not secure the majority. The ruling party has won an overwhelming majority in Rajgarh nagar panchayat and the Nahan Municipal Committee. State BJP president Suresh Kashyap and former Cabinet minister Rajeev Bindal have proved their political acumen in these areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-independents-hold-the-key-in-paonta-mc-president-poll-198093
14-01-2021||Shimla||Keylong, Kalpa coldest in Himachal||Keylong and Kalpa in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur shivered at sub-zero temperatures on Wednesday, while state capital Shimla registered a low of 5.7°C, the meteorological department said.Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 11.4°C, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 2.6°C, he added.The minimum temperature in Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie was recorded at 1°C, 7°C and 7.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the highest temperature in the state was recorded in Solan at 24.2 °C.The weatherman has predicted dry weather in the state till January 19. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-kalpa-coldest-in-himachal-198094
14-01-2021||Shimla||Complete medical colleges in time-bound manner: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed the officials concerned to ensure all medical college projects are completed within stipulated time with quality construction. He directed the officers to remove all hindrances and develop an effective mechanism to monitor the progress in these projects.“On completion of all these medical colleges, the state health infrastructure would get a boost,” the Chief Minister said. At present, the state has six medical colleges in government sector, one in private sector. Besides, AIIMS is coming up at Bilaspur and a PGI Satellite Centre in Una district.He said Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, was being constructed at a cost of Rs 261 crore. “The teaching block should be completed by March next year. The new medical college building complex will have state of art facilities,” he said.He said Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba, is being constructed 290 crore. In the first phase, a 200-bed hospital, boys and girls’ hostels, residential complexes, etc., would be constructed. “In the second and third phases, administrative block-cum-doctors’ hostels, sarai bhawan and the auditorium, etc., would be completed”, the Chief Minister said.Dr Radha Krishanan Government Medical College and Hospital at Hamirpur is being constructed at a cost of Rs 355 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/complete-medical-colleges-in-time-bound-manner-himachal-cm-198095
14-01-2021||Chamba||Resolve public complaints on priority, officials told||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana yesterday said that all district officials would ensure that all public problems received through the Mukhya Mantri Sewa Sankalp Helpline-1100 are resolved on priority. He attended a meeting over the Mukhya Mantri Sewa Sankalp Yojana with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur through video-conferencing.Rana said that for the effective implementation of the scheme in the district, the officers should access the complaints received from their department on the dash board of the helpline everyday. He added that the Sewa Sankalp Yojana was the biggest priority of the state government, the main objective of which was to solve various problems of the people forthwith. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resolve-public-complaints-on-priority-officials-told-198096
14-01-2021||Kullu||Massive fire engulfs grasslands in Kullu||A massive fire broke out in the grasslands of the Bijli Mahadev Hill, which faces Kullu town, on Tuesday night. Villagers usually put grasslands on fire in the winter season to burn the dry grass. However, this time, the fire spread over a large area and pictures of the blazing inferno went viral on social media.Angel Chauhan, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Kullu, said such forest fires were mostly man-made. He said the fire was contained before it reached the tree cover in the forest. He added officials of the Forest Department, fire brigade and local villagers were able to douse the flames after a lot of efforts, which continued till the wee hours today. Many residents raised their concerns about the forest fire incident. Abhishek Rai, an environmentalist, said such a practice by villagers damaged the natural habitat of flora and fauna of the forest area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/massive-fire-engulfs-grasslands-in-kullu-198097
14-01-2021||Solan||27 drums of chemical stolen||The Baddi police yesterday registered a case after 27 drums of chemical were found stolen from a godown of Tapan Logistics here.The drums of chemical powder, stored in the godown, were supplied from Ahmedabad on January 4 and 5. There was no CCTV camera or any security personnel there when the incident happened. On the morning of January 8, the staff noticed that the lock of the godown was broken and all 27 drums were missing.The police said a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC had been registered and a probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/27-drums-of-chemical-stolen-198098
14-01-2021||Shimla||After 92 years, no traditional ‘khichdi bhandara’ at Tattapani||The famous pilgrimage destination “Tattapani”, known for hot water springs, would miss the traditional khichdi bhandara (langar) on the auspicious occasion of Makar Sankranti for the first time in 92 years as the Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow over the popular event.Guinness World RecordServing free khichdi to thousands of pilgrims, who throng Tattapani, 58 km from here, every year had become a tradition. The khichdi langar is being held with unfailing regularity for the past 92 years by Durga Devi Bihari Lal Brochan Lal Charitable Trust but this year the event has been called off due to the stringent Covid-19 pandemic guidelines.“The maximum number of people allowed in a gathering is 50. Therefore, it is neither feasible nor advisable to hold the free langar this time as thousands of devotees make a beeline to Tattapani on the occasion,” said president of the trust Ramesh Sood.Moreover, it is mandatory to have Covid-19 negative report for the cook and all those involved in serving khichdi. The cook and other staff are from the village and not willing to undergo test. So it was decided to skip the event this year in larger public interest, he said.“We would spend the same amount of money in charity and distribute blankets to the needy and hold a mega medical checkup camp in Tattapani after situation improves”, he added.“We had planned to hold mega water sports events in Tattapani this time but due to ongoing Covid pandemic and model code of conduct for panchayat polls, the plans would be executed after the situation becomes normal,” said Director Tourism and Aviation Yunus.Taking bath in flowing river waters is considered auspicious. A large number of people make a beeline to Tattapani on Makar Sankranti, said Bhakti Prasad, renowned Pandit, who had been performing tuladaan and other religious ceremonies for many years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-92-years-no-traditional-khichdi-bhandara-at-tattapani-198034
14-01-2021||---||Deficient rain to hit crop yield||Solan, January 12Deficient winter rain has become a cause for concern for farmers. The quantum of rain in December 2020 and January this year has been 25 to 60 per cent lower than the previous years.There are no bore wells or irrigation facilities available in rural areas, and hence deficit rain in the next few weeks will further harm the farm economy in Solan and Sirmaur districts.Harinder Singh, a farmer of Jaihar village in the Sarahan area of Sirmaur district, says, “There has been scanty rainfall in December 2020 and January this year and as a result the sowing of vegetables and other crops has been adversely hit”. He rues that if insufficient rain continues in the coming days as well, the production of crops will be much lower than the previous years.“As there are no irrigation facilities in rural areas, farmers are dependent on rain to irrigate their fields. The crop yield has reduced to half this year and the production of vegetables has been less than half this year. If similar conditions continue, farmers will face tough times in the days to come,” he adds. Besides affecting the crop yield, it will also lead to a price rise, especially of vegetables.Nikhil Thakur, a farmer of Kasauli village, says that there is a lack of moisture in the fields due to insufficient rain during the winter and this will affect the production of crops. It will also lead to higher prices of vegetables in the market.Dr HR Sharma, head of department, Vegetable Sciences, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, says that in comparison to the previous years, the winter rain has been much less this time. In December 2020, the rain was about 25 per cent deficient while in January, it was 60 per cent lower than 2020 uptill now.He, however, says that 30 mm to 40 mm has been received in January till now and this is adequate for vegetables such as pea, cauliflower, broccoli, green leafy vegetable, etc., grown these daysHe advises the farmers not to worry as no additional irrigation measures will be required for the next 10 to 15 days, as there is adequate moisture in the air. He says that the lack of rain has, in fact, led to a lesser disease incidence this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deficient-rain-to-hit-crop-yield-197573
