15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 4 crore drugs haul in Kullu, 4 held||Kullu, January 14In one of the biggest seizures of narcotics, the police seized over 400 kg of drugs — over 122.5 kg of charas, a form of cannabis, and 295 kg of ganja (marijuana) —from Banjar in Kullu district in the past 24 hours. The seizure is worth over Rs 4 crore in the international market. Four persons have been arrested in three cases.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said on the basis of intelligence reports and field inputs that big drug mafias had been active in Banjar since long, a 27-member joint team of the Kullu police, including personnel from the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) and Banjar police station, was deployed in Shrikot panchayat area of Banjar.The team arrested a supplier and delivery facilitator, who were carrying 111 kg charas in three sacks, from a forest today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-4-crore-drugs-haul-in-kullu-4-held-198622
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Pong wetland fit for fishing: Officials||Nurpur, January 14The water samples of the Pong Wetland have been found free from contamination and fit for fishing. The testing conducted by the Jal Shakti Department assessed 16 parameters in the wake of the avian flu outbreak in the wetland.Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Raul M Rahane said the testing was conducted to rule out contamination in the wetland. “The wetland is free from water-borne contamination and pollution,” he asserted.The report brings respite to the over 2,800 fishermen who eke a living by fishing in the wetland. On January 3, the district administration had suspended fishing in the wetland after the outbreak of avian flu. Sources said the authorities could now withdraw that order.The Director, Fisheries Department, Bilaspur, Sat Pal Mehta, meanwhile, said a proposal had been sent to the government to grant compensation to the affected fishermen.The avian influenza outbreak in Pong Dam sanctuary has been on the decline for the past two days, Archana Sharma, Chief Wildlife Warden said. As many as 94 birds were found dead today, taking the toll to 4,836. On January 12, the mortality count was 280 and the next day it had dipped to 105. “The infected area in the sanctuary is being disinfected as per protocol,” she asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-wetland-fit-for-fishing-officials-198627
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Over 400 kg drugs seized from Kullu||KULLU, JANUARY 14The police seized over 400 kg of drugs — over 122.5 kg of charas, a form of cannabis, and 295 kg of ganja (marijuana) — from Banjar in Kullu district in the past 24 hours. The seizure is worth over Rs 4 crore in the international market.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said on the basis of intelligence reports and field inputs that big drug mafias had been active in Banjar since long, a 27-member joint team of the Kullu police, including personnel from the Special Investigation Unit and Banjar police station, was deployed in Shrikot panchayat.The team arrested a supplier and a delivery facilitator, who were carrying 111 kg charas in three sacks, from a forest in the wee hours today.He said the estimated price of the seized contraband was about Rs 3.35 crore. He said they used to stock and produce charas on the demand of dealers and were on the police radar.The SP said the police team raided the house of another suspect in Gharatgad of Banjar area and seized 11.588 kg of charas along with two unlicensed guns. The team also seized 295.2 kg of ganja from the house of one more suspect at Sajahu village. He said four persons had been arrested in three cases.The SP said in another incident in Anni, 4.505 kg charas was seized from Hari Chand (55). He said the Kullu police had seized more than 412 kg of charas in the last one-and-a-half years and registered 68 NDPS cases.The SP said the operation lasted for about 20 hours.DGP Sanjay Kundu said the police were targeting big fishes in the drug and narcotics trade. The police had stepped up its anti-narcotics drive this year. He said financial investigation was under way so that properties of the key accused could be got attached.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-400-kg-drugs-seized-from-kullu-198476
15-01-2021||Kullu||Leopard gambols with people in Kullu||A leopard drifted into Tirthan village of Banjar in Kullu district today. The wild cat remained there for over an hour but did not hurt or attack anyone and instead gambolled with people. Many vehicles halted as the leopard moved around on the road with people watching it. The videos of the leopard wandering on the road and gambolling with people went viral on social media.The Tirthan valley falls in the Great Himalayan National Park and a variety of fauna is also found here. But this is for the first time that a leopard was spotted on the road for such a long duration and it did not flee upon seeing people. Local residents said that leopards were often spotted in the wild but this one kept playing with people and moving around for quite a long time. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-gambols-with-people-in-kullu-198477
15-01-2021||Shimla||Road Safety Month from January 18||An effective mechanism must be evolved to reach out to all driving licence holders to sensitise them about road safety measures to ensure the safer road mobility, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, presiding over a review meeting on the preparedness of the Road Safety Month celebrations here today. He said the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had decided to observe the Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17 and added that the main objective was to promote various activities for minimising road accidents and injuries. Thakur said the involvement of the public as well as NGOs must be ensured to make the programme a success. A special thrust must be laid on the road safety advocacy programme for ensuring the road safety.  He said the optimum use of the media must be ensured, besides broadcasting radio talk shows with subject specialists. He also stressed the need to organise painting, essay and slogan-writing competitions for school students. Online competitions could also be organised through Nehru Yuva Kendras. He said newly elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions as well as urban local bodies must also be involved in the awareness drive and orientation programme must also be held for drivers of school vans as well as commercial vehicles.  A special drive must be held to sensitise PWD and NHAI contractors so that black spots could be removed at the time of construction of roads, besides organising eye camps for commercial drivers, the CM said. Principal Secretary, Transport, KK Pant said a state-level inaugural function of the National Road Safety Month would be held at Shimla on January 18 which would be presided over by the CM. The Chief Minister would also flag off a cycle rally as well as various groups to different districts for sensitising people regarding road safety. Director, Transport Department, Anupam Kashyap made a detailed presentation on the month-long events being held throughout the state. Senior officers of the department attended the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-safety-month-from-january-18-198478
15-01-2021||Nurpur||Shift Hamirpur DFO office to lower Kangra area: Congress||Chander Kumar, former Forest Minister and Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) vice-president,   has urged the state government to shift the office of the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Wildlife, from Hamirpur to the lower Kangra region adjoining  the world famous Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary.  In a statement issued here, he said that the DFO office was set up at Nagrota Surian near the Pong Wetland in 1985 when he was the Forest Minister in the Virbhadra Singh government but later the Prem Kumar Dhumal government shifted it to Hamirpur. He said there was no justification in this office functioning from Hamirpur where no notified wildlife sanctuary or zoo was located to be supervised. “The DFO is the in-charge of the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary and he should be stationed in the area for its better management. The avian-flu outbreak in the sanctuary has necessitated the immediate shifting of the DFO office,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shift-hamirpur-dfo-office-to-lower-kangra-area-congress-198479
15-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||All help assured to ailing mason||Palampur, January 14Dharmesh Ramotra, SDM, Palampur, yesterday called on ailing mason Rajesh Kumar, who is confined to bed because of permanent disability. The hapless family has no sourceof income.Rajesh worked as a mason. While casting a slab on the roof of a building, he fell and suffered multiple fractures in spinal code which resulted in a permanent disability. He made all efforts to get financial assistance from the government, but in vain.SDM pays visitHe lives in a small hut on the forestland on the outskirts of the town.The Tribune had highlighted the plight of Rajesh in these columns last week. Thereafter, help started pouringin from various quarters.Colonel RL Sharma, a resident of Palampur, has promised to pay the tuition fee of his daughter per month. While Sanjay Sharma, a social activist, visited the family and donated Rs 10,000 and promised foodgrains for one year. Parminder Bhatia of Shani Sewa Sadan provided ration and woolens to the family.The SDM along with a team of revenue officials visited the family and assured all possible help on behalf of the state government.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has also taken a serious note after reading the news.The SDM said the revenue authorities had been directed to identify a land to be allotted to Rajesh for the construction of a house. He also assured help of Rs 1,85,000 under the PM Sahari Awas Yojana from the Palampur Municipal Corporation.He said he would also make efforts for early issuing of permanent disability certificate from the medical board so that the process for the release of Rs 2 lakh from the state government could be started.He said the matter of disability pension would also be taken up with the State Welfare Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-help-assured-to-ailing-mason-198480
15-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Kasauli residents in dilemma over exorbitant rent rates||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 14The property here has become among the costliest in the region after the defence authorities recommended an exorbitant rate of Rs 7,65,90,000 for a bigha (around 752 sq m) for conversion to freehold civilian properties in Kasauli cantonment.The Defence Estate Officer (DEO), Ambala, had written to the Deputy Commissioner, Solan, to approve the Standard Table of Rents (STR) of Rs 7,65,90,000 recommended by the defence authorities in January last year.Conversely, the rate of land ranged between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 45 lakh per bigha in the precincts of Kasauli cantonment. The government owns land in a cantonment area and residents only own structures raised over them. Civilians have been encouraged to get their land converted to freehold in the past few years.Residents, while opposing the gradual increase in the STR, had taken up the issue with the Deputy Commissioner, who is to ratify the recommended rates. Though they have been pursuing the issue for the past over a year, there has been little progress.“I decided to get my property converted to freehold but I realised that to do so the value of the land will be calculated on the basis of the STR. Only after the payment of this value, my land will become freehold,” rues Krishnamurthy, who has been residing in Kasauli for the past several decades. He has challenged the exorbitant STR recommended for the 2018-2021 period.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said, “The recommendations of the Defence Estate Officer, Ambala, for the revision of the STR was ratified in the past as a routine but it is surprising to note that its value worked out for 2018-2021 by them was exorbitant, arbitrary and belied all logic. Ideally, the STR should be at par with the circle rates notified by the collector”.He said that keeping in view these facts, the DEO had been asked to put the STR for 2018-21 on hold. He had also been directed to submit a revised proposal keeping in view the local circle rates determined by the sub-divisional collector, Solan.“A meeting of the defence authorities was convened a few months ago where they were asked about the rationale behind recommending such high rates but no satisfactory response was received on how such a high STR was arrived at,” said Chaman.The STR is revised triennally in smaller cantonments on the basis of factors such as land use, potential for development as building sites, sales statistics of similar land etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kasauli-residents-in-dilemma-over-exorbitant-rent-rates-198481
15-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Radha Soami sect seeks nod to sell donated land||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 14The state government’s proposal to allow the Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, to sell land donated to it by its followers could open up a Pandora’s box as this will be in violation of the permission granted to them in relaxation of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972.The Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, in Himachal has sought permission from the state government to allow it to sell excess land donated to it by its followers. The plea taken by them is that the land is scattered as small holdings. A similar plea had been made by them even during the previous Congress regime which never came through.The ball has again been set rolling to seek permission from the Revenue Department for selling the land held by the sect. The matter is likely to be placed before the Cabinet which is under tremendous pressure from various quarters to allow the sect to sell the land, which is at various locations. The move to allow the sect to sell donated land is bound to come in for sharp criticism as similar exemption will be sought by other religious sects as well.“While allowing these institutions to hold excess land, there was a clear provision which said they could not sell, mortgage or dispose of such land held over and above the limit,” revealed officials. As such, allowing them to sell land would be illegal. Moreover, if the Radha Soami Satsang is allowed to sell land, it will not have to seek permission under Section 118 of the Land Reform and Tenancy Act as it already enjoys the status of agriculturist.Even though all religious and charitable institutions in Himachal are exempted under the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 to retain more than 150 bighas of land it is only Radha Soami sect which has been accorded the status of agriculturists. Though some other religious sects like the Sant Nirankari Mission too had sought agriculturist status but the Revenue Department did not accede to their request.The benefits that accrue by virtue of being an agriculturist are many, which is why all religious sects would want that the government grant them the status of an agriculturist. The biggest advantage that will emanate is that they will be able to purchase any amount of land without having to seek exemption under Section 118 of the Tenancy and Land Reform Act.The government, in relaxation of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, had in August 2012 brought in a legislation, allowing religious and charitable institutions to own more than 150 bighas. Many sects possess excess land which has either been purchased or donated by people at various places in Kangra and Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/radha-soami-sect-seeks-nod-to-sell-donated-land-198482
15-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Helicopter sought for 20 voters of remote Bara Bhangal village||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 14The district administration of Kangra has sought a helicopter from the state government to help 20 voters of remote Bara Bhangal village located deep inside the Dhauladhar mountain ranges to vote in panchayat elections scheduled on January 21.Bara Bhangal village has about 345 registered voters. However, most of the residents of the village migrate to Bir area of Kangra district before the onset of winters. They exercise their right to vote in Bir area only. They cross Thumsar Pass located at a height of 16,000 feet from the sea level and walk about 70 km on mountain treks to come out of Bara Bhangal village.345 registered voters cast vote in Bir areaHowever, some old residents of the village who cannot trek across the mountains stay back in the village during winters. The district administration stocks food grains for these villages in month of September before snow block passage to the village.Deputy Commissioner Kangra Rakesh Prajapati, when contacted, admitted that they have requested the state election commission to provide them helicopter to help 20 voters who are staying back in Bara Bhangal exercise their right to vote. “We are yet to receive any response from the state election commission,” he said.The Deputy Commissioner said that they could have sent team on foot to help the voters vote in Bara Bhangal. However, most of the treks leading to the village are laden with snow and it was difficult to pass these in winters, he said.Tucked away deep in the Dhauladhar and Pir Panjal ranges of the Himalayas at a height of 11,000 feet from sea level, Bara Bhangal is considered to be the remotest village in the hill state. A polling booth was first set up in the village during the assembly elections in 2007 after 60 years of independence.Despite being located deep in the hills Bara Bhangal is mostly self reliant. The village is located near the source of river Ravi and has perennial supply of fresh water from glaciers. The villagers have grown about 500 trees of apple. Since there was no way to take the apple crop out residents either themselves consume the apples they grow or feed them to their cattle. Rearing sheep and goats and migrating through the hills is primary vocation of the Bara Bhangal residents. They also grow vegetable and grains for their own need. The government has opened a middle standard school in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/helicopter-sought-for-20-voters-of-remote-bara-bhangal-village-198483
15-01-2021||Chamba||Four vaccination centres set up in Chamba||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said here yesterday that four centres had been established in the district for the first phase of vaccination starting on January 16. These included the medical college and hospital, district ayurveda hospital, primary health centre, Chaned, and the civil hospital, Chowari, he added.On January 16, 100 people would be vaccinated at the medical college and hospital, 50 at the ayurveda hospital, 50 at the primary health centre and 80 at the civil hospital. In the first phase of vaccination, 280 healthcare people would be administered the vaccine, the DC said.Employees of the police, revenue, rural development and other departments working as frontline personnel were included in the next round, the DC said. For vaccination registration, a portal called Co-Vin had been created. So far, 5,899 people had been registered for vaccination in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-vaccination-centres-set-up-in-chamba-198484
15-01-2021||Solan||1,100 cops on election duty in Sirmaur||A posse of 1,100 policemen would be deployed in Sirmaur district for the peaceful conduct of the panchayat polls where hypersensitive and sensitive booths would be the key focus.SP, Sirmaur, Khushal Sharma, said besides the police, 150 battalion sleuths and 425 home guards were being deployed for the polls.Special focus is being given to the hypersensitive and sensitive booths where more policemen would be deployed 24 hours before the polls slated to be held in three phases on January 17,19 and 22.There are 339 ordinary booths in six blocks of Nahan, Paonta, Pacchad, Sangrah, Rajgarh and Shillai with 179 sensitive and 49 being hypersensitive for panchayats going to polls on January 17.The administration has earmarked 354 ordinary booths, 179 sensitive and 7 hypersensitive for the January 19 polls for the second phase in the six blocks and 321 ordinary, 152 sensitive and 21 hypersensitive for the third phase of polls slated for January 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-100-cops-on-election-duty-in-sirmaur-198485
15-01-2021||---||No respite from severe cold wave||Shimla, January 14The hills and valleys of Himachal reeling under piercing cold wave conditions had no relief as minimum temperature hovered around freezing point at many places while day temperature dropped by two to three degrees.Keylong and Kalpa in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded a low of -10°C and -0.6°C while Bhuntar, Solan and Sundernagar shivered at 0.3°C, 0.4 °C and 0.5 °C, followed by Manali 1.0 °C and Palampur 2.0 °C.Una in Shivalik foothills reeled under severe cold with mercury staying at 2.8 °C while Dharamsala and Shimla recorded a low of 5.6 °C and 6.1 °C.Thick ground frost occurred at many places in lower hills while water pipes froze and burst at some places in the upper Shimla region. The weather remained dry and local Met weather office has predicted clear weather in the region over the next six days up to January 20.The maximum day temperature also dropped by two to three degrees and Solan which was hottest with a high of 24 °C yesterday recorded maximum temperature at 21°C today.Keylong and Kalpa recorded a high of 0.3 °C and 7.0 °C while day temperature dropped marginally at Shimla and Dharamsala to stay at 14.4 °C and 16.6 °C.The region received 15 per cent deficit rain during post-monsoon session from October 1 to December 31, while rain deficit was only one per cent from January 1 to 14. However, rain was not evenly distributed in the state and several districts received deficit rain affecting crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-respite-from-severe-cold-wave-198486
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Pvt buildings in Nurpur defaced with poll posters||Nurpur, January 14 Contrary to the guidelines of the State Election Commission, the walls of private buildings, shops and houses in the rural areas in Nurpur have been covered with posters of the candidates contesting the elections to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).  A visit to rural areas here shows the gross violation of guidelines under which no candidate can paste his posters appealing for votes on any private building without procuring a written permission from the building or house owners concerned. A large number of candidates are contesting the elections for the posts of ward member, panchayat pradhan and up-pradhan, members of Block Development Committee (BDC) and the zila parishad. A rural voter will cast five votes at a time in the upcoming elections scheduled to be held on January 17, 19 and 21.  Earlier, a similar situation was witnessed in the Municipal Council (MC) elections in Nurpur town on Sunday. Though only 24 candidates had contested the elections, most of the walls of private buildings were defaced with posters in every nook and corner of the town. The banners and posters seeking vote are yet to be removed. In this connection, Returning Officer-cum-SDM, Nurpur, Dr Surinder Thakur said that as per the law, the building owner could lodge a complaint with the police if no permission was procured by the candidates for pasting posters on any part of his building, house or shop. He added that the police would take action against the erring candidates under the Defacement Act.  “If a returning officer, whether in the PRIs or MC elections, gets a written complaint from the building owner the candidate will be served a notice,” he said. He added that no written complaint from any building owner had been received so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-buildings-in-nurpur-defaced-with-poll-posters-198487
15-01-2021||---||SC order to raze hotel ‘vindicates graft charge’||Shimla, January 14The state government yesterday said that the Supreme Court order to demolish a hotel built on forestland in McLeodganj was a vindication of their allegation that rampant corruption, nepotism and favouritism was at peak during the tenure of the previous Congress government.In a joint statement issued here today, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Industries and Transport Minister Bikram Singh and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania hailed the decision of the Supreme Court to uphold the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued in 2016 for the demolition of a hotel-cum-restaurant constructed on forestland at McLeodganj in Dharamsala.The ministers said that the decision yet again exposed the misdeeds and illegal practices committed during the tenure of the previous Congress government. They alleged that the hotel was constructed by a private investor in connivance with a senior Congress leader. All norms were flouted and the illegal construction was allowed to come up under political patronage.Govt patronage allegedThe defaulter company had the full patronage of the then Congress government and it flouted all norms. Despite the NGT orders, the previous Congress government neither demolished the illegal structure nor took any action against the guilty. —MinistersThey said that the Supreme Court on the basis of a civil appeal had appointed the District and Sessions Judge, Kangra, as the inquiry officer on September 9, 2016, to look into the irregularities of the construction of a bus stand as well as the hotel and restaurant.They added that the inquiry officer submitted his report to the Supreme Court in 2018 wherein it was stated that neither the map was approved by the Town and Country Planning Department nor any clearance had been sought under the Forest Conservation Act. Land use was changed without seeking permission from the competent authority and the hotel was constructed in a place where a bus stand was to be built.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-order-to-raze-hotel-vindicates-graft-charge-198488
15-01-2021||Shimla||62 Covid cases, no fatality in Himachal||With 62 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases reached 56,751 in the last 24 hours. No fatality was reported in the state.The highest 12 cases were reported in Solan, 11 in Kangra, nine each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, six in Una, five in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/62-covid-cases-no-fatality-in-himachal-198489
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||IAF team fails to trace Delhi paraglider||Palampur January 14Despite best efforts, the Indian Air Force rescue team has failed to trace the missing Delhi paraglider Rohit Badhoria. The paraglider had gone missing last Friday after taking off from Billing. He had to land at Chogan but did not. He was last seen in high mountains of the Dhauladhars.A five-member rescue team of Indian Air Force continued its search for the fourth day today but could not spot either the glider or the pilot anywhere in high mountain of Dhauladhar hills. The Indian Air Force will begin the search operation again tomorrow if whether permitted.Besides the IAF team, the volunteers of the mountaineering institute are also searching the missing pilots. A team comprising five rescue workers crossed the Jalsu Pass on foot two days ago but failed to spot the glider as per mobile message received by the administration.The Kangra administration is extending all help to the rescue teams in tracing the paraglider. SDM and DSP Baijnath are in touch with all the rescue teams.A senior officer of the state government said because of difficult topography of Dhauladhar ranges it had become difficult to trace missing pilots.All shepherds had already moved to lower areas because of heavy snowfall in high mountains.In summers shepherds are very helpful for the rescue teams in tracing missing pilots. Most of the peaks are covered with heavy snow and even difficult to reach on foot. There are deep trenches in mountains where it was not possible to trace any one through helicopter.In view of the failure of the state government in putting in place a robust safety mechanism, paragliding has become a risky affair not in Billing but all over the state. This has brought bad name to the tourism department as there is absence of implementation of paragliding rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iaf-team-fails-to-trace-delhi-paraglider-198490
15-01-2021||---||Build global coalition to protect rights, identity: US coordinator to Tibetans||Dharamsala, January 14US Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues Robert A. Destro addressed the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) leadership through a webinar yesterday. He urged the Tibetans to build an international coalition of countries that would help them protect their rights and preserve their unique identity.Destro said, “We have urged like-minded countries to pass their own versions of the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act so that the world can travel to Tibet as freely as the Chinese can travel to our countries and bear witness to what’s going on in Tibet”.The virtual meeting was attended by Sikyong (president of Tibetan government in-exile) Lobsang Sangay, Kalons of the 15th Kashag (Tibetan government in-exile), Speaker Pema Jungney of Tibetan Parliament in-exile, Deputy Speaker Acharya Yeshi Phuntsok, and members of the Standing Committee of Tibetan Parliament in-exile.Destro said, “Our job at the State Department is to be useful and to be of service to all Tibetan people. Your sense of the goal as what does a vibrant Tibetan government looks like is for you to set and our job is to be of service to you as you work through the preservation of the Tibetan community, Tibetan language, Tibetan Buddhism, and your identity”.On the successful preliminary election held recently by the Tibetans in-exile, he expressed hope that the Tibetan parliament in-exile would continue to develop as a robust institution that continues to play a great leadership role in the life of every citizen. He emphasised that the Tibetan people are the most effective advocate in this regard and the only way to push forward the goal was by working together.Sikyong Lobsang Sangay, who moderated the webinar, said that the appointment of a Special Coordinator was seen as a powerful gesture towards the Tibetan people and the Tibetan cause. Besides, it sent a powerful message of hope to the Tibetans in Tibet.“You are the only Special Coordinator, who within a short duration, has participated in so many webinars and issued so many statements. You deserve the credit for being the most active and most vocal spokesperson for the Tibetan cause,” said Sikyong.He appealed to Destro and his team to prepare an adept report on Tibet emphasising and highlighting the historical status of Tibet for the coming February and March report. Besides, he also urged the Special Coordinator’s office to establish a coalition between the US ambassadors in different countries and the offices of Tibet since the CTA was now formally acknowledged and recognised by the US Government.Kalon of Religion and Culture Ven Karma Gelek Yuthok thanked Destro and his colleagues’ support towards the religious freedom of the Tibetan people that became more apparent and intensified through the recent enactment of the TPSA 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/build-global-coalition-to-protect-rights-identity-us-coordinator-to-tibetans-198491
15-01-2021||Shimla||Governor to preside over R-Day function on Shimla Ridge||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya will preside over the state-level Republic Day function to be held at The Ridge here on January 26. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj will also attend it. Functions will also be organised at the district level.Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar will preside over the district-level function at Mandi, Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur at Dharamsala in Kangra, Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda at Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti, Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar at Sirmaur and Industries Minister Bikram Singh at Una.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur will preside over the function at Hamirpur, Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal at Kullu, Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary at Reckong-Peo in Kinnaur, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania at Solan, Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Rajinder Garg at Chamba and Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Hans Raj at Bilaspur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-to-preside-over-r-day-function-on-shimla-ridge-198492
15-01-2021||Palampur||Virtual classroom at farm varsity opens||HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor of CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University,   inaugurated an  ultra-modern virtual classroom facility here yesterday. He said that under the prevailing circumstances, it would prove to be a boon to students sitting in the safe environs of their homes. They would no more miss classes and would also attend virtual practicals too, he added.  The Vice-Chancellor said that the virtual classroom facility was part of the New Education Policy (NEP), which the university intends to make functional from the next academic session. He added that the facility offered a multi-disciplinary approach under which the university could act as an umbrella organisation with which colleges of one or two districts could be affiliated to award degrees by sharing resources and facilities. It would be useful for the tribal area also, he said.  Chaudhary said that initially, all constituent colleges would record their best lectures, which would be consolidated at the ICAR level for uploading on YouTube. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virtual-classroom-at-farm-varsity-opens-198493
15-01-2021||---||Agri Varsity to have photo gallery of farmers: VC||Dharamsala, January 14A photo gallery of select progressive farmers will be inaugurated in the university museum on January 25 to commemorate golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh statehood. All Farm Science Centres of the university will also display photos of the progressive farmers of their respective districts with a brief introduction.VC of Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur, HK Chaudhary said this in a press release issued here today.The VC said that Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has accredited CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University with ‘A’ grade. Accreditation is valid till March 2023.The VC said that some new initiatives have been taken to bring excellence in academics, accelerate need-based research and add skill component in all extension education programmes. Already, steps have been taken to involve farmers in major programmes of the university with due recognition to progressive farmers.He said that he is looking forward to improvement in the Covid situation so that the scientists and extension staff may visit farmers at their doorsteps and all farmer-oriented programmes are also organised on their farms.The VC also said that Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University will implement the new education policy from the next academic session and by March this year an e-office system to bring transparency and efficiency in the working will be implemented. Prof Chaudhary exhorted each scientist to bring innovation in research as per the geographical conditions and needs of a particular area.He said that the university vision document was being prepared and steps have been initiated to provide new facilities to the students and staff. The faculty members, whose performance is found outstanding, will be honoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agri-varsity-to-have-photo-gallery-of-farmers-vc-198494
15-01-2021||Kullu||IIT student commits suicide||The body of a student, aged 35, from Rajasthan was found hanging from a noose in his hostel room in the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Kamand in Mandi today. SP Shalini Agnihotri said that a police team visited the hostel and sent the body to a Mandi hospital.  She said that no foul play was suspected and no suicide note was recovered from the room. The police recorded the statements of other students and it was still not clear why he took the extreme step.  Shalini said the body was handed over to the aggrieved family members after a postmortem examination. A probe was underway.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-student-commits-suicide-198495
15-01-2021||---||93,000 doses of vaccine reach Shimla, to be sent to other dists||Shimla, January 14The state received its first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine today evening. The 93,000 doses of Covishield vaccine, prepared by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, reached the state-level storage facility in Shimla after 7 pm. From Shimla, the vaccine will be sent overnight to Shimla’s neighbouring districts and the regional stores in Dharamsala and Mandi. From Mandi and Dharamsala, the vaccine will be distributed to neighbouring districts. “The vehicles to distribute the vaccine further are ready. We are sure that the vaccine will reach all vaccination sites by tomorrow noon,” said Health secretary Amitabh Awasthi, who was overseeing the unloading and loading of the vaccine.Initially, the plan was to deliver the vaccine by air at Shimla. However, as per the changed plan, the vaccine was airlifted from Pune to Chandigarh, and from there it was brought to Shimla by road by the Health Department’s team. “The vaccine was handed over to us around 3 pm in Chandigarh. That’s why it arrived later than the scheduled time of around 4 pm,” said a Health Department official. Thankfully, the delay is unlikely to make any impact. “We will reach Dharamsala past midnight. The vehicles, which will take the vaccine further to Chamba and Una, will be ready,” said the driver who will take the vaccine to Dharamsala.‘Beneficiaries to be monitored after vaccination’For Awasthi, who had been overseeing the state’s fight against the pandemic, the arrival of vaccine was the most significant moment in the fight against Covid. “It’s a great moment for the Health Department and healthcare workers who had been at the forefront of the fight against Covid, and the people of the state. It means we are now much closer to beating this virus,” he said.Awasthi urged people not to have any doubts about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. He said the state had made elaborate arrangement to keep track of post immunisation developments. “Beneficiaries will be monitored after vaccination. We will be in constant touch with them to know about their experiences,” said Awasthi.The state will start its vaccination drive on January 16 at 27 sites across all districts. Around 40,000 healthcare workers will be vaccinated with this consignment. Half of the vaccine will be saved for the second dose that will be due after 28 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/93-000-doses-of-vaccine-reach-shimla-to-be-sent-to-other-dists-198496
15-01-2021||The disposal of garbage in Kullu town has become a Herculean task after dumping was stopped at the waste incinerator plant at Pirdi since September 2018. The garbage is piled up at various locations in the town. Though door-to-door collection of garbage is being undertaken by the contractors of the Kullu Municipal Committee||Garbage disposal a Herculean task||Absence of proper drainsIn the absence of proper drains, waste water flows on to the road at Kumarhatti, leading to massive inconvenience to commuters. The authorities should focus on developing civic amenities for the safety of roads and cleanliness. — Rajesh, KumarhattiWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-disposal-a-herculean-task-198498
15-01-2021||The NSUI has submitted a memorandum to the Governor||NSUI gives memorandum to Guv||ABVP seeks declaration of resultsThe ABVP on Thursday submitted a memorandum to examination controller JS Negi demanding the declaration of pending results of several PG courses. The students were already facing several problems because of the pandemic and the HPU was increasing their problems, said the ABVP. BBA and BCA students have been promoted, but their result have not been updated. As a result, many students have not been able to take admission in the university.Open library for research scholarsThe ABVP, in a memorandum to HPU VC, has demanded that the library be opened up for research scholars with the required SOPs like social distancing etc. Besides, the ABVP said books were not being issued to general students, which was causing a lot of problems to them. The students' body also demanded that all books be digitalised so that students could access them from the comfort of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-gives-memorandum-to-guv-198499
15-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Avian flu: Pong wetland found fit for fishing||Nurpur, January 14The water samples from the Pong wetland have been found free from contamination and the dam is fit for fishing. The testing conducted by the Jal Shakti Department assessed 16 parameters in the wake of the avian flu outbreak in the wetland.Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Raul M Rahane said the testing was conducted to rule out contamination in the wetland. “The wetland is free from water-borne contamination and pollution,” he asserted.The report brings respite to the over 2,800 fishermen who eke a living by fishing in the wetland.On January 3, the district administration had suspended fishing in the wetland after the outbreak of avian flu. Sources said the authorities could now withdraw that order. The Director, Fisheries Department, Bilaspur, Sat Pal Mehta, meanwhile, said a proposal had been sent to the government to grant compensation to the affected fishermen.The avian influenza outbreak in Pong Dam sanctuary has been on the decline for the past two days, Archana Sharma, Chief Wildlife Warden said.As many as 94 birds were found dead today, taking the toll to 4,836. On January 12, the mortality count was 280 and the next day it had dipped to 105. “The infected area in the sanctuary is being disinfected as per protocol,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avian-flu-pong-wetland-found-fit-for-fishing-198466
15-01-2021||---||Over 111 kg charas seized in Himachal’s Kullu district||Kullu, January 14The Kullu Police on Thursday claimed to have seized 111.588 kg of charas, the biggest haul in Himachal Pradesh so far.The seizure was made in the Shrikot panchayat in Banjar subdivision of Kullu on Wednesday, the police said adding that two people have been arrested in the case.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said, based on intelligence inputs, a 27-member joint team of Kullu Police Special Investigation Unit (SIU) and Banjar police station arrested the supplier and delivery facilitator, who were carrying the contraband in three sacks from a forest on foot.He said that the estimated price of the seized contraband was about Rs 3.35 crore in the international market.Singh said that the accused used to stock and produce charas on demand and were under police radar.Following the arrest of the duo, the police raided houses of another two suspects in different villages, said the SP.  While 11.588 kg of charas was seized in one case along with two unlicensed guns, police recovered 295.2 kg ganja from the house of another suspect. The officer said that 122.588 kg of charas and more than 295 kg of ganja was recovered in three cases and four persons were arrested.He said that the value of the total contrabands recovered was approximately Rs 4 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-111-kg-charas-seized-in-himachals-kullu-district-198319
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colder than Shimla, Manali||The city turned colder than Shimla as the maximum temperature dropped to 12.2°C, four degrees less than the Queen of Hills. However, the minimum temperature in both Chandigarh and Shimla remained at 5.7°C.The City Beautiful witnessed severe cold conditions today, making it chiller than Manali, which recorded a maximum temperature of 14.8°C. However, residents are unlikely to get relief from the foggy weather conditions for one more day.Keylong, Kalpa coldest in HimachalAccording to the Chandigarh Met office, the sky is expected to remain generally cloudy tomorrow and shallow fog will continue. However, with moderate fog, the city could witness a clear sky on Friday and Saturday.The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are likely to see an increase in the coming days, which could provide the much-needed relief to residents reeling under severe cold weather conditions for the past many days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chandigarh-colder-than-shimla-manali-198041
