16-01-2021||Shimla||First phase of voting for over 1,200 panchayats in Himachal on Sunday||The first of the three-phase Panchayati Raj Institution elections in Himachal Pradesh will be held on Sunday and over 1,200 panchayats will go to polls, electoral officer Sanjeev Mahajan said.Voting in 1,227 gram panchayats will be held from 8 am to 4 pm, he said on Saturday, adding that the remaining two phases are slated to be held on January 19 and January 21.Mahajan said as many as 7,583 polling parties will ensure smooth conduct of voting in the first phase.The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads will be conducted soon after completion of voting.However, counting of votes for members of the panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22.The election process will be completed by January 23, Mahajan said.The candidates are contesting these elections as independents and not on party symbols, though. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-phase-of-voting-for-over-1-200-panchayats-in-himachal-on-sunday-199432
16-01-2021||Shimla||Cold wave continues in Himachal; Keylong shivers at -6.8 deg C||Cold wave conditions continued in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday with Keylong shivering at minus 6.8 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.It has predicted dry but cold weather in the state till January 22.Tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 6.8 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of zero degrees Celsius, he added.The minimum temperature in tourist places Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie was recorded at 1.6, 3.7 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.Shimla registered a low of 7.6 degrees Celsius, Singh said.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Solan at 23.5 degrees Celsius, he said.A fresh western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region after January 22 onwards, and it may cause scattered to fairly widespread rain and snow over Himachal Pradesh, Singh said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cold-wave-continues-in-himachal-keylong-shivers-at-6-8-deg-c-199414
16-01-2021||Shimla||Over 1,500 healthcare workers administered COVID vaccine on first day in Himachal||Administering anti-coronavirus vaccines to healthcare workers began in Himachal Pradesh as Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur launched the inoculation drive at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here on Saturday.Hardeep Singh, a sanitation worker, was the first person in the state to be administered a shot.After him, IGMC senior medical superintendent Janak Raj got vaccinated.A total of 1,536 healthcare workers were vaccinated on Saturday for COVID-19 in the state, special secretary health Nipun Jindal said.Jinda said the target was 2,499 and the percentage coverage is 61.46 per cent. Three minor adverse events following immunisation were reported in the state at three different locations in District Kangra (Dr RPGMC Tanda), Sirmour (Civil Hospital Paonta Sahib) and Solan (MMU Solan), he added.The symptoms were dizziness, anxiety, nausea and shivering and the beneficiaries recovered after management as per protocol, he added.The second dose of the vaccine would be administered to them after 28 days, Jindal added.A consignment of 93,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine had reached the state capital on Thursday.The consignment of Covishield vaccine, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, had been airlifted from Pune to Chandigarh, from where it was brought to Shimla by road.Subsequently, doses were sent to other districts and areas for administering it to healthcare workers, according to officials.On this occasion, the chief minister said that the state government had constituted State Level Steering Committee, State Task Force, District Task Force and Block Task Force to monitor effectively administration of vaccination against COVID-19.Thakur said that a State Vaccination Store had been set up at Parimahal in Shimla while regional vaccine store had been established at Mandi and Dharamshala. District Vaccine Stores had been set up in all the 12 districts of the state, besides 386 cold chain points in the state, he added.He said that Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) management training had been given to the session site vaccinators for establishing referral mechanism and report on CoWin App.Thakur said that AEFI Committees at state and district level had also been notified with additional members of Pulmonologist and Medicine Specialists for casualty assessment of AEFI cases.Later, he visited identified site under Regional Hospital in Mandi district. He expressed satisfaction over the decline of COVID-19 cases in the state and said that the Covishield vaccine would give safe and expected results in eradicating COVID-19 cases in the state.Thakur on the first day of vaccination took stock of the established COVID vaccine centers at Vijay Senior Secondary School, Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical Collage and Hospital, Civil Hospital Sundernagar and Karsog, where 360 healthcare workers were administered vaccine. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-1-500-healthcare-workers-administered-covid-vaccine-on-first-day-in-himachal-199330
16-01-2021||The SFI on Friday submitted a memorandum to the executive council of the Himachal Pradesh University||Open universities, colleges: SFI||ABVP seeks action against officialsThe ABVP has urged the HPU executive council to dismiss officials behind the decision to do away with entrance exams to PG courses and transfer the online ERP process from a private firm to a government firm. The ABVP also demanded opening up of the library for students and research scholars. The students' body demanded reduction in the application fee for the exam of panchayat secretary. Besides, it stated that the process to fill up non-teaching seats should be started soon and appointments should be made in a time-bound manner.NSUI submits memoRANDUMThe NSUI on Friday submitted a memorandum to the HPU Executive Council ahead of its meeting. In the memorandum, the students' body reiterated its demand to take action against the officials and members of the committees who granted admission through a merit list. The NSUI alleged that these committees and officials had played with the future of thousands of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/open-universities-colleges-sfi-199218
16-01-2021||The muddy roads in Bajuri village on the outskirts of Hamirpur town have become a major problem for area residents. The road remains inundated with sewage water even during dry weather. A drain was built along the road||Roads inundated with sewage||— Varsha Kumari, BAJURIStray dog menaceStray dogs around the Pari Mahal in the Kasumpti area of Shimla are very aggressive and a major security threat for people, especially if a person is walkning alone. Packs of dogs can be seen moving around throughout the day, growling at people. The MC should take note and take some action— Naresh Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-inundated-with-sewage-199217
16-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||No permission to Radha Soami Satsang sect to sell donated land||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 15The issue of allowing the Radha Soami Satsang sect to sell land donated by its followers has been put on the hold for the time being as the Cabinet decided not to grant permission.The issue came up for discussion at today’s Cabinet meeting. A presentation was made by the Revenue Department, which had received the plea for granting special permission to the religious sect to sell the land that has been donated by the followers over a period of time at various locations in the state.Sources said Revenue and Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh expressed his reservation over giving any such permission to the sect. He is learnt to have said that he would not like to be party to any such decision which was in gross violations of the laid down norms. Finally, no decision was taken on the issue despite a senior minister and two top bureaucrats vehemently advocating the case of the sect.Even though there is a lot of pressure on the government to allow the sect to sell its land but it is clear that this will be in violation of the norms. While allowing these religious institutions to hold excess land, there was a clear provision which says they could not sell, mortgage or dispose of such land held over and above the permissible limit. As such, allowing them to sell land would be illegal. Moreover, if the Radha Soami Satsang is allowed to sell land, it will not have to seek permission under Section 118 of the Land Reform and Tenancy Act as it already enjoys the status of agriculturist.The move to allow the sect to sell donated land would have come in for sharp criticism as similar exemption would be sought by other religious sects as well. Now it remains to be seen if the Government has rejected the plea of the sect or permission could be granted later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-permission-to-radha-soami-satsang-sect-to-sell-donated-land-199025
16-01-2021||---||Campaign for first phase of panchayat poll ends in Kangra||Dharamsala, January 15Campaign for panchayat, zila parishad and block samiti elections in Kangra district ended today in 276 panchayats elections for which would be held on January 17.There are 814 panchayats in Kangra district. In the second phase elections would be held on January 19 in 274 panchayats while the third phase poll would be held on January 21 in 264 panchayats.Much enthusiasm is being seen in the elections as people are vying for the posts of village pradhans that receive maximum grants under rural development schemes. The zila parishads and block samitis have practically no say in development schemes and their role was now more ornamental as funds flow directly to panchayats as per the directions of the Union government. The funds in panchayats are now spent directly by pradhan and zila parishads and panchayat samitis have no say in it.Social media is abuzz with messages of candidates directed at their voters. Allegations are also being levelled in social media that money and liquor were being used to influence the voters.Balbir Dhiman from Nagrota Surian area alleged that the sitting pradhans have an edge over others as they have the capacity to spend money for elections.Aggressive door-to-door campaign was being carried out by the candidates who are relying on personal contacts and kinships to garner votes.Many were irked on not finding their names in the voters’ list. Former Congress minister Sudhir Sharma who found his name missing from voters list for panchayat elections has alleged large-scale bungling in voters list.Though the political parties are not contesting the elections on election symbol in panchayat polls most of them are busy in their own constituencies to ensure victory of their supporters. Most of the political leaders of Congress and the BJP have declared their support for candidates in Zila Parishad and Block Samiti polls. In panchayat polls the political leaders are not interfering directly.A senior political leader, while talking to The Tribune, said that supporting a particular candidate in panchayat elections would mean making permanent enemies in village. “It is a local election and we generally do not interfere in local politics”, he said.The elections for panchayats would be held on ballot papers and not on EVM machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaign-for-first-phase-of-panchayat-poll-ends-in-kangra-199026
16-01-2021||Solan||157 poll booths hypersensitive in Solan dist||Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said polling parties were dispatched to various panchayats for the first phase of polling to be held on January 17 in Solan district.He added that there were 283 sensitive and 157 hypersensitive booths in the district, while 1,082 were categorised as normal booths. The maximum number of sensitive and hypersensitive booths was respectively 209 and 106 which were identified in the Nalagarh block followed by 22 and 36 in Dharampur, 24 and 12 in Kunihar, 14 and three in Kandaghat, while there were only 14 sensitive booths in Solan where no booth has been identified as hypersensitive.There were 1522 booths in all five blocks of Kandaghat, Solan, Dharampur, Nalagarh and Kunihar with maximum of 553 being in Nalagarh followed by 328 in Kunihar, 276 in Dharampur, 223 in Solan and 142 in Kandaghat.Out of the 240 panchayats in Solan district, 82 will go to polls on January 17 in the first phase. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/157-poll-booths-hypersensitive-in-solan-dist-199027
16-01-2021||---||No CoWIN message sent to beneficiaries till late in evening||Shimla, January 15 The people scheduled for vaccination on day 1 did not receive the mandatory message from the CoWIN portal either at DDU or the IGMC, two of the three sites selected for vaccination. “There’s some issue with the portal, but it will be resolved and the messages will go out to the beneficiaries,” said an official in the know of things.   Incidentally, the vaccination programme will be launched in the state at 10:30 am at the IGMC, coinciding with the nation-wide launch by the Prime Minister in Delhi. “We have made arrangements for a two-way webcast in case the Prime Minister wants to speak with anyone here,” said Shimla CMO Surekha Chopra.  At the IGMC, a safai karamchari will be the first to get the shot. At DDU, a lab technician will be inoculated first and a medical officer will start the proceedings at Rampur. “We have chosen people from different categories of healthcare workers so that every category gets covered,” she said. As for any apprehension and hesitation among healthcare professionals over getting vaccinated, Doctor Chopra said by and large there was no such issue among the beneficiaries. “I have had people calling me up to include them in the list,” she said. Shimla district has received 7,200 doses from the consignment that arrived yesterday. On the first day, 400 people will be vaccinated, with 200 at IGMC and 100 each at DDU and Rampur hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-cowin-message-sent-to-beneficiaries-till-late-in-evening-199028
16-01-2021||---||93 pc Sirmaur people screened for diseases||Solan, January 15 Around 93.25 per cent population of Sirmaur district was screened for various diseases under the Him Suraksha Abhiyan from November 25 to January 4. Chief Medical Officer Dr KK Prashar said today that door-to-door screening  was undertaken by 612 teams of health staff in five blocks of the district. Of 5,88,743 people,  5,49,021 were screened for Covid-19, tuberculosis, leprosy, and diabetes. As   many as 6,206 people showed Covid symptoms and 1,960 of them were tested but  only 79 were found infected with the virus.    Dr Prashar said that 2,699 people displayed symptoms of tuberculosis, and 1,024 of them were tested but only 80 were found afflicted with the disease. He said that they were ascertaining whether these 80 cases were new or old ones.   As many as 393 people showed leprosy symptoms, and 22 of them were tested but only one was found afflicted with the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/93-pc-sirmaur-people-screened-for-diseases-199029
16-01-2021||Hamirpur||BSNL SSA to have Fibernet connectivity soon||The BSNL secondary switching area (SSA) will have 100 per cent Fibernet connectivity within six months. This was stated by Ajeet Kumar, General Manager of BSNL, after assuming office here today.He said the BSNL had started Fibernet and Bharat Air Internet services to provide high-speed internet services. He said his focus would be on improvement of all types of services that BSNL was giving to its clients. He said this was his second stint here and wanted to strengthen the BSNL network in the SSA. Significantly, BSNL SSA comprised of three districts, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una. He said there were around 1 lakh landline users and similar number of mobile users of BSNL in the SSA.Kumar said Fibernet and Bharat Net services would provide internet speed ranging from 50 Mbps to 100 Mbps and that could be increased on customer demands. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bsnl-ssa-to-have-fibernet-connectivity-soon-199030
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent||4-day traffic diversion on Mandi NH from today||Nurpur, January 15The traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway-154 from Kandwal to Pathankot via Chakki will remain suspended from January 16 to 19 as the state National Highway Division, HP Public Works Department, Jogindernagar, is installing a welcome gate at the entry of Kandwal on the inter-state border. As per the official information after the order issued by the District Administration on Friday, the traffic is being diverted via the Kandwal-Bhadroya-Pathankot link road. The welcome gate is being raised to celebrate the upcoming Golden Jubilee Statehood Day on January 25.District Magistrate, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapti, while exercising powers vested under Section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, today granted permission to divert traffic on the Pathankot-Chakki-Mandi NH. The local administration has appealed to commuters to use the alternative NH route during the restricted period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-day-traffic-diversion-on-mandi-nh-from-today-199031
16-01-2021||---||Doppler weather radar inaugurated at Kufri||Shimla, January 15Accurate weather forecast is not only vital for farmers to protect their crops from natural calamities but also to help in tourism development as the tourists can decide about their travel plans according to the weather.100-km radius coveredThis was stated by the Union Minister for Earth Sciences, Health and Family Welfare and Science and Technology Dr Harsh Vardhan after virtual inauguration of First Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) installed at Kufri in the suburbs of Shimla town on the occasion of 146th India Meteorological Department Foundation Day, today.The Union Minister also virtually inaugurated Multi Mission Meteorological Data Receiving and Processing System and online version of a Mausam journal. Addressing the occasion virtually, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur thanked the Union minister for dedicating the radar at Kufri, Shimla. He said that two more radars would be installed at Mandi and Dalhousie in Chamba district of the state.The site had already been finalized at Mandi and the site for the radar at Dalhousie would be finalized soon, he said adding that at present the radar installed at Kufri was on test mode for a period of two weeks. Thereafter, its data would be used for forecasting purpose.He said that range of this radar was up to 100 kilometres in radial distance. It would observe and provide the weather data of 100 kilometres in all directions, which would be used for forecasting purpose, especially for short-range forecast. He said that more précise area specific weather forecast and warning would be issued for a particular place, for the weather phenomenon like thunderstorm, lighting, hailstorm, heavy rainfall/snowfall, gusty winds.Thakur said that this centre would help horticulturists and farmers of the state by providing them accurate information regarding weather.The DWR, Kufri, would run round the clock. It is fully automatic and computerized. He said that it would transmit the data in various digital format and picture form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doppler-weather-radar-inaugurated-at-kufri-199032
16-01-2021||Solan||Army Day celebrated||Army Day was celebrated at the Solan military station with fervour where tributes were paid to valiant soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the country.This day is celebrated on January 15 every year in India in recognition of Field Marshal KM Cariappa’s taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Fransis Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India, on January 15, 1949. It is celebrated to remember the glory of the Army and to commemorate the supreme sacrifice of the soldiers.The dignitaries comprised Commander, 95 Infantry Brigade, Commanding Officer, 11 Dogra Regiment, Abhishek Yadav, SP, Solan, Ajay Yadav, SDM, Solan, and retired Army officers. Military band of the 11th Battalion of the Dogra Regiment presented band performance with martial tunes. The band performance inspired a feeling of patriotism among all attendees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-day-celebrated-199033
16-01-2021||---||Govt schools, colleges to reopen in February||Shimla, January 15With a steady decline in Covid cases, the Himachal Cabinet today decided to open summer closing schools for students from February 1 while classes in winter closing schools would begin from February 15.College classes from Feb 8The decision to open schools was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. All the government colleges would be opened for regular classes from February 8 after winter vacations by following the SOPs.The teachers of summer closing government schools would attend schools from January 27 while regular classes of classes V and class VIII to XII of the summer closing schools would be from February 1 by strictly following laid down SOPs. The school management of these schools would ensure strict use of face masks, social distancing and use of sanitizers in the school premises. Similarly, ITIs, polytechnics and engineering colleges would open from February 1.The Cabinet also decided that students of classes V and classes VIII to XII of winter closing schools would be allowed after winter vacations from February 15. However, online system for education under Har Ghar Pathshala would continue. Similar system can be adopted by the private schools in the state.Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has constructed four makeshift hospitals at Indira Gandhi Medical (IGMC), Shimla, Community Health Centre, Nalagarh, Tanda and Medical College and Ner Chowk, Mandi. Due to the reduction in Covid-19 active cases, the Cabinet has decided to ensure their optimum use. As such, the IGMC, Shimla, would be used as medicine intensive care unit, Tanda college as communicable diseases/infectious diseases ward, Nalagarh hospital as trauma care centre and Mandi hospital as super specialty ward.It was also decided to notify zonal hospital Dharamsala and DDU Hospital, Shimla, as non-Covid hospitals.The Cabinet gave its approval to issue Letter of Intent in favour of M/s RCCPL Private Ltd, Navi Mumbai, regarding mining lease on 599.1935 hectares of area for extraction of lime stones and mining minerals in Shimla district for a period of three years.In order to facilitate the early construction of Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College Chamba complex, the Cabinet gave its nod to raze 28 old government structures from the construction site.The Cabinet decided to set up Women Help Desks in district police offices and police thanas in the state to make police stations more women friendly and approachable. It also gave its nod to purchase 136 scooty/scooter along with 272 helmets and 136 desktop computers to strengthen the Women Help Desks in police department.The Cabinet gave its consent to provide required machinery and equipment to strengthen anti-human trafficking units in six districts of the state, namely Shimla, Kangra, Kullu, Sirmaur, Solan and Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-schools-colleges-to-reopen-in-february-199034
16-01-2021||---||OPD services at DDU Hospital set to resume within a week||Shimla, January 15The government today notified Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital, Shimla, and hospitals in Dharamsala as non-Covid hospitals, thereby paving the way for the resumption of OPD services.“We should be able to restart all OPD services within a week,” said DDU Hospital MD Dr Ramesh Chauhan. “At the moment we have just seven or eight coronavirus patients in the hospital. We will see if they can be shifted to the IGMC Hospital. Once they are either discharged or shifted to the IGMC Hospital, we will need a couple of days to sanitise all the wards. As soon as it is done, we will resume the OPD services,” he said.The decision to make the DDU Hospital a dedicated Covid centre had become a contentious issue, with people even knocking on the door of the HP High Court against the decision.“It was long overdue. People have suffered a lot since the DDU Hospital was made a dedicated Covid centre,” said Inderjeet Singh, a local councillor.He said around 1,800 patients visited the DDU Hospital every day before the OPDs were shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opd-services-at-ddu-hospital-set-to-resume-within-a-week-199035
16-01-2021||---||13 industrial projects okayed||Shimla, January 15The 15th meeting of the State Single Window Clearance and Monitoring Authority held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur approved 13 project proposals for new industrial enterprises and the expansion of existing units involving an investment of about Rs 509.86 crore and the potential of generating employment for around 2,161 persons.The new proposals approved included those of M/s Qualitek Starch Pvt. Ltd in Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur, for manufacturing starch, gluten, germ and fiber; M/s Okaya Power Private Limited in Baddi, Solan, for manufacturing EV chargers, lithium packs, LI-modules, solar system/solar lighting system; M/s Deep Green Air Manufacturers Pvt. Ltd in Pandoga, Una, for manufacturing tablets, capsules, syrup, injections, ointment.The other projects included those of M/s Jai Bhawani Industries Unit-II, in Baddi, for manufacturing toilet soap and liquid soap; M/s Onyx Biotec Pvt. Ltd. Unit-II in Nalagarh, Solan, for manufacturing IV fluids; M/s Ian Macleod Distillers India Pvt. Ltd in Pandoga, Una, for malt spirit, cattle feed (byproducts).The expansion proposals approved included those of M/s Wipro Enterprises Pvt. Ltd in Baddi for manufacturing toilet soap, Soupy noodles, Glycerin, Glucovita, Safewash, personal care products, LED bulbs; M/s H M Steels Limited in Kala Amb, Sirmaur, for manufacturing MS billet, MS flat, ERW pipes, GI pipes; M/s Metrocraft in Baddi for setting up an industrial unit for manufacturing ointment and cream; M/s Godrej Consumer Products Ltd in Baddi for manufacturing handwash, and toilet soap.The other expansion projects approved were of M/s Leo Designs and Packaging Pvt. Ltd in Nalagarh, Solan, for manufacturing cartons, labels, lamitube and corrugation; M/s Tesna Tech Private Limited in Baddi for manufacturing PP/PE woven and Leno bags, PE liners, HDPE bottles, paper bags, injection moulded plastic products; M/s Pinnacle Life Science Private Limited in Baddi for manufacturing tablets, capsules, ointments, syrups, ampoule, vials, food supplements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-industrial-projects-okayed-199036
16-01-2021||Solan||Man jailed for illegally buying, storing drugs||Special judge, Nahan, Jaswant Singh today sentenced Bishwajit Pathak to five years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1.20 lakh for stocking and exhibiting for sale a huge quantity of allopathic drugs in a clinic being run by him at Gondpur in Paonta Sahib.The clinic was raided on September 9, 2010, and Pathak was asked to produce a valid licence and medical qualification certificate. He could not produce any record of the drugs and was sentenced. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-jailed-for-illegally-buying-storing-drugs-199037
16-01-2021||Palampur||Uniting Palampur BJP factions a tough task||Bringing the warring factions of the BJP  together in Palampur and consolidating the party position in the MC elections due in March this year  looks  an uphill task for the party leadership.  The BJP has appointed Bikram Singh Thakur as election in-charge, but he will have to make efforts to put up a united show to win the elections. “Though it is a challenging task, I will work with dedication, bring all leaders and workers together. We will strengthen the organisation in Palampur and win the MC elections,” he said.    Palampur has remained a Congress stronghold and the party won five Assembly elections from here while the BJP was victorious only in 2007. Though Palampur is the home town of former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar, the party is a divided house here.  Avinash Rai Khanna,    state BJP in-charge, and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur,  held a closed-door meeting with officer-bearers of the Palampur BJP  at Dharamsala recently. Both told leaders   that they would have to unite to defeat the Congress and in case of defiance, the party would show them doors.  There are 15 wards in the Palampur Municipal Corporation with a population of over 40,000. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uniting-palampur-bjp-factions-a-tough-task-199038
16-01-2021||---||51 Covid cases, no death in state||Shimla, January 15With 51 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 56,802 in the last 24 hours.There was no fatality in the last 24 hours. Today was the second consecutive day with no fatality due to coronavirus. The highest number of 20 cases was reported in Kangra, 10 in Sirmaur, four each in Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Mandi, three each in Chamba and Una, two in Solan and one in Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/51-covid-cases-no-death-in-state-199039
16-01-2021||r Correspondent---||House collapses in Nurpur, narrow escape for family||Nurpur, January 15 Five members of a family had a narrow escape after their dilapidated house collapsed last evening at Bassa Waziran village in Nurpur. On seeing that two rooms had collapsed, they ran out of the house.   Sumit Kumar had been living with his family in this ancestral kutcha house since long. Sumit, who holds a diploma in Bachelor of Physical Education, is jobless and earns his livelihood by working as a labourer. The family has now shifted to his brother’s house in the neighbourhood.  Sumit said his name was not included in the BPL or IRDP list by the successive gram panchayats despite several appeals. “I have pleaded for a pucca house under the PM or CM Awas Yojana so many times, but in vain. The state government should assess my precarious financial situation and extend benefits which I deserve,” he said. SDM Surinder Thakur gave Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to the victim. He said field Revenue Department staff had been directed to assess the loss and prepare a relief case so that more financial assistance could be released to the family.  Veena Pathania, pradhan of Bassa Waziran panchayat, said the number of families eligible for BPL or IRDP was more in her panchayat, but only 10 families had been included in the list as per government directions. “Sumit’s name has been recommended by the panchayat and included in the proposed list of 58 beneficiaries of the PM Awas Yojana,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/house-collapses-in-nurpur-narrow-escape-for-family-199040
16-01-2021||---||Excise Department recovered Rs 35.7 cr arrears in Solan||Solan, January 15The Deputy Commissioner, State Tax and Excise Department, Solan, Himanshu Pawar, has recovered Rs 35.76 crore under the Himachal Pradesh Legacy Resolution Scheme, 2019.He said that Rs 5.49 crore was recovered on January 13 under the scheme, taking the total settlement fee collected to Rs 35.76 crore in Solan in 210 cases.He said that Dabur India Ltd, Parwanoo, had challenged the applicability of the HP Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2010 in the High Court in 2010-11. The company had deposited part of the tax liability and furnished bank guarantees worth Rs 5 crore, as per the court directions from February 1, 2011, to March 31, 2012.The company management was persuaded to withdraw their case and opt for the settlement of dues under the scheme, which was specially floated to liquidate all old cases of arrears and pending assessment under subsumed enactments of the pre-GST era such as the HP VAT Act, 2005; CST Act; HP Tax on Luxury in Hotels and Lodging Houses Act; and the HP Tax on Entry of Goods.Since this would save them bank charges as well as legal costs involved in pursuing the case in court, the managements were coaxed to opt for the scheme. The department has to recover dues from 1,300 industrial units and various companies under the scheme. Officials are endeavouring to recover the maximum amount of dues as the scheme expires on January 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-department-recovered-rs-35-7-cr-arrears-in-solan-199041
16-01-2021||---||BJP leader blames Saizal, Daisy for Parwanoo MC election defeat||Solan, January 15 Former vice-president of BJP’s SC Morcha Harmail Dhiman today blamed Dr Rajiv Saizal, local MLA and Health and Family Welfare Minister, and Daisy Thakur, chairperson of the State Women’s Commission, for the humiliating defeat in the Parwanoo Municipal Committee elections. The BJP could win only three of the nine seats in Parwanoo, as the two leaders fielded ‘weak candidates’. Dhiman alleged that ticket was given to candidates who were not even  members of the party. He added that the information about the victory of the BJP-supported candidates was received after several hours at the counting centre, casting doubts over the process  and leaving the party functionaries embarrassed.  Dhiman, while addressing mediapersons here, said, “Dr Rajiv Saizal, local MLA and Health and Family Welfare Minister, and Daisy Thakur, chairperson of the State Women’s Commission, are responsible for  the defeat of the party, as they gave ticket to weak candidates. I demand that they should resign from their posts and own responsibility for the poll defeat”. Dhiman alleged that old party functionaries were annoyed with the local leaders, who were giving prominence to those who had newly joined the party from other parties.  He rued that the BJP gave ticket to eight women while there were three general seats. Another  BJP leader, who had won the elections twice earlier, was denied ticket and she won as an Independent candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-leader-blames-saizal-daisy-for-parwanoo-mc-election-defeat-199042
16-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||Covid victims’ belongings ‘untraceable’ at TMC||Palampur, January 15Relatives of Covid-19 patients have been running from pillar at the Tanda Medical College (TMC) these days. The reason is that the belongings of a number of patients who died because of Covid-19 are not traceable.Due to this, the functioning of the hospital has come under scanner. A few people have even sought the help of police. Rajinder Kaushal, a resident of Kangra, filed a complaint with the TMC authorities that his father Jagidsh Chand had died of Covid-19 at the TMC on November 24 but his goods, including a mobile phone, were not traceable. He said he had also met officials of the TMC in this regard, but in vain. He said it was however surprising that his father’s mobile phone was still active.Earlier, another victim approached the police in this regard. However, the Principal of the TMC said the belongings of Covid-19 victims were kept in safe custody for a specific period of time and when no one came forward to claim these, the same was destroyed as per protocol.The TMC authorities are well-versed with such complaints, and these are under investigation. They claimed repeated requests were made to relatives to come and collect these items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-victims-belongings-untraceable-at-tmc-199043
16-01-2021||---||Road fatalities dip by 60% in Kullu||Our CorrespondentKullu, January 15The Kullu police took strict action adopting zero tolerance over drunken driving, over speeding and other serious violations in the year 2020 due to which the number of deaths in road accidents was reduced by around 60 per cent from 131 in 2019 to 53 in 2020. The road accidents were reduced by 23 per cent. The main objective of ‘mission zero’ is to bring down the number of deaths in road accidents to ‘zero’ across the district.The police installed the first intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) of the state in Kullu in February last year as part of ‘mission zero’ to implement traffic rules. Another ITMS was set up in Manali town in November to regulate traffic.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that the traffic violations lead to significant deaths in road accidents. The loss of lives could be reduced to a large extent if the traffic rules were followed strictly. He said that 5,234 challans were issued in the district for using cell phone while driving, which was the highest in the entire state. He added that 1,237 drunken driving violations were caught and acted upon.The SP said that 1,360 challans for breaking traffic rules were issued through Automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) CCTV cameras. These include 820 challans for overspeed/rash driving, 514 challans without helmet and 26 challans for triple riding. He added that Rs 82,000 penalty had been collected from 296 offenders.The SP said the long-term assessment of this system is in progress and the violators could be captured by cameras round the clock. The motive of this system was not to do issue challans but to motivate people to follow the traffic rules. He appealed to the drivers to obey traffic rules to avoid being challaned by the cameras.He said that speed limit boards had been installed from Badah to Ramshilla area of Kullu town and traffic offences are recorded by the cameras located at various points and sent to the control room from where the challan is sent to the violator with date and time of offence along with a photograph.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-fatalities-dip-by-60-in-kullu-199044
16-01-2021||---||2 killed as vehicle falls into gorge in Theog||Shimla, January 15Two persons were killed on the spot when the vehicle (Santro) they were travelling in fell 150 feet deep into a gorge near Chaila in Theog subdivision of Shimla district late last night.The ill-fated vehicle carrying two persons was on its way to Sainj from Chaila when the tragedy struck. The deceased were identified as Pranjay (24), a resident of Nerva, and Manoj (25), a resident of Fagu.A case has been registered and investigations are underway to know the cause of the accident, said police sources, adding that the bodies had been handed over to the family members of the deceased after a post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-theog-199045
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent||2 killed in mishap||Chamba, January 15Two persons were killed and four others were injured when the car they were travelling in veered off the road and fell into a deep gorge near Shiri in the Bairagarh area of Churah subdivision in Chamba district last night, a police report said here today.The deceased have been identified as Hans Raj and Narain Singh, both local residents. The four injured persons were admitted to Chamba Medical College and Hospital. The police were trying to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-in-mishap-199047
16-01-2021||Shimla||Rains, snowfall in Himachal Pradesh likely after January 22: Met office||A fresh Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 22 onwards and it may cause scattered to fairly widespread rains and snow over Himachal Pradesh, the meteorological department said on Friday.Till January 22, the weather will remain dry and no rain or snow is expected over the state of HP till then, Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh said.During this period, there will no large changes in maximum and minimum temperature, he added.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature increased by two to three degrees Celsius with the lowest temperature in the state in Keylong at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, he added.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Bhuntar at 21.9 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rains-snowfall-in-himachal-pradesh-likely-after-january-22-met-office-198960
16-01-2021||Shimla||Himachal decides to reopen government schools, colleges after decline in COVID cases||With a major decline in Covid cases, the Himachal Cabinet on Friday decided to open summer closing schools for students from February 1 while classes in winter closing schools would begin from February 15.The decision to open schools was taken by the cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, here on Friday. All the government colleges would be opened for regular classes from February 8, 2021 after winter vacations by following the laid down SOPs.The teachers of summer closing government schools would attend schools from January 27 while regular classes of classes five and eighth to 12 of summer closing schools would be allowed to attend regular classes from February 1, 2021, by strictly following laid down SOPs. The school management of these schools would ensure strict use of face masks, social distancing and use of sanitisers in the school premises. Similarly, ITIs and polytechnic and engineering colleges would also be opened from February 1, this year. The cabinet also decided that students of Classes 5 and Classes 8-12 of winter closing schools would be allowed to attend regular classes after winter vacations from February 15, 2021. However, online system for education under Har Ghar Pathshala would continue. A similar system can be adopted by the private schools in the State. Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Government has constructed four make shift hospitals at Indira Gandhi Medical (IGMC), Shimla, Community Health Centre, Nalagarh, Tanda and Medical College and Ner Chowk, Mandi. However, due to reduction in COVID-19 active cases, the cabinet decided to ensure optimum use of these and as such the IGMC hospital would be used as Medicine Intensive Care Unit, Tanda college as Communicable Diseases/ Infectious Diseases Ward, Nalagarh hospital as Trauma Care Centre and Mandi hospital as super speciality ward. It also  to notify Zonal Hospital Dharamshala and DDU Hospital Shimla as non covid hospitals.The cabinet gave its approval to issue Letter of Intent in favour of M/s RCCPL Private Ltd, Navi Mumbai regarding mining lease on 599.1935 hectares of area for extraction of lime stones and mining mineralt in Shimla district for a period of three years.  In order to facilitate the early construction of Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College Chamba complex, the cabinet gave its nod to raze 28 old government structures from the construction site. The cabinet decided to set up Women Help Desks in District Police Offices and Police Thanas in the State to make police stations more women friendly and approachable. It also gave its nod to purchase 136 scooty/scooter along with 272 helmets and 136 Desktop Computer to strengthen the Women Help Desks in Police Department. Cabinet gave its consent to provide required machinery and equipment to strengthen Anti-Human Trafficking units in six districts of the State - Shimla, Kangra, Kullu, Sirmaur, Solan and Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-decides-to-reopen-government-schools-colleges-after-decline-in-covid-cases-198897
16-01-2021||Shimla||Leopard 'plays' with humans in Himachal's Kullu; raises concerns; video goes viral||Videos of a well-built leopard 'playing' with motorists in Himachal Pradesh's Tirthan Valley located in interiors of Kullu district has raised concern among wildlife experts.The one-and-half-year leopard was seen playfully interacting with motorists time and again and its high comfort level amidst the presence of 15-20 people, who were busy in shooting it on their mobile cameras, indicates the wild cat was initially hand-reared, a wildlife official told IANS.The incident of his affinity with passersby, largely local villagers, was reported on the Banjar-Kullu road on Thursday.The official, requesting anonymity, said the unnatural playful instincts of this leopard, which is normally shy and rarely encountered in the daylight, indicate the animal is either surviving on scavenging or on the humans."The wild cat with such a high level of human imprinting is not natural. It should be kept in a rescue and rehabilitation centre to understand its behaviour. Its presence in the wild is a threat to the animal itself," he said."The leopard can be either killed by another predator or by stray dogs," he said, "even the behaviour of the humans playing with the leopard was worrisome".Somewhere in Himachal, a gentleman #leopard is being harassed by a bunch of animals !! VC:SM pic.twitter.com/VyDXuH6c5hThe Tirthan Valley, where the leopard was video graphed, is part of the Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP)—a UNESCO World Heritage Site.Elusive, shy leopards avoid encountering humans, despite depending on their domestic animals for food and in fact can live close to their habitations, but in such a surreptitious way that most people do not even know they are near, leave alone getting harmed, say wildlife experts.Though the leopard is protected under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, they are occasionally poached for their skin.Sometimes they are also killed by farmers to protect livestock. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-plays-with-humans-in-himachals-kullu-raises-concerns-video-goes-viral-198884
