17-01-2021||Dharamshala||HP panchayat polls: Probe ordered into omission of ex-minister’s name from voting list||The Himachal Pradesh Election Commission has written to the Kangra administration, ordering an inquiry into the omission of former state minister Sudhir Sharma’s name from the electoral rolls for the panchayat polls.In a letter to the Kangra deputy commissioner, the Election Commission secretary sought to know how the Congress leader’s name was omitted from the electoral rolls of Rakkar panchayat falling under the Dharamsala development block. “I am directed to request you to conduct an inquiry in this regard and send a report to the commission within seven days from the receipt of this letter with your comments,” the secretary said in the letter.Last week, the former state urban development minister had alleged that names of hundreds of voters are missing from the electoral rolls in almost every panchayat in the state.Sharma said his name, too, is missing from the electoral rolls and that most voters whose names are missing believe in the Congress ideology. “Even my name has been found missing. When such kind of negligence or conspiracy can happen to an ex-minister, then one can easily understand the anguish of a common man,” he had said, claiming that it was a” well thought-out conspiracy”.In the first round of three-phase elections in the state, 1,227 panchayats went to polls on Sunday. The remaining two phases are slated to be held on January 19 and 21. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-panchayat-polls-probe-ordered-into-omission-of-ex-ministers-name-from-voting-list-199813
17-01-2021||Vijay Mohan||IHBT study on developing heat-tolerant wheat varieties that will improve grain yield||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17Research undertaken by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has laid the groundwork for developing a variety of wheat that does not lose its productivity under heat stress.Heat stress causes a dramatic reduction in yield as well as quality of wheat, which is the staple for more than one-third of the world’s population and also a critical crop in India where many regions are prone to heat waves.The Biotechnology Division of CSIR’s Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) at Palampur is exploring the epigenetic route to modify gene expression in a manner that is stably transmitted, but do not involve differences in the underlying DNA sequence, so that the heritable genes do not buckle under heat stress and non-stress conditions during different grain filling stages.Dr Vijay Gahlaut, a faculty fellow of the department, will identify the role of DNA methylation, which is a biological process by which methyl groups are added to the DNA molecule, patterns of heat stress-tolerant and heat stress-sensitive wheat genotypes during different grain filling stages. This will be carried out through a process called ‘epigenomic mapping’, which will also help in the identification of natural epigenetic variation.His recent paper on the subject published in the journal ‘Genomics’ has shown differential expression patterns of specific genes (designated C5-MTase) under heat stress. This suggests their role in stress response in wheat could give a major clue to producing heat-tolerant productive wheat varieties.The utilisation of identical genes that differ in the extent of methylation identified through his research could be one of the most promising solutions to improving wheat productivity by engineering elite wheat varieties with enhanced heat stress tolerance and increase grain yield, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology today.Methylation is a conserved mechanism which regulates the gene expression and plays a vital role in various biological processes. It also plays a significant role in plant development as well as in abiotic stress tolerance.Wheat is affected severely by abiotic stresses that limit the achievement of yield potential and therefore it is urgently required to study its developmental characteristics and stress tolerance mechanisms, according to the study.Using the latest high-quality version of the wheat genome the study identified 52 C5-MTase elements in wheat and also analysed gene structures, conserved domains, phylogeny, chromosome localisation, regulating elements and sub-cellular localisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ihbt-study-on-developing-heat-tolerant-wheat-varieties-that-will%C2%A0improve-grain-yield-199802
17-01-2021||Shimla||Kaza voters brave minus 7 degree C temperature to vote in Himachal panchayat polls||A voter turnout of over 70 per cent was recorded in the first round of the three-phase Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) polls in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, Electoral Officer Sanjeev Mahajan said.Over 63 per cent voters of two panchayats in Kaza block in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti braved extreme cold weather conditions at a temperature of minus 7 degrees Celsius to cast their votes, a district official said.While 1,227 panchayats went to polls on Sunday, the remaining two phases are slated to be held on January 19 and 21.Of the 3,615 gram panchayats in the state, 3,583 will go to polls, barring 32 in Lahaul-Spiti’s Keylong, Mahajan said.A voter turnout of 63.80 per cent was recorded at Kaza and Khurik panchayats in Kaza block of Lahaul-Spiti as 1,197 of the 1,876 electors exercised their franchise, a district official said.All the members in 11 panchayats have already been elected unopposed, he added.Voters came out in large numbers to vote at both panchayats in Kaza, despite a temperature of minus seven degrees Celsius, Block Development Officer Mahendra Pratap Singh said.A voter turnout of about 76 per cent was recorded in Hamirpur district.India’s “first” voter, Shyam Saran Negi, exercised his franchise in Kinnaur district. Negi, who is 103 years old, cast his vote at a Kalpa polling booth, where he was given a warm welcome by the district administration, which laid a red carpet for him.Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Hemraj Bairwa honoured Negi with a Kinnauri “topi” and a shawl.Talking to reporters, Negi said the voters should participate in the polls to elect good and capable candidates.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur cast his vote at the Government Primary School, Kurani in Murhag gram panchayat of Mandi district along with his family members.State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathour and his wife Tripta Rathour cast their votes at Medhavani village in Kumarsain tehsil of Shimla district.The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads will be taken up soon after the completion of voting.However, the counting of votes for the members of panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22.The election process will be completed by January 23, Mahajan said.The candidates are contesting these polls as independents and not on party symbols. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaza-voters-brave-minus-7-degree-c-temperature-to-vote-in-himachal-panchayat-polls-199748
17-01-2021||---||Day 1: Hesitation, confusion keep many away||Shimla, January 16On the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Himachal registered an average response from health care workers. Against the target of 2,499 on the first day, 1,536 health care workers turned up to take the jab. In terms of percentage, it works out to be 61.46 per cent. Lahaul-Spiti topped the list with 85.81 per cent vaccination, while Solan performed the worst with 31 per cent.In Shimla district, of the total 351 people approved for vaccination, only 195 ( 55 per cent) turned up at the IGMC Hospital, DDU Hospital and a centre at Rampur. At the IGMC, 111 health workers were vaccinated against the target of 177, 34 at the DDU Hospital against approved 100 and 50 staffers at Rampur against 74. On a positive note, no case of major adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) reported in any of the sites. Only three minor AEFI cases were reported in the RPGMC, Tanda, the Civil Hospital, Paonta Sahib and the MMU, Solan. They showed symptoms such as dizziness, nausea and anxiety but recovered after management, as per the protocol.The low turnout could be blamed on hesitation and apprehension regarding vaccination, and confusion created by the late delivery of messages to the beneficiaries. “We were to vaccinate 100 people at the DDU Hospital but only 34 of them turned up. We even called up the beneficiaries, but they did not come on one pretext or the other,” said Chief Medical Officer Dr Surekha Chopra. “There is some initial reluctance but I am sure all of them will show up in the due course of time”.Besides, quite a few could not get vaccinated because their names were missing from the list generated by the CoWIN portal. “The numbers would have been higher had there been no confusion because of the late delivery of messages. These are initial glitches. We expect the process to be smooth from Monday,” said Dr Saad Rizvi, nodal officer for vaccination at the IGMC Hospital.In the morning, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur launched the drive at the IGMC Hospital. He urged people not to have any doubt or fear in their minds regarding safety and efficacy of the vaccine. He said that the government had constituted a state-level steering committee, state task force, district task forces and block task forces to monitor the administration of vaccine. He added that AEFI management training had been given to the session site vaccinators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/day-1-hesitation-confusion-keep-many-away-199448
17-01-2021||---||In Solan, only 62 turn up for vaccine||Solan, January 16As against the target of 200, barely 62 health workers turned up for vaccination against Covid-19 at two centres in Solan district today. A number of health staffers did not take part in the campaign despite having registered for it, while a worker, who was to take the first shot of the drive at Solan, blatantly refused to take the vaccine.As many as 30 health staffers were vaccinated at the Regional Hospital, Solan, and 32 at MMU Medical College, Kumarhatti, on the first day of the statewide drive. Dr Shalini received the first shot at the Regional Hospital, Solan, while Dr Sumit Chaddha was administered the first shot at MMU Medical College, Kumarhatti. With a substantial number of registrants, who were to be vaccinated today, backing out on one pretext or the other, a sense of doubt was visible among the health staffers regarding the Covishield vaccine.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said the subsequent phases of the vaccination drive would be held on January 18, 21, 23, 28 and 30. He urged people not to pay heed to rumours and continue observing precautions against Covid.Dr Mukta Rastogi, Medical Superintendent, Solan, said 200 health workers had registered for vaccination but they could not be vaccinated owing to their Covid-related duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-solan-only-62-turn-up-for-vaccine-199449
17-01-2021||Mandi||360 administered Covishield in Mandi||The Covishield vaccine was administered to 360 health workers in Mandi district today. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur took stock of the preparations at the vaccination centres at Vijay Senior Secondary School, Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College and Hospital, Civil Hospitals at Sundernagar, and Karsog in the district. He also reviewed the work plan for the vaccination campaign and the bird flu situation.Thakur said that Covishield would give favourable and expected results in eradicating the virus. He added that there would be a gap of 28 days between the first and second doses of the vaccine and antibodies would develop after 42 days of vaccination. Therefore, it was vital to take appropriate precautions during this period. He directed the officers concerned to make a micro plan for the vaccination campaign to be undertaken in 111 centres of the district covering 11,877 beneficiaries up to February 1. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/360-administered-covishield-in-mandi-199450
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent||1.37L to vote today||Una, January 16The first phase of elections to panchayati raj institutions will be held in Una district on Sunday.Addressing mediapersons here today, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said 1,37,526 voters in 86 panchayats were eligible to vote. In the second phase, 1,23,198 voters in 82 panchayats will cast votes on January 19 followed by 1,09,030 voters in 77 panchayats, who will vote on January 21. He said the counting would be held after 4 pm on the day of polling.Raghav Sharma said the counting of votes for the posts of Block Samiti and Zila Parishad member would be held on January 22 at Government Senior Secondary School, Bangana, Government Senior Secondary School, Kaloh in Gagret block,Government Senior Secondary School, Haroli, Government College, Una, and Government College, Amb.Superintendent of Police Arijit Sen said 61 polling booths were sensitive, while 38 were hypersensitive. About 700 policemen would be on duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-37l-to-vote-today-199451
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent||100 Covid warriors in Kullu, 360 in Mandi given shots||Kullu, January 16The Covid vaccination drive started in Kullu, Mandi and Lahaul and Spiti districts today. As many as 100 corona warriors, including 15 doctors, were vaccinated in Kullu district. Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur was present during the programme at the Kullu Regional Hospital. He also witnessed the launch of the world’s biggest inoculation drive by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video-conferencing.A separate vaccination centre has been established in the Regional Hospital, Kullu. The vaccinated person is kept under observation for half an hour in a separate room. As many as 2,600 vaccines have been provided to Kullu district. In the first phase, 4,275 corona warriors, including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ASHA and anganwadi workers, will be vaccinated in the district.Cops to be vaccinated in second phaseThe minister said that the entire world was praising the vision of the Prime Minister in fighting the battle against coronavirus. He added that the vaccine had reached 19 cold chain centres in the district. Vaccination would be done on January 16, 18, 21, 23 and 28 and February 1. He added that frontline workers, including police personnel, would be vaccinated in the second phase of the campaign, which would commence after about a month.Thakur appealed to local residents not to stop wearing masks and observe social distancing. He said that the threat of coronavirus was not yet over and there was dire need to take precautions. He lauded the efforts of the people in containing the spread of Covid.Vaccination was done at four places in Mandi district and 360 corona warriors were given the vaccine. Mandi Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said that vaccination would be carried out in 111 health institutions in the district and 12,000 corona warriors would be vaccinated in the first phase.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai launched the vaccination drive in Keylong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/100-covid-warriors-in-kullu-360-in-mandi-given-shots-199452
17-01-2021||---||180 get jab in Sirmaur||Solan, January 16As many as 180 health workers were vaccinated at two hospitals in Sirmaur district on the first day of the campaign today.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi said that 100 health staffers were vaccinated at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, and 80 at the Civil Hospital, Paonta Sahib.The first shot was administered to Hira Pal, a health staffer at Government Medical College, Nahan. The health staff performed the ceremonial puja by applying vermillion on his forehead. Principal of medical college Dr NK Mahindru and Chief Medical Officer Dr KK Prashar were present on the occasion.All preparations have already been made to vaccinate about 3,100 of the 5,645 health staffers in the first phase. On Monday, vaccination would be given to 3,200 health staffers at five sites in the district.Pruthi said that facilities such waiting, vaccination and observations rooms had been provided at all sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/180-get-jab-in-sirmaur-199453
17-01-2021||---||Bindal courts controversy||Solan, January 16Nahan MLA Dr Rajeev Bindal today courted controversy by going to the house of a party candidate for the panchayati raj polls at Rampur Bharapur in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district barely a day before the polls.This peeved the Congress-backed candidate whose supporters gathered outside the said candidate’s house and raised slogans against the MLA. They protested the MLA’s presence in the said panchayat for almost an hour as Bindal was allegedly addressing party workers there.They claimed that the MLA had violated the model code of conduct as despite belonging to Nahan, he was present at Rampur Bharapur when the campaigning had ended on January 15.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said due action would be initiated if any complaint was received and an situation was amicably resolved at Rampur Bharapur where supporters of a candidate had gathered outside his rival’s house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bindal-courts-controversy-199454
17-01-2021||Shimla||Government relaxes limit on gatherings||The state government today further relaxed the limit on gatherings with social distancing due to a continuous decline in the number of Covid cases.According to an order issued by the Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department, a maximum gathering of 50% of the capacity, with a ceiling of 200 persons in closed places shall be permissible in all social, religious, sports, entertainment, cultural, education and religious functions. Earlier, the limit on all kinds of gatherings was 50. Besides, in open spaces, the limit on gatherings shall be 50% of the total capacity of the ground or open space, subject to the compliance of the SOPs regarding social distancing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-relaxes-limit-on-gatherings-199455
17-01-2021||Shimla||Voting for over 1,200 panchayats||Over 1,200 panchayats will go to polls in the first of the three-phase Panchayati Raj Institution elections in the state tomorrow, Electoral Officer Sanjeev Mahajan said here today. Voting would be held from 8 am to 4 pm. The remaining two phases were slated for January 19 and 21, he added.Voting from 8 am to 4 pmMahajan said that 7,583 polling parties would ensure the smooth conduct of polling in the first phase. The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads would be done soon after the completion of voting. However, the counting of votes for the members of panchayat samitis and zila parishads would be held on January 22. The election process would be completed by January 23, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voting-for-over-1-200-panchayats-199456
17-01-2021||---||Ward boy accused of molesting, making video of patient, held||Dharamsala, January 16A ward boy working at the Tanda Medical College has been accused of molesting and making video of a female patient. The incident took place yesterday night.The father of the patient while talking to The Tribune said his daughter had pain in stomach yesterday. She was brought to the emergency ward of the medical college.“Doctors asked us to get her X-Ray and ultrasound done. We went to the X-Ray facility there. The person attending patients there asked me to submit fee for X-Ray. I went to deposit the fee, while my daughter was called in for the X-Ray. When I came back, my daughter was still inside. When we got suspicious why it was taking so much time, we pushed the door open. My daughter was crying. She complained that she had been inappropriately touched by the person doing the X-Ray and also made a video of her while she was asked to remove her clothes for the X-Ray,” he said.Accused removedThe incident is unfortunate. We have immediately removed the ward boy, who was employed through outsourcing in the medical college. Further inquiry is on. —Dr Bhanu Awasthi, Principal, Tanda Medical College“We caught hold of the accused and complained to the hospital authorities. Later, we came to know that the person doing the X-Ray was a ward boy and not the technician. Action should also be taken against the technician who allowed the ward boy to perform X-Rays on his behalf,” he said.He alleged that people suggested him against reporting the matter to the police. “My daughter said she wanted the accused to get punished. So we filed a police complaint against him. I want that the police should also probe if the accused had performed similar acts against other patients also,” he said. The police have arrested the ward boy and is investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ward-boy-accused-of-molesting-making-video-of-patient-held-199457
17-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||BJP ropes in Cong-backed candidate in Nalagarh Municipal Committee||Tribune News ServiceSolan,January 16In a sudden twist, BJP leaders have roped in Congress-backed candidate Rina Devi and promised her the president’s post for the Nalagarh Municipal Committee barely 48-hours after the Congress announced to have got the support of an Independent and poached a BJP-backed candidate to secure the magic figure of five.The BJP had secured five seats while the Congress won three. An Independent had also won. The Congress had poached one of its members on January 13.After announcing to have secured the support of an Independent and a BJP-backed candidate, the Congress, along with its three candidates - Alka Verma, Rina Devi and Amarinder Singh - had taken them to a secluded place at Patiala.Former BJP MLA KL Thakur was instrumental in prevailing upon Rina Sharma to support the party in a mid-night drama yesterday.All five members of the BJP - Shalini, Sanjeev, Sahar, Tara and newly roped in Rina Devi - were also paraded before the Chief Minister last night where Rina was promised the president’s post for five years. The ruling BJP is now all set to elect its president and vice-president on January 18.The development has left the Congress red-faced, which was crediting itself two days ago for having poached a BJP-supported candidate. This has also sullied the image of local MLA Lakhwinder Rana and Indian National Trade Union president Hardeep Bawa, who had announced to elect their president and vice-president on January 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-ropes-in-cong-backed-candidate-in-nalagarh-municipal-committee-199458
17-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Regulator given fake details of principals||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 16Some private colleges have submitted fictitious data of qualifications and experience of principals to the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC). The fact came to light during the second meeting of the two-member committee comprising Prof NK Sharda and Prof PK Ahluwalia here today held for the screening and verification of the documents of the principals.The HPPEIRC had asked the managements of the private colleges to submit the details of qualifications of principals, their experience, salaries and the process of appointment. About 100 colleges have submitted the data.70 yet to follow HPPEIRC ordersSources in the commission said some colleges had submitted fictitious data and had been asked to submit additional documents for verification while about 70 colleges were yet to comply with the orders.“The appointment of ineligible persons on the top posts reflects the quality of education and it is a matter of concern. It has been brought to my notice that over 70 colleges are yet to submit the data,” said the Chairman of the commission, Maj General Atul Kaushik (Retd).“We are not against any private institute but malpractices in education will not be tolerated as it brings a bad name to the state”, he said, adding that January 25 was the deadline for the colleges.The commission had received several complaints regarding the eligibility of the faculty and during scrutiny, VCs of 10 universities were found unqualified for the post.Eight of them have resigned. The VC of Eternal University was found eligible for the post and has been asked to produce the original documents while the case of the ICFAI VC is under review. The government had appointed an administrator in Manav Bharti University, Solan, which was involved in the fake degree case.Many ineligible candidates had been appointed in various private universities since long, which affected the quality of education, said RTI activist Rohit Bhagwat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/regulator-given-fake-details-of-principals-199459
17-01-2021||Shimla||High Court admn work redistributed||High Court Chief Justice L Narayana Swami has redistributed the administrative and executive business pertaining to civil and sessions divisions among the Judges.The work of civil and sessions division, Shimla, has been assigned to Justice Ravi Malimath.The work of Kangra at Dharamsala has been assigned to Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan while Justice Sureshwar Thakur will look after Mandi. The charge of Una and Hamirpur has been given to Justice Vivek Singh Thakur.The work of Solan has been assigned to Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, of Bilaspur and Rampur to Justice Sandeep Sharma, of Sirmaur division to Justice CB Barowalia, Kullu to Justice Anoop Chitkara, while Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua will look after the work of Chamba. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-admn-work-redistributed-199460
17-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Radha Soami sect seeks nod to buy land in tribal areas||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 16The Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, has not only sought an amendment to provisions so that it could sell land donated to it by its followers but also asked for permission to purchase land in tribal areas, including land under tea cultivation.The sect has in an application to the government sought special exemptions in relaxations in the HP Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972. The government had in 2012 allowed all religious sects and charitable institutions to hold land in excess of the permissible limit under the Land Ceiling Act.However, the Cabinet yesterday deferred a decision on the request of the sect. In all other cases, successive BJP and Congress governments had avoided tinkering with revenue laws.All such religious sects and institutions are barred from transferring land by way of sale, lease, gift, will, mortgage or in any other manner. This is the biggest impediment for the Radha Soami sect to the sale of the donated land. The sect has stated that it owns tea garden land at Parour, near Palampur. It is keen to purchase more land under tea cultivation to meet its demand.However, the plea of the sect could not be entertained as the sale of tea garden land is not allowed under law. The tea estate owners were allowed to retain excess land under the Land Ceiling Act but with a condition that they could not sell it. Similarly, a non-tribal person could not purchase land in Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, and Bharmour and Pangi in Chamba.Now, terming Section 5 of the HP Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 as an impediment to sell land, the sect has sought amendment or the framing of rules under Section 6 so that land could be sold, leased, gifted, willed or mortgaged.“The purpose behind inserting this rider was to discourage profit mongers from purchasing land under the garb of a so-called religious body and then sell excess land to its advantage,” is the plea made by the sect in its representation made to the government.The sect has taken the ground that small chunks of land are donated to it but cannot be put to use and rather they have to guard these. So, they should be allowed to sell land and buy land which is of use to it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/radha-soami-sect-seeks-nod-to-buy-land-in-tribal-areas-199461
17-01-2021||---||US prize for Dharamsala artist||Dharamsala, January 16A painting by Dharamsala-based artist Mukesh Thapa has won the second prize in Plein Air Salon Art Competition in Colorado, US.The painting ‘Old Soil House’was adjudged a winner by Scott A Shields of the Corcker Art Museum.Another painting by Thapa, ‘Rain Bubbles’, was selected as the best in the water category. The paintings will be showcased in the Plein Air Today Newsletter.Thapa is famous for creating paintings with the single hair of his beard. He showed it in ‘OMG Yeh Mera India’ television show. He also runs an art gallery in Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/us-prize-for-dharamsala-artist-199462
17-01-2021||Hamirpur||VHP collects temple funds||On a nationwide call, the Vishav Hindu Parishad started collecting funds for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya here yesterday. Pankaj Bhartiya, district chief of the VHP, said Prof Chandar Prakash of the National Institute of Technology and Kailash Devi, a resident of Nadaun, had donated Rs 1 lakh each for the temple.  He said the collection would continue for a month and funds would be sent to the temple construction committee. He added that 1,568 workers were involved in the process.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vhp-collects-temple-funds-199463
17-01-2021||Dalhousie||Surprise check at Dalhousie Civil Hospital||Mukesh Repaswa, Additional DC (ADC), Chamba, on Friday conducted a surprise inspection of the Civil Hospital to take stock of the precautionary measures for fire incidents at the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) at Dalhousie.He directed the hospital management to install new fire extinguishers in place of old ones. Besides, he called for necessary certificates from the electricity board. A mock drill on dealing with fire incidents was also conducted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/surprise-check-at-dalhousie-civil-hospital-199464
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Poor visibility, flights delayed||More than 50 flights were delayed on Saturday morning due to dense fog at the Delhi airport, officials said. The thick blanket of fog reduced visibility to zero in the Capital on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.This is the third time this season — after December 8 and January 1 — that visibility dropped to zero in the city.Meanwhile, the weather department has forecast that a fresh western disturbance is likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rain and snow over Himachal Pradesh after January 22. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-visibility-flights-delayed-199546
