18-01-2021||---||Resident docs seek increase in stipend||Shimla, January 17The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital has reiterated their demand for higher stipend and hostels. “The RDA has been raising this issue for the last five years,” said association secretary Dr Akshit Puri. “We met the Chief Minister regarding this twice in the last one month and he assured us that he would look into it. However, we have not been given any time frame.”PB, HRY OFFERING MOREOur average stipend for MD/MS is Rs40,000 while Punjab offers Rs50,000 and Haryana and Delhi give around Rs75,000. — Dr Akshit Puri, secretary, Resident doctors association, IGMCDr Puri claimed that compared to neighbouring states like Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UT Chandigarh, they get the least stipend. “Our average stipend for MD/MS is Rs 40,000 while Punjab offers Rs 50,000 and Haryana and Delhi give around Rs 75,000.”The non-availability of hostel for around 50 per cent of resident doctors and high rent in the vicinity of IGMC makes the situation worse for them, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resident-docs-seek-increase-in-stipend-199853
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Decline in bird mortality at Pong, 21 found dead||Nurpur, January 17A sharp decline in mortality of migratory birds due to avian influenza (H5N1) in the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary has been recorded by the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) of the wildlife wing of the state forest department indicating containment of the virus spread.Showing declining trend, 21 dead birds were found in the sanctuary on Sunday touching the cumulative number of mortality figure to 4,921. The RRTs had started counting, identifying and scientifically disposing the dead birds 21 days ago.Sixteen out of 21 dead birds were found to be bar-headed geese. Only one dead bird was traced in the Dhameta wildlife range, the remaining 20 were found in Nagrota Surian range.16 among these bar-headed geeseChief Warden Wildlife Archana Sharma said the wildlife wing of the forest department had followed epidemiological protocols and recommended standards for the control and containment of the avian influenza outbreak in the Pong wetland areas of wildlife sanctuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decline-in-bird-mortality-at-pong-21-found-dead-199854
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent||De-addiction centre to be opened in Chamba soon||Chamba, January 17Himachal Pradesh Nasha Nivaran Board convener-cum-advisor OP Sharma has said a Nasha Mukti Kendra (de-addiction centre) would be opened in Chamba district in April.Sharma stated this after having a meeting with Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana here on Saturday.He said such centres were to be opened in six districts of the state under the aegis of the Social Justice and Empowerment Department, including Chamba district.The process of opening the nasha mukti kendra was in progress, the Deputy Commissioner added. Sharma said a drug awareness campaign would be started in which elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions, urban local bodies, NCC cadets, NSS volunteers and mahila mandals would be involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/de-addiction-centre-to-be-opened-in-chamba-soon-199855
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Rescue teams fail to trace paraglider||Palampur, January 17  A search and rescue operation led by Col Neeraj Rana, Director of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, was initiated this morning to rescue Rohit Badhoria, who went missing on Friday last after taking off from Billing. So far, the rescue teams have failed to trace the missing paraglider.  Today, there was little hope when the probable location of the missing paraglider was provided by Harmit Singh of Exsul Travel, a local travel operator and Sandeep, owner, Nitya Café. A helicopter was dedicated to this operation by Air Himalayas CEO Amitabh Sharma. The specialists in the team were Capt Sanjeev Kumar, the pilot, Chuni Thakur, an accomplished mountaineer and skier who is also a certified rescue specialist.  Despite being unable to find the paraglider during this operation, Col Rana said, “We should be hopeful and never lose hope.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rescue-teams-fail-to-trace-paraglider-199856
18-01-2021||Dipender Manta||9 Kullu villages go silent for 42 days to appease deity||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 17Residents of nine villages in Kullu district have been observing silence since Makar Sakranti (January 14) for a period of 42 days to appease the local deity, Gautam Rishi.The villagers believe that on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, every year, deity Gautam Rishi leaves his abode to join the deity council in heaven and he stays there for the next 42 days. During this period, he meditates and the noise from earth may disturb him.To avoid the wrath of the deity, the residents of Goshal, Solang, Shanag, Kothi, Palchan, Ruar, Kulang, Majhach and Burua of Ujhi valley in Kullu district follow this age-old tradition every year strictly. They turn their television and radio sets off for the next 42 days. The villagers switch off all sources of entertainment to appease the deity.Turn off television, radio setsThe deity’s temple is situated at Goshal village under the Manali subdivision in Kullu.Talking to The Tribune, the villagers said during that period, people of the nine villages avoided cultivation of land and pruning of apple plants.Suresh Kumar, a resident of Ujhi valley, said, “We have faith in our deity, so the people of the valley are following this age-old religious ritual since ages. During that period, we turn our radio and television sets off in our houses and keep mobile phones on the silent mode on the village premises.”Pratap Thakur, a resident of Shanag panchayat, said, “Legend has it that on Makar Sankranti deities’ assembly begins in heaven for more than a month and our deity Gautam Rishi also leaves for the meeting. He comes back after 42 days and predicts the year’s happenings through his ‘Gur’. During this period, he wants pin-drop silence in these villages.”“No puja is performed in the temple and it remains closed till the return of the deity. The temple is shut after spreading mud on the floor. It is believed that when the temple is reopened if a flower surfaces on the mud, it symbolises happiness for the villagers. If charcoal appears, it indicates that the village will face a fire incident and grain indicates a good harvest,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-kullu-villages-go-silent-for-42-days-to-appease-deity-199857
18-01-2021||Solan||83.6% polling in Solan district||Solan district witnessed 83.64 per cent polling in the first phase of the panchayat elections held today in its five blocks. No untoward incident was reported from any part of the district.The highest polling of 86.27 per cent was registered in 26 panchayats of Nalagarh block while 83.44 per cent polling was registered in nine panchayats of Kandaghat block, 79.31 per cent in 13 panchayats of Solan block, 85.13 per cent in 15 panchayats of Dharampur and 81.24 per cent polling in 19 panchayats of Kunihar.Elderly persons exhibited extraordinary zeal in ensuring their participation in the rural poll today. Savitri Devi, a 102-year-old woman, voted at the Bhumpti polling booth in Kunihar block while 90-year-old Godavari Devi voted at Mansar booth in Solan block. — TNS82.5 pc polling in Sirmaur district Solan: In Sirmaur district, 82.54 per cent polling was registered in the first phase of the panchayati raj elections today. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere.A large number of elderly women participated in the polling. Sukh Devi (92) from Kotla Mangan village, Darshni Devi (90) from Piliwala village were among those who voted today. An overwhelming voting of 85.18 % was registered in Nahan block, 84.47% in Rajgarh block, 82.44% in Shillai, 83.35 % in Paonta Sahib block, 75.70% in Pacchad and 82.03 % in Sangrah block. — TNS78 pc turnout in Una villagesUNA: The first phase of polling for 86 of the 245 panchayats in Una was held today. About 78 per cent polling was reported till 7 pm. The voting was still on in 52 polling stations. While 23 booths were declared sensitive and 19 hyper-sensitive, the process went off peacefully at all places. In all, 1,37,526 voters were eligible to cast votes in the the first phase of elections. There were 18 Covid positive persons, who had expressed willingness to cast votes and arrangements for sanitisers, gloves and masks were done at the polling stations. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/83-6-polling-in-solan-district-199860
18-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Rs 18-cr plan to upgrade Shimla ice-skating rink shelved||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 17In a major setback to the Shimla Ice-Skating Club, the ambitious Rs 18-crore project to upgrade Asia’s biggest natural ice-skating rink into an open semi-artificial rink has been shelved due to Covid.The project was sent to the Union Government by the state Tourism Department and the first instalment of Rs 8 crore was sanctioned but the tender process could not be completed as the bidders and technical teams were unable to visit the site due to the pandemic, said club secretary Bhuvanesh Banga.Skating fees for session“The funds have lapsed and efforts will be made to revive the project. We will soon meet the Chief Minister as he is also holding the tourism portfolio,” Banga told The Tribune.Running a semi-artificial rink was economical as compared to the closed ice-skating rink, which required extra electricity for cooling. Further, the open rink would preserve the natural look which was the main attraction, he added.The project envisages laying of underground pipes for chilling, concreting of the rink measuring 58 metres in length and 30 metres in width and installation of refrigeration plant, besides the construction of underground parking and sitting arrangement of around 250 persons.Felling of trees in the vicinity of the rink, which provided shade to the rink, and the haphazard construction and pollution caused by the adjoining bus stand have resulted in an increase in temperature taking its toll on the number of sessions.Clear sky with low temperature was the pre-requisite for a good season and “semi artificial rink” was the only alternative to save the popular winter sport as other factors were beyond the control, said treasurer of the club Pankaj Prabhakar.The average minimum and maximum temperatures which used to be between 4 and 5 degrees and 8 and 10 degrees have risen significantly, resulting in the delayed start and early ending of the season.The minimum session of ice-skating (12) were witnessed in 1972 while the maximum 118 sessions were held in 1997-98. There are about 250 members of the club. Established in 1920, this is the centenary year of the club, but the celebrations are marred by the pandemic and even the regular features like carnival and gymkhana have been cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-18-cr-plan-to-upgrade-shimla-ice-skating-rink-shelved-199862
18-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Covid norms go for a toss in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 17Heavy polling was registered in the first phase of polling for panchayat polls in Kangra district. As per the data released by the district administration of Kangra 73 per cent polling was registered as 276 panchayats went to the polls.No political party has claimed its victory as the panchayat elections are not held on party symbols.Polling was also held for members of zila parishad. While the results for panchayat polling were declared today evening results for zila parishad polls would be out on January 22.As many as 30 Covid positive patients also cast their vote. They were allowed to cast their vote after regular polling was finished at 4 pm.Though the district administration allowed voters into polling stations after thermal scanning, Covid protocols were ignored by voters outside the polling stations. People were seen queuing up in lines outside the polling stations without following any social distancing norms. Gathering of contesting candidates and their supporters was a common site outside the polling stations.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajpati said maximum polling was registered in Panchrukhi (77.7 per cent) development block that falling in Jaisinghpur assembly constituency. In Baijnath block 70.7 per cent polling was registered, in Bhawarna it was 77.1 percent, Dehra 77.9 per cent, Dharamsala 73.6 per cent, Fatehpur72.6 per cent, Indora 76.6 per cent, Kangra 72.2 per cent, Lambagaon 64.4 per cent, Nagrota Bagwan 74.9 per cent, Nagrota Surian 71.6 per cent, Nurpur 66.9 per cent, Pragpur 75.9 per cent, Rait 70.9 per cent and Sulah 65.6 per cent.The deputy commissioner said that in the first phase of polling 2,78,022 voters cast their vote. These included 1,32,547 males and 1,45,465 females. Polling remained peaceful and incident of violence was reported, he said.Many voters, including former minister Sudhir Sharma, had complained regarding their names missing from voters list for panchayat elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-kangra-199863
18-01-2021||Spring Dale Convent Senior Secondary School||Online contest marks Army Day||Mary Ward JPIC General Assembly endsThe first Mary Ward JPIC General Assembly held from January 15 to 17 concluded today. As many as 450 students from 45 schools, run by CJ and IBVM Sisters, participated in the event. The students were made aware of issues such as gender equality and environment, especially the issues related to water, during the event. Doctor Kamla Bhasin, a social worker, said men and women complement each other, but society had made men able and women weak. Brother Steve said there were enough resources to fulfil everyone's need, but not greed.Webinar on oral cancerThe Biology Department of Government College, Sanjauli, organised a webinar for students of BSc Medical on 'Reasons and diagnosis of oral cancer'. Department Head Minakshi Sharma, Prof Nidhi Sood and Prof Shivani Kapret apprised students of the reasons and symptoms of cancer. College Principal CB Mehta advised the students to stay away from tobacco and appreciated the department for organising the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/online-contest-marks-army-day-199864
18-01-2021||---||Ex-minister’s name missing: EC orders probe||Dharamsala, January 17The Election Commission has ordered an inquiry into the deletion of the name of former Congress minister Sudhir Sharma from electoral rolls for panchayat elections in Rakkar village near Dharamsala.According to orders issued today, the commission has directed the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, to file a report in the matter within one week.Sudhir Sharma had alleged that his name was removed from the electoral rolls for the panchayat elections in Rakkar where he had his permanent house.He had also alleged that thousands of people were finding their names missing from voter lists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-ministers-name-missing-ec-orders-probe-199866
18-01-2021||Shimla||2 die of Covid, 70 new cases||With 70 new cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 56,943.Two Covid patients succumbed to the virus in Mandi and Chamba in the past 24 hours, taking the fatality figure to 954. — TNSSTATE TRACKERSamples tested 8,83,146Recovered 55,280Active cases 697Positive cases 56,873Deaths 954||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-die-of-covid-70-new-cases-199867
18-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Huts built using ADB funds remain unused||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 17Huts brought up by the Tourism Department near Nagrota Surian at a cost of about Rs 3.5 crore during the previous Congress government are a clear illustration of how public funds are misused at the whims of the bureaucracy.The huts are located on the banks of a local rivulet on the Nagrota Surain-Nandpur road. The Tourism Department established these using the Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan to cater to tourists coming to the Pong Dam lake. Around five years have elapsed since the huts were established, but these have not seen even one day occupancy.To be redone spending Rs7 croreWe have drafted a proposal to redo the buildings and bring these up in sync with tourism activities in the Pong Dam lake. A budget of about Rs7 crore has been sanctioned to redevelop the huts and other infrastructure in the area. —Rakesh Pathania, Minister for forestsA visit to the property by The Tribune revealed that most of the windows of the permanent huts have worn out, the air conditioners purchased for the huts had not been even opened and the furniture and temporary tents were lying unused.Suresh Kumar, a local resident, said that no tourist comes to the area, as these huts provided no view of either the lake or the mountains. Government officials wasted the public money, took their commission and abandoned the property, he alleged.Balbir Thakur, another resident, said that when former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had come to the site to lay the foundation stone of the project, he had objected to it and questioned the wisdom of officials who had selected it. However, later the building was brought up at the same place.Sources said that the Tourism Department had handed over the building to the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) for running it commercially. The HPTDC has not taken over the property, terming it unviable. The property has now been handed over to the Forest Department.Minister for Forests Rakesh Pathania said that the huts were recently transferred to the Forest Department. “We have drafted a proposal to redo all the buildings and make these in sync with other tourism activities in the Pong Dam lake. A budget of about Rs 7 crore has been sanctioned to redevelop the huts and other infrastructure in the area”.The previous government had raised a loan of about Rs 500 crore from the ADB for various tourism infrastructures in the state, including these huts at Nagrota Surian. The infrastructure was supposed to create viable assets that could have helped the state create employment and also repay the loans. However, due to the apathy of the officials the asset has become a liability for the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/huts-built-using-adb-funds-remain-unused-199868
18-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Oustees pin hopes on SC order for panel meeting||Nurpur, January 17Pong Bandh Visthapit Samiti (PBVS) president Ashwani Awasthi (80), who filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court in October last seeking court’s direction to convene a bi-monthly meeting of the Standing Committee to address the grievances on rehabilitation of the Pong Dam Oustees in Rajasthan, said here today that thousands of oustees had been pinning their hope on the court order.Awasthi, who hails from Dhanotu village in Kangra district, had made unsuccessful attempts for convening meetings by approaching authorities. He revealed that this committee comprising district collectors and the SPs of Sriganganagar, Bikaner and Jaisalmer districts in Rajasthan, the DC, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R), Raja ka Talab (Nurpur) and five nominated members of the subcommittee had been constituted to resolve the issues and monitor land allotments in Rajasthan.“The apex court had issued notices to the respondents Union of India through the Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, Revenue Secretary, Rajasthan Government and the DC R&R, Raja ka Talab on October 25. But the state government had convened a meeting of the Standing Committee through video conferencing on December 10, just one day before the court hearing in which all five representatives of Pong Dam oustees stayed away and decided to wait for the order of the apex court,” he informed.Meanwhile, Kritika Agrawal, the petitioner’s advocate, told The Tribune that on December 11 the apex court had given four weeks’ time to the respondents to file their response on the petition and the case had been listed tentatively for January 20. “The Standing Committee is the lone forum where the oustees can present and address their issues and grievances,” she asserted.Inquiries reveal that the Pong Dam completed in 1975 in Kangra district had submerged the lands of over 30,000 families in 339 villages of the district covering 75,268 acres. As many as 16,352 persons had lost more than one third of their landholdings and were considered eligible for rehabilitation on alternative lands in Rajasthan that will have irrigation facilities besides basic amenities of life. As many as 8,000 families have either not been allotted land in Rajasthan or had their allotments annulled by the Rajasthan government.“Plots allotted to them were barren and without any civic amenities like road connectivity, potable water, electricity and education infrastructure,” alleged PBVS president Ashwani Awasthi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oustees-pin-hopes-on-sc-order-for-panel-meeting-199869
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Traffic jams on P’kot-Mandi highway hassle commuters||Palampur, January 17 Frequent traffic jams on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway these days are causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. Long queues of vehicles can be seen at Nagrota Bagwan, 53 Mile, Mattor, Baijnath, Paprola, Maranda and Gaggal. There have been reports that many people have missed their flights to Delhi and Chandigarh from the Gaggal airport because of traffic jams on the highway.  Traffic jams have adversely affected the business of the residents of these towns. Besides, lots of accidents are happening due to heavy traffic on the narrow highway. In the past one month, six persons have lost their lives in different accidents on the highway. A senior police officer said traffic constables had been deputed in these towns, but rising vehicular rush made their work difficult.  The Central Government had announced to convert the narrow Pathankot-Mandi NH into four lanes. Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Nitin Gadkari had laid the foundation stone of the project in 2017, but it failed to take off because of the non-availability of land.  Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that as per the original plan, the project was to be completed by 2023. However, till date the state government could only acquire land for the first phase of 40 km of the project between Chakki and 32 Mile. There is no headway for land acquisition for the remaining four phases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jams-on-pkot-mandi-highway-hassle-commuters-199870
18-01-2021||Chamba||Give exemption in house tax, MC urged||In order to recoup the brunt of recession posed by the Covid-19 crisis, the Sanjha Morcha, Chamba, has urged the newly-elected local municipal council to provide exemption in house tax and rent of municipal shops with effect from April 2020 to March 2021.  Morcha convener PC Oberoi said small shopkeepers under the banner of the Sanjha Morcha of Chamba had been demanding various concessions from the government for their survival.  Pleading the cause of traders of the town and other adjoining areas, Oberoi demanded the municipal council for rent exemption of their establishments, including shops and kiosks, during the lockdown period to improve their financial condition. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-exemption-in-house-tax-mc-urged-199871
18-01-2021||Palampur||Varsity to help farmers in their socio-economic development||CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University will extend its professional and technical services for the socio-economic development of farmers in the district.This was decided during a virtual meeting of Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, with DC Rana, Deputy Commissioner, Chamba.He said as per discussions and assurance of support from the district administration, the university would revamp its research and extension activities in the district through its research station in Salooni. In the first phase, two researches and extension project proposals will be executed by the university and the district administration and allied departments.He said Salooni, Tissa, Bharmour and Pangi valleys had immense scope of lavender cultivation due to favourable climatic conditions.Its aromatic oil was in great demand. These valleys would be declared as “lavender valleys”. This would attract agro-tourism and generate employment opportunities, thereby increasing the income of farmers. He said “rajmash”, “mash” and “kulthi” of Bharmour and Holi regions were famous for their attractive colour, peculiar aroma. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/varsity-to-help-farmers-in-their-socio-economic-development-199872
18-01-2021||Only 31 per cent health staff turned out for the Covid-19 vaccination in Solan district on the day one||Vaccine skepticism in Solan||Fear of side-effectsThe Himachal Government has launched the vaccination with fanfare but the response was not up to the expectation. A large number of people hesitated in getting them vaccinated as there were apprehensions about the short and long-term side-effects of the vaccine. “The government should have started vaccination from VVIPs along with corona warriors to send the right signal and instill confidence among the masses,” said a retired bureaucrat.New Circuit House ill-omen?Despite the fact that the new Circuit House of Dharamsala is equipped with all modern facilities, most ministers do not stay in it. The ministers reportedly believe that staying there will bring bad luck for them. They said a minister had lost his post after he stayed here for a day and some lost elections. The belief was so strong that the ministers prefer staying in ill-equipped rooms of other rest houses rather than staying in the new house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccine-skepticism-in-solan-199876
18-01-2021||Toilets built for the convenience of public in Hamirpur are poorly maintained. They have become a nuisance for public and shopkeepers||Dirty, stinking toilets a nuisance||Flouting EC rulesFlouting rules laid down by the Election Commission, many candidates ferry voters to polling booths during the panchayat elections. Even today, during the first phase of the elections, many pick-ups were pressed into service by candidates to transport voters to the polling booths. — Ramesh Sood, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Isthere something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picturewhich in your opinion ought to be seenby many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dirty-stinking-toilets-a-nuisance-199878
18-01-2021||Shimla||103-year-old casts vote in Himachal panchayat polls||Braving extreme cold, Shyam Saran Negi — believed to be India’s oldest voter at 103 years of age, who also participated in the 1951-52 general election which was the country’s first — cast his ballot on Sunday at Kalpa in the high Himalayas in the first phase of Panchayati Raj polls in Himachal Pradesh.“I have never missed an opportunity to vote and I am happy to vote in this election,” Negi said in Kalpa, some 275 kms from the state capital, after casting the vote.He requested youth voters to always take part in the democratic exercise.A staunch believer in democracy, the centenarian never fails to cast his vote in any election, be it Lok Sabha, Assembly or panchayat.In 1951, Negi, a retired schoolteacher, was on an election duty and exercised his franchise in Chini constituency — later renamed Kinnaur.At that time, voting in the snow-bound areas of the mountain state was held ahead of other places in the country.Negi was accorded a warm welcome by Deputy Commissioner Hemraj Bairwa at the snow-marooned polling booth that was set up 400 metres away from his home.“Negi is believed to be the oldest voter in India. It is momentous occasion that he came all the way from his house on foot to reach the polling booth without any assistance to cast his vote. After casting the vote, he explained why it’s important to vote,” Bairwa told the media.He said the local authorities felt elated by getting an opportunity to meet him.Negi came to the polling station along with his grandson and other family members. He flashed his inked wrinkled finger after voting.Over 1,200 panchayats are going to polls in the first of the three-phase Panchayati Raj elections in the state.The remaining two phases are slated for January 19 and 21. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/103-year-old-casts-vote-in-himachal-panchayat-polls-199779
