19-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Chicks dumped along Solan highway found infected||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 18Hundreds of dead chicks dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan section of national highway from January 6 to January 8 were found afflicted with avian influenza as per the lab report of the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease. Bhopal, received today.Virender Kanwar, Minister for Animal Husbandry, while confirming the news, said avian influenza has been detected in the dead chicks dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan highway as per the lab reports received from Bhopal today.Tested in Bhopal“Surveillance has been stepped up and officials are keeping a strict vigil on the poultry farms in the district”, added Kanwar.“Since the report of poultry birds within the district has been found negative there is no cause of panic. Requisite measures like vigil on the poultry items were already underway”, said Kanwar.Since the report of poultry birds in the district has been found negative, there is no cause of panic. Requisite measures like vigil on the poultry items are under way. —Virender Kanwar, Animal husbandry ministerThe dead chicks, which were found dumped near Chakki Ka Mor, near the railway track at Jabli and outside a tunnel near Kumarhatti, were already buried as per the safety protocol. Officials of the animal husbandry department said the source of the dumped chicks which were brought here from outside has not been detected till now.Notably, the lab report of the Jalandhar-based regional disease diagnostic lab had already detected avian influenza in these chicks last week.The samples were sent to the Bhopal lab for further confirmation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chicks-dumped-along-solan-highway-found-infected-200249
19-01-2021||---||Speed up work on five heliports: CM||Shimla, January 18  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed officers to speed up construction work of five heliports at Kangnidhar in Mandi district, SASE (Manali) in Kullu district, Baddi in Solan district and Shimla and Rampur in Shimla district so that the people could benefit at the earliest.  Presiding over a meeting here, he said the government had awarded the work of Kangnidhar, Baddi and Rampur heliports while the work on Shimla and SASE (Manali) heliports was nearing completion. He directed the executing agencies to ensure completion of these heliports on time. He said the additional land had been identified for the Baddi heliport and bigger passenger terminal buildings. Being situated in the industrial belt, the heliport would facilitate the entrepreneurs. He said the government had carried out a geo-technical study and structure consultancy for the stabilisation of cutting works at Kangnidhar. The work on the Shimla heliport was nearing completion and trial landing had been carried out, he said, adding that the government intended to complete this heliport at the earliest.  Thakur said the government had taken up the matter regarding the use of the SASE heliport under UDAN-2 with the Ministry of Defence. The issue regarding providing basic facilities like passenger terminal building had been taken up with the SASE and DRDO authorities. He said all existing airports at Shimla, Kangra and Kullu were being expanded to facilitate the landing of bigger aeroplanes. The runway of the Shimla airport would be increased by 300 metres to enable landing of bigger aeroplanes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speed-up-work-on-five-heliports-cm-200250
19-01-2021||---||Ban on entry of poultry extended for a week||Shimla, January 18The government has temporarily extended the ban on entry of poultry and poultry products into the state from the neighbouring states for another one week, said Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar here.Kanwar said a notification was issued by the government today. During the past few days, incidents of dumping of dead poultry were witnessed in the border areas of the state.Thereafter, the state government took stock of the situation and collected samples of these dead birds, disposed these as per protocol and sanitized the area. NIHSAD Lab, Bhopal, has confirmed avian influenza-H5N8 in the dumped birds.The minister said mortality in migratory birds was witnessing a declining trend as on January 17 only 21 migratory birds died in the Pong Dam wetland area.Meanwhile, Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania has directed officers to continue maintaining a strict vigil and active surveillance on all winter habitats of migratory birds in the state and deal with any unusual mortality in wild birds as per protocols.Reviewing the measures being undertaken by the wildlife wing of the forest department to contain avian influenza outbreak in the Pong Dam lake wildlife sanctuary today, he said that 10 rapid response teams (RRTs) of the wildlife wing would continue to work in the wetland for collection and safe disposal of dead birds as per protocol till no mortality is recorded.He said the mortality count till date in the Pong Dam lake wildlife sanctuary was 4,936. He also advised the personnel involved in these operations to ensure their protection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ban-on-entry-of-poultry-extended-for-a-week-200251
19-01-2021||Solan||In Solan, 337 health workers vaccinated||As many as 337 (57 per cent) of the total 587 registered health workers were vaccinated at 12 designated sites on the second day of the vaccination drive in Solan district today.Medical Officer, Health, Dr Mukta Rastogi said that 20 health staffers were vaccinated at the Regional Hospital, Solan; 48 at MMU Medical College, Kumarhatti; 37 at Tuberculosis Sanatorium, Dharampur; 51 at the ESI Hospital, Parwanoo; 10 at Ayurveda Hospital, Solan; 40 at Malhotra Hospital, Baddi, 38 at the community health centre, Nalagarh; 20 at the ESI Hospital, Katha; eight at Lord Mahavira Nursing College, Nalagarh; 15 at the primary health centre (PHC) at Patta Mehlog; 22 at the PHC at Dhundan; and 28 at the Civil Hospital, Arki.Dr Rastogi said that no adverse reaction was noticed in the beneficiaries, who were kept under observation for half an hour. They would be administered the second shot within 28 days. Immunity would develop after about six weeks of receiving vaccination.Solan had recorded the lowest vaccination percentage of 31 in the state on the first day of the drive on January 16. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-solan-337-health-workers-vaccinated-200252
19-01-2021||Una||69 pc turn up for Covid jabs in Una district||Only 69 per cent of the total frontline workers who were invited today to receive Covid vaccination at six locations in Una turned up during the second round of the vaccination. On January 16, during the first phase of the vaccination, 105 of the total 170 frontline workers who were called came to receive the shots.Today, 48 frontline workers were called for Covid jabs at the District Hospital, Una, 91 at Thanakalan, 100 each at Marwadi and Daulatpur Chowk, 58 at Kungrat and 90 at Basdehra. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-pc-turn-up-for-covid-jabs-in-una-district-200253
19-01-2021||Palampur||Two held for attack on LIC agent||The Dehra Gopipur police have arrested two persons allegedly involved in  the attack on a Paragpur-based  LIC agent  Brij Mohan Sood.  On Thursday night, when he was on his way home, two youths stopped him and attacked him with a knife on his neck. They snatched his mobile and cash bag. He  sustained serious injuries and was taken to a hospital.  Dehra Gopipur DSP Ankit Sharma reached the spot with a heavy police force. The police said the accused’s mobile locations were traced near Hoshiarpur on Friday night. A police team was immediately sent    to  the location where both accused were arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-for-attack-on-lic-agent-200254
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP reigns supreme in Cong stronghold||Nurpur, January 18After winning six out of nine wards in Nurpur Municipal Council (MC), the BJP today formed its MC in the oldest Congress stronghold here. All elected councilors unanimously elected Ashok Sharma of ward number 8 and Rajni Mahajan of ward number 2 president and vice-chairperson, respectively.Forest Minister and local MLA Rakesh Pathania presided over the swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected councilors. SDM Dr Surinder Thakur administered oath to winners. Before elected councilors took oath of allegiance, Pathania honoured them by garlanding and presenting bouquets.Pathania said all nine elected councilors of the MC would work in unison for development and accelerating the pace of providing civic amenities by rising above party lines. He asserted that he would personally monitor the development of the town.He remembered late MC president and noted philanthropist RK Mahajan for his contribution to the development of the town.Karnail Singh (Ward No. 1), Rajni Mahajan (Ward No. 2), Pravesh Kumar (Ward No 3), Gaurav Mahajan (Ward No. 4), Minakshi Devi (Ward No. 5), Sonia Soga (Ward No. 6), Vinay Ghayee (Ward No. 7), Ashok Sharma (Ward No. 8) and Shivani Sharma (Ward No. 9) were administered oath by the SDM, Nurpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-reigns-supreme-in-cong-stronghold-200255
19-01-2021||---||BJP claims big win in first phase of panchayat elections||Shimla, January 18The Himachal BJP today claimed massive victory in the first phase of panchayat elections. The party said that 73.61 per cent seats of panchayat president and 72.88 seats of vice president have been captured by the BJP-supported candidates.The elections were held in 1,228 panchayats and the BJP-backed candidates won 904 seats of president and 895 seats of vice presidents. The party has done exceedingly well in 12 out of 17 organisational districts, said state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap while addressing the media persons here.The BJP-backed presidents and vice presidents won in 81 per cent seats and 87 per cent seats in Hamirpur district and were far ahead of other parties in Chamba, Nurpur, Palampur, Kangra, Kullu, Sundernagar, Mandi, Una, Bilaspur, Shimla, Mahasu and Kinnaur organisational districts, he added.In the Arki constituency in Solan district represented by former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, the BJP-supported candidates won on 19 out of 24 seats of panchayat presidents and 17 posts of vice president, he added.He said that people have put their stamp on the performance and policies of the BJP government during the past three years and the party would fare much better in the second and third phases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-claims-big-win-in-first-phase-of-panchayat-elections-200256
19-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||BJP members skip oath-taking ceremony in Solan, Sirmaur||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 18The oath ceremony of new ward members was put off in most of the municipal committees (MCs) in Solan and Sirmaur district today.While Congress-backed members turned up in most of the civic bodies, BJP-backed nominees preferred to stay away.In Baddi and Nalagarh MCs, only Congress-backed members came for oath. A quorum of three-fourth members is required on the first day to elect the president and vice-president. As a tactical move, the BJP abstained from oath taking. No quorum will be required on the second day.Elections to top posts todayThe oath and elections will be held tomorrow at Baddi and Nalagarh MCs. In the Parwanoo MC too, five Congress-supported candidates took oath while three BJP-backed members did not turn up.In the Nahan MC, though the oath ceremony took place, none turned up for the elections to the president and vice-president, which was scheduled for 1 pm, said Executive Officer of the MC Ajmer Singh. The elections are scheduled for tomorrow at 11 am.SDM, Paonta Sahib, LR Verma said the oath ceremony was put off.The elections to the president and vice-president were, however, held at Rajgarh and Arki Nagar Panchayats.In Arki, Congress-backed candidates Anuj Gupta and Heminder Gupta were elected president and vice-president. All seven members were administered the oath, said SDM Vikas Shukla.In Rajgarh, oath was administered to all seven members and Ruby Kakkar was elected president and Dinesh Thakur as vice-president unanimously, said SDM Naresh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-members-skip-oath-taking-ceremony-in-solan-sirmaur-200257
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP bags top posts of 3 civic bodies in Kullu||Kullu, January 18BJP-supported councillors have won the post of president in three civic bodies of Manali, Bhuntar and Banjar, while Congress stalwart Gopal Krishan Mahant has become president of the Kullu Municipal Committee.Mahant has been elected unopposed with the support of two Congress councillors, four Independents and one CPM councillor, while the three BJP-supported councillors had remained absent.He was vice-president during the last term as the top post was reserved for a woman, which was occupied by his sister-in-law Bimla Mahant. Gopal Krishan Mahant has secured the third consecutive victory in the MC elections and bagged the top post twice. Asha Mahant, a BJP rebel, who won as an Independent, has been unanimously chosen as vice-president.BJP stalwart Chaman Kapoor has become the president of the Manali MC with the support of four BJP councillors in the seven-member committee. Manoj Larje of the BJP is the vice-president.BJP-backed Meena Thakur has been elected president of the Bhuntar Nagar Panchayat. The post was reserved for a woman. Ajay Kishore is vice-president.Asha Sharma of the BJP has been elected president of the Banjar Nagar Panchayat. The BJP’s Prakash Chand has been chosen as vice-president with the support of three councillors of the BJP in the seven-member house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-bags-top-posts-of-3-civic-bodies-in-kullu-200258
19-01-2021||Hamirpur||Manoj elected president of Hamirpur MC||Manoj Minhas, councillor from ward No. 7, was elected the president of the Hamirpur Municipal Committee today.Narender Thakur, MLA, played a key role in finalising the names for the posts of president and vice-president and both were elected unanimously. Councillor Sandeep Kumar was elected vice-president. The BJP has eight councillors, the Congress two and one is Independent.Charanji Lal Thakur, SDM, administered the oath of office to the councillors here. The oath of office for Nadaun, Bhota and Sujanpur nagar panchayats was also administered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manoj-elected-president-of-hamirpur-mc-200259
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Neelam new Chamba MC president||Chamba, January 18Neelam Nayyar of Chauntra ward of the municipal council of Chamba has been elected as the president and Seema Kashyap of Jansali ward has been elected as the vice-president, an official communiqué issued here today stated.Chamba SDM Shivam Pratap Singh conducted the process of election to the posts of president and vice-president after the swearing-in ceremony of newly elected councillors of eleven wards of the municipal Council.One nomination was received for both posts. As a result, Neelam was elected as president and Seema vice-president, the SDM stated. Neelam became the president for the second term.The SDM also administered the oath of office to all newly elected councillors of Sultanpur, Kasakra, Chaugan, Hatnala, Jansali, Chauntra, Surara, Sapri, Dharog, Julakari and Hardaspura wards of the council.Municipal council acting executive officer Roshan Lal Sharma, who is also Tehsildar of Chamba, Naib Tehsildar (Election) Sanjay Thakur, and other staff of the office of were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/neelam-new-chamba-mc-president-200260
19-01-2021||Mandi||Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma’s brother loses PRI election||Trilok Chand, brother of Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma, lost the Jalpehar Gram Panchayat election yesterday.Trilok Chand had contested from ward number-3 but lost to his rival Harnam Singh by 20 votes.Similarly, in Seraj, Congress leader Chetram Thakur also suffered a major setback. His loyalist Tek Singh, block president of the Seraj Congress, lost to BJP-supported Devi Ram. Tek Singh had contested election for the post of pradhan from Deodhar panchayat.A couple was elected as pradhan and up-pradhan of Shala Gram Panchayat. Minakshi, wife of Raj Kumar, had been elected as pradhan while her husband was up-pradhan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mp-ramswaroop-sharmas-brother-loses-pri-election-200261
19-01-2021||---||First meeting of new panchayats on Jan 27||Shimla, January 18The first meeting of the newly constituted gram panchayats, panchayat samitis, and zila parishads of the state will be held on January 27, said Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar here today. The government had issued a notification in this regard on January 16 under Section 128 of the Himachal Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act, 1994.Kanwar said that the panchayat pradhans would administer oath to the ward members at the meeting, besides holding discussions on various local matters. He added that due to Covid-19, it was not possible for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to administer the oath to the pradhans an the up-pradhans and it had been decided that under the provisions of Section 127 of the Himachal Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act, 1994 and Rule 22 of the General Rules 1997, the Sub-Divisional Officers concerned would administer the oath to them from January 22 to 26 at the block level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-meeting-of-new-panchayats-on-jan-27-200262
19-01-2021||Shimla||35 Covid  cases, 1 death in Himachal||With 35 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 56,978 in the last 24 hours. One person succumbed to the virus in Mandi district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-covid-cases-1-death-in-himachal-200263
19-01-2021||Hamirpur||1,026 NIT students conferred degrees||As many as 1,026 students of the National Institute of Technology were conferred degrees during the 11th convocation held online here today. Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ awarded the degrees during the online event. Anurag Singh Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, also participated. Pokhriyal advised students be innovative and focus on patents instead of pay packages.Anurag Thakur said graduating engineers should become the torch-bearers in transforming India towards a knowledge-driven economy. As many as 1,026 students were awarded degrees, including 24 PhD degrees, 350 post-graduate and 652 graduation degrees. Nine gold and nine silver medals were conferred on outstanding students. One student, Krishana Mehre of Computer Science Engineering, was awarded the Director’s Medal.The nine gold medallists are Sajid Mannan, Vaibhav Dwivedi, Garvit Gupta, Astha Agarwal, Animesh Srivastava, Krishna Mehra, Nimit Bhardwaj, Ravindra Singh and Nalini Sharma. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-026-nit-students-conferred-degrees-200265
19-01-2021||Subhash Rajta||Driving trucks no big deal for Kinnaur girl||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 18If women can fly planes, what’s the big deal if I drive trucks, buses, road rollers and JCBs, says Poonam Negi. Despite her trying to play down the feat, it’s indeed a big deal, especially considering that she drives apple-loaded trucks on the narrow and dangerous roads of Kinnaur. No wonder, she was honoured by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during the launch of month-long road safety awareness campaign in Shimla today.How did she get hooked to driving? “As a child, I had to walk seven km to and from school. Walking up the hill with a heavy bag, I would often wish I knew how to drive,” said Poonam.She didn’t have to wait long for the fulfillment of her wish. “I was in Class VII when I first drove a Mahindra pick-up vehicle. I was hooked on to driving and there was no stopping. Today, I can drive any vehicle from pick-up vans to road rollers and earth moving machines,” said Poonam. Currently, she has driving licence for nine different kinds of vehicles. “Now, the transport authorities tell me they don’t have any other licence left to offer me,” said Poonam.Though she considers her driving heavy vehicles quite normal, she acknowledges the difficulties involved, especially terrain-related. “Yes, it’s challenging because the roads are narrow and curves are sharp. Besides, there is always a danger of landslides, especially during the rains. But once you are on the driver seat, you can’t think too much about it,” said Poonam.She has driven a truck loaded with apple up to Chandigarh. “I drove JCB while constructing our house,” she said. Apart from being her passion, driving heavy vehicles is also a statement about gender equality for her. “People feel woman can’t do certain things. So, I try to prove that’s not correct. Given an opportunity, women can do everything a man can,” said the ITI diploma holder in Diesel Mechanic. “I intend to start a driving school soon mainly for women and girls,” said Poonam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/driving-trucks-no-big-deal-for-kinnaur-girl-200266
19-01-2021||---||Man running langar at IGMC announces stir||Shimla, January 18Sarabjit Singh Bobby, who has been running a langar at the IGMC, Shimla, for cancer patients for the last six years, has alleged that some “political people” were trying to sabotage the services he is providing at the hospital.In a press conference on Monday, Bobby alleged that the IGMC had given the ‘rain basera’ he had helped construct to provide accommodation to cancer patients near his langar site to “a person of a ruling party”.From funeral van to feeding patients, Bobby does it all“I took the initiative to construct this place with the help of PWD and spent around 10 lakh from my own resources. Now, it has been given to someone else for keeping trolleys, wheelchair and run a langar,” he said.IGMC MS Janak Raj said a facility on government land can’t be given to someone just because he has spent some money on constructing it. “We had floated tenders sometime back for the place, why didn’t he participate if he was interested,” asked Janak Raj.Bobby said that since the site was developed for starting a ‘rain basera’, it should be used for the same purpose. “A new langar and other facilities could be started somewhere else too, why deprive cancer patients a lodging facility,” said Bobby, adding that he would sit on a protest from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-running-langar-at-igmc-announces-stir-200267
19-01-2021||---||Over 90,000 fruit plants sold to 2,500 growers||Solan, January 18Over 90,000 temperate fruit plants from four nurseries of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry at Nauni and Kandaghat have been sold to over 2,500 farmers.The distribution of planting material by the university staff began on January 5 in a staggered manner where farmers had to ensure a strict compliance of Covid guidelines. Information such as the names of farmers and centres along with the dates of collection of plants was displayed on the university’s website.Owing to its high quality, the planting material is in great demand among the farmers of Himachal as well as other states. This year, apple varieties such as Jeromine, Red Velox, Scarlett Spur, Granny Smith and Gala Group were the most sought after. The demand for various stone fruits and apple plants for the lower regions also witnessed an overwhelming demand.Since the online demand had been met, Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice-Chancellor, permitted the open sale of the remaining material of select varieties of apple, pomegranate, plum, pear, peach, apricot, walnut, fig, etc from today, The farmers, however, had been advised to telephonically confirm from the nursery the availability of the desired variety of fruit plants before visiting it.Besides the planting material provided by the university nurseries, the regional stations or KVKs of the university at Mashobra, Bajaura, Reckong Peo, Rohru, Tabo, and Chamba are also supplying temperate plants to the growers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-90-000-fruit-plants-sold-to-2-500-growers-200268
19-01-2021||---||Facing decay, plan under way to revive ‘gharats’ in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 18The Rural Development Department is working in Dharamsala block of Kangra district to revive water mills, also known as ‘gharats’ in local parlance.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, while talking to The Tribune, said that many traditional ‘gharats’ in Dharamsala were in a state of decay. Therefore, the administration had decided to revive and preserve this cultural heritage of Kangra district under MGNREGA.“Five water mills — two in Rakkad panchayat and one each in Baghni, Barwala and Dhagwar — have been identified for renovation. An amount of Rs 1 lakh will be spent on each ‘gharat’ under MGNREGA. Directions have been issued that only the outside structure will be renovated, which includes the stone masonry of the wall, roof and the water channel that moves the mill. The inside structure will not be tampered with since it is based on traditional wisdom,” he said.He said, “The flour produced using a water mill is full of nutrients as compared to that made through power-run mills. Dharamsala development block is thus trying to conserve these traditional water mills. To give a good selling platform to flour produced using ‘gharats’, its packaging will be done under the brand name ‘’Namaste Dharamsala’’. The flour will be sold in packets of varying capacity of 1 kg, 2 kg and 5 kg bags”.Abhineet Kartiyan, BDO, Dharamsala, said that the owner of the ‘’gharats’’ would get Rs 1 lakh — Rs 60,000 as labour component and Rs 40,000 as material component — so as to renovate the structure of ‘gharat’. Now that the work on five ‘gharats’ has started in Dharamsala, more people were coming forward to inquire about the process. Three more applicants had come to get their ‘gharats’ included under the project also, he added.The BDO said that a couple of decades ago, ‘gharats’ in the Dharamsala region were a successful enterprise in terms of earnings for the owners as well as a reliable source for farmers to grind whole wheat kernels. But with the advent of electric mills in the region, the use of ‘gharats’ no longer remained in vogue.“With the availability of surplus water in the region in the form of ‘’kuhls’’ (drains carrying natural water from streams to villages for irrigation), it is easy to run a ‘gharat’ for at least seven or eight months a year with low operational and maintenance costs. Thus, in order to promote the idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat and generate rural employment, it is a tried and tested resource available which is now being renovated via the Rural Development Department,” he said.What is ‘gharat’‘Gharat’ is a water mill. Water in streams coming from mountains is channelled into a water mill, which has fan-like blades. The blades move with kinetic energy generated by flowing water and further move the flour mill. Wheat is put into the mill from top that grinds it into fine flour using the natural force of flowing water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/facing-decay-plan-under-way-to-revive-gharats-in-dharamsala-200269
19-01-2021||A spokesperson of the Education Department said here on Monday that the last date for applying and submitting online application form on the National Scholarship Portal had been extended up to January 20. The spokesperson said the timelines of filling up of forms for fresh and renewal applications for post-Matric and merit-cum-means-based minority scholarship schemes had been extended up to January 20. The last date for the first level of verification on NSP Portal for submission of post-Matric and merit-cum-mean-based scholarship application is February 5. The last date for second level of verification under the post-Matric and merit-cum-mean-based scholarship application is February 20. He said interested students could apply and submit the online application forms at https||Last date extended||Second term results outAll schools have sent the results of second term exams of Classes IX to XII, which concluded on December 15. About 3.5 lakh students appeared in the online examinations, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening of schools (Classes V, VIII and IX to XII) have been prepared and will be released shortly. The summer and winter closing schools will be re-opened from February 1 and February 12, respectively.Trust distributes clothesThe Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust distributed clothes among the needy and poor at the Longwood and Lakkar Bazar area of the city on Sunday. The Trust had collected clothes from the city residents thrice in December to distribute it further to the poor. Trust secretary Surender Sharma said the Trust kept doing activities that were beneficial for society. He also thanked residents for their cooperation and urged them to do so in future as well||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/last-date-extended-200273
19-01-2021||Heaps of garbage dumped in a dumper in one corner of Indira market in Mandi town is giving ugly look of this place. The authority concerned does not empty the dumper regularly. As a result||Heaps of garbage raise stink||Simian menace on the riseTHE road from cart road to the Mall Road through MLA Hostels is infested by monkeys and langurs. At times it becomes difficult to walk through this narrow road. The simians have become a serious threat to residents. At times, they pounce on people. The MC should do something about it. — Raman Sharma, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heaps-of-garbage-raise-stink-200274
19-01-2021||Solan||Dead chicks dumped along highway in Solan test positive for avian influenza||Hundreds of dead chicks dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan section of the national highway from January 6-8 tested positive for avian influenza, Bhopal’s National Institute of High Security Animal Disease said in its report on Monday.Virender Kanwar, minister for animal husbandry, confirmed the news and said avian influenza has been detected in the dead chicks dumped along the Parwanoo-Solan highway, according to the report the state government received on Monday. “In view of this the ban on importing poultry items from neighbouring states has been extended for another week.  Surveillance has been stepped up and the officials were keeping a strict vigil on the poultry farms in the district” added Kanwar.“Since the report of poultry birds within the district has been found negative there was no cause of panic. Requisite measures like vigil on the poultry items was already underway by the officials” said Kanwar. The dead chicks were found dumped near Chakki Ka Mor, near the railway track at Jabli and outside a tunnel near Kumarhatti. They have already been buried as per the safety protocol.Officials of the animal husbandry department said since the source of the dumped chicks, which were brought here from outside, has not been detected so far, little could be done.Notably, the lab report of a Jalandhar-based regional disease diagnostic lab had already detected avian influenza in these chicks last week. The samples were sent to the Bhopal lab for further confirmation. Two weeks since the incident, police are still investigating how poultry came to be dumped on the side of the road.  Officials of the animal husbandry department have said that the poultry dumped were white strains and could have come from outside the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dead-chicks%C2%A0dumped-along-highway-in-solan-test-positive-for-avian-influenza-200228
