20-01-2021||Shimla||High-resolution cameras to check nuisance in Atal Tunnel||The Himachal Pradesh Police has installed high-quality automatic number plate reader (ANPR) cameras in the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang following nuisance by some tourists in the underpass.Ten tourists from Delhi were arrested on December 24 and their cars impounded after they stopped inside the tunnel and danced, leading to a traffic jam. On December 27, 15 more tourists were arrested and two vehicles seized for obstructing traffic inside the tunnel.A man being was purportedly thrashed by a constable and the Border Roads Organisation staff in the Atal Tunnel, a video of which surfaced online on January 3.Now, every single vehicle passing through the area will be recorded with number plate in the database. If any vehicle stops or any passenger does any violation in the tunnel, it will be identified with number and prompt legal action will be taken against the violators, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said.The world’s longest tunnel at an altitude of 10,040 feet, the Atal Tunnel has become a tourist destination since it was thrown open to the public by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last October. The 9.02-km tunnel, an all-weather road beneath the 13,058-foot-high Rohtang Pass, connects Lahaul of Lahaul-Spiti district and Manali of Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh.Moreover, the force deployed in tunnel area have been equipped with body-worn cameras to address the situations arising out of police behaviour and activities of the public, especially tourists, Singh said.The police are committed to ensure for the tourists a memorable experience of the Atal Tunnel. At the same time, it is ensuring the safety and security of the tunnel, along with checking of public nuisance and rowdy elements, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-resolution-cameras-to-check-nuisance-in-atal-tunnel-201224
20-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Scare as dead birds recovered in Kullu||KULLU, JANUARY 19 The first case of death of four crows and three mynahs near Shamshi area of Kullu yesterday created an atmosphere of fear in the area. The dead birds were spotted by the residents, who informed the authorities of the Animal Husbandry Department. Dr Sanjeev Nadda, Deputy Director animal health and breeding, Kullu, said that samples of the dead birds were sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, to be examined for deadly H5N1 virus.  Nadda said that animal husbandry and forest departments took immediate action and inspected the area. No external symptoms of bird flu were found in the normal test. He said that the report of the samples will be received after about five days and only after that the real cause of the death of birds would be ascertained.  Nadda said that during inspection, it was found that four mobile towers were also installed in the area and the death of birds could be due to electromagnetic radiation emitted from these towers or any other reason. He said that no external symptoms of bird flu have been detected so far in the domestic poultry birds.  He said that the officers and employees of the department were constantly visiting various villages and monitoring the situation. He appealed to the masses not to panic and immediately inform the Animal Husbandry Department or 1077 in case any dead birds were spotted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scare-as-dead-birds-recovered-in-kullu-200984
20-01-2021||Solan||Inter-state meet for checking drug peddling in Solan||An inter-state meeting of officials of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB), drug controllers and police officials from Baddi, Punjab and Chandigarh was held at Baddi today to chalk out an effective strategy to check peddling of synthetic drugs in the region. SP Baddi Rohit Malpani said the meeting was aimed at plugging the loopholes to check pilferage of synthetic drugs, especially from the pharmaceutical units located in the area. Issues like sharing inputs of probable pilferage as well as quantity involved in such cases were pondered upon with the officials of the NCB, Chandigarh, special task force, Punjab police, drug department of Punjab and Himachal. State Drug Controller, Navneet Marwaha, who called this meeting, said that the meeting was convened on the instructions of the DGP Sanjay Kundu to devise an effective strategy to step up enforcement of drug laws Being a drug manufacturing state, the officials have to exercise extra caution in ensuring that narcotic and psychotropic raw materials meant for drug manufacturing are not diverted. Marwaha said manufacturers engaged in producing such drugs file monthly returns of material procured and they are strictly monitoring its compliance in a transparent manner. In addition to this, a joint task force comprising officials from the drug control administration, police and NCB regularly inspects the units engaged in manufacturing such drugs in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inter-state-meet-for-checking-drug-peddling-in-solan-200985
20-01-2021||---||Committed to make roads safer, says CM||Shimla, January 19Around 90 per cent accidents take place because of human error and people need to be sensitised about road safety and traffic rules, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while inaugurating National Road Safety Month here yesterday. He added that the government was committed to making roads safer.“Continuous efforts are required to reduce road accidents by involving communities and stakeholders in various awareness activities on road safety,” he said.The CM said that there was need to give special importance to those who help accident victims. He added that the Union Government had made a special provision in the Motor Vehicle Act to protect the rights of Good Samaritans.“It was usually felt that people do not help accident victims because of the fear of the police or court litigation. As per the new provision, there will be no inquiry by the hospital or the police if a person helps an accident victim,” he said.The Chief Minister urged people to become Good Samaritans and inspire others to do the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/committed-to-make-roads-safer-says-cm-200986
20-01-2021||---||Renew Tibet policy: ITFA to govt||Dharamsala, January 19 The Indo-Tibetan Friendship Association (ITFA) has urged the Indian government to adopt a new policy over the Tibet after the US has brought in Tibet Policy and Support Act (TPSA) 2020. Though the Tibetan government-in-exile was located in Dharamsala, the Indian government does not recognize it. It has also maintained a stoic silence over Tibetan religious issues such as reincarnation of the Dalai Lama. The TPSA 2020 adopted by the US senate talks of sanctions against China if it interferes in religious matter such as reincarnation of the Dalai Lama. The ITFA that held a meeting here to felicitate the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) said that the Indian government should also recognize Tibet as an autonomous region and rights of the Dalai Lama over his reincarnation. Sikyong, president of Tibetan government in exile Lobsang Sangay, heads of Tibetan democracy, including Chief Justice Commissioner, Speaker of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile, Deputy Speaker of Tibetan parliament-in-exile, Justice Commissioners, Kalons (ministers), heads of autonomous bodies, Members of Tibetan Parliament, ITFA president Ajit Nehria, ITFA’s former president Ajay Singh Mankotia, Deputy Mayor of Dharamsala, Onkar Nehria, ITFA advisor Ram Swaroop, and ITFA advisor Subhash Nehria were among those who attended the ceremony  at Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA). Sangay expressed gratitude to the ITFA for the firm support shown by them toward the Tibetan struggle for the last 25 years. “It is our dream that once we return to Lhasa we are able to establish a similar friendship association to cement the bond we share,” said Sikyong. Speaking on the diplomatic clashes between India and China resulting from the border dilemma, Sangay said that the only way to prevent such conflict is by ensuring genuine autonomy for Tibet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/renew-tibet-policy-itfa-to-govt-200987
20-01-2021||Nurpur||Cong-backed councillor revolts in Jawali||Despite having the majority, the Congress suffered a setback and could not elect its president and vice-president in Jawali nagar panchayat yesterday.  Congress-supported councillor Meenu Ravi Kumar revolted and boycotted the election process, which was later deferred. Seven Congress and two BJP supporters have been elected in Jawali nagar panchayat. The infighting in the Congress came to the fore on Monday after the swearing-in ceremony organised for the newly elected councillors. Two BJP supporters also abstained from the election process.  The Congress had planned to elect Meenu Ravi as the president, but at the eleventh hour, it shifted its choice to Rajinder Kumar due to which the former revolted.  SDM Krishan Kumar said that at least the presence of seven councillors was mandatory in the House for undertaking the election process and in the absence of quorum, the election process was deferred. He said now the election had been scheduled on Thursday at 2 pm.  Meenu Ravi claimed that under some pressure, the post was planned to be given to some other councillor, which forced her to boycott the election process. Meanwhile, Chander Kumar, former MLA and state vice-president of the Congress, asserted that no such commitment was done with her as she had also submitted her nomination for the post of chairperson before the returning officer-cum-SDM. “But her nomination was rejected as she failed to produce any proposer in her support,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-backed-councillor-revolts-in-jawali-200988
20-01-2021||---||Three farmers arrested in Shimla, freed on bail||Shimla, January 19Commotion was created on The Ridge here today as the police arrested three farmers from Mohali and Chandigarh, who had come here from the Singhu border to seek the public support against the farm laws. They were arrested as soon as they were sighted on The Ridge.“We are only three persons and talking about the farm laws. We did not raise any slogans and it is the infringement of the right to freedom of expression. Are we living in free democratic India?,” said one of the farmers Harpreet Singh, while he was being dragged by the police.Journalists roughed upFollowing a tip-off that some persons from outside the state were holding a protest and indulging in anti-social activities on The Ridge, the police took preventive measures and arrested them, said SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla.There were apprehensions that the farmers would violate the prohibitory orders and disturb peace on The Ridge and The Mall where a procession or meeting was prohibited, he said and added that the trio had not sought any permission from the administration or the police.Condemning the action of the police, Congress and CITU leaders demanded their immediate release and accused the state government of resorting to unconstitutional practices to crush the farmer agitation.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, who reached Sadar police station in support of the farmers, termed the action undemocratic and illegal and said this was the violation of the fundamental rights. The farmers were produced before the SDM and granted bail. Their credentials were being checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-farmers-arrested-in-shimla-freed-on-bail-200989
20-01-2021||---||Stakes high for IPH Minister, Kaul Singh in Mandi ZP poll||Mandi, January 19The daughters of Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur and Irrigation and Public Health Minister (IPH) Mahender Singh Thakur are constesting the zila parishad elections in Mandi district.While Champa Thakur, daughter of Kaul Singh, is contesting from the Sayog ward in the Sadar Assembly segment, Vandana Guleria, daughter of Mahender Singh, is contesting from Grayoh ward in the Dharampur Assembly seat in Mandi.The election results — the BJP and the Congress have fielded their candidates directly — will be declared on January 23. However, these elections are not being held on the party symbols.The BJP has fielded Daya Devi against Champa Thakur from the Sayog ward. During the Congress regime in the state, Champa was the chairperson of the Mandi Zila Parishad. She had also unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election against BJP leader Anil Sharma from Mandi Sadar in 2017.Meanwhile, Vandana is facing a tough contest from CITU leader Bhupender Singh. The Congress is also supporting Bhupender. In the last PRI elections, he defeated Vandana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stakes-high-for-iph-minister-kaul-singh-in-mandi-zp-poll-200991
20-01-2021||---||Safe City Project to ensure safety of women, says CM||Shimla, January 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that the Safe City Project, proposed to be executed in Mandi under the Nirbhaya Fund, would not only ensure the safety of women in public places, but also provide a smart solution to better traffic management and crowd control. A presentation was made before the Chief Minister by BSNL officers.He said the Centre had provided funds in 90:10 ratio to Himachal Pradesh under the project. “It envisages design, development, implementation, operation and the CCTV-based surveillance system for Mandi. The latest technology such as IP-based camera infrastructure, unhindered viewing, monitoring record and storage of data will be done,” he said.The system would help in providing assistance to women, girls and senior citizens during emergency, besides facilitating the smooth movement of ambulances, police vans and fire engines. “This will also help the police in checking crime against women, maintaining law and order and improving traffic management,” he said.Thakur said the provision would also be made to provide cameras on police mobile vans to cover the disaster-affected areas and crime scenes. These cameras would be integrated with the system, which would directly feed information of the crime scene to the command and control centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/safe-city-project-to-ensure-safety-of-women-says-cm-200992
20-01-2021||Mandi||35 vaccinated in Kaza block||The health authorities of Lahaul and Spiti administered the Covid-19 vaccine to 35 persons in Kaza block on Monday. Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi visited the Community Health Centre to inspect the vaccination process.He said the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination campaign was successful.The vaccination process was conducted under the supervision of Block Medical Officer (BMO) Dr Tenzin Norbu. He said the district health authorities had followed the instructions of the Ministry of Health strictly in the entire process of vaccination.“The first dose of vaccine was administered to health supervisor Man Das, who said he did not face any problem after being vaccinated,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-vaccinated-in-kaza-block-200993
20-01-2021||Shimla||Rain, snowfall in Himachal from January 22||Intense cold wave conditions persisted in most parts of Himachal as minimum and maximum temperatures fluctuated marginally but day temperatures stayed above normal, as the dry weather spell continued.Sky remained partially overcast and chilly winds swept the region, causing a marginal drop in day temperatures. The MeT office has predicted rain and snow in higher hills from January 22 to 24 and in mid hills on January 24 and 25.Keylong was the coldest in the region with a low of minus 8.9°C while Kalpa and Manali shivered at minus 2.8°C and 0.4°C, followed by Bhuntar at 2.2°C, Sundernagar 2.3°C, Solan 3.4°C and Shimla 5.3 °C.Bilaspur was the hottest in the region with a high of 23.5°C, followed by Una with 22.4°C, Sundernagar 21.8°C, Solan 21.6°C, Nahan 21.3°C, Shimla 14.5°C and Keylong 1.6°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-snowfall-in-himachal-from-january-22-200994
20-01-2021||Shimla||Power staff to protest on February 3||On the call of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers, more than 15 lakh power employees and engineers across the country will observe a strike on February 3 against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, being enacted to privatise power distribution companies. The HPSEB Employees Union has also decided to organise demonstrations on February 3 in front of board offices.The union termed the Electricity (Amendment) Bill and “Standard Bidding Document” circulated by the Minister of Power as “anti-farmer” and “anti-electricity consumer" as it will pave the way for the privatisation of the power sector in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-staff-to-protest-on-february-3-200995
20-01-2021||Shimla||41 Covid cases, no death in Himachal||With 41 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 57,019. There was no fatality due to Covid in the last 24 hours. The highest number of 16 cases was reported in Sirmaur, followed by 11 in Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/41-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-200996
20-01-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||7th win in a row, courtesy work done in Kuther||NURPUR, JANUARY 19Sushil Sharma, pradhan of Kuther gram panchayat of Nagrota Surian development block in Jawali, has won the gram panchayat election for the seventh time in a row. He is from a Brahmin family that is in minority in the panchayat but his good work encourages villagers to vote without keeping in mind the caste factor.Reason: He and his family has brought a sea change in the panchayat. Their work has been recognized since 2012 and the panchayat has been conferred the state-level as well as national-level awards. Enquiries reveal that Ram Chand Sharma, father of Sushil Sharma, was the first pradhan during 1990-95. After that, the success journey of Sushil and his wife began. Both have been elected pradhan and up-pradhan many time. Again, Sushil is pradhan and Veena up-pradhan.Kuther panchayat was first conferred the state-level ‘Atal Adarsh Panchayat Award’ on August 15, 2012, by former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. On April 24, 2017, it was conferred the Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Award in Lucknow by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. In 2017, the panchayat was adjudged the third best in the country for it outstanding performance in carrying out MGNREGA works and conferred the award by Union Rural Development Minister Narendra Tomar on June 24, 2017, in Vigyan Bhawan, Delhi.The panchayat, which has seven wards and a population around 2,700, has a multi-storey office. It has built the latest crematorium on 10 kanals with the seating capacity of 2,000 people. With the efforts of the Sharma couple, the panchayat has constructed pucca paths, 500 water tanks and installed 300 solar LED streetlights in the gram panchayat. They have ensured unbiased disbursal of social pension to around 400 villagers and also connected three remote villages with roads.The amenities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7th-win-in-a-row-courtesy-work-done-in-kuther-200997
20-01-2021||Solan||BJP bags top posts in Baddi, Nalagarh||The BJP proved its dominance on Baddi and Nalagarh municipal committees in the district where party-supported candidates were elected to the top posts. Rina Devi and Tara Awasthi, both BJP-supported candidates, were elected president and vice president of Nalagarh MC in polls held today at Nalagarh. Though the BJP-supported candidates had the support of five members but the Congress candidates Vandana Bansal and Mahesh Gautam also filed their nomination respectively for the post of president and vice president. Rina Devi and Tara Awasthi were declared victorious as they secured five votes each while Vandana and Mahesh could secure only four votes in the nine-member house. In the Baddi MC, BJP-supported candidates Urmila Devi and Man Singh were elected president and vice president. They secured five votes as against four secured by the Congress-supported candidates Jassi Ram and Mohan Lal. Out of the four civic bodies in Solan, the BJP has bagged Baddi and Nalagarh MC while Congress has bagged Arki nagar panchayat.  —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-bags-top-posts-in-baddi-nalagarh-200998
20-01-2021||Hamirpur||77.22% voting in Hamirpur||Around 77.22 per cent polling was registered in six development blocks of the district in the second phase of elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions today. Devashweta Banik, District Returning Officer, said that the highest polling of 79.96 per cent was registered in Hamirpur block while the lowest 72.75 per cent polling was in Bijhri block. The polling in 82 gram panchayats was peaceful, she added. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/77-22-voting-in-hamirpur-200999
20-01-2021||Solan||In Sirmaur, 84 pc cast vote||As much as 84.06 per cent voting was registered in six blocks of Sirmaur district in the second phase of panchayat polls today. No untoward incident was reported anywhere in the district. The highest voting of 86.90 per cent was registered in Rajgarh while the lowest voting of 76.96 per cent took place in Shillai block, informed the deputy commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-sirmaur-84-pc-cast-vote-201001
20-01-2021||Solan||Himachal BJP chief Suresh Kashyap’s sister elected Nahan MC chief||State BJP president Suresh Kashyap’s sister Shyama Pundir was elected president of the Nahan municipal committee (MC) and Avinash Gupta was elected vice-president in Nahan today.Eight BJP-supported members and five Congress-supported members participated in the elections. Though the BJP had the majority votes, the Congress put up a token contest where Shruti Chauhan and Yogesh Gupta were, respectively, fielded as president and vice-president candidates. The BJP-supported candidates secured eight votes each while the Congress-backed persons lagged behind with a mere five votes.Since the post of president was reserved for a scheduled caste woman, Pundir was the obvious choice as she was the lone woman from this community among the BJP-supported candidates who had won. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bjp-chief-suresh-kashyaps-sister-elected-nahan-mc-chief-201002
20-01-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Bara Bhangal villagers can’t vote, bad weather to blame||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, January 19 About 20 voters, who are staying back in Bara Bhangal, one of the remotest villages of the state, would not be able to vote in panchayat elections. Efforts of the district officials to reach the village have failed. Yesterday a team of election officials, including the district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati, tried to take election material to Bara Bhangal village for panchayat elections scheduled on January 21 on a helicopter provided by the state government. However, due to bad weather and strong winds the helicopter could not land in the village.   The DC said the state election commission had decided to abandon efforts to carry out the voting exercise for panchayat elections in the village. Tucked away deep in the Dhauladhar and Pir Panjal ranges of the Himalayas at a height of 11,000 feet from sea level, Bara Bhangal is considered to be the remotest village in the hill state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bara-bhangal-villagers-cant-vote-bad-weather-to-blame-201003
20-01-2021||Two-wheelers parked along the busy Mall Road in Solan is a common sight. Though the police have been challaning offenders||Two-wheelers parked along road||Tourists, police relaxedA significant reduction in Covid cases in Shimla has made people, especially tourists, careless, Nowadays, many tourists could be seen wandering around without wearing masks and the police, too, seem to be relaxed.— Raman Chagta, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-wheelers-parked-along-road-201004
20-01-2021||Dharamsala||BDC poll countermanded in Thural village||Heavy polling was registered in 274 panchayats of Kangra district today.Barring an incident at Kenuara village in the Thural area, the polling was peaceful. Sources said that the village name of the candidate contesting the Block Development Committee (BDC) election at Kenuara was missing from the ballot paper. The election was countermanded.According to the district administration, 76 per cent polling was registered in 274 panchayats. Fifteen Covid patients also cast their votes after 4 pm.Though the district administration allowed voters to go to the polling stations after thermal scanning, the latter totally ignored the Covid protocol outside the stations.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajpati said that the maximum polling of 80.50 per cent was registered in Dharamsala development block falling in the Jaisinghpur Assembly constituency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bdc-poll-countermanded-in-thural-village-201006
20-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||80 pc polling in ph II of panchayat elections||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 19Heavy polling was recorded in the second phase of panchayat elections in the state as about 80.10 per cent voters cast their votes for elections to 1,208 panchayats (as per the data available till 8 pm). Elections were held in 11 out of 12 districts barring Lahaul and Spiti district. The polling was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from any part of the state.The BJP national president J P Nadda cast his vote for zila parishad and panchayat samiti members at Government Primary School, Vijaypur. Pradhan, up-pradhan and panchayat members were elected unanimously in this panchayat.A large number of voters queued up outside the polling booths in the morning. Women (81.90 per cent) outnumbering men (76.60 per cent) in casting their vote.An elderly, 109-year-old Mussa Deen, exercised his franchise in Thohra gram panchayat in Nurpur setting an example for the young generations.As many as 75 Covid -19 patients and isolation voters cast their votes following the standard operating procedure. The highest 96 per cent polling was registered in Nandpur gram panchayat of Nalagarh developmental block of Solan district.There were 12,31, 517 voters in the second phase — 6,30,580 females and 6,00,852 males — and counting was taken up immediately after close of polling. The voting percentage was 18.20 per cent till 10 am, 39.96 per cent till 12 pm and 63.60 per cent till 2 pm.Voters exercised their franchise to elect panchayat president, vice president, members, zila parishad members and panchayat samiti members. Election for remaining 1,137 panchayats would be held on January 21.Pre-statehood MLA casts vote in BhoranjHamirpur: Amar Singh Chaudhary, former MLA from Mewa (now Bhoranj), cast his vote for the panchayat elections at Ropari Balohiyan village in Bhoranj near here. He was elected MLA in 1967 from the Jan Sangh when Himachal was not a separate state. He was again elected to the state Assembly in 1977. Amar Singh is now 90-year-old and probably the only surviving member of the 1967 team of the Assembly. Though old age has affected his health, he is still an enthusiastic voter. Speaking after casting his vote, he said,“I have never missed casting my vote ever since I become eligible for voting.” OCCounting stopped in Sandhol Mandi: The polling for the second phase was held in 188 gram panchayats in Mandi district. DC Rugved Thakur said 81.64 per cent polling was recorded in the district. He said in Sandhol panchayat, the counting had been stopped and ballot boxes kept in a strong room after some error on part of polling party came to the fore. The DC said the matter had been referred to the State Election Commission. In Kullu district, 83.13 per cent voting was registered. DC and District Election Officer Richa Verma said the district had recorded an overall 83.13 per cent polling in 78 panchayats. She said 81.04 per cent polling was registered in Kullu block, 82.71 per cent in Naggar, 85.35 per cent in Banjar, 86.49 per cent in Anni and 83.41 per cent in Nirmand block. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-pc-polling-in-ph-ii-of-panchayat-elections-201009
20-01-2021||A six-day virtual training on mushroom cultivation technology kick-started at the ICAR-Directorate of Mushroom Research||Six-day mushroom training programme||Two Solan schools in top 35Two schools - Government Senior Secondary School, Shamrod, and Shiwalik Valley School, Nalagarh, - in Solan have found a place among the top 35 schools in the Wipro Earthian Awards 2020. The two schools presented projects on sustainability and waste and sustainability and biodiversity in their maiden efforts. Over 900 quality projects from across the nation have found a place in these awards this year.Book on PM presented to CMChandmal Kumawat, Chairman, Manish Media Jaipur, presented a copy of his book Modi India Calling -2021 written on the 107 foreign tours of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday. The book has been published on the occasion of 16th Prawasi Bhartiya Diwas. The Chief Minister appreciated the efforts of the writer and wished him success in his future endeavours. Kumawat informed the Chief Minister that he was planning to bring out a book on famous tourist places of Himachal Pradesh titled Jewels of Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/six-day-mushroom-training-programme-201012
20-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||3 Punjab farmers who came from Singhu detained in Shimla; watch video||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 19Three Punjab farmers who had come to Shimla from the Singhu border near Delhi to explain to the locals the motive of their agitation and the ramifications of the central farm laws were detained by the police from the historic Ridge here.Their detention led to commotion as the farmers, hailing from Mohali, were agitated over the police action and sought to know under which law they had been rounded up.“We are only three persons and talking about the black farm laws. We didn't even raise any slogans. This is violation of our right to freedom of expression. Is this democracy? Are we living in a free country?" they shouted while being dragged away by the police.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said the Ridge and Mall Road were core areas where any kind of procession or meeting was prohibited as per the High Court orders. The detained farmers had not sought any permission from the administration or the police, he maintained.“We had inputs about the arrival of some farmers but their credentials could not be verified. They have been detained as a preventive measure," he added.The three were taken to Sadar police station.The farmers holding banners were detained under the Sections 107 and 150 of the Indian Penal Code.“We are going to all the state capitals to make the farmers aware about the farm Bills, but this is the only place where we are being dragged and not allowed to speak,” said Harpreet Singh, a farmer.Meanwhile, the Congress leaders termed the action as “illegal” and have gathered outside the Sadar police station where the farmers were detained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-punjab-farmers-who-came-from-singhu-detained-in-shimla-watch-video-200637
