22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Light rains predicted over parts of Punjab, Haryana; no cold wave in north India for next 4-5 days||The weather department has predicted light rain over parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday. Despite this, it has also forecasted no cold wave conditions over north India during the next 4-5 days.Very light or thundershowers will be experienced at isolated places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on January 23, the bulletin read.These states would also experience dense fog on January 24 to January 26.Further, some parts of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are likely to receive fairly widespread rain, snow or hail. These weather conditions have been attributed to a fresh western disturbance.The weather department has also forecasted a rise in minimum temperature by 2-4 degree Celsius over plains of northwest India on January 23 and 24, and thereafter a fall by 2-4 degree Celsius during the subsequent 48 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/light-rains-predicted-over-parts-of-punjab-haryana-no-cold-wave-in-north-india-for-next-4-5-days-202159
22-01-2021||r Correspondent||Cong captures Jawali, Chowari civic bodies||Nurpur, January 21The Congress captured two nagar panchayats at Jawali in Kangra district and neigbhouring Chowari in Chamba district on Thursday. The elections to the posts of president and vice-president were deferred on Monday for the want of quorum in the House for carrying out the election process.In Jawali nagar panchayat, Congress-supported councillor Rajinder Kumar and ‘rebel’ Meenu Ravi Kumar filed nomination papers for the post of president. Meenu Ravi had revolted and boycotted the election proceedings on Monday alleging that the local Congress leadership, which had promised her the post of president, had ditched her. Another Congress-supported councillor Ajay Vivek Pathania was the lone candidate for the post of vice-president. Polling was held under the supervision of SDM, Jawali, Krishan Kumar and Rajinder got six out of nine votes of the councillors and was elected president whereas Meenu Ravi got the remaining three votes. Ajay Vivek was unanimously elected the vice-president of the nagar panchayat.In Chowari also, Congress-supported councillor Kusum Devi and Surinder Singh were unanimously elected the president and vice-president of the nagar panchayat. Two BJP-supported woman councillors stayed away from the election process held under the supervision of SDM Bachan Singh. Five of the seven elected councillors participated in the election proceedings. Earlier, the election was deferred on January 18 due to the lack of quorum as only four councillors turned up at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-captures-jawali-chowari-civic-bodies-201768
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent||6 hurt in attack on village pradhan aide, 3 arrested||NURPUR, JANUARY 21The Indora police arrested three persons allegedly involved in a group clash, in which six persons were injured, at Bhogrwan last evening. The police identified 10 persons and started a massive hunt to nab them.Son assaulted tooThey later thrashed his son Prithvi Singh too, in the presence of the police, at the hospitalJaideep Rana won the election of pradhan of Bhogrwan gram panchayat. Supporters of the defeated candidate allegedly entered the house of Parshotam Singh, a close confidant of the pradhan on Tuesday night and attacked and shot at him from a country-made pistol.His family members caught the assailants and thrashed them. The attackers also sustained injuries in the clash. Meanwhile, the police reached the spot and rushed Parshotam to the local Civil Hospital.The supporters of the defeated candidate again arrived in the hospital and bolted the hospital gate from inside. They thrashed Prithvi Singh, son of Parshotam, in the presence of the police, injuring him seriously. The police had a tough time saving the victim from the clutches of the assailants.ASP, Nurpur, Ashok Ratan, told The Tribune that three separate FIRs had been registered against the accused. The police arrested Dikshant, Nitin and Bhuvnesh last night and the remaining accused, whose names were figured in the FIR, would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-hurt-in-attack-on-village-pradhan-aide-3-arrested-201769
22-01-2021||Solan||2 Parwanoo MC top posts go to Cong||Congress-backed Nisha Sharma and Sonia Sharma were today elected as the president and vice-president of the Parwanoo Municipal Committee (MC), respectively.Though the Congress-supported candidates had won four seats, they managed to rope in Independent councillor Nisha Sharma, who was denied the ticket by the BJP. She had won two elections earlier and denying her the ticket cost the BJP dear — BJP-supported candidates could win only three seats. Another Independent councillor also lent support to the Congress-backed councillors.Nisha joined the Congress yesterday. The three BJP-supported councillors did not turn up for polling and both Nisha and Sonia were elected unanimously. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-parwanoo-mc-top-posts-go-to-cong-201770
22-01-2021||---||85.6 pc polling in Sirmaur district||Solan, January 21Around 85.60 per cent polling was registered in Sirmaur district in the third and final phase of panchayat polls today. Voting was peaceful.81 pc turnout in UnaPacchad block registered the highest voting of 87.17 per cent while the lowest voting of 82.49 per cent was recorded in Shillai block. In Rajgarh block, 85.76 per cent voting was registered, in Paonta Sahib 86.10 per cent, Nahan 85.72 per cent and Sangrah block witnessed 85.91 per cent voting.As many as 47,192 men turned out to vote as against 42,857 women while a large number of elderly were also seen at the polling booths. Voting, held for 84 panchayats, picked up from 21.98 per cent till 10 am to 48.17 per cent by noon and 72.52 per cent by 2 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/85-6-pc-polling-in-sirmaur-district-201771
22-01-2021||---||In Kangra dist,  77.40 pc reach polling booths||Dharamsala, January 21Heavy polling was registered in 264 panchayats of Kangra district today.Barring an incident in Kachiari village near Kangra the polling remained peaceful. In Kachiari village one person was caught trying to cast in some other person’s name. He was caught by polling agents of contesting candidates and handed over to police.As per the data released by the district administration of Kangra 77.40 per cent polling was registered in 264 panchayats elections for which concluded today.Five Covid-positive patients also cast their vote but after regular polling was finished at 4 pm. Deputy Commissioner Kangra Rakesh Prajpati informed that the maximum polling was registered in Dharamsala development block. In Dharamsala developmental block falling in Jaisinghpur assembly constituency 81.60 per cent polling was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-kangra-dist-77-40-pc-reach-polling-booths-201772
22-01-2021||---||83.75% voting in Kullu, 72.4% in Mandi||Mandi, January 21Polling was held in 181 gram panchayats of the district in the third and final phase of the Panchayati Raj elections today. There are a total of 1,023 wards in these panchayats.According to District Election Officer Rugved Thakur, 72.46 per cent polling was recorded in Mandi. He said that the elections were peaceful.In Kullu district, 83.75 per cent polling was recorded, said Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Richa Verma. She added that 81.02 per cent polling was registered in Kullu block, 83.61 per cent in Naggar block, 87.66 per cent in Banjar block, 84.93 per cent in Anni block and 84.64 per cent in Nirmand block.She said that 42,885 male (total 51,199) voters and 42,281 female (total 50,495) voters exercised their right to franchise. She added that polling was peaceful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/83-75-voting-in-kullu-72-4-in-mandi-201773
22-01-2021||---||Cong reclaims Theog MC after 20 years||Shimla, January 21The Congress has reclaimed the Theog Municipal Council after 20 years. Vivek Thapar and Reena Roy were declared the chairman and the vice-chairman of the council today. “It is a very sweet win for us as it has come after 20 years,” said Thapar.Thapar claimed that the Congress had done very well in the urban local bodies elections in Shimla district. He said that the party swept to power in the Rohru and Rampur Municipal Councils, besides winning the Chopal, Kotkhai and Sunni nagar panchayats.Congratulating Thapar and his team, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore said the government tried to lure away the Congress councillors but they resisted all pressure and temptations. He added that the Congress had done well in the urban local bodies and panchayat elections in the state , including on the home turf of Himachal Chief Minister and BJP president JP Nadda.“It’s a sign that people are turning towards the Congress. It was a test before the Vidhan Sabha elections and the Congress has passed it with flying colours,” said Rathore.Listing his priorities, Thapar said he and his team would work to find quick solution to sewerage and parking problems of the town. “We will rise above political affiliations and work for all wards,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-reclaims-theog-mc-after-20-years-201775
22-01-2021||---||BJP kicks off campaign for corporation elections||Dharamsala, January 21Repeating the BJP government in Himachal in elections scheduled in 2022 was a matter of prestige for national president of party JP Nadda.“The party unit in Himachal would leave no stone unturned in achieving Mission Repeat. We have already started working on it”, said Avinash Rai Khanna, party in charge of the BJP for Himachal while addressing a press conference at Dharamsala today.Khanna claimed that the party had received a massive mandate in the elections to the municipal councils and panchayats in the state. The mandate received by the BJP in the panchayat and municipal council elections was an approval of the working of state government led by Jai Ram Thakur, he said.Asked if the present Chief Minister would be the face of the party for the next Assembly elections, Khanna said that though the Chief Minister was very popular and successful as the head of the state, it was too early to say who would be the face of the party in the next Assembly elections. It was not the practice of the party to declare its face or strategy for the next elections before the election process starts that is two years from now.Khanna said that as part of the Mission Repeat the party had asked all its MLAs to prepare their report cards for the past three years, including the development works they had carried out in their areas and reach out to people in their respective areas.Asked about the zero tolerance to corruption policy of the BJP and as to why no action has been taken against the ministers and officials in the present government against whom corruption allegations had been levelled, Khanna said that the party was keeping a close watch on all allegations being levelled and if any of them is found to be involved action would be initiated at an appropriate time.He said that four corporations, namely Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan, would be going to elections soon. Out of these four corporations, three have been upgraded by the present BJP government. “The party is aiming to win all the four corporations in the state. Our effort is to give consensus candidates in corporation elections so that division in votes can be averted”, he said.Sources said that Khanna met some dissident party leaders in Palampur to pacify them to boost the chances of BJP in first corporation elections to be held there. He shall also be calling on veteran BJP and former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar in Palampur who lost his wife to Covid recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-kicks-off-campaign-for-corporation-elections-201776
22-01-2021||---||DCs directed to organise Statehood Day functions||Shimla, January 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed Deputy Commissioners to organise the Statehood Day functions in the district as well as sub-divisional level.The Chief Minister, presiding over a review meeting regarding the celebrations of 50 years of statehood on January 25 through video-conferencing, directed all DCs to ensure programmes at district headquarters.All SDMs had been asked to organise such functions at sub-division levels too. He said the programmes should be organised in such a manner that it conclude by 11 am. After the functions, the state-level function to be held at Shimla would be telecast live in all these places.Thakur said that prominent persons could be requested to be the chief guest at the event. The invitation should also be extended to newly elected PRIs and urban local bodies’ representatives. The participation of mahila mandals, yuvak mandals and other bodies must be ensured. The proper sitting arrangements must be ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dcs-directed-to-organise-statehood-day-functions-201777
22-01-2021||KULLU||Rajmata cremated with honours in Kullu||The cremation of Rajmata Ina Deveshwari Singh (91), mother of former BJP MP Maheshwar Singh, was held with full honours today. She was the wife of the late Mahender Singh, king of the erstwhile Rupi valley. She had been unwell for some time and breathed her last at Rupi Palace in Sultanpur of Kullu town last evening.Rituals were performed by priests at Sultanpur. Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur also took part in the funeral procession, which was accompanied by a band.Danvender Singh, grandson of the Rajmata, lit the funeral pyre at Bhootnath temple. Rajmata’s elder son Maheshwar Singh, grandson Hiteshwar Singh and Aditya Vikram Singh were among the family members present.BJP national president JP Nadda, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, and Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur offered condolences. Thakur will visit the bereaved family at Sultanpur tomorrow. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajmata-cremated-with-honours-in-kullu-201778
22-01-2021||Solan||Get tech patented, Nauni varsity told||Chief Secretary Anil Khachi lauded the efforts of scientists for the development of horticulture and forestry in the state during his visit to the Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, today.  Vice-Chancellor Parvinder Kaushal apprised the Chief Secretary about the progress made in academics, research and extension as well as initiatives taken during Covid-19 to minimise its effects on its functioning.  Kaushal emphasised the need to provide research grants and sought support from the government in mass multiplication of planting material, especially in apple and stone fruits, to reduce dependence on imported planting material.  Khachi lauded the university for securing high rankings at the national level. He told them to file patents for technologies and processes developed by university scientists in horticulture and forestry to enhance its reach. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/get-tech-patented-nauni-varsity-told-201779
22-01-2021||Legal Correspondent||HC recasts panel to designate lawyers as ‘senior’||Shimla, January 21To streamline and bring in transparency in the process of designating advocates as “senior”, Chief Justice L. Narayana Swami has reconstituted a five-member committee headed by him.All matters relating to the designation of senior advocates in the HP High Court will be dealt with by a permanent committee to be known as the “Committee for Designation of Senior Advocates”.Besides the Chief Justice, this committee comprises two senior-most judges of the High Court, namely Justice Ravi Malimath, and Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, the Advocate General and senior advocate GD Verma as members.The Chief Justice has also constituted 13 other committees comprising High Court Judges. These committees are the Administrative Committee comprising Chief Justice L. Narayana Swami, Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan; Disciplinary, Vigilance and Promotion Committee comprising Justice Ravi Malimath, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Sureshwar Thakur; Juvenile Justice Committee comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua; Mediation and Conciliation Committee comprising Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel and Justice CB Barowalia.Besides, as per the notification issued in this regard, the Case Management and Arrear Committee comprising Justice Vivek Singh Thakur and Justice Sandeep Sharma; Computer and e-court Committee comprising Justice Ravi Malimath, Justice Sandeep Sharma and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua; and Finance Committee comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Anoop Chitkara and Justice CB Barowalia; and the Protocol Committee comprising Justice Sureshwar Thakur and Justice Sandeep Sharma.To redress the grievances of the staff of the Judiciary, a Grievance Committee comprising Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Justice CB Barowalia and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua has also been constituted. Besides, the Rule Committee, Library Committee, Building and Infrastructure Committee, Recruitment Committee and the Litigation Committee have been constituted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-recasts-panel-to-designate-lawyers-as-senior-201780
22-01-2021||Hamirpur||Officials to face action if illegal mining goes on unchecked: ACS||Additional Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh today said the state government had taken a strict stance on illegal mining in the state and no one would be spared. He was here to review the implementation of government schemes of various departments, including energy, multi-purpose projects and industries.  The ACS said mining officials should take action on the mining mafia. He said serious action could be initiated against the erring officials if illegal mining was not curbed.  He said the administration should keep a vigil on the execution of the Chief Minister’s Swavalamban Scheme as the government had provided to give 60 per cent grant amount to beneficiaries in advance to enable youth to start their venture soon.  He directed officers of the Industries Department and bank officials to extend advances to applicants without making any further delays. The ACS also reviewed the status of the industrial areas of the district and directed to explore possibilities of establishment of industries related to milk production and food processing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/officials-to-face-action-if-illegal-mining-goes-on-unchecked-acs-201782
22-01-2021||---||Police verification for passports in one day||Shimla, January 21Being ranked at the sixth position in completing police verification for passport in 11 days, the Himachal Pradesh police has brought down this period to a mere one day.Himachal Pradesh, where annually 50,000 passports are made, could now be ranked among the top performer with this new achievement by the police in January 2021. Himachal had stood sixth among the best states in completing police verifications in 2019-20.As per the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Guarantee Act 2011, police verification has to be completed within 15 days. The Ministry of External Affairs had advised state governments to complete police verification within 21 days.A police spokesperson said here today that the Himachal Police completed police verification on an average 11 days in 2019-20. In the current financial year, as a result of a special drive by HP Police since June 2020, the average days taken for police verification came down to three. During January 2021, it has further come down to one day.With this prompt delivery of service, it is expected that the Himachal Police would secure position as the top performer state in police verification in the country, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-verification-for-passports-in-one-day-201783
22-01-2021||Shimla||39 Covid cases, 3  deaths in Himachal Pradesh||With 39 new Covid cases being reported today, the tally of cases in Himachal reached 57,121 in the last 24 hours. There were three fatalities, with one person each succumbing to the virus in Solan, Mandi and Kangra. The fatality figure has shot up to 958.The highest number of eight cases was reported in Sirmaur, seven in Kangra, four each in Hamirpur, Mandi and Solan, three in Kinnaur, two each in Chamba, Kullu, Una and Shimla and one in Bilaspur. The total number of active cases is 556. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/39-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-201784
22-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||CCTV cameras installed in Palampur non-functional||Palampur January 21Dozens of close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the town five years ago by spending lakhs of rupees have been non-functional for the past four years. These cameras had hardly functioned for a year. However, no efforts have been made either to replace or repair these CCTV cameras.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that these cameras were installed by the local municipal council keeping in view the deteriorating law and order situation in the town, rising number of accidents and to keep an eye on the movement of mafias.‘Action being taken’The matter came to my notice. Necessary action is being taken against the guilty as to why these cameras are non-functional despite spending a huge sum of money from the state exchequer. The cameras will be made functional soon. — Pankaj Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, PalampurThe other purpose of installing these at all entry and exit points of the city was to keep tabs on the traffic entering and exiting the city.However, the cameras failed to serve the purpose as these became non-functional soon after their installation. The company, which was given the contract for their installation, failed to provide service. The Palampur Municipal Council failed to initiate action against the erring company.A reality check made by The Tribune revealed that the cameras installed in front of the Palampur police station, near the State Bank of India, Subhash Chowk, Nehru Chowk, old bus stand, new bus stand, IPH road, PWD offices and near the mini secretariat were not working. Cables and CCTV units were also missing at many points.These cameras were supposed to be attached to the computers installed at local police station, SDM office, DSP office and traffic police to keep a vigil on the movement of vehicles. However, these offices have not been linked to these cameras.Amit Sharma, DSP, Palampur, admitted that the cameras were just in place in the town, hanging with electricity poles, but not connected to any local police station or office.“If these cameras are made functional and attached to the police station, the police can keep an eye on every person and vehicle, besides helping in nabbing suspected fleeing criminals. They can go a long way in keeping a check on the crime,” the DSP asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cctv-cameras-installed-in-palampur-non-functional-201785
22-01-2021||Dalhousie||Waste compost machine installed||With a view to developing Chamera Power Station-I (CPS-I), Khairi in Chamba district, a “mini Smart City” by the Centre, a waste compost machine has been installed keeping in mind the minimum requirements for a mini smart city.The waste compost machine was unveiled by CPS-I general manager (in-charge) MA Padmanabhachar on Wednesday. The machine was installed as per the guidelines of the Centre and the HP State Pollution Control Board.The machine would be used to make compost from the residues of food and other garbage from residential and non-residential areas of the power station. The compost prepared from the waste compost machine would be used for the purpose of gardening in the power station area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-compost-machine-installed-201786
22-01-2021||Solan||Two Rohtak residents killed in road mishap in Himachal||Two Haryana residents were killed and four others injured when the SUV they were travelling in rammed into a tanker coming from the opposite side near Bela temple on the Nalagarh-Ropar national highway last night.Rohit Malpani, SP, Baddi, said the deceased had been identified as Shakti (25) and Virender (36), both natives of Rohtak in Haryana. They were on way to Manali when the mishap occurred. Shakti was driving the SUV.According to the police, the accident occurred due to rash driving by the Innova driver. Tanker driver Gurpyar Singh, who hails from Bathinda in Punjab, told the police that the mishap occurred when he was returning to Nalagarh from Bathinda and the Innova, which was overspeeding and being driven in the wrong direction, hit the tanker near Bela temple on the highway. The occupants of the SUV were rushed to the community health centre at Nalagarh where two were declared dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-rohtak-residents-killed-in-road-mishap-in-himachal-201787
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Man charred to death in Kullu village||Kullu, January 21 A person was charred to death in a fire at a house in Begona village of the Gadsa valley in Bhuntar subdivision in the wee hours today. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said Raju (43), son of Sangat Ram, was alone in the house at the time of the incident. Villagers informed the fire department and tried to douse the flames.  The fire fighters were able to control the fire but the victim could not be saved. The badly charred body of the victim was recovered in the morning. The SP said the body would be handed over to the family members after a post-mortem examination.   Four rooms, a verandah, a kitchen and one cowshed were burnt in this fire incident. Kullu Fire Officer Durga Singh said a loss of about Rs 4 lakh had been estimated in this fire incident, while property worth Rs 5 lakh had been saved from burning. The SP said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained and further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-charred-to-death-in-kullu-village-201788
22-01-2021||Shimla||Yellow weather warning issued||The Meteorological Department has issued a yellow weather warning for thunderstorm in the state on Saturday.    The Shimla MeT centre forecast rain in plains, low hills and rainfall, snowfall in mid hills on Saturday and Sunday and rain, snowfall in high hills between Friday and Sunday. However, it issued a yellow weather warning for thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yellow-weather-warning-issued-201789
22-01-2021||---||81% cast vote in final phase of Himachal rural poll, counting today||Shimla, January 21Heavy polling of 81 per cent was reported in the final and the last phase of voting for the Panchayati Raj Institution polls, which were peaceful with no untoward incident taking place anywhere in the state today.According to the State Election Commission (SEC) around 81 per cent polling was registered in the third and final phase of the elections. Polling was held in 1,137 gram panchayats with the highest 94 per cent polling being reported in Lodhi Majra panchayat of Nalagarh development block in Solan district.A total of 49 Covid-19 patients and persons in isolation also cast their votes by following standard operating procedures across the state. The polling for the urban local bodies took place on January 10 while panchayat polls took place in three phases on January 17, 19 and 21. The counting of votes for all panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad wards will begin at 8.30 am tomorrow with the votes for the Panchayat Samitis to be counted first.In Shimla district, the polling percentage was reported to be 72.40 per cent at 4 pm when voting came to an end. In Shimla district, the polling percentage in Theog was 78.6 per cent, Rohru 67.3 per cent, Narkanda 67.6 per cent and Jubbal Kotkhai 69.2 per cent. A total of six Covid persons cast their vote in Shimla district. These were five in Chopal block and one in Rampur.AT A GLANCE83.1% women voters79.2% men voters94% The highest voter turnout witnessed in Lodhi Majra panchayat of Nalagarh development block49 Covid -19 patients and isolation voters cast votes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/81-cast-vote-in-final-phase-of-himachal-rural-poll-counting-today-201732
22-01-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana among 10 most innovative states||New Delhi, January 21Haryana (sixth) and Punjab (10th) find place among the top 10 most innovative states as Karnataka ranks first, the Centre’s policy think tank, NITI Aayog, has said in its report — India Innovation Index 2020.Released by NITI Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar in the presence of members VK Paul (Health), Ramesh Chand (Agriculture) and CEO Amitabh Kant, the index places Himachal Pradesh at the top among the hill and north-eastern states. Chandigarh has made a leap forward to rank second among the UTs after Delhi.The index, launched last year, ranks states based on whether they provide a conducive environment for registering new businesses, applying for patents, human capital and investments, among other measures.Bihar at the bottomIn the second edition, Maharashtra has overtaken Tamil Nadu for the second spot. Telangana has claimed the fourth place, with Kerala moving one notch up to fifth slot, pushing Haryana to sixth place on the list of 17 major states. Bihar has featured at the bottom.“There is a very strong correlation between innovation and development. As states become more innovative, their per-capita GDP (gross domestic product) rises,” said Amit Kapoor, chairman of the Institute for Competitiveness, a Gurugram-based organisation that worked with NITI Aayog to develop the index.The index is modelled along the lines of the global innovation index, which is brought out by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, but tracks fewer parameters. It aims to add more parameters in the next report and sync it with the global index.“The Prime Minister is very clear that it is innovation and technology that will solve the immense challenges that India faces. Trying to spur innovation at the state level is important,” Kumar said.Kant said, “By providing a thrust to innovation, India can augment its manufacturing and export competitiveness.”“We will continue to work in very close collaboration with science and technology teams across all the states as well as the industrial and manufacturing teams across India. We will complement them as the knowledge partner to make India an innovative nation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-haryana-among-10-most-innovative-states-201643
22-01-2021||The All India Secondary Teachers Federation has expressed resentment over the alleged indifferent approach of the Prime Minister and Agriculture Minister towards the farmers' agitation and their demands. Federation's vice-president Virender Chauhan has said the government should have no problems in repealing the laws if the farmers do not want it. Slamming the government for being adamant||Teachers extend support to farmers||Declare results, demands ABVPThe ABVP has urged the Himachal Pradesh University to declare the pending results of all PG courses. The university should also sort out all issues related to the filling up of the online PG examination forms, the ABVP stated. The students' body demanded that the promoted BBA/BCA students be provided with result cards. The ABVP also urged the university to hold improvement exams for old batches of BA, BSc and BCom.Date extended for filing applicationThe Himachal Pradesh University has extended the date for filing online application for panchayat secretaries from January 17 to 31. Those who missed the deadline could apply till January 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-extend-support-to-farmers-201866
22-01-2021||The tarring on a one-km stretch between Pajenda and Khobar in the Nor panchayat of the Nirmand area of Kullu has been damaged within just four months of the completion of the job. Travelling on the road has become risky for commuters||Shoddy road work done||Bus stand a traffic bottleneckThe Vikas Nagar bus stand, from where there's a diversion to Kasumpti, is a traffic bottleneck. Private buses stop here longer than they are allowed to pick up extra passengers, creating a traffic bottleneck. The authorities should consider moving the bus stop a little ahead for the smooth flow of traffic. — Rahul Kumar, KasumptiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoddy-road-work-done-201865
