25-01-2021||New Delhi||PM Modi greets people of Himachal Pradesh on golden jubilee of statehood||On the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh’s statehood, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted the people of the state and hoped that it keeps setting new standards of development and continues to contribute to the country’s progress.Himachal Pradesh was declared a state on January 25, 1971.Best wishes to the people of the state on the completion of 50 years of full statehood, Modi said in a tweet in Hindi.“May the state, known for its natural beauty and beautiful tourist destinations, keep setting new standards of development and continue to contribute to the progress of the country,” the prime minister said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-modi-greets-people-of-himachal-pradesh-on-golden-jubilee-of-statehood-203492
25-01-2021||Shimla||Himachal has surged ahead on the path of development to compete with bigger states: Nadda||BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Monday said Himachal Pradesh had emerged as a leading developed state which was competing with big states due to the tireless efforts of successive governments since the state came into being in 1971.         Story Highlights Speaking at the golden jubilee Statehood day function here, Nadda said Himachal had surged ahead to emerge as one of the most developed states in the country, be it in the field of health, education or infrastructure development. He said every Himachali must rise above political considerations to ensure that the state achieved greater heights and becomes the number one state in every gild.        “We need to identify our potential, especially in the field of tourism, power, horticulture and agriculture and utilise it fully to our advantage,” he remarked. He credited successive regimes of ensuring all-round development of Himachal, beginning with Dr YS Parmar, Virbhadra Singh, Shanta Kumar and PK Dhumal.  He added that it was former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee who provided a special economic package to the state and laid the foundation stone of the Rohtang tunnel. He added that PM Modi had the same love and affection for Himachal and it is for this that Himachal got financial benefit due to grant of a special category state.He said as Himachal completes 50 years of its existence, it was time for introspection and identifying its strengths. “People call Himachalis simple, hard-working and honest people and I would like to reiterate that this simplicity is the biggest strength of we hill people and not our weakness as many might perceive,” he remarked. He said the people of Himachal must retain this quality as in the long run, it is this very this simplicity and honesty which pays.Speaking on the occasion CM credited successive chief ministers-Dr YS Parmar, Shanta Kumar, Virbhadra Singh and PK Dhumal for ensuring HP’s development. “I would be failing in my duty if I don’t express my gratitude towards former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had a special affinity with the hill state,” he said. He said a lot of development had taken place under successive government but a lot more needs to be done.“Connectivity remains one of the biggest challenges for Himachal as it is a requisite for tourism promotion and industrial growth,” he said. He said rising above political considerations, everyone in the state must join hands to ensure Himachal becomes the number one state in the country. He said efforts had been made to rope in industrial investment by holding Global Investors meet and work on projects worth Rs 10,000 crores had already taken off.Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said the endeavour of every Himachali in the next 25 years journey from golden to platinum jubilee, should be to take Himachal to number one position in the country in every field. “I urge the CM to prepare the road map for this journey in which we all must rise above political considerations and join hands to make Himachal number of in clean green energy, carbon-neutral state and the most preferred tourist destination,” he urged. He said with Himachal being Modi’s second home and JP Nadda, being BJP President, there is no stopping for the state in its march on the path of development.Governor Bandaru Dattatraya also addressed the gathering. Those present on the occasion on the historic Ridge here included BJP National President JP Nadda, Governor Bandaru Dattatraya, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, State BJP President Suresh Kashyap, ministers, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, MLA’s, party functionaries and senior officials. Union Home Minister Amit Shah who was to address the function virtually could not do so as he remained busy in a meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-has-surged-ahead-on-the-path-of-development-to-compete-with-bigger-states-nadda-203470
25-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||New additions to Army Heritage Museum||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 24The bust of Major Sandeep Shankla, awarded Ashok Chakra (posthumously), original Vir Chakra of Captain Jatinder Nath Sood (posthumous), a lucid write-up about Major Pradeep Agarwal, first test pilot of the Army and war bunker, are the latest additions to The Army Heritage Museum in Shimla.“There was confusion over the birth place of Major Shankla and records were searched with the help of the Army Training Command (ARTRAC) which verified that he hailed from Karwar village in Hamirpur district, following which his bust was placed in the museum. It was inaugurated recently by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Vijay Divas,” said Yashpal Mehta, curator of the museum.On August 8, 1991, Major Shankla (18 Dogra) was shot during a combat with terrorists at Zafarkhani village in Jammu and Kashmir and was awarded Ashok Chakra (posthumously).The original Vir Chakra of Captain Jatinder Nath Sood (posthumously) that was presented to Army Commander Lt Gen Raj Shukla by his brother Joginder Lal Sood on December 16 last is also displayed in the museum. Capt Sood was attacked by terrorists when he was opening fire at them. He was killed on the spot in the Eastern Sector in Pirganj on December 8, 1971. He was 29 years old.“A write-up about Army’s first test pilot (gunner and aviator) Major Pradeep Agarwal, who died in a crash on a reconnaissance mission near Genkar La (Kameng) in Arunachal Pradesh while carrying Union Minister of State for Defence NVM Sonu and Maj Gen Ramesh Nagpal in 1997 has also been showcased, besides newly-built war bunker depicting the lives of soldiers on borders,” Mehta added.The execution order of freedom fighter Mangal Pandey, who raised the banner of revolt against the British in 1857, Instrument of surrender and liberation of Bangladesh in December 1971, uniform of the first lady cadet of the Army, Major Priya Jhingan, captured flag of the 1st Bahawalpur Sadiq Battalion of Pakistan, first Indian to be decorated with the Victoria Cross Khuda Dad Khan and dismantled weapons used in the World War-I and II and 1962 Indo-China War are among other prized possession of this museum.The museum is a tribute to the glorious history of the country and the valour of its bravehearts. It documents 5,000-year-old rich history of wars and warfare and courageous feats of martial forces dating back from the Mahabharata era till date.Overlooking the sprawling Annandale, the museum was set up by the Army Training Command in 2006. It is divided into four sections, namely Heritage Section, Himachal Corner, Shaurya Hall and Glass House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-additions-to-army-heritage-museum-203340
25-01-2021||---||Teacher struck with lightning, killed||Dharamsala, January 24Pawan Rana, a government school teacher from Khaniara area of Dharamsala, lost his life as lightning struck him yesterday night. Reports said that Pawan Rana along with his friends had gone for trekking in Thadrana trek in mountains above his village. Rana while on trek was hit with lightning amid rain and thunderstorm in the mountain area which caused his death.In another incident, a contractual employee working on outsourcing basis in the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd, in Dehra sub division, was electrocuted. Sources here said that the employee was repairing the 33 KVA line in Chalali village in Dehra sub division when he got electrocuted.His condition was stated to serious and was shifted to the PGI Chandigarh.He is believed to have got electrocuted due to fault of some officials who switched on power in line while it was being repaired. Since the employee was working on outsourcing basis he has not received any financial aid from the government.Demand has been raised that the government should provide financial aid to employee who has been electrocuted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teacher-struck-with-lightning-killed-203341
25-01-2021||r Correspondent ---||Fishing banned, fishermen protest loss of income||Nurpur, January 24 As many as 2,800 fishermen dependent on the Pong wetland are a harried lot after fishing was banned in the lake as they have  been left with no means of livelihood.  The fishermen, who are members of 16 fisheries cooperative societies, held a protest at Guglara near the wetland last evening against the government apathy in providing compensation to them for losing their source of livelihood due to the bird flu outbreak.  The district administration banned fishing after the outbreak of avian flu (H5N1) on January 3. But now, they say, the bird flu has largely been contained. Only two dead birds were retrieved from Nagrota Surian range of wildlife yesterday whereas no mortality has been reported in the Dhameta range for the past one week. After rendering jobless, the fishermen have been demanding compensation in view of restricted fishing in the wetland. Vijay Kumar, Sat Pal, Rajinder, Manoj, Subhash, Rakesh, Inder Pal, Karam Chand, Veer Singh and Ashwani Kumar, who participated in the protest, lamented that after fishing was banned, they were facing immense hardships in sustaining their families.  “Our fishing nets are in the wetland as we could not collect them after one kilometre wetland radius was suddenly declared as a red zone on January 3. All activities, including the movement of human beings and livestock, have been banned in the area to contain the spread of bird flu,” they said.  Praveen Kumar, Kewal Kumar and Ashok, presidents of Khatiyar, Sthana and Sihal fisheries cooperative societies, respectively, said water samples of the wetland had been found to be not contaminated in the test conducted by the Jal Shakti Department and bird flu had been contained.  “The district administration should lift the ban on fishing so that they could resume fish catching in the wetland. The government should consider the demand for compensation to fishermen,” they added. Sat Pal Mehta, Director, Fisheries Department, Bilaspur, said the department had submitted a proposal to the government for grant of compensation to fishermen affected by restrictions imposed on fishing in the Pong wetland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fishing-banned-fishermen-protest-loss-of-income-203342
25-01-2021||r Correspondent ---||BJP district chief cremated||Chamba, January 24  The mortal remains of BJP’s district president Yog Raj Sharma, who passed away in Chandigarh last night, were consigned to the flames at Chamba today.  A large number of people attended his funeral on the banks of the Ravi river. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur mourned the sudden demise of BJP Chamba district president Yog Raj Sharma, who died after prolonged illness.  The Chief Minister in his condolence message said his death was a great loss to the party as he contributed immensely for strengthening of the organisation.  The Chief Minister prayed to the Almighty to give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members to bear this loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-district-chief-cremated-203343
25-01-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Manali sees spurt in tourist footfall||Kullu, january 24Manali is witnessing a heavy influx of tourists since yesterday, courtsey a long weekend. The number of tourist vehicles reaching Manali has touched the 1,000 count per day, which was around 550 in the corresponding period last year.Hoteliers said most of the units in Manali were packed to capacity. The occupancy rate was around 80 per cent. The tourists were seen in heavy numbers at various tourist spots, especially the Solang Nullah to enjoy the snow.Atal Tunnel has not yet been opened to the tourists in the wake of snow on the road and avalanche threat near both portals of the tunnel. The tourist vehicles are not allowed to go beyond Palchan.Hoteliers said the tourism had gained momentum and a heavy rush was witnessed this weekend.Anup Ram Thakur, president, Manali Hoteliers Association, said such a huge arrival of tourists in January was witnessed for the first time.He said people were eager to go out of their homes after being bound for a long time due to the Covid outbreak. The daily positive cases too had reduced significantly.Thakur said the administration and the government should be prepared and make adequate arrangements to facilitate the tourists. Snow was the major attraction for tourists. The administration should arrange snow cutters to ensure their access to snow points.He said tourist vehicles should also be allowed to go up to Gulaba or the nearest snow point towards the Rohtang Pass. This would provide livelihood to the locals.Thakur said the road to the Hamta Pass should be repaired so that tourists could be diverted to other regions, rather than flocking to one area.Adequate police personnel, equipped with communication facilities, should be deployed to monitor the entire stretch between Manali and Solang Nullah to cope with the traffic issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-sees-spurt-in-tourist-footfall-203345
25-01-2021||Shimla||Amit Shah’s visit to Shimla cancelled||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s one day visit to Shimla to participate in golden jubilee celebrations of the Statehood Day as the chief guest has been cancelled but national BJP president JP Nadda will attend the function. However, Shah will address a rally virtually.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today visited The Ridge, Shimla, to review the arrangements regarding the celebrations of the golden jubilee function to be held tomorrow.He gave directions to the officers for making foolproof and elaborate arrangements to make the event a success and memorable. He also asked them to ensure that minimum inconvenience was caused to the public and tourists during the celebrations.Thakur also visited the exhibition stalls and gave directions to the officers concerned to make the exhibitions interesting so that people could get a glimpse of 50 years of the glorious journey of development the state had witnessed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amit-shahs-visit-to-shimla-cancelled-203346
25-01-2021||Shimla||Fresh snowfall in Kufri, Keylong||The cold wave, sweeping most parts of Himachal, further tightened its grip today as the mercury dropped by a few notches after a fresh snowfall in tribal areas and higher reaches while scattered moderate rain occurred at isolated places in mid and lower hills.Strong velocity icy winds accompanied by showers lashed Shimla and surrounding areas and Kufri recorded 2 cm snow while Shimla recorded 1.7 mm rain. Sky remained heavily overcast but rain and snow eluded the region.Gondla and Bharmaur received 31 cm and 30 cm of fresh snow while Keylong recorded 15 cm snow, followed by Hansa 8 cm, Kothi 7 cm and Kalpa 5 cm.Keylong was the coldest during the day with a high of minus 2.6 degree, followed by Dalhousie 3.5 degree, Kufri 6 degree, Kalpa 8.1 degree, Manali 10.4 degree, Shimla 10.8 degree, Dharamsala 14.8 degree.The MeT office has predicted dry weather in the region till February 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snowfall-in-kufri-keylong-203347
25-01-2021||---||Police Training College, Daroh, adjudged best||Shimla, January 24 Police Training College, (PTC) Daroh, won the Union Home Minister’s trophy for the best police institution for 2018-19 in the constable category at the national level, a spokesperson of the Police Department said here on Saturday. The PTC also won the zonal (North Zone) Union Home Minister’s trophy for 2017-18 in the non-gazetted officer category.  DSP (indoor) Kuldeep Kumar, ASP (outdoor) Praveen Kumar Dhiman, head constable (outdoor) Vinod Kumar and Constable Sunil Kumar won the Union Home Minister’s medal for excellence in police training for 2019-20.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-training-college-daroh-adjudged-best-203348
25-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||ZP elections bring to fore anti-incumbency in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 24The zila parishad elections have brought to the fore anti-incumbency in Kangra, politically the most significant district having 15 Assembly segments.Though the BJP has won 26 of the 54 seats, the effort the ruling party had put in to get that number shows anti-incumbency. Three ministers and eight MLAs were actively campaigning with full support of the ‘official machinery’.There are allegations that thousands of voters did not find their names in voter lists.The electoral rolls were hand-written that evoked criticism from candidates that their names were indecipherable for the voters. In some wards, about 30 per cent votes were rejected on technical reasons.Despite all this, the Congress managed to bag 19 zila parishad wards while Independents won nine. The margin of some Congress winning candidates in some wards was 6,000 votes.The victory of the Congress was more significant in view of the fact that there was hardly any effort at the party level to run a coordinated campaign. Most senior leaders left the party candidates to fend for themselves.The results have buoyed up the Kangra Congress leadership that had been in slumber for quite some time. They are now planning to launch a campaign against the government.Enquiries revealed that the increasing prices of petrol and diesel and charges of power and water and lack of connect of BJP leaders at the ground level led to the failure of the party in many areas.From the BJP, Minister for Forests Rakesh Pathania and Minister for Industries and Transport Bikram Thakur performed well in their areas.In Nurpur, represented by Rakesh Pathania, the BJP won two of the three wards.In Dehra, represented by Bikram Thakur, the BJP got three out of four wards. In Shahpur, represented by Minister for Social Justice Sarveen Chaudhary, the BJP  won just one zila parishad ward while Congress won three.Palampur is an area where the Congress has failed miserably as the BJP won all five wards.In Sulah, represented by Speaker Vipin Parmar, the BJP got just two seats while the Congress three. In Dharamsala, represented by BJP MLA Vishal Nehria, the party failed to open its account. The constituency had two wards, one was won by the Congress and other by an Independent.Where the party lost||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/zp-elections-bring-to-fore-anti-incumbency-in-kangra-203349
25-01-2021||Ambika Sharma||Race to rope in Ind in Sirmaur ZP||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 24With both the BJP and the Congress bagging eight seats each in the zila parishad polls in Sirmaur district, an independent candidate will be decisive in electing the chairman and vice chairman.There were 17 members in the Zila Parishad in the district. The post of chairperson is reserved for an other backward class (OBC) woman and the BJP has four such candidates in its winners list.Three women have won from the open wards while one has won from the ward reserved for OBC women. The Congress has two such candidates though they have won from the general wards.Efforts are on to rope in the support of an independent candidate Neelam Devi by both the parties. She has won from Bag Pashog ward, the home turf of the BJP’s state president Suresh Kashyap. A BJP rebel, she was supported by a section of the party leaders from this key ward.It remains to be seen who manages to secure the support of the independent candidate as she holds the key to the chairperson’s post. She could also be offered the chairperson’s post by both the parties as the Congress and the BJP both were keen to elevate their members to the two coveted posts.While senior leaders were making efforts to rope in her support it remains to be seen who would prevail upon her. The BJP has more at stake in the district as it is the home district of its state president Suresh Kashyap.With none of the parties having secured a majority, the candidates desirous of grabbing the two key posts by virtue of their seniority in the party are sure to be disappointed.About the Ind winner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/race-to-rope-in-ind-in-sirmaur-zp-203350
25-01-2021||---||Countdown for ZP top posts begins in Solan||Solan, January 24Countdown for securing the post of chairman and vice chairman of the zila parishad has begun in Solan district where seven independents hold the key. There were total 17 seats in the ZP.Notably, the BJP has bagged seven seats and their four BJP rebels - Asha Parihar, Amar Singh Thakur, Rina Devi and Kamlesh Pawar - also registered victories against the official nominees. The Congress could win merely three seats. Both parties were making efforts to rope in the remaining three independents.In a bid to secure the maximum support, the BJP leaders have roped in a Congress-supported candidate Sarbjit Kaur, who had won from the Manjholi ward.She was inducted into the party in the presence of BJP’s state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and district president Ashutosh Vaid at Nalagarh today. BJP leaders also claimed to have secured the support of another independent candidate from the Nalagarh belt.Leaving no stone unturned to secure the two top posts, the BJP leaders have already established contact with those elected as independents to secure their support.Since several senior BJP leaders had won as independents, it remains to be seen who would be chosen for the coveted posts of chairman and vice chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/countdown-for-zp-top-posts-begins-in-solan-203351
25-01-2021||Ravinder Sood---||Jaisinghpur’s Neha youngest panchayat pradhan in state||Palampur, January 24 At the age of 21, Neha Verma has become the youngest panchayat pradhan in the state. Voters of Tambar panchayat of Jaisinghpur sub-division of Kangra district have elected the young girl as their pardhan with an impressive margin. Neha secured 489 votes while the security deposits of all the remaining five candidates were forfeited. The panchayat was reserved for woman candidates. While talking to The Tribune, Neha said her mission was to bring important and radical changes in the society.  “I never thought about entering politics. I wanted to study and get a government job. These were the people around me who pushed me into panchayat elections. I had my reservations as I felt that I was too young to be a part of this, but their faith in me made me contest”. She said a campaign was launched against her in the society that if she got married there would be none to take care of panchayat and people would suffer.  However, she convinced the people that she would be with them and work whole-heartedly for five years with dedication and honesty for their welfare. She said she was grateful to villagers who reposed full faith and elected her with a heavy margin. Anil Verma, Neha’s father, said it was Neha‘s independent decision to contest elections and he gave her all support and encouragement. He is happy to see her as village head today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaisinghpurs-neha-youngest-panchayat-pradhan-in-state-203352
25-01-2021||Solan||Power minister enters counting centre, courts controversy||Power minister and Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chawdhary courted controversy last evening by allegedly entering a counting centre at a school at Taruwala where counting for the panchayat samiti wards was underway. The poll results were declared minutes after his arrival at the centre and the BJP candidate was declared victorious. A large crowd, which had assembled outside the school to know the poll results, objected to the minister’s presence at the centre and they indulged in sloganeering against him. Officials had to requisition a large police force to control the situation as Congress leaders alleged that the minister was unduly trying to help the BJP candidates. Shillai MLA Harshwardhan, who was present at the spot, said it was shameful that despite being a power minister he was demeaning the sanctity of his post. He asked whom had he come to meet and why had he come there while the counting was underway. Chauhan also alleged that the Congress candidate was winning by 44 votes but after the minister’s entry, the BJP candidate for the panchayat samiti for the Puruwala seat won by over 80 votes. He said only authorized agents can enter the counting centre and the minister’s presence has put a question mark over the fair counting at the said booth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-minister-enters-counting-centre-courts-controversy-203353
25-01-2021||---||BJP misused power: MLA||Mandi, January 24Vikramaditya Singh, Congress MLA from the Shimla Rural, has accused the BJP leadership of misusing the official machinery in the panchayat elections.He was talking to his supporters during a brief halt in Mandi on his way to Kullu from Shimla today.He alleged that the government was trying to influence the Congress-supported panchayat representatives to support BJP candidates for the posts of chairman and vice-chairman in the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections.He said the practice was not good for healthy democracy but the state government was misusing its power to grab the top posts.He said: “In a few districts, the Congress has performed well and we are hopeful that our candidates will grab the top posts. There is a need to work hard, where Congress has failed to perform.”Targeting Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, he said: “The development of the state has halted during the BJP regime and the Chief Minister is focusing only in his home Seraj.”“Now, it is high time for the Congress to work hard to win the upcoming Assembly elections, which is due next year,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-misused-power-mla-203354
25-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Pradhans, up-pradhans, take oath||NURPUR, JANUARY 24 Newly elected pradhans and up-pradhans of 51 gram panchayats and 25 members of Block Development Committee (BDC), Nurpur, were administered the oath of office by SDM Surinder Thakur here today. Local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, who presided over the swearing-in ceremony, exhorted the gram panchayat representatives to shun bitterness, if any, crept in while contesting elections and engage themselves in the development of their rural areas. He advised them to work for the welfare of the residents of the gram panchayat without any bias as most of the people in the rural area were unaware of the benefits of government-sponsored schemes.  “It is the duty of the newly elected panchayat representatives to educate and motivate the eligible people for taking benefits of government welfare schemes,” he reiterated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pradhans-up-pradhans-take-oath-203355
25-01-2021||Shimla||21 Covid cases, 2 die||With 21 new cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases reached 57,210 the last 24 hours.Two persons, one each in Kangra and Mandi, succumbed to the virus, taking the fatality figure to 961. The highest number of eight cases were reported in Shimla, six in Kangra, four in Solan, two in Chamba and one in Kullu. With this, the total number of active cases was 436 . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/21-covid-cases-2-die-203356
25-01-2021||---||Building gutted in Solan||Solan,January 24 Fire erupted in a building which houses a chemist, cloth and an artificial ornaments shops on the Mall Road here this evening.  Being a Sunday, all shops were closed but a passerby noticed smoke billowing out from the chemist shop.  He raised the alarm after which the firemen were informed. The fire tender  had to go for a refill, which delayed fire fighting operations. Loss worth lakhs was suffered by the three shops as a large quantity of material was burnt. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.  It took more than two hours to control the blaze which damaged the two nearby shops by the time the fire-fighting operations could begin. LPG cylinders housed in a nearby godown of the Civil Supplies Corporation were  also shifted.  SDM Solan Ajay Yadav said as per preliminary probe, short circuit appeared to have caused the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/building-gutted-in-solan-203357
25-01-2021||---||Scrap service panel: Power union||Shimla, January 24  The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) Employees Union has urged Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary to scrap the Service Committee as it is in contravention to the provisions and objective of the Electricity Act, 2003, as well as the Company Act.    General secretary Hira Lal Verma alleged that the committee comprising the Additional Chief Secretary (Power),  the Principal Secretary (Finance) and the managing director (HPSEBL) could not meet even  once in the last 13 months, resulting in the pendency of several important issues like manpower.    Verma further said the committee was arbitrarily constituted by the government. “The AGM and the Board of Directors had absolute powers to take any decision and frame rules to carry out its day-to-day activities, but the government has arbitrarily placed the committee over these authorities,” alleged Verma.  He further alleged that the proposals placed before the committee were being decided in a distorted manner, resulting in impractical decisions and creating mess in various structures like pay, R&P rules, staffing norms of organisations, etc”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scrap-service-panel-power-union-203358
25-01-2021||People of the Mangla area||Ropeway link sought for Mangla||Old buses releasing smokeMany old private buses in Shimla release dark plumes of smoke, especially while being plied on uphill stretches. The release of this toxic smoke not only affects the air quality, but also makes people travelling in vehicles right behind them, especially those on two-wheelers, uncomfortable— Rajan Gupta, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ropeway-link-sought-for-mangla-203373
25-01-2021||Joginder and Madhvi||Students selected for national contest||ABVP pays tribute to NetajiThe ABVP paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary outside the DC office on Saturday. On this occasion, the ABVP talked about his life and contribution in the freedom struggle. The ABVP celebrates the occasion every year and this time the government celebrated the day as 'Parakram Divas'.Teachers’ plea on pay panelThe Himachal Government Teachers Association has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to the make financial provision in the budget of the next financial year to implement the recommendations of the new pay commission. The association further hopes that the CM, as per the BJP's election manifesto, will reduce the contract period from three years to two years.Varsity holds acupressure sessionThe Campus Mentoring Cell, Himachal Pradesh National Law University, organised a day-long online acupressure session for its students, staff and members of the public on Saturday. The internationally recognised expert of the technique, Dr Ketan V Shah, elucidated upon pressure points in various parts of the body and their connections with the main organs. He trained the participants and stressed upon the significance of these organs and their role in determining our social, emotional and mental lives. Prof Nishtha Jaswal, Vice-Chancellor of the University, offered her views on positive attitude and healthy lifestyle and delivered the vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-selected-for-national-contest-203374
25-01-2021||Women empowerment still seems a distant dream. At least that is what the happenings of the Baddi Municipal Committee depict. At a meeting convened by the Superintendent of Police (SP)||Women empowerment a distant dream||Babus wield more influenceIn Kangra it seems that some bureaucrats, who keep connect with people, are more powerful that certain political leaders who have limited themselves to sycophancy of senior leadership rather than working for people at the ground level. In certain municipal council president elections, some independent candidates were ready to support the BJP choice on request from bureaucrats but as soon as some political leaders of ruling party intervened they shifted to Congress. This illustrated that the ruling party was nurturing certain rootless leaders who hardly have any connect with people.Shoddy poll managementCounting for panchayat samiti (PS) and zila parishad (ZP) wards took a record two days in Paonta Sahib block in Sirmaur district. Making a mockery of the system this prolonged counting has put a question mark over the process as anxious candidates waited for over 48 hours for the results. More staff could have been deputed for counting given the fact that there were 40 PS and six ZP wards where polling took place. With recounting of certain wards and allegations of power minister entering a counting centre, the polls have left a bitter taste among the aspirants. The shoddy poll management has come under the scanner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/women-empowerment-a-distant-dream-203375
