26-01-2021||Shimla||Republic Day celebrated in Himachal amid chill||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated across Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday with gaiety despite a sunny but chilly morning.Governor Bandaru Dattatreya unfurled the national flag at the historic Ridge in the state capital where Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, his cabinet colleagues and government functionaries were among those present.In snow-marooned Keylong, headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti, and Rekong Peo in Kinnaur district, people took part in the flag-unfurling ceremonies and also witnessed the march past by the security personnel as well as cultural programmes staged by children.Cabinet ministers Ram Lal Markanda and Sukh Ram Chaudhary presided over the functions in Keylong and Rekong Peo, respectively.In Shimla, the Governor took the salute at an impressive parade by contingents of the police, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Home Guards, Army, NCC and Ex-Servicemen. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/republic-day-celebrated-in-himachal-amid-chill-203962
26-01-2021||Subhash Rajta||Elections bring cheer to traditional musicians||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 25It was well past midnight and the temperature was hovering around zero degree. Nevertheless, every time a winner was announced for any BDC ward and Zila Parishad, the place would reverberate with musical notes emanating from the traditional musical instruments like dhol, nagara, karnal and shehnai. “Any celebration is incomplete without these instruments and the people playing them,” said a member of a victorious party, while dancing to their melodious tunes. For the record, playing of these instruments is a must at functions related to local deities, weddings and other celebrations in this part of the world.Even though it was late in the night, the teams playing these instruments were not complaining either. For them, elections came as a blessing after the pandemic and its consequences. “We had a tough time during the lockdown and even after it. We hardly had any bookings. It was financially tough for us,” said Arun, a member of the local team. “Elections have been great for us. There’s so much demand that we have to say no to many. We are covering up some of our losses,” he added.The situation, seems, equally good for the people into traditional musical instruments elsewhere too. “During elections, we are in high demand and it’s no different this time too,” said Master Leeladhar from Karsog. “We are not overcharging even when the demand is high. We have to see so many things,” he said.Even as people are turning towards DJ systems and bands during celebrations like weddings, these people are still holding their ground. Amidst fears that this music would go silent sooner than later, its practitioners have no such fears. “We and our music are closely associated with our local deities. As long as deities are there, people have faith in them, we are not going anywhere,” said Ramesh Gandharv. “It’s in our blood and is passed on from generation to another,” he said.But will the coming generation take up this profession? “That depends on people. If they continue to value it, there will always be someone playing these traditional instruments. If they stop giving it importance, then obviously you not find many willing to play them,” said Ramesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/elections-bring-cheer-to-traditional-musicians-203904
26-01-2021||---||Team visits Lahaul to explore ski slopes for championship||Our CorrespondentKullu, January 25A team of the Ski and Snowboard India (SSI) and the Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association visited Lahaul and Spiti district to explore new ski slopes for conducting a state-level ski and snowboarding competition in Manali and Lahaul.The opening of the Atal Tunnel has created new scope for promoting winter sports in the Lahaul area. The team looked for an alternative to Solang Nullah slopes and explored new slopes at Dhundi near Manali and Sissu and Gondhla in the Chandra valley at Lahaul.SSI general secretary Roop Chand Negi said the technical committee reviewed the availability of snow in the Lahaul valley to conduct the state championship. He said the amount of snow was not adequate in Lahaul valley for the championship and survey of slopes of Hamta Pass would be done to determine feasibility to hold the championship. He said the championship was being planned in February.Negi said the selection committee of Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association will finalise sportspersons for various events for the Junior National Championship to be held at Gulmarg in Kashmir from February 6 to 10. He added that sportspersons of Himachal will also participate in the senior national championship to be held in Auli at Uttarakhand during the first week of March. He added that an open championship could also be conducted near Koksar in Lahaul during March or April.Officials of the Lahaul and Spiti district administration and members of the Sissu panchayat also assisted the technical committee in carrying out the survey of slopes and snow.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel had opened new avenues for promoting winter sports in the valley and this will also enhance the talent of the local youth. He added that this will also promote tourism in the valley and provide opportunities to locals to develop new sources of livelihood.The SSI is the main body of ski and snowboarding in the country after the Winter Games Federation of India (WGFI) was de-recognised by the Sports Ministry in 2018 due to irregularities in the elections. The SSI has been recognised as a “full member” of the International Ski Federation (FIS), the apex body for international winter sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-visits-lahaul-to-explore-ski-slopes-for-championship-203903
26-01-2021||---||Farmers’ photo gallery opened at Palampur agri university||Our CorrespondentPalampur, January 25Suman Lata, a progressive farmer of the Kangra district, today inaugurated a photo gallery of progressive farmers at the CSK HPKV Agriculture University in the presence of Vice-Chancellor HK Chaudhry to mark the golden jubilee of the statehood of Himachal Pradesh.While addressing farmers and scientists, Chaudhry said initially, photographs of 32 progressive farmers from all over the state, including seven farm ladies, had been displayed and in future more photographs would be added to the gallery.Besides, University Krishi Vigyan Kendras will also display photos of farmers in their premises.He urged the farmers to learn, adopt and spread the University technology among other farmers and they would be suitably rewarded.The Vice-Chancellor talked about the major achievements of the university after Himachal Pradesh attained full statehood.He said besides policies and programmes of the state government, the university had contributed tremendously for making the state self-sufficient on the food front as more than 80 per cent area under wheat and paddy was covered under the improved varieties developed by his university.Dr Mandeep Sharma, Dean, Dr GC Negi College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences, elaborated the progress of state in the last 50 years.Some progressive farmers also spoke on the occasion and expressed their happiness over the honour given to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-photo-gallery-opened-at-palampur-agri-university-203902
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Pathania is state prez of scouting body||NURPUR, JANUARY 25Nurpur MLA and Forest and Sports and Youths Affairs Minister Rakesh Pathania was appointed state’s president of scouting and guiding organization last evening. Sunil Krishan Kaul, national president of the organization while honoring him as new president of the state federation, said the National Scouting and Guiding Organization had been founded in India in 1909 as an overseas branch of the scout organization and became a member of the world organization in 1938.Kaul said the objective of the organization was to develop inherent potential of the youngsters by providing them a number of structured activities in order to make them physically, mentally, socially, spiritually and emotionally strong and useful citizens of the nation.Kaul asserted that Pathania, who was also an old scout, had long association with sports activities and he would give a boost to these activities across the state.Pathania, while expressing gratitude to the national Scouting and Guiding Organization for appointing him state president of the organization, said he would spread this movement among the youngsters, especially in the schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathania-is-state-prez-of-scouting-body-203901
26-01-2021||---||13 police chowkis in Kangra to lodge FIRs at people’s doorstep||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR, JANUARY 25After the decision of the state government to provide the facility of lodging of FIRs or police complaints at their doorstep, the Kangra district police administration has designated 13 out of 25 police chowkis in the district as Reporting Police Posts (RPPs). The people under the jurisdiction of these designated RPPs will get the facility to file their police complaints at their doorstep. A provision has also been made for people to procure character verification certificates through these RPPs.Kangra SP Vimukat Ranjan told The Tribune today that 13 police chowkis that had been designated as RPPs were Yol, Tanda, Ranital, Dadasibha, Multhan, Sansarpur Terrace, Badoh, Chadiyar, Lagru, Kotla, Sadwan, Thakurdwara and Dhangupeer.He said these RPPs had been made functional after equipping these with computers, printers and internet connections. “The applicants will approach these RPPs which have online connectivity with respective police stations,” he informed.Inquiries reveal that 11 out of 25 police chowkis across the district had been functioning for a long time on a temporary basis as the successive state governments had failed to notify these chowkis. In Nurpur region, Kandwal, Gangath and Rehan police chowkis are still working on a makeshift basis and waiting to be notified by the state government.These chowkis could not be designated as RPPs causing a lot of resentment among residents as they still have to travel to reach the Nurpur police station for the registration of FIRs and procuring character certificates required for various official purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-police-chowkis-in-kangra-to-lodge-firs-at-peoples-doorstep-203900
26-01-2021||Shimla||Three tourists die in mishap||Three tourists were killed on the spot while two others sustained serious injuries when the vehicle (DL10 CB 8018) they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Narkanda late last night.The deceased were identified as Ishank Sharma (24), Gaurav (26) and Rashim Sharma (26) while the injured were Yamin and Ritika, all were from Delhi.The tourists had come to Narkanda and were returning to Shimla. The bodies had been handed over to family members after post-mortem while the critically injured were under treatment at the IGMC-Shimla, said police sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-tourists-die-in-mishap-203899
26-01-2021||Ravinder Sood||9 income tax offices face closure||Palampur, January 25Nine single income tax offices are likely to be closed as there is no workload left after the Income Tax Department has switched over to the faceless assessments regime in the country after withdrawing all assessment powers from jurisdictional officers.No workloadIn August 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to tax payers, had promised the faceless assessment regime and thereafter the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) switched over to a new assessment procedure that is without knowing the names and address of officers conducting the assessment with a sole motive to avoid the victimisation of the tax payers. Now, no workload is left with most offices. Therefore, the CBDT wanted to utilize their services somewhere else.The CBDT, in a letter to all Chief Commissioner of Income (admin) last week, sought the details of all such offices in the country so that steps be taken to close these. The step was also seen as a major austerity measures. The letter also indicated that offices being run from the rented buildings would be closed in first phase.“In Himachal Pradesh, there are nine single station income tax offices in Dharmsala, Una, Nurpur, Dalhousie, Kullu, Sundernagar, Nahan, Baddi and Rampur and may face closure. However, other single station offices like Hamirpur and Bilaspur have their own buildings and there is no threat to these offices,” said an officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-income-tax-offices-face-closure-203898
26-01-2021||---||Himachal logs 35 Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 25With 35 new cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 57,245 in the past 24 hours.There was no Covid death. The highest number of 11 cases was reported in Sirmaur, seven in Shimla, five in Solan, four in Hamirpur, three in Kangra, two in Una and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Mandi.The total number of active cases was 408 .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-logs-35-covid-cases-203896
26-01-2021||Solan||Alumnus of Dagshai school gets medal||Major Aman Singh, an alumnus of Army Public School, Dagshai, has been awarded the Sena Medal (Gallantry).He has been serving with the 14 Rashtriya Rifles (Garhwal Rifles) since April 2017. He had joined the school in 1997 in Class VIII and hails from Mohali.Elated at the achievement, school Principal Dr SK Mishra said it was a great moment for the school, especially the staff and moreso as Major Aman Singh belongs to the civilian background.The Major led a successful counter-insurgency operation on November 10, 2019, in which two terrorists were eliminated, including a top Lashkar-e-Toiba commander, in Bandipore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/alumnus-of-dagshai-school-gets-medal-203895
26-01-2021||Solan||Vehicle carrying poultry birds seized in Solan||The Solan police seized a utility van carrying poultry birds at the Dohri Dwar area of Solan in the wee hours today despite a ban on poultry from other states.Solan SP Abhishek Yadav said the vehicle had come from Shahbad in Haryana and was headed to Shimla district. The occupants could not produce any permit or licence for the poultry birds.A case has been registered against driver Lekh Raj and his companion Anup Kumar, both of whom hail from Theog in Shimla district.The birds have been sent back to Shahbad as the government has banned the entry of poultry from other states in view of the detection of avian influenza.It was also being probed as to which route they had taken to reach Solan as the police was checking entry of all such vehicles from the Parwanoo interstate barrier.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicle-carrying-poultry-birds-seized-in-solan-203894
26-01-2021||Shimla||President’s Police Medal for 5||Five officers of the Himachal Police have been awarded President’s Police Medal on Republic Day.Additional DGP (CID) N Venugopal, SP, Vigilance, Omapati Jamwal, SP, Welfare, Bhagat Singh, Sub-Inspector (Police Training Centre, Daroh) Satpal and honorary head constable Rajender Kumar have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/presidents-police-medal-for-5-203893
26-01-2021||Shimla||BJP to discuss results in February||The state executive of the BJP will meet in February to hold a detailed discussion on the results of panchayati raj elections and training camps will be organised for party leaders, BJP president Suresh Kashyap said today.Presiding over a meeting of office-bearers, he said the discussion would also be held on the construction of party office in all 17 organisational districts. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, in-charge of party affairs in the state Avinash Rai Khanna and co in-charge Sanjay Tandon were also present at the meeting.Khanna said now the BJP would focus on elections to municipal corporations and expressed confidence that the party would fare better in the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-discuss-results-in-february-203892
26-01-2021||Nine students of the Mata Padmawati College of Nursing||Nursing officers selected||Faculty development programmeA five-day faculty development programme (FDP) 'AutoCAD for all' was organised by the Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Shoolini University. All concepts related to 2D drafting of AutoCAD were taught with hands-on practical exercises during the programme. The event was inaugurated by University Chancellor PK Khosla. He highlighted the importance of computer and learning design software in every field. The FDP is being conducted by Dr Amar Raj Singh, Associate Professor (Mechanical Engineering). He said the course was basically intended for those with non-engineering background to learn basic concepts of design.ABVP: Start admission in ICDEOLThe ABVP has demanded the resumption of admission in International Centre for Distance Education and Open Learning (ICDEOL), HPU. In a memorandum submitted to the ICDEOL Director, the ABVP claimed that no admissions had been done in the ICDEOL for the last one year. Normally, admissions are done twice a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nursing-officers-selected-203891
26-01-2021||PEOPLE living on the banks of the Budhil rivulet and surrounding hill slopes||Check soil erosion: Tribals||— A villager, Budhil slopes, BharmourWrong parking spells chaosROADSIDE parking on the Naddi road near Dal lake area has become a bane for commuters going to Naddi or its adjoining areas. Traffic jams have become order of the day despite the fact that very few tourists are coming to the area. The police should challan those who are encroaching upon narrow roads near the Dal lake area by parking their vehicles. — Vikas Kapoor, NaddiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-soil-erosion-tribals-203890
26-01-2021||---||Snow fest begins in Keylong||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 25Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda inaugurated the snow festival at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti today to promote tourism, preserve and showcase the culture and traditional sports of the tribal district.On the occasion, he inaugurated the traditional sports archery event and flagged off a sanitation vehicle at Keylong. He gave a message of road safety to the people of district. Marakanda also inaugurated a stall of traditional dishes.“After the opening of the Atal Tunnel, the people of the Lahaul valley have gotten rid of the snow captivity during the winter season this year,” he said. He said, “This festival will be celebrated every year in the district. Through this festival, efforts would be made to promote the rich culture and traditional sports of Lahaul and Spiti on the global map.” He said in the coming years, efforts would be made to attract more tourists here in the district. He said adequate arrangements would be made for transport to the valley so that tourists can enjoy the festival.Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai also spoke on the occasion. Many dignitaries, including all district officials, were present in the programme. On the first day of the event, folk dance was presented on the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-fest-begins-in-keylong-203889
26-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Rain shelters in parking places draw criticism||Tribune New ServiceDharamsala, January 25Rain shelters being developed under the Smart City Project here have come in for criticism from Dharamsala residents. They allege that these shelters are being created on scarce parking spaces in the city and their design make them impractical for a place like Dharamsala that receives lots of rain.‘Design not suitable for city’The design of the rain shelters is not appropriate. The shelters are open from all sides and covered with tin sheets only at the top. In Dharamsala city, which receives very heavy rainfall during the monsoons, these open rain shelters are not suitable. — Kamal Kumar, resident, DharamsalaDevesh Sharma, a resident of Dharamsala, says that the rain shelter near the office of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation does not seem to be a smart solution. There is no parking place near the corporation office. People visiting the municipal corporation used to park their vehicles in the bus lay bay in the area that can accommodate about 10 cars. Under the Smart City Project, a platform has been created on the bus lay bay. Now, neither a bus nor other vehicles can be parked near the Dharamsala MC office, he adds.Kamal Kumar, another resident of the city, says, “The design of the rain shelters is not appropriate. The shelters are open from all sides and covered with tin sheets only at the top. In Dharamsala city that receives very heavy rainfall during the monsoons, these open rain shelters are not suitable”.These shelters without side protection have been brought up near the Deputy Commissioner’s office and other places in Dharamsala.Pradeep Thakur, Commissioner of Dharamsala MC who is also the Managing Director of the Smart City Project, says that the rain shelters were constructed after taking suggestions from local residents and as per the project approved by the board of directors of Smart City company.Regarding the parking near the MC office being sacrificed for a rain shelter, he said that soon a new parking space would be created there.Meanwhile, Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor chaired a meeting on the implementation of the Smart City Project in Dharamsala. Officials briefed him regarding the status of various developmental projects being implemented under the Smart City Project. The project officials alleged that some government departments were not transferring land or allowing them to use their land, delaying works.The Smart City Dharamsala Project is facing criticism for initiating all development works in already developed areas of Dharamsala. The project authorities have been accused of ignoring eight villages that were merged in the corporation area when the Dharamsala Municipal Council was upgraded to a corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-shelters-in-parking-places-draw-criticism-203888
26-01-2021||---||40 join skiing at Trilokinath slopes||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 25To encourage the youth of the Lahaul valley to take up winter sports, the Winter Sports Club Shakoli in association with the Saat Dhara Club Hinsa is organising skiing courses free of cost at Trilokinath slopes in Lahaul and Spiti district.It is for the first time that skiing courses are being organised for winter sports lovers from any part of the country free of cost at Trilokinath slopes of the Lahaul valley, which remains covered with a thick blanket of snow throughout the winter.The first basic course was inaugurated recently with 40 youths from the valley participating. Many more youths have applied for the courses. People from outside Lahaul could not apply for free basic courses as the Manali-Atal Tunnel-Lahaul road is closed for normal traffic in view of heavy snowfall in the region.Jai Ram Thakur, coordinator of skiing courses, said that trained skiers Duni Thakur and Rohit Lopa would provide the basic training to the participants. He added that Lama Hinshey, priest of the Trilokinath temple and Dr Vishesh Thakur, inaugurated the first course.“The courses are free of cost. We have 40 participants in the first eight-day basic course. The courses will continue during the winter. Unfortunately, the youths from outside Lahaul and Spiti district cannot access the Lahaul valley to take part in the basic course of skiing due to the lack of transportation facility,” he said.He said that Lahaul experiences a longer winter than other parts of the state and the valley could become a winter sports hub of the country due to its vast and amazing natural ski slopes.“The quality of snow in Lahaul is perfect for skiing due to the cold weather. The natural slopes of Trilokinath are over 2 km long. All that is needed is little infrastructure improvement to promote skiing in the region,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/40-join-skiing-at-trilokinath-slopes-203883
26-01-2021||---||Cap of missing pilot recovered||Our CorrespondentPalampur, January 25A rescue team recovered the cap of missing paraglider Rohit Badhoria from the Dhauladhars, about 10 km from Baijnath, on Saturday. However, the team failed to trace him or his parachute. The missing pilot was last seen on January 8.Family members of Rohit had also identified his cap. It was found after crossing the Jalsu Pass at a height of 12,000 feet. it was snowing heavily, therefore, the rescue operation had to be abandoned half way. At present, the higher reaches of the Dhauladhars were under eight to 10 feet of snow. Therefore, it was a tough task to reach there and recover him.A senior government officer said if whether permitted, the search operation would again begin this week. Resuce teams would be sent via Chamba. The administration was hopeful that the missing pilot would be recovered soon.Rohit of Delhi had gone missing on January 8 after taking off from Billing. A number of search operations were launched to trace the pilot but in vain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cap-of-missing-pilot-recovered-203875
26-01-2021||---||Congress objects to Sundernagar MLA’s presence in oath ceremony||Mandi, January 25Congress leaders raised a question mark over the presence of BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal in the oath-taking ceremony of Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) representatives at Sundernagar in Mandi district yesterday.Congress leader Sohan Lal Thakur alleged that the presence of Jamwal in the oath-taking ceremony of pradhan and up-pradhan of different panchayats was an attempt to influence the newly elected PRI representatives to support the BJP.“No MLA or minister joined the oath-taking ceremony of newly elected PRI representatives in Mandi district, except BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal at Sundernagar”, Sohan Lal said.He said that due to Covid scare, the oath-taking ceremony of these PRI representatives was undertaken by sub divisional magistrates of the areas concerned under their jurisdiction in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-objects-to-sundernagar-mlas-presence-in-oath-ceremony-203868
26-01-2021||---||Rift in Cong blamed for rout in Solan ZP poll||Solan, January 25The district unit of the Congress is facing the ire of party leaders who had lost the Zila Parishad poll allegedly due to factionalism within the party.Won only 3 seatsBaldev Thakur, who was the party’s nominee from the Salogra ward in Solan block, today blamed the senior party leaders for the defeat. He alleged that senior party leaders had blamed the Solan MLA openly before the media and they worked against the party candidates. All this proved instrumental in his defeat.Another senior leader from Arki DD Sharma, who had occupied significant posts like block development committee member, state general secretary, district vice president, etc., today resigned from the primary membership of the Congress as well as from the post of district convener of the Rajiv Gandhi panchayati raj organisation in the party. He had lost from the Domehar ward in the ZP polls held recently.Arki is the home turf of former CM Virbhadra Singh.Addressing mediapersons at Arki, he alleged that three zila parishad candidates had lost from Arki and this has put a question mark over the local leaders who were favouring weak candidates.He blamed factionalism within the local Congress unit as well as pursuance of dynasty politics for this dismal performance. He questioned when three pradhans can win polls from the home turf of the state secretary from Kunihar, how could the BJP candidate secure huge lead from the same area. He said this has put a question mark over the working of the local leaders who were hand in gloves with the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rift-in-cong-blamed-for-rout-in-solan-zp-poll-203867
26-01-2021||Kullu||Statehood Day celebrated  in Kullu||Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma presided over the district-level function of the Statehood Day at Dhalpur ground here today. During her address, she said the district was blessed with natural beauty which attracted tourists throughout the year. She said the tourism industry had provided employment to thousands of people. Adventure activities like paragliding, river rafting, skiing etc. attracted tourists and had become a source of livelihood for many people. She added that possibilities of water sports were being explored in various reservoirs of this district. She added that the Atal Tunnel was setting new dimensions in the field of tourism besides allowing perennial connectivity to tribal areas.The DC said a strong network of health institutions was available in the district. She said a Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) having a 100-bed capacity and equipped with all facilities had been set up at the regional hospital in Kullu. She said Rs 37.67 crore had been provided for free treatment of over 10,000 beneficiaries in the district under the HIMCARE scheme. Litterateur Dr Surat Thakur, in his address, said Kullu was a historical district with rich traditions and culture and its people were peace-loving, innocent and hospitable, due to which a large number of tourists were attracted to this area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/statehood-day-celebrated-in-kullu-203866
26-01-2021||Chamba||Cong holds programme to mark 50 yrs of statehood||To mark the golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh’s Statehood Day, a programme was organised by the District Congress Committee (DCC) here today. DCC president Neeraj Nayar unfurled the National Flag.Nayar and Block Congress Committee president Kartar Singh Thakur presented a wreath by lighting the lamp in front of the photographs of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and first Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar.Addressing the gathering, Nayar said it was the result of Dr YS Parmar’s determination and efforts that today Himachal was celebrating the golden jubilee of Statehood Day. He recalled the words of Indira Gandhi who had announced the grant of full statehood to Himachal on January 25, 1971, from The Ridge maidan in Shimla. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-holds-programme-to-mark-50-yrs-of-statehood-203865
26-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Social distancing norms given the go-by at function||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 25Social distancing norms were thrown to the winds during the golden jubilee celebrations of the Statehood Day function on The Ridge here today. Many people were seen without masks. However, the number of people allowed was in accordance with the norms.Over 1,000 banners, cutouts and posters, mostly of BJP leaders, were displayed in the town.The stamp, designed for the 50-year celebration of Statehood, by Chairman, Department of Visual Arts, Himachal Pradesh University, Prof Him Chatterjee, was released. The design reflected the essence of 50 years with map of Himachal Pradesh in orange colour in the background, symbolising Devbhoomi.The snow-clad mountain range represents “Him” (snow) while a round colourful Himachali cap symbolising people of Himachal and their identity nestles in its “anchal” (lap). Above the cap were 18 chakras depicting the 18th state of India.The exhibition showcasing the journey of the state was a treat to eyes but officers deputed in the tourism corner had no idea about the number of tourism properties in the government sector in 1971 and now, and passed the buck by saying that the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation could tell.Moreover, tourists were not allowed in the exhibition after it was inaugurated and told to visit after the public function concluded. The enthusiasm among the public had faded to some extent after the cancellation of Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit. The public started leaving the venue during the Chief Minister’s speech and the trend continued during the speech of BJP president JP Nadda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/social-distancing-norms-given-the-go-by-at-function-203864
26-01-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Successive govts ensured Himachal’s growth: JP Nadda||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 25BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda said Himachal had emerged as a leading state which was competing with big states in the field of development due to the tireless efforts of successive governments since the state came into being in 1971.Speaking at the golden jubilee Statehood Day function here today, Nadda said Himachal had surged ahead to emerge as one of the most developed states in the country, be it in the field of health, education or infrastructure development. He said every Himachali must rise above political considerations to ensure that the state achieved greater heights and becomes number one in every field.Tributes to Dr ParmarBJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda paid glowing tribute to first Chief Minister Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar while reminiscing his simplicity and humility. “Have you heard of a former Chief Minister going to the bus stand to catch a bus to travel to his village and walking around with knapsack on his back,” said Nadda. He said Himachalis were known for this simplicity which was their biggest strength. He also referred to Shanta Kumar as “Pani wale mukhyamantri” and PK Dhumal as “Sadkon wale mukhyamantri”.“We need to identify our potential, especially in the field of tourism, power, horticulture and agriculture and utilise it fully to our advantage,” he remarked. He credited successive regimes with ensuring all round development of Himachal, beginning with Dr YS Parmar, Thakur Ram Lal, Virbhadra Singh, Shanta Kumar and PK Dhumal. He added that it was former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who provided special economic package to the state and laid the foundation stone of the Rohtang tunnel. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had same love and affection for Himachal and it is for this that Himachal got financial benefit due to grant of a special category state.Addressing a gathering, JP Nadda said as Himachal celebrates its golden jubilee, the headline published in The Tribune on January 25, 1971, remains etched in his memory till date. “As an 11-year-old boy, I asked my maternal uncle the meaning of statehood and today I can say with pride that we have come a long way,” he said in his address. He said he feels proud to be called a Himachali.He said as Himachal completes 50 years of its existence, it was time for introspection and identifying our strengths. “People call Himachalis simple, hard working and honest and I would like to reiterate that this simplicity is the biggest strength of we hill people and not our weakness as many might perceive,” he remarked. He said the people of Himachal must retain this quality as in the long run, it is this very this simplicity and honesty which pays.While congratulating the people, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya said Himachal had made unprecedented development due to dedicated leadership, strong will power and hard work of the people. By giving priority to education, health, roads, electricity, water, social security and tribal welfare, the state had achieved socio-economic goals, making it a model state, he added.Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur paid tributes to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and gave credit to successive chief ministers - Dr YS Parmar, Shanta Kumar, Virbhadra Singh and PK Dhumal — for ensuring state’s development. “I would be failing in my duty if I don’t express my gratitude towards former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had special affinity with the hill state,” he said.“Connectivity remains one of the biggest challenges for Himachal as it is a requisite for tourism promotion and industrial growth,” he said. He said rising above political considerations, everyone in the state must join hands to ensure Himachal becomes number one state. He said efforts had been made to rope in industrial investment by holding Global Investors meet and work on projects worth Rs 10,000 crores had already started.Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said the endeavour of every Himachali in the next 25 years journey from golden to platinum jubilee, should be to take Himachal to number one position in the country in every field. “I urge the Chief Minister to prepare the road map for this journey in which we all must rise above political considerations and join hands to make Himachal number of in clean green energy, carbon neutral state and the most preferred tourist destination,” he urged.Those present on the occasion on historic occasion on The Ridge here included state BJP president Suresh Kashyap, ministers, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, MLAs, party functionaries and senior officials. Union Home Minister Amit Shah who was to address the function virtually could not do so as he remained busy in a meeting.Twitter abuzz with congratulatory messagesCongratulations to people of Himachal on Statehood Day. Bestowed with the gift of nature, the prosperous Devbhoomi is the centre of spiritualism, culture and tourism and ahead in many parameters of development. I wish that the state reaches new heights of development — Ram Nath Kovind, PresidentMy heartiest good wishes to the people of Himachal Pradesh on completion of 50 years of statehood. Famous for natural beauty and attractive tourist destinations, the state may continue to set new records of development and contribute to progress of the country — Narendra Modi, Prime MinisterCongratulations and best wishes to the people of Himachal Pradesh on Golden Jubilee of statehood. Himachal is setting new records of development and prosperity under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. I wish continued progress of the state — Amit Shah, Home MinisterCongratulations to Himachalis on the 50th anniversary of statehood. Repository of cultural and social heritage with immense natural beauty, Himachal is marching on the path of development and I wish happiness, good health and bright feature to all people of the state — JP Nadda, BJP national president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/successive-govts-ensured-himachals-growth-jp-nadda-203863
26-01-2021||---||MHA announces 946 police medals; northern states bag 128; J-K tops with 71||New Delhi, January 25The government on Monday announced a total of 946 medals for the police persons in the country, which will be awarded to them on the occasion of Republic Day with two personnel - one each from Jharkhand Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) - receiving the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously.Among the majority of the 207 Gallantry awards, 137 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in Jammu and Kashmir, 24 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremism affected areas and one personnel for their gallant action in North-East Region.Among the states and Union Territories, the northern region bagged 128 medals in different categories with Jammu and Kashmir topping the list with 71 medals, followed by Punjab (21), Delhi (17) Haryana (14) and Himachal Pradesh (5).  Among the personnel from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) receiving the awards, 132 are from CRPF, 71 are from BSF, 26 from CISF and 17 are from ITBP.Among the investigative agencies, 31 personnel have been awarded with the medals, while NIA received 6 and the Intelligence Bureau got 34.These medals are given in four categories with the highest one being the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, followed by Police Medal for Gallantry and then police officers are awarded for their distinguished and meritorious services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mha-announces-946-police-medals-northern-states-bag-128-j-k-tops-with-71-203472
