29-01-2021||The Research Committee Himachal Pradesh held a discussion ahead of the Budget in which various sectors like health||Pre-Budget discussion held||400 take part in Science CongressThe Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE) is organising the 28th Himachal Pradesh Children Science Congress (HPCSC) through video conferencing. Around 400 children are participating in the event being held from January 28 to 30. Scientific project report, science activity corner, maths Olympiad, science quiz will be organised for the students of Classes VI to XII during the event. HIMCOSTE has been involved in popularising science programmes since its inception in 1986.11 chosen for nat'l competitionThe Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, New Delhi, and National Innovation Foundation (NIF), Ahmedabad have organised Inspire Awards-Manak-2019-20 in Himachal Pradesh. The science programme is for innovative students from Classes VI to XII. Students will prepare prototypes on science model/projects/innovative discoveries. At the district level, 284 participants participated and only 254 confirmed and uploaded their models online on the MANAK Competition App developed by the National Innovation Foundation (NIF). More than 1,100 students participated in all district-level competitions. After the success of the state-level competition, only 11 students were selected for the national-level competition. Of these 11 students, five are from Shimla district. All students were evaluated by eminent scientists from National Innovation Foundation and various experts from renowned universities of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pre-budget-discussion-held-205007
29-01-2021||Stray dogs in the Civil Lines area have become a menace. Packs of dogs keep roaming around in this area and have made evening and morning walks for residents almost impossible. In some localities of the area||Stray dogs deter walkers||Electricity pole an obstructionAn electricity pole at the Kumarhatti junction, where traffic from five roads converges, is becoming a traffic hassle. With the work on the four-laning of this highway underway, the junction has been widened. Along with it, the pole should have been removed to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. Timely action should be taken to address this problem. — Manish, KumarhattiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dogs-deter-walkers-205006
29-01-2021||Subhash Rajta---||‘Dry January’ worries apple growers in Shimla district||Tribune News Service Shimla, January 28 The year 2021 hasn’t started on a good note for the cultivators of apple and other temperate fruits, especially in district Shimla. The district has seen no snowfall and little rain in January, resulting in the loss of critical ‘chilling hours’ for temperate fruit plants.  “We have had more than 1,200 chilling hours by January end last year. This time we have achieved only 300 to 400 chilling hours so far because of the dry spell in January,” said SP Bhardwaj, former joint director, University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni. Bhardwaj said the ‘chilling hours’ requirement (an average temperature of below 7 degree Celsius in 24 hours) of temperate fruits varies from 400 hours to 1300 hours, and the old varieties of apple, Red Delicious for example, need the maximum chilling hours.  “The chilling hours requirement is normally met by January end but this time we are lagging behind. The situation is critical but hopefully we will have snowfall and rains in February,” he said. For the record, the last time the apple growing belt, except for the higher reaches of Kinnaur, witnessed totally dry January was way back in 2006-07. The ‘chilling hours’ are absolutely critical for the plants. The plant goes into dormancy during this period and comes out of it with the rise in temperature ready and rejuvenated for another season of production.  “If the requirement is not met, or met partially, the plant behaves in an erratic manner. Flowering patterns will get disturbed, each variety will bloom at different time and there will be problem in pollination. All this will affect both quality and quantity of the fruit,” said Bhardwaj. So what could horticulturalists do at the moment to minimize the affect of less chilling hours? “First and foremost, they should not indulge in any activity that can lead to depletion of moisture from their orchards. Basin dressing should be avoided and the application of fertilizers, too, should be delayed,” said Bharadwaj.  “Besides, people should avoid removing shrubs as it not only protects the land from direct exposure to sunlight but also helps sustain the population of wild bees”, he said. The orchardists, too, are a little worried. “The deficiency of chilling hours may not affect the growers at higher altitude and new varieties, but it’s a big problem for orchards at lower elevations and older varieties,” said Lokender Bisht, an orchardist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-january-worries-apple-growers-in-shimla-district-204915
29-01-2021||Kullu||Winter sports tourney at Hamta from Jan 31||The winter sports state championship will be held at Hamta, near Manali, on January 31 and February 1. A technical committee of the Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association finalised the venue. The committee explored various slopes at the Solang Nullah and Dhundhi, near Manali, and Sissu and Gondhla in the Chandra valley of Lahaul but found the amount of snow to be inadequate for the championship. It finally selected the slopes at Hamta. Association president Luder Thakur said around 150 sportspersons from all over the state would participate in various events. He said the selection committee would finalise the sportspersons for various winter games in the Junior National Championship to be held at Gulmarg in Kashmir from February 6 to 10. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-sports-tourney-at-hamta-from-jan-31-204916
29-01-2021||Palampur||Scholarships hiked, says agri varsity VC||Republic Day was celebrated with enthusiasm at CSK HP Agriculture University. Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, unfurled the National Flag and took the salute from the NCC contingent of the university. He also inspected the parade by the NCC cadets. The Vice-Chancellor remembered national leaders who adopted the Constitution on this day in 1950. He paid tributes to national heroes like Kartar Singh Sarabha and Wazir Singh Pathania who sacrificed their life for the nation.  Prof Chaudhary appreciated the students for their dedication, hard work and excellence. He said students scholarships had been enhanced considerably, in many cases doubled from the existing amount. He said students’ strength would be fully integrated in the working of the institution by providing them opportunity of ‘earning while learning’. “Every PhD scholar will be encouraged for teaching assignments and will be suitably paid for,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scholarships-hiked-says-agri-varsity-vc-204917
29-01-2021||Shimla||MC rejects plan to take over parking complex||Shimla MC House today turned down the proposal to take over multi-storey parking complex at the Lift. As per the proposal brought in the House, the MC could take control of the multi-storey parking complex by paying Rs 56 crore to the contractor who had built the complex under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. The councillors, mainly from the Congress, said the proposal made no sense because the MC would anyway get the complex back in due course of time without paying anything to the contractor.  “The contractor will run the parking for 30 years and then return it to the MC. Five years have elapsed and in another 25 years, the MC would get the complex. So, why pay such a huge amount to the contractor,” said councillor Inderjeet Singh. The proposal was moved with an idea to bring all MC offices under one roof, but Singh wasn’t convinced. “We are already building an MC office in Sabji Mandi, so there’s absolutely no need to squander so much money.” Besides, the House raised serious questions on the working of the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL). “Whatever decision the House takes is not implemented by the company,” said Majaith councillor Divakar Sharma.  — TNS    A councillor from Totu ward, Vivek Sharma, walked out of the House when the company representative told him that his ward was no longer in the pilot project of the 24x7 water supply. “After hearing for four years, I am told that the project is not feasible. This is totally unacceptable,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-rejects-plan-to-take-over-parking-complex-204919
29-01-2021||---||Halda fest begins in Lahaul||Mandi, January 28The traditional Halda festival has begun in Lahaul-Spiti in which residents of Gahar, Chandra and Pattan valleys are taking part. They sing songs and dance together.The festival begins every year in the second or third week of January and lasts for almost a month.The residents said to celebrate the event, pencil cedar branches were cut into strips and tied together into bundles to make a torch called halda and was lit in a house where villagers gathered to perform rituals.Rigzin Samphel Heyreppa of Lahaul said, “The date of the Halda festival is fixed by a lama in the Gahar valley, while in the Pattan valley, it is celebrated on Magh Purnima.”Mangal Manepa, another resident of the district, said, “The festival is celebrated in January to appease the local deities, seeking better crop in the coming season as well as ward off evil spirits out of the villages.”Kunga Bodh, a youth of the Lahaul valley, said, “Despite modern era, the residents are preserving their local tradition and culture through fests. These give us opportunity to make merriment together to reduce our sufferings, which we face during winters because of heavy snowfall.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/halda-fest-begins-in-lahaul-204920
29-01-2021||Mandi||Kaza girls win bronze in Gulmarg meet||Eight girls trained at natural ice hockey rink at Kaza in tribal district Lahaul Spiti won bronze medal in the ice hockey National Games at Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir. Additional District Magistrate Kaza Gyan Sagar Negi welcomed the girls, who arrived at Kaza yesterday. Fifteen youths of Kaza were selected for the national ice hockey camp held in Gulmarg from January 1 to January 15 after which eight girls were selected for Himachal team.   The Himachal team defeated the team of Jammu and Kashmir with 13-0 and won the bronze. The ADM appreciated the players and said efforts would be made to train more youths of Kaza in ice hockey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaza-girls-win-bronze-in-gulmarg-meet-204921
29-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||‘Tourists couldn’t reach due to lack of facilities’||KULLU, JANUARY 28 Variouss events were held during the 4th day of the ongoing snow festival at Kawaring in Lahaul and Spiti district today.  Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda was the chief guest. The minister said the festival was being celebrated to promote the traditional sports.  He said the snow festival would prove to be effective in preserving the cultural heritage of the tribal district and registering the place of the valley on the world tourism map. The minister inaugurated an igloo, built by youths of the Progressive Youth Club. He said the residents should take advantage of the homestay scheme. The government also provided loans for hotels or self-employment schemes and 25 per cent subsidy under the Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojana. He said despite the opening of Atal Tunnel, tourists could not reach the snow fest due to lack of facilities.  The minister also visited the ice-skating site at Shitinala near Gispa. The possibilities of ice-climbing, ice-skating, skiing and other winter sports were being studied at the location. Former Zila Parishad vice-chairperson Rigzin Semphel Heyreppa arranged various cultural programmes in collaboration with the Yuva Club and the Mahila Mandal.  A group dance was performed by the students of Government Senior Secondary School, Kolang. A knitting competition for women was also organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-couldnt-reach-due-to-lack-of-facilities-204922
29-01-2021||Chamba||DC: Soon, modern villages in Chamba||During the golden jubilee year of full statehood of Himachal Pradesh, some “modern” villages will be developed in Chamba district, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana here today. Apart from the Forest Department, some other departments will also be associated in this work.    Rana said besides, 51 programmes and activities would be organised in the district. He told officials to present their plans soon.    He said 51 trekking routes would be identified through the Tourism Department which would also be a part of the “Chalo Chamba” campaign. In view of the vast potential that exists in Chamba district in terms of organic farming, the DC asked officials to promote organic farming in the golden jubilee year.    He said on the lines of Himachal ‘then and now’, Chamba district would prepare documentation in accordance with that of the PWD so that the changes made in different areas so far could be shown to the present generation through figures and pictures. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-soon-modern-villages-in-chamba-204923
29-01-2021||---||Kalka MLA, 14 others sentenced to 3-yr jail||Solan, January  28 The Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Nalagarh, today sentenced Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary and 14 others  to three years simple  imprisonment and also imposed a fine of Rs 85,500 on each of them for rioting, assault, use of  criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty,  mischief by fire or explosive substance and  under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDP) Act.  Suchha Singh, a resident of Paploha  village near Kalka, had climbed atop an electricity pole at Barotiwala to escape the traffic police, which were  on  duty there,  on May 31, 2011. He was grievously injured as he came in contact with an electricity wire  and later  died at the PGI, Chandigarh.  Peeved at the incident, a violent   crowd of people from various villages such as Shahpur, Paploha, Bar Godam, Lehi Kherawali, Banoi Sawalia of Panchkula   armed with wooden sticks, rods and stones  placed the body near the red light chowk at Baddi after the postmortem.  They attacked the police,  who were maintaining law and order and trying to pacify them. The protesters   also blocked traffic on the highway and  set ablaze two   government  vehicles — a bus (HP-14-A-3176) and a pick-up vehicle (HP-12-C-5441).  Mahesh Kumar, a resident of Shahpur in Panchkula, led the unruly crowd and Pardeep Chaudhary, who was Kalka MLA even at that time, along with 13 others was also part of it. One accused had died during the course of the trial. The prosecution was able to establish its case on the basis of the witnesses and evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kalka-mla-14-others-sentenced-to-3-yr-jail-204924
29-01-2021||---||Himachal CM holds meeting to reach consensus on key ZP posts||Mandi, January 28Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was today huddled with newly elected BJP-supported Zila Parishad members to arrive at a consensus over the candidates for the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Zila Parishad in Mandi. Till filing of the report, the meeting was continuing and the BJP has yet not declared the names of candidates for these key posts.Out of a total 36 seats of Zila Parishad member in Mandi district, 19 were won by BJP-supported candidates. As the BJP has a clear majority, all eyes are on who will become the chairperson and the vice chairperson of the Zila Parishad.The Front-runnersVandana Gularia, daughter of IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, and Priyanta Sharma, a relative of BJP national president JP Nadda, are in the race for the key posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Zila Parishad in Mandi. However, the Chief Minister will take the final decision on January 29.Vandana Gularia, daughter of IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, and Priyanta Sharma, a close relative of BJP national president JP Nadda, are in the race for these key posts. However, the final decision on the candidates will be taken by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on January 29.The Chief Minister today inaugurated a Jan Sanvad Sadan in Mandi town constructed at a cost of Rs 1.17 crore. He said the sadan would go a long way in providing better, comfortable and appropriate place for the people coming for redress of their grievances.He said that efforts would be made to construct a Jan Sanwad Sadan at all district headquarters in the state.While referring to development made by the PWD in Mandi district, he said that 582 km of new roads were constructed during the past three years, besides metalling and tarring of roads. He added that 63 villages had been connected with roads and 22 bridges and 75 new buildings had been constructed in the district during the period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-holds-meeting-to-reach-consensus-on-key-zp-posts-204925
29-01-2021||---||Only 8 ZP members take oath in Solan||Solan, January 28Only eight of the 17 elected Solan zila parishad members turned up to take oath today. Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman administered the oath to the members, including Asha Parihar, Lila Thakur, Manoj Verma, Rajinder Singh, Rina Devi, Suman Devi and Sarbjeet Kaur.The seven BJP members abstained from the oath-taking ceremony. As four BJP rebels had also won, the party was in a comfortable position to elect its members as chairperson and vice-chairperson.The oath-taking ceremony has helped the BJP to assess its strengths and weaknesses and the members who abstained appear to be supporting the party. The BJP leaders, however, do not want to risk a rebellion by its members by declaring the chairperson and the vice-chairperson beforehand.Three BJP members had won in Doon, two in Arki and one each in Dharampur and Nalagarh blocks. The party leaders are weighing all options before taking a decision on the two posts.The BJP is in a dicey situation as its former leaders had won as Independent candidates while the newcomers had won as official party nominees.The Deputy Commissioner has fixed February 1 for the election to the posts of chairman and vice-chairman where two-thirds members would be required for the quoram. A simple majority would be required in the subsequent meeting to elect the duo in case the first meeting fails to elect them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/only-8-zp-members-take-oath-in-solan-204926
29-01-2021||Shimla||Two Haryana tourists die in accident in Shimla district||Two Haryana tourists were killed while nine others were injured when a tempo they were travelling in fell in a gorge at Tanki Nullah near Sidhpur on the Narkanda Bagi road in Shimla district last night.The ill-fated vehicle carrying tourists from Haryana had come to Hatu and Sidhpur. The deceased are yet to be identified. Injured Naveen, Rohit, Rajinder, Yusuf, Sevinder, Pankaj, Deepak, Dinesh and Rohit were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Kotgarh and Kumarsain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-haryana-tourists-die-in-accident-in-shimla-district-204927
29-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Ban on sale of poultry lifted in Nurpur areas||NURPUR, JANUARY 28 The Kangra district administration today lifted the ban on the sale of poultry products, fish and meat in Indora, Fatehpur, Jawali and Dehra subdivisions. The ban, however, will continue to be enforced in the 10-km radius of the bird influenza (H5N1)-infected zone (Bathu ki Lari) near Pong wetland in Fatehpur subdivision. Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati, who issued order of lifting the ban last evening, told The Tribune that after information from the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, that no poultry death had been reported in the district besides sharp decline in the mortality of migratory birds in Pong Wetland Birds Sanctuary, the administration had lifted the ban with restrictions only in some bird flu-infected areas around the Pong Wetland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ban-on-sale-of-poultry-lifted-in-nurpur-areas-204928
29-01-2021||Tribune Reporters---||BJP bags top BDC posts in  Nahan, Nurpur||Solan/Nurpur, January 28 Anita Sharma and Hira Devi were unanimously elected chairperson and vice-chairperson, respectively, of the Nahan Block Development Committee (BDC) in Sirmaur district yesterday. The Congress failed to put up a contest, as it lacked adequate numbers. The dismal performance of the Congress in the BDC poll not only exposed factionalism in the party but also the absence of a strong leader who could steer the party to victory.  Anita Sharma had won from the Neher Swar ward while Hira Devi had emerged victorious from the Baneti ward. Seventeen of the 18 members supported them yesterday, claimed BJP MLA Rajeev Bindal. He said the Congress had suffered defeat in the Nahan BDC and the party did not even have candidates at several seats. He thanked the people for supporting the BJP and said the state was moving ahead in development.  The BJP formed Block Development Committee (BDC), Nurpur, on Thursday by unanimously capturing posts of chairman and vice-chairman of the BDC. The election was conducted under the supervision of SDM Dr Surinder Thakur. Kusum Devi, BDC member from Bhaloon ward, and Rachhpal Singh, BDC member from Bassa ward, were respectively elected chairman and vice-chairman. According to Rohit Sharma, Block Development Officer, Nurpur all 25 newly elected BDC members attended the election proceeding. Single nomination was filed for the post of chairman and vice-chairman. Earlier 22 members accompanied by local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania assembled at the panchayat samiti hall for taking part into the election process.  As many as 20 members had yesterday reposed faith in the BJP and met the minister authorizing him to decide the names for the posts of chairman and vice chairman. Only five members were left with the Congress from which two more deserted the party and joined hands with the BJP on Thursday. After forming the BDC, the Forest minister expressed gratitude towards the newly elected BDC members for reposing faith in the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-bags-top-bdc-posts-in-nahan-nurpur-204929
29-01-2021||Solan||Kalka MLA Pradeep Chawdhary, 14 others sentenced to three-year imprisonment||Judicial magistrate, First Class, Nalagarh, on Thursday sentenced Kalka MLA Pradeep Chawdhary and 14 others to three years simple imprisonment and fine of Rs 85,500 each for rioting, assault, use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty, mischief by fire or explosive substance and under the prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDP)Act.A case under Sections 143, 148, 147, 324, 332, 353, 435 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the PDP Act was registered against them in 2011 at Barotiwala.According to the history of the case, one Suchha Singh, a resident of Paploha village near Kalka, had climbed atop an electricity pole at Barotiwala to escape the traffic police which was performing its duty there on May 31, 2011. He sustained grievous injuries as he had come in contact with an electricity wire and had later succumbed to his injuries at PGI, Chandigarh.Peeved at this, a violent crowd of people from Haryana villages including Shahpur, Paploha, Bar Godam, Lehi Kherawali, Banoi Sawalia, etc., armed with wooden sticks, rods and stones, placed his dead body at Baddi near the red light chowk after the post-mortem in protest. They attacked the police who were performing the law and order duties and trying to pacify the unruly crowd.The protesters also blocked the traffic on the highway and set ablaze two government vehicles, including a bus and a pick-up vehicle.The unruly crowd was led by Mahesh Kumar, a resident of Shahpur, in Haryana, and Kalka MLA Pradeep Chawdhary was also part of it along with 13 others.One accused had also died during the course of the trial.The prosecution was able to establish its case aptly on the basis of witnesses and evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kalka-mla-pradeep-chawdhary-14-others-sentenced-to-three-year-imprisonment-204594
