30-01-2021||Shimla||Pulse polio drive from February 14||The pulse polio immunisation programme will be held in the state from February 14. It was originally scheduled for January 17 but was postponed all over the country due to the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. In the rest of the country, the immunisation will commence on January 31.“We had written to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to postpone the pulse polio drive in Himachal to February 14 because of the elections to the Urban Local Bodies and Panchatayi Raj Institutions,” said Gopal Beri, Deputy Director, National Health Mission (NHM).Dr Beri said that the polio drive would be held on the decided date even if it coincided with Covid vaccination. “Covid vaccination is going to be a long process, so we can’t hold back our routine work because of it. We have enough resources to conduct both side by side, if required,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pulse-polio-drive-from-february-14-205383
30-01-2021||Kullu||Kullu athletics body to conduct trials||The Kullu District Athletics Association (KDAA) is going to conduct trials to select athletes for the state level cross-country competition to be held in Mandi on February 7.KDAA president Gaurav Bhardwaj said male and female athletes from Kullu district could participate in the under-20 and senior categories. He added that the selection would be done by trials at the Dhalpur ground at 7.30 am on January 30. The selection committee had been finalised.He said it was mandatory for all participants to bring an age certificate for the trials. He added that Covid norms would have to be followed by the athletes. Interested youth could approach Sai Florist in Gandhi Nagar or contact 9805108100 for more information. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-athletics-body-to-conduct-trials-205385
30-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi---||Properties, FDs of  MBU owner worth Rs 194 crore attached||Tribune News Service Shimla, January 29 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached land, residential and commercial properties and fixed deposits amounting to Rs 194.17 crore belonging to chairman of Manav Bharti Charitable Trust Raj Kumar Rana, and his family members under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Rana, owner of Manav Bharti University, involved in fake degree scam had purchased properties worth hundreds of crores of rupees in his name and in the name of his family members in Himachal and Rajasthan from the income of fake degrees sold in the past one decade. Confirming that the properties have been attached, sources in the police department said that it is just the beginning as the properties are in crores of rupees. Land and commercial properties worth Rs 186 crores and six fixed deposits receipts (FDRs) amounting to Rs 7 crores have been attached. The family owns huge chunk of land in Sirmaur and Solan districts of Himachal besides Udaipur and Sirohi districts of Rajasthan. Preliminary investigations had revealed that the university had sold over one lakh fake degrees for Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh each since its inception in 2009. Earlier, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had sought details of the properties owned and held by seven persons – Raj Kumar Rana, his wife Ashoni Kanwar, son Mandeep Rana, daughter Aaina Rana and employees, namely Anupama Thakur (registrar), Krishan Kumar (former registrar) and Parmod Kumar (data entry operator). Rana was arrested in the case and later granted bail. Several intriguing facts have surfaced about the MBU during the probe as the investigating agencies had recovered blank copies, answer sheets and certificates of courses not offered. DGP Himachal Pradesh Sanjay Kundu had handed over the case to the CID following which a SIT comprising members of CID, Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax department and SIT probing the case was constituted. The UGC letter dated August 30, 2019 had pointed out that Manav Bharti University (Solan) allegedly sold about 5 lakh degrees and asked the authorities concerned to conduct a thorough enquiry into the allegations of sale of fake degrees following which three cases were registered under sections 420, 467, 468 and 120 B of IPC in police station Dharampur in Solan district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/properties-fds-of-mbu-owner-worth-rs-194-crore-attached-205386
30-01-2021||Ravinder Sood   ---||Sports Dept fails to rent Palampur shops in 9 yrs||Palampur,  January 29 Sixteen shops  constructed by the  State Sports and Youth Welfare Department  at Jaisinghpur  in  2012 are in a state of neglect. The department has virtually  abandoned these shops and these are yet to be rented.  Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that these shops were constructed by the department   through the PWD at a cost of Rs 32 lakh. When the construction was completed, the PWD issued a completion certificate to the Sports and Youth Welfare Department with a request to take over the possession of these  shops. However, in the past  nine years, the department  failed to do so.  Despite requests from  various state agencies,   neither any response was received from the Sports and Youth Welfare Department nor  was the possession of shops taken over. These shops stand abandoned today, with the public money having gone  down the drain. In the past nine years, no officer of the department has visited Jaisinghpur to see its valuable property constructed in the heart of the town.  Local resident Munish Kumar Sood said residents had brought the issue to the notice of the Kangra DC when he had visited  Jaisinghpur   a year ago. The DC had assured that he would take up the matter with the Director, Sports and Youth Welfare.  However, shops are  still lying vacant.   A senior officer of the PWD said many letters had been written to the department, but in vain. A senior officer of the Youth Welfare Department said a policy to rent out these shops would be framed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sports-dept-fails-to-rent-palampur-shops-in-9-yrs-205387
30-01-2021||Subhash Rajta||Farmers to pay double the cost of Italian walnut plants||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 29The Horticulture Department has nearly doubled the cost of a walnut plant from Rs 775 to Rs 1,500 this year. Farmers will have to shell out more money for apple plants as well — as against Rs 240 last year, an apple plant will cost Rs 355 this year. These plants were imported from Italy last year under the World Bank-funded Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development Project, and are being offered to cluster farmers now after being kept in the post-entry quarantine facilities.“Who will buy a walnut plant for Rs 1,500,” asked a shocked Kullu farmer. “On the one hand, the government says it wants to make Himachal the fruit bowl of the country, and on the other, it is making the cost of planting material beyond the reach of farmers,” he said.Hemchand Sharma, Joint Director, Horticulture, said that the World Bank guidelines were the reason behind the massive hike in the cost of planting material. “As per the World Bank conditions, we can’t subsidise the cost of the planting material. We need to offer it to the farmers at the cost we bought it,” he added.But wasn’t the planting material being subsidised so far? “The department did offer some subsidy to the farmers last year, but the World Bank objected to it. So, this time we are forced to withdraw the subsidy and offer plants at the purchase price,” said Sharma. “The only subsidy available under the HPHDP is on irrigation. The irrigation system will be set up free of cost for all clusters in the state,” he added.With no subsidy available, the apple planting material will cost much more from next year, as it is being imported from the USA this year. “The planting material from the USA is definitely going to cost a lot more as it’s of higher quality,” said Sharma.According to a senior Horticulture Officer, who is part of the team currently in the USA to import the planting material of temperate fruits, an imported apple plant will cost anywhere between Rs 700 and Rs 800. In case it’s not subsidised, the farmers will have to pay almost double the price of what they are paying this year for an apple plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-to-pay-double-the-cost-of-italian-walnut-plants-205388
30-01-2021||---||Dry spell adds to farmers’ anxiety||Shimla, January 29Hills of Himachal continued to reel under biting cold wave conditions even as weather remained dry. The MeT office has predicted rains or snow in higher hills and tribal areas on February 3 and 4.The dry spell during past three weeks has added to the anxiety of farmers as lack of moisture could damage crops, which have already started withering. The sowing of Rabi crops, especially wheat, was completed by mid-December and the region received 54 per cent deficit rains from January 1 to 29.The main wheat growing area falls in mid and lower hills where rain deficit was more than 50 per cent. Further occurrence of ground frost and minimum temperatures staying below normal was harmful for Rabi crops.The minimum temperatures stayed below the freezing point at several places and hovered around freezing point at many places. Keylong, Kalpa and Manali recorded minimum temperatures at minus 10.5 degree, minus 4.1 degree and minus 1.0 degree while Solan, Bhuntar and Sundernagar shivered at a low of minus 0.6 degree, 0.4 degree and 1.1 degree, followed by Kufri 1.5 degree, Una 1.6 degree, Dharamsala 2.2 degree and Shimla 2.3 degree.The maximum temperatures also remained below normal at many places. Keylong was the coldest during the day also with a high of minus 1.0 degree, followed by Kufri 5.4 degree, Kalpa 8.6 degree, Shimla 12.3 degree and Una 22.0 degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-spell-adds-to-farmers-anxiety-205389
30-01-2021||---||Mountain biking championship on Feb 7||Shimla, January 29For the first time, the Cycling Association of Himachal Pradesh (CAHP) will hold a MTB championship for mountain biking) at Potters Hills (Summer Hill) in Shimla on February 7. The championship will be held under two categories — Individual Time Trial (ITT) and Cross-country Olympic (MTB XCO) — and five age groups for men and women.The categories include elite men and women, above 23 years of age, under 23 men and women, junior — 17 and 18 years in age, sub-junior — 15 and 16 years and boys and girls below 14 years.The participants can register through a Google form. District units affiliated to the CAHP would also conduct MTB championships in their districts for which dates would be announced later, said president of the association Dinesh Malhotra.For those reporting for the state championship without participating in the district championships, the CAHP would conduct a 5-km ITT. Only bona fide residents could participate in the state championship, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mountain-biking-championship-on-feb-7-205390
30-01-2021||---||Cadet Warrant Officer felicitated||Mandi, January 29 The NCC Director General gave the DG NCC Commendation Card and silver medal to Cadet Warrant Officer Zubeida Bodh from the 1 HP Air Squadron, NCC, Kullu, for her dedication and exemplary performance in the DGNCC Republic Day Camp-2021 in Delhi.  She earned second position in all-India best cadet competition at the Republic Day Camp. She represented Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh directorate in the national-level competition.  Brigadier Rajeev Thakur, Group Commander, NCC, Himachal Pradesh, said, “She is the only Air Wing Cadet in entire Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh Directorate who got the DG NCC Commendation Card. She participated in Republic Day Parade and Prime Minister rally at Delhi.” “Zubeida belongs to Sethan village, 18 km from Manali,” he added. Zubeida gave the credit to her mother, teachers, NCC officers and instructors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cadet-warrant-officer-felicitated-205391
30-01-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Thakur meets ZP members in Kangra to forge consensus||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, January 29 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today held a meeting with the newly elected members of the Zila Parishad in Kangra. The meeting assumes significance in view of the fact that the elections for the chairman of Zila Parishad of Kangra are scheduled tomorrow. The meeting was attended by Minister for Forests Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Industries and Transport Bikram Thakur, Minister for Social Justice Sarveen Chaudhary and the Speaker  of the Himachal Vidhan Sabha Vipin Parmar. Later, the Chief Minister held one-to-one meetings with the members of the Zila Parishad of the BJP and those who were affiliated with the party in private. Sources said that till late in the evening no consensus could be built over who would be ruling party’s choice for the post of chairman. The sources here said that party leaders from Kangra have left the choice of candidate for chairman’s post to the Chief Minister who will take a final call late in the evening.  In a short interaction with mediapersons, the Chief Minister said that only a BJP member would be elected the chairman of the Zila Parishad. The Kangra Zila Parishad, the biggest in the state, has 54 members. The BJP has 26 members, who contested on party ticket, while the Congress has 19 members. But these are nine Independent members, who hold the key to the election to the post of chairman of the Zila Parishad. The Congress leaders have been claiming that they have the support of 24 members and require just three more independents to romp home, while the BJP leaders have been claiming that they have the support of 33 members and were in a comfortable position. Meanwhile, the Congress leader and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania has written to the state election commission that in tomorrow’s election mobile phones should not be allowed in the hall where elections would be held. He alleged that the government was trying to use unfair means to win the election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-meets-zp-members-in-kangra-to-forge-consensus-205392
30-01-2021||pender Manta---||Blow to IPH Minister as BJP rebel elected Mandi ZP chief||Tribune News Service Mandi, January 29 The unanimous declaration of the names for the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson, Mandi Zila Parishad, has dealt a blow to Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, whose daughter Vandana Gularia  failed to grab the top post.  Vandana had won the election of member of the Zila Parishad from Grayoh ward in the Dharampur Assembly segment of the district. BJP rebel Pal Verma was today elected as the chairperson while Mukesh Chandel, who was supported by the BJP, was named the vice-chairperson of the Zila Parishad. Verma had contested the poll from Bhadiyal ward in the Balh Assembly segment as an Independent candidate after the BJP named Anil Kumar as its candidate from there. Verma defeated Saini to win the election. Mukesh Chandel has won from Basa ward under the Nachan Assembly segment.  The oath-taking ceremony of newly elected Zila Parishad members was held here today. It was presided over by the Deputy Commissioner. The IPH Minister was also present.  After the ceremony, three Congress-supported and five CITU-supported Zila Parishad members walked out of the chamber.  Vandana was a front-runner for the top post. Sources said his father and the IPH Minister had made all efforts to secure the position for her, but failed.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur yesterday convened a meeting with the newly elected members to reach a consensus on the names of the candidates for the top posts. The BJP has a clear majority in the elections. Of 36 seats, it has won 19 seats while eight Independent candidates have pledged their support to the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blow-to-iph-minister-as-bjp-rebel-elected-mandi-zp-chief-205394
30-01-2021||Dharamsala||Congress wins Dharamsala, Nagrota Bagwan  panchayat samitis||The Congress bagged Dharamsala and Nagrota Bagwan panchayat samitis in the elections held today.In Dharamsala, Congress members Manju Devi and Ashwani Kumar were elected president and vice president of the panchayat samiti. They got 10 votes each in the 15-member samiti. The victory in Dharamsala is a shot in the arm for former Congress minister Sudhir Sharma.In Nagorta Bagwan, Anjana Kumari and Amit Kumar were elected the president and vice-president of the panchayat samiti. This panchayat samiti has 21 members. The Congress candidate for the post of president got 11 votes while the candidate for the post of vice-president got 12 votes. Both reached GS Bali’s home after winning the elections — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-wins-dharamsala-nagrota-bagwan-panchayat-samitis-205395
30-01-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP, Congress engaged in battle for posts of chairperson, vice-chief||KULLU, JANUARY 29The leaders of both the BJP and Congress are engaged in a tussle to grab the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Kullu Zila Parishad. After losing the Kullu Municipal Committee posts of president and vice-president, the BJP is making all-out efforts to ensure victory in the 14-member Zila Parishad.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur is leading the BJP while Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur is leading the Congress to achieve the required numbers for the top posts.The leaders of both parties are holding meetings with Independents and rebels to take control of the Zila Parishad. The chairperson and vice-chairperson will be decided by the newly elected members on February 4.The Congress has four members and requires the support of four more members to reach the magical figure. The Congress has approached rebel Maan Singh and CPM candidate Puran Chand to seek their support. The Congress has reportedly also held meetings with three BJP rebels Pankaj Parmar, Devinder Singh and Vibha Singh, daughter-in-law of former BJP MP Maheshwar Singh. The Congress can offer one of the top posts to the BJP rebels to claim victory.On the other hand, the BJP has five members and requires the support of three more members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-congress-engaged-in-battle-for-posts-of-chairperson-vice-chief-205396
30-01-2021||Hamirpur||Hamirpur ZP top post goes to BJP||Babli Devi, BJP-supported zila parishad (ZP) member from the Darogan Patti Kot ward, has been elected chairperson unanimously.  The post was reserved for a Scheduled Caste woman and there were only two women belonging to the category in the House of 18 members. Naresh Kumar was elected vice-chairman. He had won as an Independent and supported the BJP.  Later, all BJP-supported members went to Sameerpur to seek the blessings of former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal.  Congratulating the winners, Dhumal said people had entrusted the ZP members with a big responsibility. They should work together for the welfare of people. He said the panchayati raj institutions play an important role in the development of rural areas.       Babli said her aim was to ensure uniform development and she would try to do her best to take welfare schemes to the village level.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-zp-top-post-goes-to-bjp-205397
30-01-2021||---||Tourism body favours steps to ensure longer tourist stay||Shimla, January 29 The publicity of places of tourism in the state is necessary to increase the length of the stay of tourists, said the Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association while giving its suggestions for the Budget 2021-22. “Our main concerns are the short stay of tourists and the financial hardships caused due to the closure of the tourism industry for six to seven months because of Covid-19,” said MK Seth, president of the association. He said that the association suggested that there was urgent need to take steps to increase the length of the stay of tourists at every destination of their interest. This would enable the tourists to have complete knowledge of various destinations before planning their visit to Himachal. Publicity funds should be allocated to the district tourism development offices, he added.  The second suggestion was to make a provision in the Budget for the announcement of a financial package for the tourism industry, particularly the hotel industry, to enable it to sustain itself. The starting of a special sightseeing tour in the world heritage train, reducing the fee charged by the Excise Department on bars in hotels and resorts to make them viable and doing away with the condition of the minimum quota of  liquor were the other suggestions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourism-body-favours-steps-to-ensure-longer-tourist-stay-205398
30-01-2021||UNA||Haroli industry objects to ‘harassment’ by truckers||The Haroli Block Industries Association (HBIA), which represents the industry in the Bathu-Bathari-Tahliwal (BBT) industrial area of Una district, has resented the alleged victimisation at the hands of truck operators and the failure of the authorities in checking the highhandedness and unethical practices of the truck unions.Chairman of the association Rakesh Kaushal and general secretary Rohit Verma said 125 units functional in the BBT area give employment to about 20,000 locals. These units were paying an annual GST to the tune of Rs 300 crore and power bills of Rs 50 crore.They said that the local truck unions were charging 30 to 40 per cent more freight from them as compared to transport available in the open market. This was adversely affecting the economic health of the enterprises, they added.He said the association had moved the High Court, seeking freedom from the clutches of the truck unions. He displayed a copy of the interim orders of the High Court, dated January 13, directing the truck unions in the Tahliwal industrial area not to obstruct their businesses and allow the movement of goods.The court had also directed the Una DC and the DSP, Haroli, to ensure the compliance of the orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haroli-industry-objects-to-harassment-by-truckers-205399
30-01-2021||Our Correspondent||HPSEBL told to probe power theft complaints||Dalhousie, January 29Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Hans Raj, while presiding over a meeting with officials of HP State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) at Tissa yesterday, said complaints of electricity theft were being received from some areas. He directed them to investigate and take strict action against those responsible for it. Such persons must be punished as power theft is a serious offense, he said.He asked board officials to ensure the restoration of power supply in areas where the supply had been disrupted due to snowfall within 15 days.He asked them to take necessary steps to tackle the problem of low-voltage. He said transformers which were not working should be replaced or repaired soon so that villagers do not face problems during winters.He said the electricity poles of disrupted lines should be replaced soon after completing the tender process within 15 days. The task should be done on priority, he added.Officials were told to prepare a special action plan for areas of the Churah Assembly segment which were affected due to snowfall so that the power supply was not interrupted for a long time because of the breakdown of transmission lines.The Deputy Speaker said consumers who were living below the poverty line should not be deprived of concessions being given by the HPSEBL due to the lack of information.HPSEBL Executive Engineer Pawan Sharma, while informing the Deputy Speaker, said about 400 old wooden poles had been replaced by steel poles in Churah. He said six electric transformers were being installed in areas where there was a problem of low voltage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-told-to-probe-power-theft-complaints-205401
30-01-2021||---||Copper stolen from Baddi unit||Solan, January 29More than 10 tonnes of brass and copper was found stolen from a foil manufacturing industrial unit, RCI Industries, Baddi, in the last about a fortnight.The Baddi police today registered a case of trespass and theft under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC after the industry’s plant head lodged a complaint about series of theft in his unit.Plant head Rajmani Verma said the company generally secured raw material from Delhi and security guards had been deputed at the industrial unit.He was informed by his company employee on January 17 that around 3 am three persons were seen stealing some bags of brass and copper and when the employees raised an alarm they ran away from the rear and took the bags along. On checking the CCTV cameras it was found that similar incidents had occurred on January 12, 13 and 14 also. More than 10 tonnes of raw material comprising brass and copper was found missing from the stock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/copper-stolen-from-baddi-unit-205402
30-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Ghana man arrested for drug peddling||Kullu, January 29The Kullu police have arrested a Ghana national from Delhi in cases related to seizure of heroin in the district.Gaurav Singh, SP, said Rahul Kumar (25) of Jammu was nabbed with 12 gram heroin at Bhuntar on January 24 and during interrogation he revealed that he had purchased the contraband from an African in Delhi.He said a special team of the Kullu police headed by ASP Mayank arrested Ebube John, alias Goodwill (41), from Delhi and booked him under Section 29 of the NDPS Act.The SP said the accused, who was a kingpin in the heroin trade, had been supplying heroin throughout the country for many years and supplied around 3 to 5 kg of the contraband per month.He said the accused was supplying heroin to over 50 people in Himachal. He said the accused was also wanted in another case in which two Africans from his gang had already been arrested by the Kullu police. He added that the accused did not have a valid visa or passport and the accused was living in India illegally and a case under Section 14 of the Foreigner Act had also been registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ghana-man-arrested-for-drug-peddling-205403
30-01-2021||Budget expectations||Investors seek more spending by govt on infra||* A bulk drug park to reduce dependence on China * No hike in taxes and duties and no Covid cess amid slowdown * Measures to increase cash flow among middle class* Prioritising cooperative federalism to avoid conflictsxxxxTribune News Service  Solan, January 29  In the run-up to the Union Budget on February 1, investors have stressed the need for policy consistency  to ensure economic revival and prioritising cooperative federalism to avoid conflicts. They have also sought an increase in government spending in the infrastructure sector.  Sanjay Khurana, president of the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association, said, “Infrastructure is a key sector. Besides ensuring employment, it provides environment for the industry to grow. Hence more funds should be spared for it.” He said the government should announce some measures to increase  cash flow among  the  middle class. This would trigger demand and enable the industrial production to grow.Industry representatives said amid economic slowdown from the pandemic, an increase in taxes and duties  and  measures such as Covid cess should not be introduced.  Grappling with the rising cost of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), investors demanded that a bulk drug park should be set up in the state at the earliest. SL Singla, adviser, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said, “The Union Government should  announce a bulk drug park for Himachal so as to reduce dependence on China."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/investors-seek-more-spending-by-govt-on-infra-205404
30-01-2021||Shimla||44 Covid cases in Himachal||The active case count stands at 343. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/44-covid-cases-in-himachal-205400
30-01-2021||Kullu||‘Mukhota’ dance hogs limelight  at snow fest||Traditional ‘Mukhota’ dance was the centre of attraction during the fifth day of the snow fest at Goshal in tribal Lahaul-Spiti district today. Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda, who was the chief guest, also participated in the folk dance.A tug of war and ‘cholo’ and knitting competitions were organised.The minister said, “We should present our culture in its original form and emphasise on the use of traditional instruments and costumes.” He said each event was being recorded and would be documented in printed form.Markanda said after the opening of the Atal Tunnel, tourism in the valley had received a boost. He exhorted the local people to take advantage of a home stay scheme to further boost tourism.He said residents could also develop other avenues for tourism purpose. He said they were expecting a huge influx of tourists during summer, and for this adequate arrangements were being made.The minister said they would add more attractions to the festival in the years to come. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mukhota-dance-hogs-limelight-at-snow-fest-205441
30-01-2021||The SFI on Friday submitted a memorandum regarding students' demands to ICDEOL director Kulwant Pathania. The SFI said the UGC had again recognised the long distance education centre||SFI submits memorandum||Water tanks not cleaned: ABVPThe ABVP on Friday submitted a memorandum to HPU Registrar Sunil Sharma, regretting that neither an RO had been set up at Pink Petal Chowk nor any arrangement for sanitisation was made. The ABVP said the non-installation of RO was not only inconveniencing students but also policemen who have to drink impure water. The ABVP alleged that even water tanks at the Pink Petal Chowk had not been cleaned.action sought against riotersThe ABVP has demanded action against those involved in violence during the farmer agitation at the Red Fort and other places in Delhi. ABVP's Vishal Verma said the hoisting of flags at the Red Fort and the attack on the police was regrettable and unfortunate. The ABVP condemned the incidents and demanded action against forces behind it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-submits-memorandum-205442
30-01-2021||STRAY dog menace at Indira market in Mandi town has become a cause of concern for the common man. These stray dogs can be noticed roaming around in the market area. Sometimes they even attack people||Check Stray dog menace||— Suresh Kumar, MandiEnsure smooth flow of trafficTHERE is just no escape from traffic jams in lower Totu, Shimla, especially at peak traffic hours in morning and evening. The main reason for these snarls is wrongly parked vehicles along the road in the market. The administration should take note of the situation and take action to ensure smooth flow of traffic.— Rajender Sharma, TotuWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-stray-dog-menace-205443
