16-09-2021||New Delhi||Airtel hikes prices of plans offering Disney+Hotstar subscription||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Thursday hiked prices of mobile prepaid and home broadband plans that come bundled with Disney+Hotstar subscription due to changes in pricing made by the entertainment app. Airtel has increased the price of prepaid mobile plans with Disney+Hotstar to Rs 499 from Rs 448 with 28 days validity; Rs 699 from Rs 599 charged earlier for 56 days validity; and one-year validity pack to Rs 2,798 from Rs 2,698.All Airtel Xstream Fiber plans above Rs 999 will come bundled with one-year Disney+ Hotstar super subscription pack worth Rs 899 as part of Airtel Thanks benefits, according to a company statement. Sources said Airtel has passed on the price changes made by Disney+ Hotstar to its customers and there is no other change in benefits being offered currently.No immediate response was received from Disney+Hotstar. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/airtel-hikes-prices-of-plans-offering-disneyhotstar-subscription-312103
16-09-2021||San Francisco||Tim Cook, Elon Musk among Time's 100 most influential people of 2021||Tech honchos like Apple CEO Tim Cook and Tesla CEO Elon Musk are among the list of the 100 Most Influential People of 2021 according to TIME's newly published rankings.Cook's inclusion comes a day after Apple revealed the iPhone 13 series, Apple Watch Series 7 and upgraded iPads during a virtual event, reports CNET.In Time's profile, Nike co-founder Phil Knight praised Cook's "character, compassion and courage". He also noted that "Apple stock has gone up 1,000 per cent, making it the most valuable company in the world" during Cook's decade as CEO.Writing about Musk, Huffington Post co-founder Arianna Huffington said he's "augmenting human possibilities"."And by doing it all with his relentlessly optimistic, space-half-full showmanship, he's offering a model for how we can solve the big, existential challenges in front of us," she wrote.DeepLearning.ai founder Andrew Ng gave Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang credit for helping to advance artificial intelligence by directing the company to adapt graphics processing units for more general computing tasks."The resulting advancements -- and powerful chips -- laid a foundation that could accommodate much bigger neural networks, the programs behind much of today's AI," Ng said of Huang.TIME shares an annual list highlighting world leaders, celebrities, tech company executives, authors, musicians, athletes and more. --IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tim-cook-elon-musk-among-times-100-most-influential-people-of-2021-312018
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Markets maintain record run; Sensex breaches 59k for first time||Market benchmark Sensex scaled the 59,000-mark for the first time on Thursday as investors remained in risk-on mode following the government’s policy support measures for various sectors.Advancing for the third consecutive session, the 30-share BSE index climbed 417.96 points or 0.71 per cent to its new closing peak of 59,141.16. It touched an intra-day record of 59,204.29.Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 110.05 points or 0.63 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 17,629.50. During the session, it scaled an all-time peak of 17,644.60.IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 7.34 per cent, followed by ITC, SBI, Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank.In contrast, TCS, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech and Dr Reddy’s were among the laggards, slipping up to 1.32 per cent.“Driven by reforms, the Indian market kept raising its bar and traded to new record highs. Today’s market rally was driven by strong buying in Banking stocks especially in PSBs. The banking sector is expected to perform well in the coming days as the sector which failed to fairly participate in the ongoing rally due to fear over asset quality is gaining traction. “Asian markets traded with cuts as the fall in Chinese property stocks pushed Asian stocks down while European markets traded with positive sentiments,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities, said, “Ahead of the operationalisation of the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL), banks provided the much needed ammunition to the bulls to notch up record highs of 59K on the Sensex. The charge of the energised bulls took India’s market capitalisation ahead of France as PSU banks lent the firepower.”        BSE bankex was the biggest sectoral gainer, jumping 2.12 per cent, followed by energy, finance, FMCG and oil & gas indices. Metal, teck, IT and basic materials were among the losers.In the broader market, the BSE midcap and smallcap gauges rose up to 0.48 per cent.Asian equities sank after liquidity crisis at Chinese real estate major Evergrande Group fanned fears of a broader contagion. Bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with significant losses.However, equities in Europe were trading with robust gains in mid-session deals.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 75.58 per barrel.The rupee slipped 2 paise to close at 73.52 against the US currency on Thursday, tracking a strengthening greenback in the overseas markets.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 232.84 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/markets-maintain-record-run-sensex-breaches-59k-for-first-time-312014
16-09-2021||New Delhi||iPhone 13 lineup in India from Sept 24||Apple’s latest line-up of iPhones, including iPhone 13 mini and iPhone 13 Pro Max, will be available in India from September 24 with prices starting at Rs 69,900.Industry watchers said Apple now has an aggressive entry point — starting with iPhone SE 2020 to iPhone 13 Pro Max — that will help it bolster its position in India.Apple said these devices will be available from September 24 for customers in India and many other countries, including Japan and the US.“Our Pro lineup pushes the limits with our most-advanced technologies for users who want the best iPhone. Best-in-class performance, camera experience, great durability, larger displays and incredible design. This year, we build on that in a major way,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said at the launch event late Tuesday night. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/iphone-13-lineup-in-india-from-sept-24-311976
16-09-2021||New Delhi||Cairn, Air India seek stay on New York court proceedings||Cairn Energy and Air India have jointly asked a New York federal court to stay further proceedings in the British firm’s US lawsuit targeting the airline for enforcement of a $1.2-billion arbitral award.The move follows the government enacting a law to scrap retrospective taxation in the country, which in effect will result in withdrawal of the Rs 10,247-crore tax demand on Cairn, according to court documents.Rs 10,247-cr tax demand caseThe British company had won an international arbitration award against levying of such taxes and sought to take over Air India assets when the government refused to honour the award.But, last month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, that scraps all such retrospective tax demands and has agreed to refund Rs 7,900 crore it had seized from Cairn to enforce such demand. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/cairn-air-india-seek-stay-on-new-york-court-proceedings-311977
16-09-2021||Mumbai||Sensex, Nifty close at record high||The Sensex and Nifty vaulted to fresh lifetime peaks on Wednesday, boosted by telecom and auto stocks that saw brisk buying after the government announced packages for the sectors. A rebounding rupee and persistent foreign capital inflows added to the momentum, traders said.Rising for the second day, the BSE Sensex surged 476.11 points to close at its new all-time high of 58,723.20. It touched an intra-day record of 58,777.06.NTPC top gainer, rally 7.16%The NSE Nifty climbed 139.45 points to its fresh closing record of 17,519.45. During the session, it touched an all-time peak of 17,532.70.NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 7.16%, followed by Bharti Airtel at 4.53%, HCL Tech, Titan, SBI, PowerGrid, TCS and IndusInd Bank. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-nifty-close-at-record-high-311978
16-09-2021||Bengaluru||Tatas rule out leadership rejig||Tata Sons’ chairman N Chandrasekaran said here on Wednesday no leadership changes were on the anvil, refuting reports published today.The holding firm of the Indian conglomerate was considering adding a chief executive role amid a revamp of its leadership structure, a news report had said on Tuesday. — Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tatas-rule-out-leadership-rejig-311979
16-09-2021||---||Tatas, SpiceJet promoter submit financial bids to acquire Air India||New Delhi, September 15The government today moved a step closer to selling Air India, as two interested parties have placed their final financial bids for buying the entire public holding in the cash-strapped national carrier.The two bidders are Tata Sons and SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh, in his personal capacity, officials in the Ministry of Finance said. According to sources, Singh is looking to form a consortium to acquire Air India.Maharaja ON saleThe Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised it in 1953.Tatas operate a premier full-service carrier, Vistara, in partnership with Singapore Airlines. It was not immediately known if the group put in the bid on its own or through budget carrier AirAsia India.Today was the last day for submitting financial bids. "Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser. The process now moves to the concluding stage," said a senior official in the Ministry of Finance.This is a major development in Air India's divestment process, which has faced significant delays due to the Covid pandemic.Earlier in its first attempt in 2018, the government had failed to attract prospective buyers. At that time, the government had floated an offer to sell 76% stake. But now, the government is looking to sell its entire stake in Air India.The offer includes all of Air India and Air India Express and a 50% stake in the ground handling capacity of AISATS. As of now, Air India has control over at least 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports. It also has 900 slots abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tatas-spicejet-promoter-submit-financial-bids-to-acquire-air-india-311981
16-09-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Big-bang reforms in telecom sector: 4-year loan moratorium, 100% FDI||Tribune News serviceNew Delhi, September 15The Centre today approved the much-awaited relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year moratorium on payment of dues by telecom companies and allowing 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) under the automatic route.Announcing the decisions cleared at a Union Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Information Technology and Communication Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said, “The reforms are deep and broad... structural... will bring in change today, tomorrow and in the future. I do not like to put a number on the package as it is revenue-neutral for the government.” He went on to add that the moratorium would not impact the government’s revenue.Incidentally, the government announced the package six weeks after Kumar Mangalam Birla resigned from the post of chairman of Vodafone Idea Limited, which was created following the merger of British telecom giant Vodafone’s India unit and Birla’s Idea Cellular Ltd. The company has to pay around Rs 50,399.63 crore as statutory dues based on AGR (adjusted gross revenue) over the past several years.The relief package will include a moratorium on payments for airwaves and is aimed at helping telecom service providers (TSPs) like Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea, industry sources said. They said as per the announcement, the companies would also have the option to convert interest on spectrum dues of the four-year moratorium period into government equity.Last year, the Supreme Court passed a ruling asking Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea to clear government dues, which hit the sector hard and even banks led by the SBI had called on the government to give Vodafone Idea more time to clear its tax dues.Along with the relief package, the government has also approved a number of structural and process reforms in the sector. “These are expected to protect and generate employment opportunities, promote healthy competition, protect interests of consumers, infuse liquidity, encourage investment and reduce regulatory burden on the TSPs,” the minister said.Among these changes, there are nine structural and five process reforms and the AGR definition had been rationalised to exclude non-telecom revenues, the minister said.To encourage investment, he said, 100 per cent FDI under automatic route had been permitted, besides rationalising spectrum user charges. “In future auctions, tenure of the spectrum will be increased to 30 years from 20 currently. Auction calendar has been fixed. The spectrum auctions will be normally held in the last quarter of every financial year. The tower set-up process will now be simplified on the basis of self-approval,” Vaishnaw said.Easy switch from prepaid to postpaidKYC process for shifting from prepaid to postpaid has been done away with. All portals to be integrated with that of Telecom Dept for ease of doing business.Spectrum auction tenure now 30 yearsFuel, gas under GST? Council to take call||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/big-bang-reforms-in-telecom-sector-4-year-loan-moratorium-100-fdi-311715
16-09-2021||New Delhi||Tata remains among top Air India suitors||The government on Wednesday said it has received multiple financial bids for buying national carrier Air India. Meanwhile, a Tata Sons spokesperson said the company has put in a bid for the airline."Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser. The process now moves to the concluding stage," DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted.The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India's 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.The stake sale process, which begun on January 2020, faced delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids.Incidentally, Air India was originally started by the Tata Group. Founded by JRD Tata in 1932 and formerly called Tata Air Services and then Tata Airlines, the airline was renamed Air India in 1953 when the Government of India took majority control of it.— Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tata-remains-among-top-air-india-suitors-311593
16-09-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Relief to Voda-Idea: Cabinet approves moratorium on payment of levies, other reforms||Tribune News serviceNew Delhi, September 15In a much-awaited and desired relief, the government approves a big-bang reform package for the cash-starved telecom sector, with the announcement of four-year moratorium on payment of dues, besides a number of structural and process related to the industry.Announcing the decision of the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Minister for Information Technology (IT) and Communication Ashwini Vaishnav said, “The reforms are deep and broad. They are structural. These reforms will bring in change today, tomorrow and in the future. I do not like to put a number on the package as it is revenue-neutral for the government.” He went on to add that the moratorium would not impact the government’s revenue.Incidentally, the government announced the package six weeks after Kumar Mangalam Birla resigned from the post of Chairman of Vodafone-Idea Limited, which was created following the merger of British telecom giant Vodafone’s India unit and Birla’s Idea Cellular Ltd. The company has to pay around Rs 50,399.63 crore as statutory dues based on AGR (Adjusted Gross Revenue) over the past many years.The relief package will include a moratorium on payments for airwaves and is aimed at helping Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) like Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea, industry sources said, adding that as per the announcement the companies would also have the option to convert interest on spectrum dues of the four-year moratorium period into government equity.Last year, the Supreme Court passed a ruling asking Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea to clear the government dues, which hit the sector hard and even the banks led by SBI have called on the government to give Vodafone Idea more time to clear its tax dues.Meanwhile, along the relief package, the government has also approved a number of structural and process reforms in the sector. “These are expected to protect and generate employment opportunities, promote healthy competition, protect interests of consumers, infuse liquidity, encourage investment and reduce regulatory burden on the TSPs,” the Minister said.Among these changes there are 9 structural and 5 process reforms and the AGR definition has been rationalised to exclude non-telecom revenues, the Minister said, adding that to encourage investment, 100 percent foreign direct investment (FDI) under automatic route is permitted, besides rationalising spectrum user charges.“In future auctions, tenure of the spectrum will be increased to 30 years from 20 currently. Auction calendar has been fixed. Spectrum auctions will be normally held in the last quarter of every financial year. Tower set-up process will now be simplified on the basis of self-approval,” the Minister said. The KYC process for shifting to postpaid from prepaid has been done away with and all portals will be integrated with that of Department of Telecommunication (DoT) for ease of doing business and living, he added.The Minister noted that the decisions taken today will provide relief to TSPs by easing liquidity and cash flow, which in turn will help several of the banks having substantial exposure to the telecom sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/relief-to-voda-idea-cabinet-approves-moratorium-on-payment-of-levies-other-reforms-311569
