25-09-2021||New Delhi||CBIC makes Aadhaar authentication of taxpayers mandatory for claiming GST refund||The government has made Aadhaar authentication of taxpayers mandatory for claiming GST refund.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended GST rules bringing in various anti-evasion measures, including disbursal of GST refunds only in the bank account, which is linked with same PAN on which Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration has been obtained.The notification also states that from January 1, 2022, businesses who have defaulted in filing summary return and paying monthly GST will not be able to file GSTR-1 sales return of the succeeding month.The notification follows the decisions taken at the meeting of the GST Council in Lucknow on September 17.AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said, “To arrest tax evasion, the government has made Aadhaar authentication for proprietor, partner, karta, Managing Director, whole time Director, and authorised  signatory compulsory before filing an application for revocation of cancellation registration and refund application.”  EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said with the objective of preventing revenue leakage, the government has made Aadhaar authentication mandatory for a taxpayer to be able to claim refunds. “The move will help in reducing cases of fraudulent refunds as only the verified taxpayers will obtain the refunds now,” Jain added. With regard to taxpayers not bring able to file their GSTR- 1 if they have not filed their GSTR-3B of the previous month, Jain said this is a well thought restriction and a necessary control check to eliminate the cases where taxpayers although report their supply invoices in GSTR-1 (due to constant follow ups from recipients’ side) but they do not submit their corresponding GSTR-3B return through which tax is actually paid to the government. “Compliant taxpayers would appreciate this move as till now their input tax credit was also at risk in case vendors do not file their GSTR-3B even though such invoice is appearing in GSTR-2A,” Jain added.Currently, the law restricts filing of return for outward supplies or GSTR-1 in case a business fails to file GSTR-3B of preceding two months.While businesses file GSTR-1 of a particular month by the 11th day of the subsequent month, GSTR-3B, through which businesses pay taxes, is filed in a staggered manner between 20th-24th day of the succeeding month. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/cbic-makes-aadhaar-authentication-of-taxpayers-mandatory-for-claiming-gst-refund-316085
25-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Elon Musk, Grimes are ‘semi-separated’ after three years together||Chandigarh, September 25SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk and singer-artiste Grimes have broken up after three years together, Page Six reported.The SpaceX founder confirmed that he and the Canadian singer are "semi-separated" but remain on good terms and continue to co-parent their one-year-old son, the epically named X A A-Xii Musk."We are semi-separated but still love each other, see each other frequently and are on great terms," Musk told Page Six on Saturday."It's mostly that my work at SpaceX and Tesla requires me to be primarily in Texas or traveling overseas and her work is primarily in LA. She's staying with me now and Baby X is in the adjacent room," Musk said.Page Six first revealed in May 2018 that Musk and Grimes were dating. They welcomed their son in May 2020.They were last seen together at the Met Gala earlier this month, when Grimes, 33, walked the red carpet alone. Musk, 50, also attended the event but only joined her inside, the report said.He later threw a starry Met Gala after-party at hot private members club Zero Bond, where he was joined by Grimes, and the duo were photographed leaving New York together the following day.But last weekend, Musk attended a party thrown by Google co-founder Sergey Brin's wife, Nicole Shanahan, alone.The couple began dating in May 2018. He is the chief executive officer of Tesla and SpaceX while she is a Canadian singer, known for songs such as Oblivion and Genesis.Elon Musk is 50 and has six other children from previous relationships. He has been married three times, including twice to Westworld actor Talulah Riley. Grimes has never been married, and her son with Musk is her first child. While the two have decided to co-parent their son, twitterati seems to be still fighting about the custody of the one-year-old child.Take a look at what all they have to say.Grimes and Elon musk child in family court deciding who it wants to live with pic.twitter.com/RKyFRd9Fth  grimes and elon musk’s kid at court telling the judge who it wants to be with pic.twitter.com/oX1EcSLP2r  Grimes and Elon musk’s kid discussing which parent should get custody after the divorce pic.twitter.com/OBJ0e1jGuY  BREAKING: Elon Musk and Grimes share they will utilize a 50/50 split-parenting model as X AE A-Xii is uploaded into a tamagotchi pic.twitter.com/P6mHuU34jw  when Elon Musk and Grimes need to split custody of X Æ A-12 pic.twitter.com/0mazCYjrN8  Grimes informing X Æ A-12 that she and Elon Musk are separating. pic.twitter.com/2NgArmalws  With inputs from IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/elon-musk-grimes-are-semi-separated-after-three-years-together-316037
25-09-2021||Mumbai||Record run continues: Sensex zooms above 60,000 as investors keep faith||The BSE Sensex made history on Friday by reaching the 60,000-mark for the first time ever as investors continued to accumulate banking, finance and auto stocks despite lacklustre global cues and concerns over frothy valuations.The Sensex rose 163.11 points to its lifetime closing high of 60,048.47. Intra-day, it touched an all-time high of 60,333.Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 30.25 points to close at a record 17,853.20. It soared to a lifetime high of 17,947.65 during the day. It took a little over 31 years for the Sensex to traverse from 1,000 points to the historic 60,000 level.The benchmark index was at 1,000 points back on July 25, 1990 and took nearly 25 years before it touched the 30,000 level on March 4, 2015. The Sensex has climbed from the 30,000 level to 60,000 in a little over six years, reflecting the overall bullishness in the market.The last 10,000 points have come at a record pace, with the Sensex reaching the 50,000-level only in January this year. “Sensex reaching 60,000 today is an indicator of India’s growth potential, as well as the way India is emerging as a world leader during Covid period in addition to worldwide monetary expansion and relaxed fiscal policies adopted by world powers,” said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD and CEO, BSE. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/record-run-continues-sensex-zooms-above-60-000-as-investors-keep-faith-316001
25-09-2021||New Delhi||DoT permits active infrastructure sharing among telecom operators||Telecom operators will now be able to share active infrastructure, including core networks following amendment made by DoT in the licence norms.The move is expected to reduce capital and operational expenditure of telcos like Jio, Airtel and Vodafone Idea. The DoT has also changed commercial VSAT licence rules to enable use of satellite connectivity to provide backend connectivity for mobile networks.“The licensee may share its own active and passive infrastructure for providing other services authorised to it under any other telecom licence issued by licensor,” the new clause said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/dot-permits-active-infrastructure-sharing-among-telecom-operators-315999
25-09-2021||New Delhi||Net direct tax mop-up grows 74% to Rs5.70 lakh cr so far||Net direct tax collection grew 74.4% to Rs 5.70 lakh crore between April 1 and September 22 this fiscal, the Finance Ministry said on Friday.The net direct tax collection of Rs 5,70,568 crore after adjusting for refunds includes Corporation Tax at Rs 3.02 lakh crore and Personal Income Tax at Rs 2.67 lakh crore.The net collection (April 1 to September 22) in FY 2021-22 has registered a growth of 27% over 2019-20 fiscal when the net collection was over Rs 4.48 lakh crore. In the previous fiscal (2020-21), the net collection was over Rs 3.27 lakh crore. The gross direct tax collection for 2021-22 fiscal stands at over Rs 6.45 lakh crore. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/net-direct-tax-mop-up-grows-74-to-rs5-70-lakh-cr-so-far-315998
25-09-2021||New Delhi||UB, Carlsberg fined Rs873 cr||The Competition Commission of India on Friday imposed penalties totalling over Rs 873 crore on United Breweries, Carlsberg India, All India Brewers’ Association and other individuals for cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer in various states and Union Territories.The fines on UBL and Carlsberg India are nearly Rs 752 crore and Rs 121 crore, respectively. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/ub-carlsberg-fined-rs873-cr-315997
25-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Ratan Tata lauds Taj employee for sharing umbrella with stray dog during heavy downpour in Mumbai||Chandigarh, September 24Every kind act has a ripple effect. One such example is that of a Taj Hotels employee who shared his umbrella with a furry friend during heavy downpour in Mumbai. So, when this staff member was giving shelter to a stray canine who sat comfortably by his feet, it caught someone’s attention. This someone is none other than Tata Group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata. The industrialist took to his Instagram account to post the heartwarming moment. He captioned it, “Sharing comfort with the strays this monsoon.”Take a look at the post on Instagram.In his post, Ratan Tata also lauded the efforts of his employee as he wrote, “This Taj employee was kind enough to share his umbrella with one of the many strays while it was pouring quite heavily. A heartwarming moment captured in the busy hustle of Mumbai. Gestures like these go a long way for stray animals.”This isn’t the first time that Ratan Tata has expressed his love for stay animals or such beautiful gestures. The 83-year-old business tycoon is known for his fondness for stray animals, especially dogs. At Bombay house, the global headquarters of Tata Group in Mumbai, there is a dedicated kennel that provides shelter to stray dogs living around the area. From using his platform to help with rescue and adoptions, to spending Diwali with the adopted dogs in the company’s headquarters, Ratan Tata has been very open about his admiration for these special four-legged friends. In fact, the businessman shared that Goa, a rescued stray, is his office companion.The heartwarming post is here for you to see.Such thoughtful acts ought to win hearts. So, when Tata shared the post, Instagram was flooded with love, appreciation and heart emojis. Just last week, a similar incident went viral when a Kolkata traffic police constable named Tarun Kumar Mandal of East Traffic Guard was seen sharing his umbrella with two stray dogs while managing traffic near 7 point crossing at Park Circus. The picture was everywhere on social media and Kolkata Police called it the ‘Moment of the Day’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/ratan-tata-lauds-taj-employee-for-sharing-umbrella-with-stray-dog-during-heavy-downpour-in-mumbai-315613
