01-12-2020||India||Trudeau backs farmers, opens old wounds||India’s external affairs ministry on Tuesday slammed Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for voicing concern about security forces’ treatment of farmers protesting against the government’s new pro-market agricultural law. Trudeau’s comments threatened to sink relations between the two countries to a fresh low after the Canadian prime minister’s gaffe-ridden official visit to India two years ago. The External Affairs Ministry Spokesman Anurag Srivastava branded Trudeau’s statements “ill-informed” and added that the remarks were “unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country". Trudeau told Canada’s half-million-strong Sikh community in an online message on Monday marking Guru Nanak Dev’s birthday that he would be “remiss” if he didn’t take note of “news coming out of India” about the farmers’ protest. “The situation is concerning. We’re all very worried about family and friends,” Trudeau said. “Let me remind you. Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that is why we have reached out through multiple means directly to Indian authorities to highlight our concerns,” he added. Srivastava insisted Canada shouldn’t involve itself in the protests, adding: "It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes" as farmers continued to arrive in trucks, buses and tractors and cause traffic chaos on the border of New Delhi and Haryana. Trudeau’s comments mark a new setback in ties between Ottawa and New Delhi which has long been sensitive about what it sees as Canada’s failure to rein in radical Sikhs living in the country who are plotting the creation of an independent Khalistan. The sit-in has sparked clashes between security forces and protesters with police firing tear gas and water cannons. A three-member cabinet team began talks Tuesday afternoon with farmers representatives amid the intensifying protests against the new law aimed at streamlining India’s inefficient food supply chain. The legislation cuts out the middleman and allows farmers to sell their produce to any buyer and not just at government-regulated wholesale markets where they are guaranteed a minimum price. But farmers, especially the poor, smaller ones who make up the vast majority of growers, fear losing price supports for key staples such as wheat and rice. The protests began with demonstrations by farmers from the grain-bowl states of Punjab and Haryana. But during the weekend farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala also staged demonstrations. Adding fuel to the Indo-Canadian diplomatic fire, Canada’s defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan tweeted that “reports of peaceful protesters being brutalised are very troubling… healthy democracies allow peaceful protest” while Jagmeet Singh, leader of the left-wing New Democratic Party called “the violence perpetrated against farmers peacefully protesting is appalling” and said he stood “in solidarity with farmers from Punjab and across India.” The Canadian politicians’ closeness toward the country’s Sikh community is all about vote-bank politics with all three national parties -- Liberal, Conservative and New Democrats, playing the game. There are 1.2 million Indo-Canadians and the Sikh community makes up 470,000 of them. Relations between Canada and India still haven’t recovered from Trudeau’s ill-fated weeklong visit to the subcontinent when he and his family outfitted themselves in elaborate Indian garb more suited for a Bollywood wedding than a state visit. The Trudeau family’s attire attracted some good-natured ridicule both in Canada and in India with critics saying it was an example of political correctness in overdrive. But the mood turned sour when it turned out a Canadian Sikh separatist Jaspal Atwal, convicted of the attempted murder of Punjab cabinet minister Malkiat Singh Sidhu on a visit to Vancouver in 1986, had been on the guest list for official events on Trudeau’s Indian trip. The affair initially was passed off as an invitation list blooper. But then Trudeau’s office ratcheted up the matter, telling reporters that Indian agents had conspired to get Atwal invited to humiliate Canada over its perceived softness on Sikh separatists. That theory, dismissed as preposterous by the Canadian media and by the Indian government, cast a further shadow over what had been billed as an economic and cultural partnership-building visit by the prime minister. Canada’s perceived permissive stance toward potential pro-Khalistan troublemakers has cast a shadow over Indo-Canadian relations for decades. Separatist fervour has waned in Punjab. But Sikh separatism remains a live political issue among pro-Khalistan sympathisers in Canada where many Sikhs emigrated to in India’s turbulent 1980s. In 1985, Canadian Sikh terrorists blew a Mumbai-bound Air India plane out of the sky in 1985, killing all 329 people aboard. Sikhs, while totalling 470,000 of Canada’s 36 million population, represent the largest group among Indian-origin Canadians and are concentrated in certain constituencies. The Canadian media has asked questions from time to time about whether the government is too close to Sikh separatists and is providing a haven for pro-Khalistan fundraisers, gunrunners and extremists. Trudeau in 2017 addressed a Toronto parade for ‘Khalsa Day’, which included floats glorifying Sikh militant Bhindranwale and Khalistan flags. Last year, ahead of Canada’s federal election that Trudeau narrowly won, the federal government removed direct references to “Sikh extremism” in a terrorism threat report. Critics blasted the move as a bid by the government to cater to Canadian Sikh voters in the leadup to the polls.  The government report was reworded to mention the threat posed by “extremists who support violent means to establish an independent state within India,” a reference to the Khalistan movement. Two months ago, the McDonald Laurier Institute, a Canadian think-tank, published a report accusing Pakistan of fuelling the Khalistan movement in Canada. It said the "the Khalistan movement has been going nowhere in the Sikhs' home state” but , was “kept alive in Canada by thugs and political hustlers unbothered by the innocent lives that have been lost in its name.” Penny MacRae is a longtime writer on Canadian politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Delhi students join protesting farmers at Singhu border||Protesting farmers found support in Delhi students, who put up posters at the Singhu border on Tuesday to highlight the plight of the peasants across the country, and create awareness on a wide range of issues. Ravinder Singh, a 22-year-old student of Law Faculty at Delhi University, said the students want to create awareness about several issues that the country is suffering from. "We have many issues concerning the farmers, women, students, labourers among others. We need to address them all. We are making posters in various languages like English, Hindi, Urdu and Punjabi so that the people can read and understand what we are talking about," he said. Earlier, students from several universities gathered at the Singhu border to sing songs highlighting the farmers’ issues and their condition. Rajveer Kaur, a student of Punjabi Department at Delhi University, said people were given sheets and colours to make posters in support of the farmers. "Apart from the students, many others have extended their support and shown interest in making posters. They were welcomed and given sheets and colours to make the posters," she said. Another student from the Delhi University, Sangeeta, spoke on the different sets of issues that women face and said they should also take part in the protest and lead from the front. "There are more women at Tikri border, but they are primarily doing cooking. We have made posters highlighting the same. There should be active participation of women in the protest," she said. The posters were displayed on a wire tide on a truck later in the evening. Thousands of farmers have stayed put at various border points of Delhi in protest against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No headway in meeting, govt asks farmers for specifics||The government has asked farmers' groups to identify specific issues related to the three new farm laws and submit them by Wednesday for consideration and discussion in the next round of talks on Thursday, an official statement said after a nearly three-hour-long meeting that remained inconclusive on Tuesday. The government also offered to set up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 farmers’ organisations who attended the meeting. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, and Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Som Prakash on Tuesday interacted with the representatives of 35 farmers organisations, mainly from Punjab. During the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, the ministers explained the benefits of farm reform acts to the representatives of the farmers' Unions. Various issues related to these laws were discussed at length and talks were held in a cordial atmosphere, the agriculture ministry said in its statement. Tomar emphasised that the government was fully committed towards the welfare of farmers and agriculture development is always on the top priority.  "During the deliberations, the Union Agriculture Minister proposed to constitute an expert committee to put forth the issues of farmers so as to resolve them with mutual consent but the representative of the farmers unions suggested that all the representatives would attend a further round of discussions with the Government to resolve the matter amicably," the statement said.  During the interaction, the government suggested to the farmer representatives "to identify the specific issues related to Farm Reform Acts and share with the government on December 2 for consideration. These issues will be discussed during the fourth round of meeting to be held on December 3."  At the meeting, it was assured that the Centre is always committed to protecting the interest of farmers and is always open for discussions for farmers' welfare, the ministry said.  Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing the middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country.  However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector.  After the meeting, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement that the talks remained inconclusive and the government's proposal was not acceptable to farm unions.  It further said protests would now intensify across the country until their demands are met.  Soon after the Vigyan Bhawan meeting ended, a separate round of talks began at the Agriculture Ministry with representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).  The government said the talks with BKU members took place in a cordial atmosphere and the minister listened attentively to suggestions from the farmers. Sources said farmers’ representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community.  After the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government had called for another meeting on December 3.  "The farmer's organisations rejected the government's proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws," Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of the largest blocks of protesting farmers, told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No talk of vaccinating entire population, govt says now||The Centre on Tuesday claimed that there was never any talk regarding immunising every citizen with a Covid-19 vaccine. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava, addressing a question during a press conference on Tuesday, said the purpose of the vaccine would be to break the chain of transmission of the disease. "Our purpose is to break the chain of virus transmission. If we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the chain of transmission, then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population," he said. "The role of masks is also vitally important and that will continue even after the vaccination. Because we are starting with a small group of population at a time and therefore masks will be protective and continue to be used so as to help in breaking the chain of viral transmission," Bhargava added. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan clarified that there was never any talk of inoculating the whole population of the country with the Covid-19 vaccine. "I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It's important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only and then analyse it," said Bhushan. India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.62 lakh with November registering over 30 per cent decline in both new deaths and cases as compared to October, while total recoveries surged to 88,89,585, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,62,809 with 31,118 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,621 after 482 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Yogi trying to take Bollywood to UP, alleges Congress leader||Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on Tuesday alleged the BJP was scheming to take away a "slice of Bollywood" to the northern state. "When BJP was in power in Maharashtra, many industries and offices were shifted to Gujarat. Though the government changed in Maharashtra, the BJP is now readying a script to take away a slice of Bollywood in the name of the Uttar Pradesh government. "Whatever had happened in the tenure of the BJP, we won't let it happen again," Chavan tweeted. "Earlier, the importance of Maharashtra was reduced deliberately, but the then government kept quiet. BJP leaders took a lead in getting funds for the PM Cares Fund instead of getting funds for Chief Minister's Fund only to make their seniors happy," Chavan said in another tweet. Underlining that every state has a right to develop itself and help other states, Chavan stated no state has the right to snatch "share of others". "BJP leaders must not support this step of their party and not participate in this sin," he added. Ahead of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's meeting with Bollywood personalities in Mumbai, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday said nobody can take the Film City and its glamour away from Mumbai. Adityanath is arriving late this evening in Mumbai and slated to meet industrialists and film personalities during the visit. As per reports, Sachin Sawant, a spokesperson for the Congress party, a part of the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, has alleged a conspiracy to shift Bollywood out of Mumbai. "Yogiji may be coming here to study the film city and facilities being provided to the industry, but nobody can take the film city and its glamour away from Mumbai," Patil told reporters. Responding to a query, the BJP leader said every state has the right to develop or provide some facilities to the film industry. "They are free to do so," he added. Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh. The UP government had already approved a proposal for setting up a film city in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||No headway in talks with farmers, another meeting on Thursday||The government offered to set up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws on Tuesday, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 farmers’ organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers. The meeting remained inconclusive and the government has called for another round of discussions on Thursday, December 3, farmers’ union leaders and government officials said. Sources said farmers’ representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community. At the nearly three-hour-long meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. After the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government had called for another meeting on December 3. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. "We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let's see," Tomar told reporters before start of the meeting. He added that the government would arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. "The farmer's organisations rejected the government's proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws," Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of the largest blocks of protesting farmers, told PTI. The government side was, however, firm in its stand that a high-level committee must be formed to look into the issues and wanted the farmer representatives to further consider the proposal. Sources said the ministers were of the view that it was difficult to reach a decision while interacting with such large groups and therefore they suggested meeting with a smaller group, but the farmer leaders were firm that they would meet collectively only. Union leaders said they feared the government might be trying to break their unity and the momentum of their protest. Heavy security arrangements were in place around the meeting venue. An earlier meeting on November 13 had failed to give any breakthrough and the next one was originally scheduled for December 3, but it got advanced due to the ongoing protests on Delhi borders. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday's violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border  since Monday. Opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to "respect the democratic struggle" of the farmers and repeal the laws. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. "By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Bilkis Bano stopped from joining farmers at Singhu border||Bilkis Bano, fondly known as Bilkis Dadi of Shaheen Bagh, was stopped by the Delhi police on Tuesday at the Singhu border where she wanted to join thousands of farmers protesting against the new central farm laws, police said. The octogenarian was the face of the months-long anti-citizenship amendment law protest at the national capital’s Shaheen Bagh area and had also featured in the Time Magazine for her act. Popularly known as Shaheen bagh Dadi, Bilkis was inclined to join the farmers in their protest, but was stopped by the police personnel soon after reaching the Singhu border. "She is a senior citizen and due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, we stopped her at the Singhu Border and requested her to return for her own safety and betterment," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. "To avoid any kind of any inconvenience to her, she was escorted by the police team to her home in southeast Delhi," he added. Bilkis shot into limelight last year during the months-long anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here and was also recognised by the American weekly Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020 alongside Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana. Braving the extreme winters of Delhi, the 82-year-old joined hundreds of women and children sitting under a tent during the protest, which began in December last year. Soon, she emerged as the face of the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. The protest at Shaheen bagh ended in March this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||BJP raising contentious issues to divert attention, alleges Digvijaya||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said the BJP was speaking on contentious issues like religious conversions through marriage to divert people's attention from problems they are facing. His comments follow Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra's announcement last week that the state government was proposing a jail term of 10 years for anyone found guilty of using marriage to force someone to change religion. "There is no problem if laws for 'love jihad' would end unemployment, backwardness and poverty. The BJP government is trying to divert the attention of people from real issues," Singh told reporters in Damoh on Monday. In recent weeks, BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have revealed plans to enact laws to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which party leaders often refer to as 'love jihad'. Singh also hit out at the Centre for the new farm laws which he said were aimed at ending the mandi and MSP mechanisms and handing over the agriculture sector to "multinationals and rich people". He said the Congress would look into its defeat on a majority of the 28 MP Assembly seats that witnessed polls on November 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Sportspersons back farmers, to return Arjuna awards||A host of former sportspersons, including Arjuna and Padma Shri awardees, in a bid to support the agitating farmers have said that they will return their awards in protest against the “force” used on the peasants on their way to Delhi during the march. Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur are among the players that have extended their support. They will proceed to Delhi on December 5 and place the awards in front of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the sports stars said, while slamming the governments for using water cannons and tear gas on the protesting farmers at the borders. "We are the children of farmers and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place,” Cheema said on Tuesday. "But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same," he added. Kartar Singh confirmed that several players will go to Delhi to return their awards on December 5, and join the stir with the farmers. "If farmers do not want such laws, then why was the central government imposing them," asked Singh, who has retired as Inspector General in the Punjab Police. Cheema said several former players including Kaur and Arjuna awardee (shotput) Balwinder Singh have backed them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi's remand extended in UK||Nirav Modi, wanted in connection with the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, was further remanded in custody on Tuesday by a court in London hearing India's extradition request for the diamond merchant. The 49-year-old appeared on Tuesday via video link from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, dressed in a maroon sweater and sporting a full beard, for his regular 28-day call-over hearing at Westminster Magistrates' Court, where Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot extended his remand for another 28 days until December 29. It will be another short video link call-over hearing and then there is just over a week before closing submissions in the case, she told Modi, who spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth. The final hearings in the extradition case are scheduled over two days, on January 7 and 8 next year, when District Judge Samuel Goozee is scheduled to hear closing arguments from both sides before he hands down his judgment a few weeks later. At the last hearing in the case on November 3, Judge Goozee heard the arguments for and against the admissibility of certain witness statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) and ruled that the evidence to establish a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the fugitive diamantaire is broadly admissible. He concluded that he considered himself bound by the previous UK court rulings in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had stressed that the evidence, including witness statements under Section 161 of the Indian Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), meets the required threshold for the UK court to determine whether Modi has a case to answer before the Indian judicial system. The argument that this is a very specific case, distinguishable from Mallya is frankly nonsense, said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm. That Mallya has a case to answer in India in his fraud and money laundering case has cleared various levels of the UK judicial system and is currently undergoing a confidential legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition. Modi's barrister, Clare Montgomery, who was also the defence counsel in Mallya's case, however, disputed that the Section 161 witness statements qualify as similar. The government of India case is not as strong as it was in Mallya, said Montgomery, as she also raised a specific issue over a witness who was said to speak no English in his testimony for the CBI but signed a statement in English for the ED. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of "Letters of Understanding" (LOUs or loan agreements), and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or criminal intimidation to cause death added to the CBI case. The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down. The charges against him centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB or LoUs. The CPS, on behalf of India, has told the court during the course of two separate set of hearings in May and September that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure the LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. Modi's defence team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems and jewellery trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. His severe depression has also been raised as part of the arguments against extradition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-521
01-12-2020||India||SC unsatisfied with Gujarat's report on Covid hospital fire||The Supreme Court Tuesday expressed displeasure over Gujarat government's report regarding the recent fire in a designated COVID-19 hospital in Rajkot in which several patients had died, saying no attempts should be made to suppress the facts. "We have seen Gujarat's reply. Five people have died on the seventh floor. What kind of affidavit is this? No attempts should be made to suppress the facts," said a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan which had last week taken cognisance of Rajkot fire incident. "An inquiry committee has been constituted. The FIR was lodged but people have got bail for whatever reasons. Commissions after commissions are constituted but nothing happens," said the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. The bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to look into the report and ensure that better affidavit is filed in the apex court. Mr Mehta, you look into the affidavit and see what are they filing, the bench said. Mehta told the bench he would look into the report and talk to the state government on this. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on December 3. Mehta apprised the bench that the Centre has issued guidelines on fire safety in hospitals across the country. The Central government have issued guidelines on fire safety. I have filed the affidavit, Mehta told the bench. The Centre on Monday had asked all states to ensure proper fire safety in hospitals and nursing homes, saying utmost precautions must be taken at a time when the country is fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had written a letter to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories in the wake of recent fire incidents in two hospitals in Gujarat which killed 14 people. The home secretary had said occurrence of various fire incidents in hospitals and nursing homes in recent past and non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities in their respective jurisdiction is a matter of concern. The apex court had on November 27 taken cognisance of fire outbreak in the ICU of a designated COVID hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat in which five patients died and had pulled up the states for not taking any concrete action to mitigate the problem despite repeated instances. The top court had termed the Rajkot fire incident as shocking and said this is a very serious thing and it reflects the situation of designated government hospitals as similar instances have taken place in other places also. It had said such an incident showed that there are no proper fire safety measures in place there to deal with such a situation. Mehta had assured the apex court that home secretary would convene a meeting on this issue preferably today or latest by tomorrow and proper directions would be given. Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel had earlier said that 26 patients at the hospital in Rajkot were rescued and shifted to other facilities, while five other patients died. The fire broke out around 12.30 am last Friday in the ICU ward located on the first floor of the four-storey Uday Shivanand Hospital in Anand Bungalow Chowk area, where around 31 patients were admitted, Patel had added. The issue cropped up before the bench which was hearing the matter in which it had taken cognisance regarding need for proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in the hospitals. The top court on November 23 had said that the COVID-19 pandemic has worsened in Delhi and gone out of control in Gujarat and had directed the Centre and all states to apprise it of the steps taken to contain the situation nationwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Talks with farmers on, Tomar hopeful of a solution ||The government expressed confidence that a solution would be reached after discussing issues raised by protesting farmers, as a meeting got underway between union ministers and representatives of over 30 farmer organisations on Tuesday. For the meeting being held at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by railways and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. Defence minister Rajnath Singh wasn’t present when the meeting started. "We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let's see," Tomar told reporters as he arrived for the meeting. He said the government would arrive at a solution after hearing representatives of farmer organisations. Hours before the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Tomar and Goyal, along with BJP chief J P Nadda, had held marathon discussions over the farmers' protest against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday's violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday. Opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to "respect the democratic struggle" of the farmers and repeal the laws. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM." Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agriculture laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. On Monday, farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Oxford vaccine immunogenic and safe, says Serum Institute||The Serum Institute of India on Tuesday quashed all allegations that a Covid-19 trial vaccine volunteer had undergone serious side effects after a dose of the same developed by AstraZeneca and the Oxford University was administered to him. It stressed that the vaccine was immunogenic and safe. "We would want to assure everyone that the vaccine won't be released for mass use unless it is proven immunogenic, and safe," said SII, the world’s largest vaccine producer, in a blog. A Chennai-based volunteer had claimed, last week, that he had suffered serious psychological and neurological effects after being administered with the vaccine shot, and sued the company along with others, demanding Rs 5 crore. "The incident with the Chennai volunteer though highly unfortunate was in no way induced by the vaccine and Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer's medical condition," the Pune-based institute said. The SII is conducting trials of the AstraZeneca vaccine in India as a part of an agreement related to manufacturing. "Taking into consideration the complexities and existing misnomers about vaccination and immunisation; the legal notice was sent (to the volunteer) therefore to safeguard the reputation of the company which is being unfairly maligned," Serum said. The institute also said that all the required regulatory and ethical processes and guidelines were strictly followed. "The concerned authorities were informed and the principal investigator, DSMB and the Ethics Committee independently cleared and reckoned it as a non-related issue to the vaccine trial,” the institute said. "Post which, we submitted all the reports and data related to the incident to the DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India). It is only after we cleared all the required processes that we continued with the trials," it added. In response to claims made by the volunteer, SII had on Sunday stated that the allegations were "malicious and misconceived".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Customs granted a week's extension of Sivasankar's custody ||A local court on Tuesday allowed a Customs plea, seeking a seven-day extension of the custody of M Sivasankar, arrested by the central agency in connection with the gold smuggling case. Considering the plea, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) court granted Customs his custody till December 7. In its plea, the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on Monday claimed that key accused Swapna Suresh, during her custodial interrogation, has made revelations implicating Sivasankar in the currency smuggling case with strong links in the gold smuggling case. The agency had also submitted before the court a copy of the statement made by Suresh before the Investigating Officer under Section 108 of Customs Act on November 27. The Customs made the claim as the five-day custody of Sivasankar granted by the court ended on Monday. The court had posted for Tuesday, the application seeking an extension of custody of Sivasankar. The agency also said in its application that more investigation was required on two mobile phones used by him. It said that during the course of the custodial interrogation of Sivasankar, he had stated under Section 108 of the Customs Act, that he was using only one mobile phone, which he had declared before the investigating agencies. But their probe revealed that he was using two more mobile phones, which he did not divulge before the agencies, the Customs said. Of these two phones, one number was identified and retrieved by the investigating team on November 29 and was being analysed, the petition had said. Efforts are on to identify and recover the second mobile, the agency had said, seeking the continued custody of Sivasankar. The customs said it was necessary to locate the second device and also to corroborate/confront evidence that may be recovered from both the devices. The agency had on November 24 arrested Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Customs has said it has arrested around 15 people, including Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair, over the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the ED and the Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Urmila Matondkar joins Shiv Sena||Bollywood actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket, joined the Shiv Sena on Tuesday. Matondkar (46), who quit the Congress in September 2019 after five months in that party, joined the Shiv Sena in presence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his residence Matoshri in suburban Bandra. Sena sources said Matondkar's name was forwarded to Governor B S Koshyari by the Shiv Sena recently for nomination to the Legislative Council from the governor's quota. Matondkar, who lost to BJP's Gopal Shetty from North Mumbai Lok Sabha seat last year, recently took on actor Kangana Ranaut for equating Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Akhilesh accuses BJP of trying to grab farmers’ lands ||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party  on Tuesday over the farm laws issue, saying there is a “conspiracy” to take away the lands of the farmers under the guise of the amendments. The former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also accused the government of making false promises of doubling their lands. "We, who do agriculture, clearly understand the conspiracy of grabbing lands of farmers under the guise of farm laws by giving 'jumla' (false promise) of doubling the income. We are struggling as usual with our farmer brothers, so that the structure protecting the MSP, market and agriculture remains intact. BJP is over now,” Yadav said on Twitter. Farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, are agitating against the three new Central agri-marketing laws at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi. Yadav had earlier, while expressing his support to the protesters, said if farmers were left to the market and the big players they would never benefit. The Centre has invited agitating farmer unions for talks on Tuesday. The stir by farmers appeared to intensify despite a strong defence of the legislation by the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has accused the opposition of playing tricks on farmers again through misinformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to lead talks, farmers agree to attend  ||Farmers indicated that they would be taking part in Tuesday's talks proposed by the government amid reports that defence minister Rajnath Singh would be leading discussions in the presence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. "The government has invited us without preconditions and we're going for the talks. About 35 representatives will go, and we will demand the laws be repealed. We will also demand a law on MSP. If the government doesn't agree, the protests will continue," Jagjit Singh Dallewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said after holding a meeting among themselves, according to ndtv.com. Rajnath is understood to have met Union home minister Amit Shah and Tomar on Tuesday morning to discuss modalities of the talks during which the government would try and convince farmers about the benefits of the new farm laws. The government, however, was likely to tell the protesters that the laws would not be repealed, ndtv.com, quoting high-level sources, reported. Earlier, one of the 32 farmer unions invited for talks backed out and demanded that representatives of all 500 organisations that were part of protests be invited. General secretary of Punjab-based farmers' outfit Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher said the government was trying to divide the protesters by not inviting all the unions. "A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited and moreover, the Prime Minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. "If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said. according to PTI. "By not inviting all farmers' bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM." Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agriculture laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming. On Monday, farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload inching towards 95 lakh mark||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.62 lakh with November registering over 30 per cent decline in both new deaths and cases as compared to October, while total recoveries surged to 88,89,585, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday.  The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,62,809 with 31,118 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,621 after 482 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed.  New infections due to COVID-19 started to decline steadily since the first week of October.  A total 12,78,727 cases were reported in November, a decrease from October's 18,71,498, accounting for about 13.51 per cent of the total instances of the viral infection reported in the country so far.  The past month also saw 15,510 lives lost due to the disease, which is just around 11.27 per cent of the total 1,37,621 deaths recorded so far.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 88,89,585, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.94 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.  The active COVID-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 21th consecutive day.  There are 4,35,603 active cases in the country which comprise 4.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5.  It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20.  According to the ICMR, 14,13, 49,298 samples have been tested so far with 9,69,332 samples being tested on Monday.  The 482 new fatalities include 108 from Delhi, 80 from Maharashtra, 48 from West Bengal, 27 each from Haryana and Punjab, 21 each from Chhattisgarh and Kerala and 20 each from Gujarat and Rajasthan.  Total 1,37,621 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,151 from Maharashtra followed by 11,778 from Karnataka, 11,712 from Tamil Nadu, 9,174 from Delhi, 8,424 from West Bengal, 7,761 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,992 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,807 from Punjab, 3,989 from Gujarat and 3,260 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Three officials of fire-hit Covid hospital in Gujarat arrested||Police have arrested three senior officials of a company that operated a private Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot district where a fire killed five patients last week, a police official said on Tuesday. The fire broke out around 12.30 am on Friday in the ICU ward of Uday Shivanand Hospital in which five Covid-19 patients were killed, while 28 others were rescued. On Sunday, the police registered an FIR against five officials of Gokul Healthcare Pvt Limited, which operated the hospital, under Indian Penal Code Section 304-A (causing death by negligence). The police arrested the company's chairman, Dr Prakash Modha, his son and executive director Dr Vishal Modha, and director Dr Tejas Karamta on Monday night after their Covid-19 test reports were received, an official from Rajkot's Malviya Nagar police station said. "They have been booked along with two others under the IPC section for causing death by negligence," he said. On Sunday, Deputy Commissioner of Police Manoharsinh Jadeja told reporters that an investigation into the incident revealed negligence on part of the hospital authorities, and hence the FIR was lodged against them under IPC Section 304-A. He said the Covid-19 hospital began functioning after getting permission on September 15. The hospital was started on three floors rented at a hospital being run by Shivanand Mission Trust. During the investigation into the incident, several norms were found to have been allegedly flouted and negligence of hospital administrators came to fore, he said. The hospital did not follow fire prevention protocols and safety measures were lacking, which caused difficulties in the rescue operation and resulted in the death of five patients, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Delhi air quality still in 'very poor' category||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-522
01-12-2020||India||Odisha girl murder ripples reach Delhi||Politics over the alleged kidnapping and murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayargah district has intensified with a delegation of BJP leaders led by its legislative party leader Pradipta Nayak meeting the victim’s family at their village and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra staging a demonstration in front of the Odisha Bhavan in New Delhi on Monday. The BJP delegation also visited the site where the minor girl’s skeletal remains were found. “As a senior minister Arun Sahoo has been accused of shielding the perpetrators of the crime, he should first resign. A CBI probe can only reveal the truth and not the SIT or crime branch probe,” Nayak said. Upping the ante, a group of BJP leaders led by Patra on Monday held a demonstration in New Delhi and demanded immediate sacking of Sahoo. The Nayagarh Assembly constituency falls within the Puri parliamentary Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested in the last general election. The BJP also organised rallies in different parts of the state demanding Sahoo’s resignation and justice Pari’s family. Patra met the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and demanded the launch of a special probe into the incident. Urging the commission to send a fact-finding team to inquire about the crime, Patra appealed to the panel to summon the Nayagarh district collector and SP for not taking prompt action in the matter. “The parents have alleged that one Babuli Nayak, who is involved in human organ racket and is close to the minister, is involved in the crime. But police have failed to take any action against him so far,” he told reporters. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later, her skeletal remains were found from the backyard of the house. Her parents alleged that police were not taking any action in the matter because the people involved in the crime were close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo. The Odisha government has ordered a court-monitored SIT probe into the incident. While a section of the Congress leaders have welcomed the government’s move, another section has opposed it and questioned the leadership on the issue. Senior Congress MLAs Suresh Kumar Routray and Santosh Singh Saluja’s statement that they had been asked to drop the demand for resignation of the minister after Congress legislature party leader Narasingh Misha expressed satisfaction with the announcement of SIT probe has triggered a debate. “I am not satisfied with the SIT probe ordered by the chief minister but we have been asked to keep quiet,” Routray said, hinting at a deal between senior party leaders and Sahoo. Another Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja told The Telegraph, “ I have reservations on the issue of SIT probe. I am not satisfied but I have to accept the order of our leader in the Assembly.” Earlier, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra had said that the order for a SIT probe into the matter was a historic victory for the Congress. The government was forced to make the announcement following pressure from the Congress. Odisha Assembly, which witnessed pandemonium over the issue for five days, was adjourned sine die on Sunday evening, a month ahead of the scheduled closure of its winter session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Damages sought for Covid vaccine trial events||Health rights advocates on Monday asked India’s drug regulatory agency to ensure that all clinical trial volunteers in India who experience severe adverse events after receiving candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease are compensated under National Human Rights Commission guidelines. Members of the All India Drug Action Network and the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan have also asked the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the regulatory agency, to break its silence on its probe into a serious adverse event in a Chennai trial volunteer. The volunteer had developed a neurological illness on October 11, ten days after receiving the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate vaccine, triggering an investigation by the local institutional ethics committee at the Sri Ramachandra Hospital, the site of the Chennai trial. Researchers familiar with the events have told The Telegraph that the institutional ethics committee’s findings were conveyed to the CDSCO, which has not released any official information about the probe. Multiple queries from this newspaper to the head of the CDSCO have remained unanswered. Aidan — a consortium of physicians and public health activists — has asked the CDSCO to explain why the clinical trial was not halted if it was still investigating “the serious adverse event”. It has also asked the CDSCO to explain the protocols in place for independent investigations into serious adverse events that might occur in volunteers. The Chennai volunteer has sent a legal notice to the CDSCO, AstraZeneca, Oxford University, and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India that conducted the trial, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation. The Serum Institute on Sunday released a public statement accusing the volunteer of spreading malicious information with a pecuniary motive and threatening to seek Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer. Aidan and the JSA have termed Serum’s statement intimidatory and said it was intended to threaten the volunteer. Aidan said: “We are shocked at this blatant attempt at intimidation by the Serum Institute. The Serum Institute is trying to divert public scrutiny of its trial. The trial was recruiting healthy volunteers and a participant who received a first dose has and continues to suffer neurological problems.” The Serum Institute has said there is absolutely no correlation between the trial and the medical condition of the volunteer, adding that the volunteer is “falsely laying the blame” on the trial for his medical problems. But JSA members say the NHRC guidelines for Covid-19, released in September this year, recommend compensation for any clinical trial participant who suffers a serious adverse event. “The CDSCO is entrusted with safeguarding the rights of clinical trial participants,” said Amulya Nidhi, a member of the JSA who has since 2012 campaigned for improvements in India’s clinical trial procedures. “The CDSCO has to take responsibility for investigations into serious adverse events and compensation for participants.” In its guidelines on Covid-19, the NHRC had said: “Adequate compensation may be paid to all participants involved in trials of Covid-19 interventions who suffer serious adverse events.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Intentions as pure as Gangajal: Modi to farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday arrived in Varanasi to tell farmers camped in Delhi that his intentions were as pure as Gangajal and they were finding it hard to trust his government because they had been deceived so many times in the past. “I can feel that decades of deception have created doubts in the minds of farmers. They are not at fault. But I want to tell my farmer brother and sisters, I want to say  from the ghat of the Ganga, I am saying from the holy city of Kashi that nowadays work is done with a holy intention as pure as Gangajal and not by deceit,” Modi told a gathering at Khajuri in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency. He said that in the coming days, it would be clear how farmers can benefit from the new farm laws that are at the centre of the agitation now. Besides addressing the public meeting, the Prime Minister unveiled a road project, worshipped at the Kashi Vishwanath temple and took a ride along the ghats on a cruise boat. Athira Murali, who has been sponsoring food for slum dwellers displaced by Modi’s visit, said: “This morning, officials visited the homeless people and took them under the Rajghat bridge. The authorities requested the people of Varanasi in general not to wear black clothes while venturing out of their homes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Farmers stand firm as Modi defends farm laws, plays to Sikh sentiments ||The protesting farmers stood firm on Monday despite a multi-pronged effort by the Centre to dissuade them, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi again talking up the new farm laws and his government trying to play on Sikh sentiments on Guru Nanak’s birthday. Late on Monday night, the agriculture ministry said in a statement that in view of Covid and the winter, it had advanced to Tuesday the talks planned for December 3. Those farmer leaders who had attended the previous round were invited to join the talks at 3pm at Vigyan Bhavan, it said. Earlier in the day, the farmers practically told the Prime Minister off, saying they had been hearing his Mann ki Baat (monthly radio address) for over six years and it was time he heard their “mann ki baat” (words from the heart), else his party and government would pay a heavy price. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi had lauded the new farm laws as pro-farmer while mentioning not a word about the agitation against them. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), among the most respected farmer leaders in Punjab, described the Modi government as authoritarian and fascist. “Yeh aar paar ki ladai hai (This a fight to the finish),” he said while briefing the media at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on the GT Karnal Road. Singh said what had upset the farmers most was the government’s refusal to even talk about the issue they see as non-negotiable — the repeal of the three new farm laws. He said this was not a protest by farmers from one state — Punjab — or one religion — Sikhism — as was being portrayed by the government and its supporters. “There is no question of withdrawing; we will stay put,” Singh said. Modi on Monday suggested that the farmers were suspicious of his government’s farm policies because they had been cheated by past governments. The I&B ministry released a booklet on Guru Nanak’s Birthday to highlight “PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs” — seen as an effort to cajole a minority community that the government believes is leading the protest. The Right-wing ecosystem too has been trying to project the agitation as Punjab-specific although farmers across the country have been protesting. While farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh staged the initial march to Delhi, their peers from other states too have begun moving towards the capital heeding a call from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Sunday. To drive home this point, BKU (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters that the Haryana Mandi Association had called a strike in the state’s agriculture markets on Tuesday. Swaraj Abhiyan’s Yogendra Yadav, who is from Haryana, said village panchayats across the state had decided to send a member from every family to participate in the agitation. On Sunday, the leaders of 30 Khap panchayats (caste councils) in Haryana held a meeting in Rohtak and decided to join the protest. Sombir Sangwan, the Independent MLA from Dadri who also heads the Sangwan Khap, told PTI that “all khaps which took part in the meeting unanimously decided to extend support to the thousands of farmers sitting in protest on Delhi’s borders”. The Indian diaspora, particularly in America, Canada and Britain, have chipped in with digital mobilisation. According to the petition website Change.org, more than 2 lakh people have signed petitions demanding justice for the farmers on its platform over the past two days. Taxi and auto-rickshaw unions in the National Capital Region have expressed solidarity with the farmers, urging them to continue their agitation till the government convened a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws. Several popular Punjabi singers, including Sidhu Moosewala and Babbu Maan, have joined the farmers at the protests. Parallel efforts are on, however, to discredit the movement by alleging Khalistani links, engaging in dog whistling (“the farmers are being fed biryani”) and focusing on the traffic jams rather than the issues that prompted the agitation. Some media outlets, too, have drawn flak for dwelling on these efforts, with “godi (lapdog) media” placards coming up at some places. Punjab’s feisty farmers have refused to let the Right-wing campaign dampen their spirits. Monday evening saw them celebrate Gur Purab by lighting candles at the Tikri border. They offered prayers on the road and cooked and distributed prasad. Gurpal Singh, 25, who has come from Patiala with his 85-year-old grandfather, Ajaib Singh, said: “In the morning, prayers were held. We lit candles in the evening and greeted each other.” Jaspreet Singh, a student of Panjab University in Patiala, said this was the first time he is away from home on the festival. “We pray for the well being of everyone. People who have come here from Punjab will light diyas on their tractors and road. We are obviously missing our family….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Kerala raid anger at Vijayan police adviser||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has a new headache to handle with rumblings from a section of the ruling Left Democratic Front over undue powers being exercised by some police officers. While there was simmering discontent with the functioning of the chief minister’s police adviser Raman Srivastava, matters came to a head with the recent raids conducted by the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau at a public sector firm that runs a hugely popular chit fund. Officials from the vigilance department on Saturday raided 36 branches of Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd. While it didn’t explain the reason for the raids, KSFE chairman Peelipose Thomas on Monday explained that “there were no major discrepancies” and the sleuths asked “some basic questions” and left quickly. Vijayan termed the vigilance bureau’s action as “lightning inspections” based on the report they get. “But they don’t take any action. It is the government that initiates action based on their report,” said Vijayan. He defended Srivastava and said he had no role in day-to-day affairs of the police department. “No one has to report to him or take instructions from him,” said Vijayan. The chief minister said there were 24 such lightning inspections on various departments since last year and none of them was initiated by Srivastava. Both the ruling and Opposition leaders were aghast at the state government’s own agency raiding a state-run enterprise, allegedly without informing the chief minister. A section within the CPM has pointed fingers at Srivastava, the powerful adviser who enjoys chief secretary’s rank in the government. A 1973 batch Kerala cadre IPS officer, Srivastava was appointed as Vijayan’s police adviser in 2017. One of the police officers under cloud of suspicion in the 1994 Isro spy scandal, Srivastava eventually headed the state police and retired in 2011 as director-general of BSF. A senior CPM legislator told The Telegraph on Monday that he was “shocked” to learn about the vigilance raids at KSFE branches. “I have reasons to believe that the chief minister didn’t know about it and the raids were carried out to put KSFE under a cloud of suspicion,” said the lawmaker who didn’t want to be named. He said Srivastava was already an adviser of a private security management firm that is better known for running a popular chit fund. “I am not sure if it is a conflict of interest since he is in an advisory capacity in both jobs. But an explanation is needed,” said the lawmaker. The MLA admitted that no one had the courage to question the appointment. “Since Pinarayi (Vijayan) was always a very strong leader, we thought he would be able to control him (Srivastava),” he said. According to the lawmaker, Srivastava and “some other police officers” advised Vijayan on going ahead with the controversial ordinance that inserted Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act that was repealed in just four days after an outcry over the provision against free speech. “Many of us in the party feel that Srivastava enjoys tremendous clout in the police department,” he said without elaborating. “Many of us have always felt that Srivastava’s style of functioning was behind the arrest of Alan and Taha,” he said, alluding to journalism students Alan Shuhaib and Taha Faizal, who were arrested in November 2019 and slapped with provisions under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly distributing Maoist literature. Both of them are languishing in jail. But finance minister Thomas Isaac tried to downplay such allegations from party members. “The government does not have such a view,” he said, when asked if some police officers were behind the KSFE raids. Already mired in controversies ranging from a gold smuggling case in which a senior bureaucrat was arrested over his links with the key accused, to being accused of curbing free speech with the now-repealed ordinance, the Opposition has been leveraging on the issues ahead of the local body polls in December and state polls next summer. “Strong difference of opinion within the government is coming out in the open. This is an incident that reflects the loss of collective responsibility in the government,” leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala told reporters on Monday. Former chief minister Oomen Chandy noted that during his tenure “vigilance never took any action without informing the minister concerned. But it depends on the style of those governing to decide if they should be kept informed on vigilance raids”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Poor grow poorer, and don’t even see it||The story goes that a Latin American dictator beholden to the CIA and the US President for his position met the President on one of his regular trips to America to request more military aid. He reported to the US President: “Sir, the economy is doing well, not the people.” This is a common enough situation, only seldom admitted by the heads of state. It goes without saying the state of a country’s economy depends not merely on production of output but also on the well-being of the people. The link between the two is established by the distribution of output through wealth and income. The link tends to be complex when growth or stagnation is accompanied by rapid changes in the inequality of income. Suppose a country has one dictator or emperor at the top and the rest are his subjects. The country is experiencing rapid growth in output, say 10 per cent. If all the increased output goes to the emperor, the people are no better off, the economy is richer but inequality between the top and the bottom has widened. There can be many variations of this story. Even with negative growth the emperor can be richer and the people poorer, or the other way round depending on how output gets distributed. This is mere description with numbers although more elaborate statistics with summary formulas is a much-researched area to make this point. However, we can see already that usual platitudes like, “growth automatically trickles down” or, “you must create wealth before you distribute it” are misleadingly unhelpful. Because, an understanding requires identifying the mechanism by which the process of growth is linked to distribution. The Indian case Information put together from diverse sources like UBS (formerly the Union Bank of Switzerland), PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers), Forbes’ and Harun India Rich list, Bloomberg billionaire index as well as recent reports from Oxfam and the World Inequality Lab present an unambiguous picture of economic inequality rising at an unprecedented rate in India. Inequality rose sharply in both China and India during globalised liberalisation. In 1990 the top 1 per cent captured 8 per cent and 11 per cent of national income in China and India respectively. However, inequality accelerated faster in India, and the corresponding figures were 14 per cent and 21 per cent respectively in 2019. Since then inequality in China has shown distinct signs of decelerating but no such sign is visible in India. Rising inequality at the very top and growth were not positively correlated. Even when growth finally turned negative at minus 23.9 per cent between August 2019 and June 2020, the income of the billionaires increased by 35 per cent say, compared to 27 per cent in the US under pro-rich Trump. The richest Indian, Mukesh Ambani, the only Asian among the richest 5 in the world, increased his net worth by 73 per cent, with Gautam Adani rising fast but a distant second. Indeed, the entire group of richest 828 Indians with individual net wealth exceeding Rs 1,000 crore increased their total wealth by 21 per cent at a time when the Indian economy had been sent into a coma due to a series of negative policy shocks like demonetisation, badly implemented GST, severest lockdown at 4-hour notice, new anti-labour laws and attempts at corporatisation of small scale agriculture. What’s going on? Growth, distribution Lack of jobs is the most visible link between growth and inequality. Unemployment is massive in India, but remains mostly invisible because the very poor cannot afford to be unemployed. This is why, for instance, statistics show a higher unemployment rate among the more educated who come from relatively richer backgrounds. The very poor in the meantime have to eke out a miserable living. They are under-employed income-wise, not time-wise, often working long hours with low hourly earning. This is the low end of India’s informal economy, gives livelihood to 93 per cent of India’s workforce and produces 45 per cent of total output. And yet, this is a black box, because employment and enterprise surveys carried out by the government at intervals of five years rely on interpolation for interim years based on indices of industrial production in the organised sector, income tax data, etc. Negative shocks like demonetisation and pandemic lockdown hit hardest this sector’s income, but how hard can only be guessed. The big organised industries contributed to the unemployment problem through higher mechanisation and automation under globalisation to cope with international competitiveness, requiring quality control and on-time delivery. And yet, unlike China, India continues to be a country that imports more than it exports. However, a ‘feel good’ foreign exchange position especially for the upper middle class is maintained mostly with short-term inflow of foreign portfolio investment. This has the associated fear of capital flight. Successive governments irrespective of their political colour have managed so far not to rattle the financial sentiments of the capital market by restraining severely public spending on health, education and housing. Naturally, the poor are the hardest hit. Adivasis and Dalits are not only among the poorest, but state violence has been unleashed especially on them in the name of development. Cheap land-based natural resources like minerals, forests, water bodies, mountains and sea shores have been acquired from them by the government, and handed over to the large private corporations mostly to incentivise them to invest. Only a tiny fraction of that dispossessed population can be absorbed in modern industry because of the relative small size of the total market. We buy more than we sell in the foreign market, while vastly increased labour productivity through mechanisation in a sluggish domestic market has killed rather than creating more jobs. Technology has been working against the poor people. Big industry requires more natural resource per unit of output and puts pressure for the next round of dispossession along with further deterioration of environment. Joblessness, environmental degradation of city and countryside, and a swelling informal sector are intertwined with growth. However, even when growth falters, the show can still be kept going! The corporate sector quickly learns it can accumulate wealth more speedily because the government will hand them over land and other natural resources very cheap if they manage to be politically on the right side of the government. Corporate donations flow uninterrupted, say, through electoral bonds, as production becomes less important than acquisition of natural resources plus the usual tax breaks and anti-labour laws. Corporate wealth increases leap forward, leading to an artificial stock market boom as the rich invest a big part of their income in stocks. Higher stock values also have more collateral value, justifying bank loans whether paid back or not, which leads to further rise in stock price. Inequality grows along with the wealth of the already wealthy. The lure of quick capital gains can even turn into a bullish mania despite even negative growth in the real economy. Apart from occasional relief, democratic government with its cosiness to selected corporates hopes to ride the storms of election with the money power, a pliable media, academia and other institutions falling in line. Growing inequality blends seamlessly into this tale of democratic development. What now? The British empiricist philosopher David Hume had argued long ago, you cannot get from an “ought” to an “is” proposition. In his chilling words: “It is not contrary to reason to prefer destruction of the whole world to the scratch of my finger.” What the government ought to do is not what the government does. The government has its own reasons. When money power, biased institutions and a highly pliable media combine to create a thick fog, public visibility diminishes, and ghosts appear in the name of religion, caste, an imagined history of tradition and false nationalism. In the ghostly dance that follows, people easily lose their sanity. They lose sight of democratic, economic and social policies that might help them. Instead they become engrossed in the phantom dance that has been put on for them. Digression from the real is the only game in town played by the dictator for his people. Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January this year, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||India plans coastal surveillance on Chinese in Indian Ocean||India is planning to set up coastal surveillance radar systems in friendly countries to counter China’s growing presence in the Indian Ocean Region, sources in the security establishment said. “These radars are meant for maritime surveillance and can easily detect boats, fishing vessels and any illegal activities in the sea,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. These coastal surveillance radar systems will be installed in Bangladesh, Myanmar, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Mauritius. An official of the Indian Navy said India was worried over China’s increasing influence in the Indian Ocean Region. “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is taking assertive stance in the South China Sea and is challenging India’s domination in the region. There is perceptible threat from Chinese submarines in the Indian Ocean even though they claim it is for anti-piracy. We have been carrying out threat assessment of PLA’s submarines,” he said. These coastal surveillance radar systems, he said, will help in keeping surveillance on the movements of Chinese submarines and any other illegal activities in the sea. He recounted how a Chinese research vessel had entered Indian waters last year near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Indian Navy had forced the PLA’s ship to return after it entered India’s exclusive economic zone. “The PLA’s ship was suspected to be on a spying mission,” the official said. Sources said eight to nine Chinese ships are usually present in Indian Ocean Region either for scientific research or anti-piracy missions. “The navy is keenly watching Chinese presence in the region,” the official said. Last month India had taken part in the four-nation Malabar exercise known as the QUAD group, involving the US, Japan and Australia in the Bay of Bengal, in the backdrop of China’s aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a tense border standoff along the LAC since early May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Book revisits Ramayana through a legal perspective||Few doubt that Rabindranath Tagore could have been jailed as an “anti-national” in today’s India for calling nationalism “a great menace” that “has been at the bottom of India’s troubles”. But what if the boot were on the other foot? Could Lord Ram himself be prosecuted for the murder of King Bali of Kishkindha under the judicial system of modern-day India? Could Sita seek divorce and maintenance under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, after being “abandoned” by Ram? And what defence could Ram offer if summoned to the courts? All these points have been raised and discussed in an amusing new book, Ramayana Revisited: An Epic Through a Legal Prism, co-authored by retired journalist Anil Maheshwari and Supreme Court advocate Vipul Maheshwari. Published by Bloomsbury, the volume hit the stands recently. Although mythologist Anand Neelakantan has lauded the book for giving “a balanced perspective of the Ramayana as each character argues his or her points”, the authors have issued a disclaimer, perhaps as a shield against possible charges of blasphemy from Hindutva advocates. “All dramatisations are fictional and not intended to deal with, defame or hurt any persons or person’s family, dead or alive,” they have written. The book has conjured up the possibility of an FIR being lodged against Ram to “investigate the cold-blooded murder of Bali, King of Kishkindha”. “It is a punishable offence to physically eliminate Bali, and that too by hiding behind a tree, while he was engaged in a fierce combat with his brother, Sugriva,” says the imaginary chargesheet. “Therefore we believe that Vali’s assassination was nothing but wanton disregard (of) all the established principles of dharma. We request the court to hold Rama answerable for his conduct u/s (under section) 302 of the IPC (murder).” The Maryada Purushottam’s defence is eminently pre-modern but carries shades of present-day international diplomacy: “We were merely upholding the promises made to Sugriva. (The) doctrine of necessity is a principle which authorises kings and princes to act in a particular manner. It is not true that I was no longer a prince and did not enjoy the authority of the State…. “As the prince of Ayodhya, I cannot be held responsible when engaged in the State’s affairs. Everything I did was to search for my queen, Sita, and the court has no jurisdiction against it. Therefore, I ask, not urge, (you) to drop these proceedings at once.” The authors have desisted from passing any verdict on the rival contentions, leaving the matter to the reader. It’s the section on Vibhishan that perhaps resonates the most with contemporary relevance. The prosecution argues that Vibhishan’s dharma required his presence in — and complete loyalty to — the kingdom of Lanka, especially during such a vulnerable period, and that his duties cannot be conflated with Ram’s dharma of fighting for his wife and his honour. “Therefore we request this court to punish Vibhishana under Section 121 and 121A of the IPC (sedition) and under Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act dealing with penalty for spying, etc,” the prosecution says. Vibhishan’s defence seems to mirror the Tagorean principle that “patriotism can’t be our final spiritual shelter” — a stand the poet might not get away with today. Ravan’s brother says he had simply joined the forces of dharma against the corrupt forces of Lanka. “I believe that I acted in favour of the State of Lanka. I managed to preserve some assets, wealth and warriors to rebuild Lanka, subsequently,” he pleads. “The decimation of the ruling elite of Lanka was necessary for further progress of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks citizens to choose between farmers and Modi's capitalist friends||Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked the citizens to decide who they are standing with — the farmers who feed them or Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s capitalist friends. Arguing in a video message that patriotism is protecting the country’s strength, which is the farmers, Rahul tweeted: “The farmers have come to Delhi’s border, leaving their homes and farms in this winter to protest against the black laws. You have to decide where you stand in this battle of truth and untruth: With the farmers who feed you or the Prime Minister’s capitalist friends?” The Congress ran a daylong “Speak Up For Farmers” campaign on different social media platforms, posting videos and messages giving details about the new farm laws and quotes from farmers across the country. Thousands of Congress leaders and workers participated in the campaign, which trended on Twitter nationally with around 1.5 lakh tweets. Participating in the campaign, Rahul said: “The critical question is why are the farmers out in the streets? Why have they come to Delhi walking thousands of kilometers? Narendra Modi says these three laws are in the interest of the farmers. If that is true, why are farmers angry? Why aren’t they happy? These laws are for two or three friends of Narendra Modi. These laws are meant to steal from farmers. That’s why we all have to stand with India’s strength; we have to stand with farmers.” He also appealed to Congressmen across the country to extend whatever help possible to the farmers. The Youth Congress has not only made arrangements for the farmers’ stay at its central office in Delhi, they are also distributing cooked food packets and other essential items among the farmers stranded at Uttar Pradesh and Haryana borders. The Youth Congress has opened temporary clinics at protest sites where doctors are treating farmers free of cost. The party also criticised the Prime Minister for misleading the nation on the new laws despite their complete rejection by all the farmer unions. Congress’s Randeep Surjewala responded to Modi’s renewed attempt to justify the laws saying: “How can the Prime Minister use lies and falsehood to defend the laws, which have triggered such a mass movement of farmers all over the country? Why are you using police force, tear gas, water cannons, barbed wires and false allegations to break their resolve? Why have you hatched this conspiracy to harm the farmers of the country?” Several Congress leaders used pet symbols of BJP — such as patriotism and Sardar Patel — to expose their hypocrisy in dealing with the farmers. They asked if maligning the farming community, which forms more than half of the population, calling them terrorists and using force to crush their voices were part of the BJP’s patriotic acts. They asked if Indian democracy didn’t allow space for farmers to express their resentment and whether they don’t deserve a conversation. “Meaning of democracy is respect for the voice of every citizen. Ministers are elected representatives of the people and they don’t own the country. They have to act per their will,” one video said. Many leaders pointed out that the government should not create problems for the farmers if it can’t reward them for ensuring food safety for the nation with their blood and toil. Arguing that farmers were living in wretched poverty, not even getting input costs for their yield at times, some leaders said they didn’t only feed the nation but sent their sons to the army to defend the borders. “The Modi government couldn’t wait for Parliament and introduced the black laws without discussion through ordinance, but they want farmers to wait on the road in this winter chill till December 3 to start negotiations,” one leader said. Many leaders pointed to the irony of the BJP’s desperation to appropriate the legacy of Sardar Patel who was a farmers’ leader. Shiv Sena in its mouthpiece Saamna also heaped scorn on the BJP, writing in its editorial on Monday, “Modi and Shah built the statue of Sardar Patel in Gujarat. That statue would have shed tears seeing the plight of the farmers on the Delhi border over the past few days. Sardar was a farmers’ leader. While Modi denied entry to the farmers in Delhi, the BJP government in Haryana committed the inhuman act of using water cannons on the peaceful protesters in this winter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Ally to BJP: Roll back farm laws or I quit||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party chief and Rajasthan MP Hanuman Beniwal on Monday threatened to quit the NDA over the new farm laws, piling pressure on the Narendra Modi government that has already witnessed ally Akali Dal walk out on the issue. An independent Haryana MLA supporting the state’s BJP-led government, Sombir Sangwan, too resigned as chairperson of the State Livestock Development Board in support of the agitating farmers. Although Beniwal’s party has just one Lok Sabha member, it wields influence over the politically important Jat community in Rajasthan, which has a significant presence in 10 to 15 Lok Sabha seats in the state. Beniwal, a vocal advocate of the BJP’s nationalist agenda who aggressively extolled Modi and castigated his opponents, had backed the new farm laws when they were passed in the Lok Sabha. But his party has been under pressure from its support base to publicly oppose the new farm laws. The RLP is the second BJP ally to revolt against the farm laws after the Punjab-based Shiromani Akali Dal, which quit the NDA recently and has been backing the agitating farmers. Beniwal’s departure from the NDA would make no material difference to the Modi government but could fan protests in Rajasthan, boost the agitating farmers’ morale and weaken the government’s efforts to portray the protest as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. Besides, it could affect Jat support for the BJP in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where too the community is politically significant. “Mr Amit Shah, in view of the countrywide sentiment in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the three recently passed bills related to agriculture should be immediately withdrawn,” Beniwal said in a Hindi tweet. “The government must implement all the recommendations of the Swaminathan (farm) Commission and immediately hold talks with the farmers.” In a second tweet, Beniwal said that if the government failed to act immediately on the farm laws, he would be “compelled to rethink” his “continuance in the NDA”. Beniwal, himself from the Jat community, tweeted that farmers and soldiers were his party’s mainstay. He chided the BJP government in Haryana for using force against the farmers who were marching on Delhi. Officially, the BJP remained tight-lipped on Beniwal’s threat but party leaders privately acknowledged that it was a substantial blow and would help intensify the farmers’ protest. Sangwan’s resignation in Haryana will increase the pressure on deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party, the ruling BJP’s coalition partner, which too draws its strength from the agrarian Jat community. The BJP’s government in Haryana depends on the JJP for survival. Sangwan said that farmers from his constituency Dadri had joined the protest and that he was resigning in solidarity with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-523
01-12-2020||India||Govt’s mother tongue push worries IITs||Teachers and officials at the Indian Institutes of Technology are worried about a government move to introduce BTech programmes in Indian languages at these institutions from 2021. They have cited possible damage to these premier tech schools’ brand image and problems relating to infrastructure, teacher training and the students’ career possibilities. Several independent academics and retired professors too have questioned the government decision on these grounds, while also citing the lack of engineering books and terminology in the Indian languages. The announcement came on Thursday from the education ministry, which said the IITs and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) would offer BTech courses in the “mother tongue” too. Currently these tech schools teach BTech courses only in English. Government officials clarified that the “mother tongue” referred to the principal language of the state in which a particular IIT was located, and that the option would probably be restricted to three courses: computer science, electronics and civil engineering. So, while IIT Kharagpur would teach these three subjects to undergraduates in Bengali apart from English, IIT Bombay and IIT Madras would do so in Marathi and Tamil, respectively, they said. The IITs located in the Hindi-speaking states will offer these programmes in Hindi and English. The officials said that each of the IITs would have to create 50 extra seats for students seeking to be taught in the regional language. This means that would-be engineers will have the option of taking the JEE Advanced and JEE Main — through which the IITs and the NITs fill their seats, respectively — in all the major regional languages too. Currently, the JEE Advanced can be written in Hindi and English while the JEE Main allows Gujarati as well. Those taking these exams successfully in the newly introduced languages will now figure on a separate merit list and will be eligible for admission only to the 50 extra seats created for them in each IIT, two officials said. “There’s huge worry (over the government decision) within the IIT system,” an IIT official who did not wish to be quoted said. “The brightest students will not want to enrol in the regional language courses. This will hurt the IITs’ national character and their brand image as quality institutions.” The IIT official said that many students who take their board exams in their mother tongue go on to do well at the IITs despite the language of instruction being English. But if learning in English is not difficult for these students, learning to teach in the regional language could prove difficult for the faculty, he said. A senior official from another IIT said the 50 extra seats for the regional language courses would add nearly eight per cent seats to each IIT’s BTech programme. The IITs have over the past two years already added 25 per cent seats to implement the Economically Weaker Sections reservation. The government has allocated only Rs 429 crore for them this year to expand their facilities to accommodate the quota, whereas they need more than Rs 20,000 crore, the official said. “The 25 per cent increase in seats has caused a shortage of hostel berths, which the 50 extra seats will aggravate,” he said. “Besides, we need to expand our laboratory and classroom facilities and recruit more teachers. But no expansion is happening on any front.” Government officials said no discussions had taken place with the IITs on the decision to have regional language BTech courses. Sunil Mukhi, a professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said any decision about the IITs should be taken by the IIT Council, and after consultations with the institutes. “If the objective is to ensure that bright students who are weak in English do not miss out on the quality education the IITs can provide, I would say it’s a nice idea,” he said. “But it involves certain challenges. Are the teachers trained enough to teach (in the regional languages)? Will the government provide funds to train them?” Mukhi said the career opportunities of IIT students who take the regional language courses would be limited to a single state, or a handful of states. “The brighter students would not want to limit the scope of their career within the state. They have the natural aspiration to serve nationally and globally,” he said. A committee set up in 2011 by the All India Council of Technical Education under former IIT Delhi director R.K. Shevgaonkar had advised against the teaching of engineering in the regional languages, citing the lack of material, terminology and teacher training. “My personal opinion is that teaching engineering in the Indian languages is neither feasible nor ideal,” Shevgaonkar told The Telegraph. “The operational difficulties in terms of study material and teacher training are high.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
01-12-2020||India||Unnao girl’s lawyer dies of crash injuries||The lawyer of the Unnao rape survivor died on Monday of complications from wounds suffered last year in a truck-car collision, blamed on a BJP leader, that also injured the girl and killed two of her aunts. Mahendra Singh, under treatment for multi-organ damage at his Unnao home since being discharged from AIIMS, New Delhi, six months ago, died at the district hospital where he had been admitted on Sunday, his family said. Kuldeep Sengar, a then MLA from the BJP who is serving a life term for kidnapping and raping the then minor girl in June 2017, is also accused of conspiracy in the murder case arising out of the truck-car collision. After the July 28, 2019, collision on a Rae Bareli highway, the girl and Singh were admitted to AIIMS. While the girl recovered after a few months, the institute discharged Singh six months ago and advised home treatment. After his rape conviction and sentencing by a Delhi court last December, Kuldeep was in March handed 10 years’ jail in the murder of the girl’s father in Unnao. He had in April 2018 got the girl’s father beaten up for refusing to withdraw the rape case and implicated him in a false arms case. Days later, the father died of his injuries in Unnao jail. The truck-collision murder case is pending with a Delhi court. The Supreme Court had transferred all the three cases — relating to the rape and the murders of the survivor’s father and aunts – to Delhi and asked the CBI to probe them. In August last year, the BJP had suspended Kuldeep from the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
