02-12-2020||India||Farmers demand special Parliament session to repeal farm laws||Agitating farmers on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so. As the number of protestors swelled at Delhi’s border points, the apex body of transporters ‑ All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities ‑ extended its support to the farmers and threatened to halt operations in northern India from December 8 if the government fails to address concerns of the farming community. A crucial round of talks between the Centre and the representatives of protesting farmers is scheduled to be held on Thursday. Ahead of the talks, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal here on Wednesday on ways to dispel concerns over the new farm laws. Tomar, Goyal along with Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash had represented the Union government on Tuesday during the talks with farmer leaders but failed to reach any breakthrough. As part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, farmers have currently been staging protests at four busy border points of the national capital ‑ Singhu, Noida, Ghazipur and Tikri ­ to press their demands under heavy police deployment. Leaders of around 35 farmer organisations held a meeting which was also attended by Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait at the Singhu border. “The Centre should call a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws. We will continue our agitation till these laws are repealed,” Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal told reporters after the meeting. He accused the Centre of dividing the farmers organisations by projecting the ongoing protests as Punjab-centric. Representatives of farmers organisations from other parts of the country will also be involved under Kisan Samyukt Morcha to decide the future course of action against the new farm laws, he said. Pal said that representatives of farmer organisations will give their point-wise objections to the Union ministers at a meeting scheduled to take place on Thursday. Another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said that if the Centre does not withdraw the laws, more steps will be taken in the coming days to press their demands. According to Tikait, all the farmers’ unions want that MSP should be turned into a law and the three central farm laws repealed. “The government had asked us to give in writing what were the problems with the laws. There would have been room for a written statement had we been looking for an amendment in the laws, but we just have one demand ‑ completely doing away with the laws,” he said. He also said that the farmers have rejected the idea of a committee. “There are simply too many committees in the country. There have been several committee reports in the past but they don’t result in anything. Committees are created essentially to avoid an uprising. I have been part of the farmers' movement for nearly 30 years, so I know that much,” Tikait said. “If the government does not come to a decision in the next few days, we will increase pressure on NH8 and NH2, we have been in talks with our farmer brothers in Rajasthan,” he threatened. The day also saw Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal trading charges against each other over the AAP government's notification of one of the three central farm laws. Kejriwal accused Singh of playing “dirty politics” and suggested that he was under pressure from central agencies. But Singh trashed Kejriwal’s assertion that states are “helpless” against central legislation and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian” laws. “Instead of meekly just notifying the central laws, Kejriwal could have tried to make some effort to counter them and protect the rights of the farmers,” the Punjab chief minister said. He alleged it is evident that “this sneaky little fellow, whose double standards have been exposed time and again, is now completely cornered on the issue”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
02-12-2020||India||Centre ‘angry’ with me for not using stadiums as jails: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Wednesday that the BJP-led Central government was unhappy with him for not allowing nine stadiums to be used as makeshift jails for farmers protesting against the agri-marketing laws. Addressing a press briefing, Kejriwal also hit out at his counterpart in Punjab, Capt. Amarinder Singh, alleging that he was speaking “BJP’s language” by accusing him of ‘passing’ the three farm laws in Delhi. “Captain sahab you are levelling allegations against me and speaking BJP's language. Is it the pressure of ED cases on your family members and the notices being sent,” he questioned. Recently, the AAP government had denied permission to the Delhi Police to use stadiums as a temporary jail to detain farmers. "The Centre had the plan of putting the farmers into jails as soon as they reached Delhi, but we refused to convert the nine stadiums into jails. The Centre is very upset with me for this," he said. “The three farm laws were implemented across the country with the signature of the president and no state can stop them,” Kejriwal added. “If the implementation of the laws depended on the states, why would the farmers from across the nation reach Delhi to talk to the Centre and put their demands forward? They would have put their demands in front of their chief ministers,” he argued. The chief minister urged the Centre to immediately fulfill the farmers’ demand. The Delhi government has notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, one of three farm laws of the Centre. “The Punjab CM accused me of passing the three black laws. How can he do such lowly politics at such a crucial time,” Kejriwal complained. “Captain sahab had many chances to stop the farm bills. Why did he not act against these bills being a member of the central government's committee formulating and deliberating on these bills,” he asked. “Is this Captain sahab's friendship with the BJP or is he under pressure, because of which he is making false allegations against me,” he further questioned. The Delhi CM’s remarks follow Singh’s allegations that the Kejriwal government had implemented a farm law in the “midst of a crisis” while pretending to be in solidarity with the farmers. The AAP leader claimed that he was under huge pressure to convert the stadiums into jails, but he listened to his conscience. “I want to ask Captain sahab, are you under the pressure of these very same people because of which you are making these false allegations against me, abusing me. I know that the reason may be your family is charged with cases and receiving notices from the ED,” he added. The Delhi chief minister expressed anguish over protesting farmers being called "terrorists and anti-national" by some people. “I cannot imagine what the soldiers on the border must be going through, whose parents are being called terrorists. We all have to decide - whether we are with the farmers, or whether we are with the people who are calling these farmers terrorists,” he said. “No patriot can sleep peacefully after witnessing all this. This is not only farmers' fight, this is everyone's fight. The two meals that we eat in a day, are the result of our farmers' hard work in the fields. We all have to support our farmers in this fight,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
02-12-2020||India||Farmers prepared for a longer haul||Farmers protesting against the new farm laws continued their sit-in at the Noida-Delhi border for the second day on Wednesday, leading to the closure of a key route that connects Uttar Pradesh with the national capital. The route, however, was partially opened for commuters coming in from Delhi. The Noida Traffic Police in the morning advised commuters heading to Delhi to take the DND or Kalindi Kunj route instead of the Chilla route through the Noida Link road which was closed due to the farmers’ demonstration since Tuesday evening. One of the carriageways on the route was opened in the evening, allowing commuters coming from Delhi to enter Noida as the protesters continued to sit on the other side of the road amid heavy police deployment. One of the carriageways has been opened to allow people coming from Delhi to enter Noida or UP. The law and order situation is under control. Some farmers are still on the other side of the road, informed Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh S. He said that the police and PAC personnel are deployed at the border in adequate numbers and some protesters who had gathered under the Mahamaya flyover, disrupting the road traffic, have been shifted to nearby ground and the route cleared. The protesters at the Delhi-Noida border belong to various districts of western UP like Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Kasganj and Firozabad and want to reach the national capital to join the bigger stir launched by farmers of Punjab and Haryana against the Centre's agriculture reform laws. The farmers at the border are affiliated to various groups, including the factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union but have been prevented by the UP and the Delhi police from proceeding to the national capital. According to a senior police official, the farmers will be allowed to move only if they agree to head to Burari in Delhi and not elsewhere in the national capital. He further added that the Delhi Police had offered to escort the farmers to Burari but the protesters are not agreeing to the condition. Meanwhile, the protesters looked prepared to stay put at the border for a longer duration as they were spotting cooking their meals, taking naps and even enjoying their hookah puff on the road. “We are not going back until our demands are met. We want to go ahead and join the farmers who have come from Punjab and Haryana for the cause of the farming community,” said Mahender Kumar, a Firozabad resident. Hundreds of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. They have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws ‑ the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 ‑ would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
02-12-2020||India||No slowdown for IITians||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country kicked off their placement drives with record job offers and high salary packages, beating COVID-19 pandemic blues. IIT-Delhi students bagged over 300 placement offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), by the end of the first day of the first phase of the placement season. “Given the situation this year, a new company scheduling paradigm has been conceptualised for a smooth placement process. This is to create an optimum environment for both the recruiters and the students for a seamless selection process. Given the fact that all selection processes are being conducted in a virtual mode this year, the entire interview process would span a single day instead of multiple shifts unlike past years and many other campuses,” an IIT-Delhi official said. “What this translates into is that the spread of companies will be more across days. This process will give ample time to recruiters to make selection judgements to facilitate the right fitment both for students and recruiting organisations,” the official added. With a record high in pre-placement offers, many students have already bagged offers as high as Rs 1.54 crore from international companies. The packages for domestic companies have also seen a sharp rise to about Rs 80 lakh this year for all top IITs, including IIT-Madras, Bombay, Roorkee and Guwahati. In IIT-BHU, 217 students have bagged jobs with annual CTC ranging from Rs 11.5 lakh to 64.27 lakh. Last year, it was Rs 10 lakh to Rs 58.21 lakh. In IIT-Madras, a total of 123 offers were made by 222 companies during day one's session, higher in any of the preceding years. “The year 2020 has seen the placement process happening online and the number of recruiters joining the virtual placement has been very encouraging despite the pandemic and we are thankful to all the recruiters. The students of IIT-Guwahati who are appearing for the placement from across the country are very determined and are likely to benefit from this online process due the equal opportunity provided to them as other institutes and we expect an upward trend in placement this year at IIT ‑ Guwahati,” TG Shriram, Director, IIT-Guwahati. At IIT-Bombay, there were 18 companies who participated in the placement drive on December 1. At IIT Kharagpur there were 276 PPOs. The officials gave credit to the students for performing well during their internship. Recruiters like Barclay, Goldman Sachs, Honeywell, Microsoft, MasterCard, Dr. Reddy, Tata Steel have offered more than 10 PPOs each to the institute. As many as 30 companies participated on the first day, extending over 130 placement offers to the final year students. In addition to the domestic firms, International firms ‑ TSMC, Sony-Japan and Cohesity US offered jobs as well. According to a statement from the institute, for domestic jobs, the highest number of offers came from Microsoft, Google, Texas Instruments, Qualcomm, Boston Consulting Group, and Apple. Amsterdam-based proprietary trading firm Optiver, meanwhile, made lucrative international offers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
02-12-2020||India||After Nivar, cyclone Burevi approaches Tamil Nadu, Kerala||As cyclone Burevi approaches Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of the states to discuss the situation prevailing in the parts of the regions. He assured the chief ministers of all possible help from the Centre. A deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal intensified into cyclonic storm 'Burevi' on Tuesday and is expected to intensify further and cross the Sri Lankan coast on December 2, the India Meteorological Department had said. “After making landfall in the neighbouring country, close to Trincomalee, it is very likely to emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area -around Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu- on December 3 morning”, the IMD said in a bulletin. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Kanyakumari and Pamban in the wee hours of December 4, it said. In Kerala and south Tamil Nadu, heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in some places whereas a few isolated places may receive extremely heavy rainfall on December 3, the Met Department said. The IMD has issued a red alert for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala for December 3. "We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” Modi tweeted after his conversation with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E. Palaniswami. Regarding his talks with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he said he spoke on the conditions prevailing due to cyclonic storm Burevi in the state and assured all possible support from the Centre to help Kerala. "Praying for the safety and well-being of those staying in the affected areas," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
02-12-2020||India||AITMC backs farmers, threatens to stop operations ||The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), the apex body of transporters, on Wednesday threatened to stop operations in northern India from December 8 if the government does not address the concerns of farmers. "AIMTC has already extended its support to the farmer agitation from day one. We have decided on stopping our operations strategically starting from North India and if the government does not address the issue of the farmers then we may decide to go for shutting down of transport operations nationwide in their support," AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal said. Referring to the farmers as ‘ann daata’ (food providers), Atwal said the road transport fraternity of India had extended its full support to them. AIMTC Core Committee Chairman Bal Malkit Singh told PTI, "Starting December 8, we will halt the movement of supplies in the entire North India including Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. We will then escalate it to the entire country if the government fails to address their issues." In a statement, the organisation said that the farmers are fighting for their legitimate rights and over 70 per cent of the rural households depend on agriculture. “Entire North India is affected and thousands of trucks carrying food, vegetables and other perishable and non-perishable items coming from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir are impacted”, it said. “AIMTC supports the farmers as 65 per cent of the trucks are engaged in carrying farm produce, it added. "At present it is the season of apples, which are getting wasted. Apart from that potatoes, onions and other fruits and vegetables as well as other essential commodities like medicines, milk etc too (are) stuck up as their movement is disrupted, which is leading to their shortage in Delhi and in other northern states," the statement said. “The situation will worsen in the days to come, unless the government takes prudent and pragmatic steps to resolve farmers' concerns”, it said. "The government must treat the farmers with dignity and allay their apprehensions on the farm Acts. We wholeheartedly support the cause of the farmers and look forward to a peaceful and amicable resolution of their issues raised by the Government," it added. The AITMC represents more than 95 lakh truckers and about 50 lakh bus and taxi operators across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Congress workers face water cannons enroute Haryana CM's home||Police used water cannons Wednesday as Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped barricades trying to march to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's home here, protesting over the new farm laws. Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon and several others were taken into custody by the Chandigarh Police. The activists wanted to 'gherao' Khattar's home to protest against the use of water cannons and teargas against Punjab farmers last week, when the Haryana Police had tried to stop them from entering the state to continue their Delhi Chalo march. We came here to wake up the Khattar government, Dhillon told reporters. We will continue to fight till the farmers get justice, he said, appealing to all sections of society to support the agitation. The Chandigarh Police first used water cannons against the Congress workers at barricades set up about three kilometres ahead of Khattar's official residence. But some activists managed to reach closer to the CM's home after jumping over police barricades. Again, water cannons were used to stop them. Police took several of them in custody. Some activists claimed police used canes to disperse them. Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal was present on the spot. The roads leading to Khattar's home were sealed and there was heavy police deployment near it. The protesters had earlier gathered near the Chandigarh headquarter of the Punjab Congress. They raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana, calling them "anti-farmer". Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are now gathered at Delhi's borders protesting against the three new laws enacted at the Centre in September. Farmer unions claim the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of corporate houses. But the government says the system will continue and the laws will give farmers more options to sell their crops. Farm leaders met Union ministers on Tuesday, but the two sides failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Yogi allays Maharashtra's 'Bollywood takeover' fears||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the northern state is not desirous of taking away the film business out of Mumbai. However, it is an open competition and the one who gives the right atmosphere and security in which talent can work will get the investments, he told reporters here. Ahead of his visit to the financial capital, ruling Congress in Maharashtra had alleged a conspiracy to snatch away the city's film city to UP, and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had vowed not to allow anybody to "forcibly" take away businesses. "We are not snatching or hindering anyone's investments," Adityanath said. "No one can take anything along. It is not like a purse which gets taken away. This is an open competition. One who can give a safe atmosphere, better facilities - and especially social security - in which one can work without discrimination will get investments, he added. Responding to Sena MP Sanjay Raut's assertion that replicating the film city in another city is a tall task, Adityanath said, "We've not come here to take away anything." "We are creating something new. Why are you getting concerned? We are providing a new world class infrastructure for all. Hence, everybody will have to grow up, widen his thinking and better facilities will have to be given. One who is able to do that will get the people, he added. Adityanath said he met experts from Bollywood, including directors, producers and actors to seek their suggestions for the upcoming film city in Noida which will be spread across 1,000 acres. He added that it is not a 'pick and choose' approach which has been adopted by his government and added that specific sectoral policies have been created with long term view in mind and such meetings help them improvise on the same. Adityanath met Bollywood personalities, including Akshay Kumar, Boney Kapoor, Subhash Ghai, Manmohan Shetty and Anand Pandit over the last two days as part of his visit to the financial capital. The UP CM said the Noida film city will be located six km away from the upcoming international airport at Jewar and added this will be well connected with Delhi, Agra and Mathura. Earlier in the day, Raut had said that it will not be easy to shift Mumbai's Film City elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it. "What is the status of Noida Film City now? Can you create Mumbai's Film City in Lucknow and Patna?" Raut had said while speaking to reporters. "Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai's film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past," Raut said. Ahead of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart's visit to the financial capital, Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday warned he will not let anybody "forcibly" take businesses away from the state, adding Maharashtra is not "jealous" about someone's progress if it happens on the back of fair competition. Of the many centres of film production across the country, Mumbai, host to the Hindi and Marathi film industry, is the largest. Bollywood, as the industry is called, delivers a high amount of jobs and revenues and is a key component in Mumbai's soft power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Showik Chakraborty granted bail after three months||A Mumbai court on Wednesday granted bail to actress Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty, who was arrested in a drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Showik Chakraborty in September this year under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Special NDPS court judge G B Gurao granted bail to him on Wednesday on a personal bond of Rs 50,000. In his bail plea, Showik Chakraborty had relied on a recent Supreme Court judgment which said that "confessional statements" made to NCB officials cannot be considered as evidence. He reiterated that he has been "falsely implicated" in the case. Earlier, the court had also granted him bail in a related case. The NCB alleged said that Rhea Chakraborty, who was Sushant Singh Rajput's girlfriend, and her brother used to facilitate drug deliveries and payment through credit cards, cash and other payment gateways. The agency is conducting a probe into various drug angles linked to the death of Rajput, who was found hanging at his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14 this year. The NCB its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs. The central agency had earlier also arrested Rhea Chakraborty and some staff members of Rajput and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||NGT directs complete ban on sale, use of firecrackers||The National Green Tribunal has directed that there would be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during COVID-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the 'poor' and above category. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said its direction to restrict the use of firecrackers in cities/towns where air quality is 'moderate' or below to green crackers and for the duration of not more than two hours will continue. "There will be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during COVID-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the 'poor' and above category," the bench said. During Christmas, and New Year, green crackers can be used from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am only at places where air quality is 'moderate' or below, the NGT said. It directed all District Magistrates to ensure that banned firecrackers are not sold and asked them to recover compensation from violators. Any victim of pollution, apart from other remedies, can approach District Magistrate for compensation, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||SC refuses to entertain plea against publication of Hathras victim's photograph||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea questioning the publication of a photograph of the Hathras victim in the media, saying the court cannot legislate on it and the petitioner can make a representation on the matter to the government. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the consent of her parents, triggered widespread outrage. The plea, which also raised the issue of delays in the trial of cases of sexual violence, came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice N V Ramana. These issues have nothing to do with law, said the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose. Right to freedom of expression is there. There is enough law for this. It is unfortunate that such incidents happen, the bench observed. The apex court further said, "We cannot legislate law after law. It said the petitioner can make a representation to the government." On October 27, the top court had said the CBI investigation in the Hathras case is to be monitored by the Allahabad High Court and the CRPF would provide security to the victim's family and witnesses in the case. The apex court had delivered the verdict in October on a batch of pleas raising concerns on the incident and also the manner in which the teen was cremated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Not easy to shift film city from Mumbai: Shiv Sena on UP CM's visit||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said it is not easy to shift Mumbai's Film City elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it. Raut was talking to reporters amid Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's ongoing two-day visit to Mumbai where he is meeting film personalities and industrialists. Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh. The UP government earlier approved a proposal for setting up a film city in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar. "What is the status of Noida film city now? Can you create Mumbai's Film City in Lucknow and Patna?" Raut asked. "Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai's film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. Raut noted that South and Bengal also have huge film industries. Southern superstars Rajinikanth, Nagarjuna, Chiranjeevi have worked in Hindi movies also. "Is Yogiji going to those states or only targeting Mumbai?" the Rajya Sabha member asked. "Speak of unemployment, falling GDP and the economy, instead of Shiv Sena's Hindutva," he said, referring to BJP's claim that the Shiv Sena has given up its core ideology. Raut also said the central government should take steps to resolve the farmers' protest against the new farm laws going on at the Delhi borders since last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Rahul: Farmers' income has halved under 'suit-boot sarkar'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over its claim of doubling farmers' income and alleged that their income has in fact "halved" under the 'suit-boot sarkar', while that of its crony friends has grown four times. His remarks come at a time when farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of the national capital against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws. "They said farmers income will be doubled. What they did was increase incomes of 'friends' four times and those of farmers will be halved. This suit-boot government is of lies and loot," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress leader also shared a video of the atrocities and use of force against the protesting farmers with a voice-over of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech saying his government was taking steps to resolve the problems faced by farmers and double their income. The Congress has been attacking the government over the use of force against the protesting farmers, and has urged the dispensation to withdraw the new farm laws and redresses the grievances of the protestors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||HC seeks Centre's response on PIL against surveillance systems||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a PIL claiming that citizens' right to privacy was being "endangered" by the execution and operation of surveillance systems like the Centralised Monitoring System (CMS), Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) and National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID). A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of Home Affairs, Information Technology, Communications and Law and Justice, seeking their stand on the plea by an NGO and listed the matter for hearing on January 7, 2021. The plea by NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), has claimed that these surveillance systems allow central and state law enforcement agencies to intercept and monitor all telecommunications in bulk which is an infringement of the fundamental right to privacy of individuals. The plea, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, has contended that under the existing legal framework there is an "insufficient oversight mechanism" to authorise and review the interception and monitoring orders issued by the state agencies. The NGO has sought directions to the Centre to "permanently stop the execution and the operation of the surveillance projects, CMS, NETRA and NATGRID, which allows for bulk collection and analysis of personal data. It has also sought constitution of a permanent independent oversight body, judicial or parliamentary, for issuing and reviewing lawful interception and monitoring orders/warrants under the enabling provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Information Technology Act, 2000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Commuters disrupt local trains in Mumbai over change in timing||Train movement on the Western Railway's suburban network in Mumbai was disrupted for over an hour on Wednesday after commuters sat on tracks at some stations in neighbouring Palghar district to protest against the change in the schedule of an early morning local train, GRP officials said. The Western Railway (WR) on Tuesday announced to restore from December 3 the timings of four special suburban locals, that are currently being run for emergency services staff, to their original schedules which were effective before the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force in March. Currently, the first local train from Dahanu in Palghar district is departing at 4.40 am and reaching Churchgate in south Mumbai at 7.04 am. As per the restored timings to come in effect from Thursday, the train will leave from Dahanu at 5.40 am and reach Andheri in western suburbs at 7.34 am. Upset over the change in timings, some commuters started a 'rail roko' agitation at Palghar station and sat on tracks there around 5.15 am on Wednesday, a Government Railway Police (GRP) official said. A number of commuters also staged similar protests at Kelve and Safale stations in Palghar district around 5.30 am, the official said. Train movement later resumed after the GRP and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel removed the agitating commuters from the tracks, he said. The agitation at Palghar station ended around 5.45 am and at the other two stations it ended at 6.30 am, he added. WR's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said train services on the suburban network are normal now. He said the Western Railway has just decided to restore the special suburban services to their original timings which were effective before the COVID-19 lockdown. "We are reviewing the demand of passengers, but we have just restored the original timetable of Dahanu locals and haven't made any change in the timetable," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
02-12-2020||India||Sunny Deol tests positive for Covid, islolates himself in Himachal Pradesh||BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and appealed to those who have come in close contact with him to test themselves for the infection. He also said that he has isolated himself after his COVID-19 test results came out positive. "I have tested positive for coronavirus. I appeal to the people who came in contact with me recently to isolate themselves and go for the COVID test," Deol tweeted in Hindi. Himachal Pradesh Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthi had on Tuesday said that according to information received from the district chief medical officer, the Gurdaspur MP and his friends were planning to leave for Mumbai, but the actor's COVID-19 test result came out positive. Deol has been staying in Kullu district for some days, he had said. The 64-year-old Bollywood actor had undergone a shoulder surgery at Mumbai and was recuperating at a farmhouse near Manali in Kullu district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally stands at 94.99 lakh, recovery rate jumps up to 94 per cent||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 94.99 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 89 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to over 94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,99,413, with 36,604 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,38,122 with 501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89,32,647 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.03 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active COVID-19 caseload remained below 5 lakh for the 22nd consecutive day. There are 4,28,644 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.51 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,24,45,949 samples have been tested up to December 1 with 10,96,651 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 501 new fatalities include 95 from Maharashtra, 86 from Delhi, 52 from West Bengal, 31 from Chhattisgarh, 28 from Haryana, 27 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 from Kerala and 21 from Himachal Pradesh. A total of 1,38,122 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,246 from Maharashtra followed by 11,792 from Karnataka, 11,722 from Tamil Nadu, 9,260 from Delhi, 8,476 from West Bengal, 7,788 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,996 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,821 from Punjab, 4,004 from Gujarat and 3,270 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Delhi's air quality inches closer to 'severe' zone||Delhi's air quality was in the upper end of the very poor category Wednesday morning, while pollution levels have already entered the severe zone in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 381 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 367 on Tuesday. It was 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday. Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 430 and 410, respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The maximum wind speed is expected to be 12 kmph on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature was 8.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and the maximum is expected to settle around 27 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The predominant wind direction remained westerly-north-westerly on most of the days. These winds blow from snowcapped western Himalayas towards the plains. Another reason for the below normal temperatures is La Nina, a phenomenon associated with the cooling of Pacific waters and an antithesis to El Nino. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the "very poor" category due to unfavourable meteorological conditions. There is a possibility of the air quality reaching the "severe" category between December 4 and December 7, it said. The city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was 2,500 m2/s on Tuesday and is likely to be 6,000 m2/s on Wednesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring states to Delhi's PM 2.5 levels was 4 per cent on Tuesday, 7 per cent on Monday and 6 per cent on Sunday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: A 1907 call resonates at the barricades ||The lyrics of Paghri Sambhal Jatta — a Punjabi ballad — have echoed at the barricades during the farmers’ agitation from Punjab to Delhi over the past week. A peasants’ movement against the British Raj’s agrarian laws in 1906 took the name of the song by Banke Dyal, the editor of the Jang Syal weekly. The words “Paghri Sambhal Jatta” translate to “Mind your turban, peasant”. The turban is a key religious marker of Sikhs and is seen as a symbol of dissent to tyranny. Falling of the turban is seen as a sign of defeat. The movement led by Ajit Singh, the uncle of revolutionary Bhagat Singh, has found resonance today with peasants’ groups displaying Ajit Singh’s image on badges and banners, and singing the song kept alive in popular imagination by its use in biopics on Bhagat Singh in 1965 and 2002. A series of legislation, including the Punjab Land Alienation Act, 1900, the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill, 1906, and the increase in water rates the same year, after two successive crop failures, had enraged the peasantry. The colonisation bill imposed Doctrine of Lapse-like conditions by which privately held land in agricultural colonies along the Upper Bari Doab canal was lapsed to the State if the owner died without a male heir. The annexation of princely states by the East India Company under the Doctrine of Lapse led the disposessed royals to support or lead mutineers of the Bengal Army in 1857. In his 2019 book Panjab: Journeys Through Fault Lines, Amandeep Sandhu explained: “These laws reduced the peasants to sharecroppers; they could neither fell trees on these lands, nor build houses or huts or even sell or buy such land…. In 1907, in Lyallpur, Ajit Singh Sandhu — also Bhagat Singh’s uncle — spearheaded the movement that articulated the farmers’ discontent.” The song was first sung at a 1907 rally in Lyallpur, today called Faisalabad in Pakistan’s Punjab province, by Ajit Singh, Bhagat Singh’s father and All India Congress Committee member Kishan Singh, Ghasita Ram and Sufi Amba Prasad. The previous year they had founded a secret organisation that was alternatively called Bharat Mata Society and Mehboob-e-Watan, to spark a nationwide revolution for freedom on the 50th anniversary of the 1857 War of Independence. A lukewarm response to his plans from Indian princes, only strengthened Ajit Singh’s resolve that the revolution if any would come from the peasantry who had nothing more to lose. Amandeep Sandhu told The Telegraph: “In many ways, the current protests are similar to Paghri Sambhal Jatta, a call to arms in 1907 when the British developed the Punjab Canal colonies to feed the British Empire and its troops from Punjab. That time the British needed to assert themselves after the fall of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and control the borders that touched the Tsarist Russian Empire.” He added: “Protests work either if they appeal to the conscience of the oppressor, like the non-violent freedom movement, or if they cut off the lifeline of the oppressor — which in this case was the army’s recruitment from the Majha region of Punjab where the movement took place in Lyallpur in 1907…. The British panicked and repealed the laws.” Ajit Singh and Lala Lajpat Rai were sent to prison in Mandalay for the protests. After his release in 1909, Ajit Singh lived in exile in Iran, Europe and Latin America, collaborating with Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Italy during the Second World War. Ajit Singh returned to India shortly before Independence and died on August 15, 1947, in Dalhousie. Sandhu said: “The farmers are looking at the (the new farm) laws as the next land colonisation by crony capitalists. This time the State is not sorting the mechanism of food production and distribution, it is merely selling the system to crony capitalists who will decide what you grow, and for how much, and throw out the weakest farmers from the business — much like the labour mandis when an employer chooses the fittest-looking mason or plumber and leaves the rest without work… “Socialist ideology of the Left, and the ideals of equality and socialism of the Gurmukhi have brought farmers together this time, as they did during Ajit Singh’s movement and the Ghadr Movement…. It is being called a hondh ki ladai or battle for one’s existence.” One of the unions that uses Ajit Singh’s image as its logo is the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti based in Haryana’s Fatehabad. Its president Labh Singh — now protesting at Tikri Kalan on the edge of Delhi — told this newspaper: “Ajit Singh’s movement never died. It was always alive in our memories…. The need of the hour has resurrected it to this instance.… “In 1907, soldiers had joined peasants. This time, we estimate that we have 32,000 ex-servicemen in our ranks who have contributed their annual pensions for the struggle as these laws will break our back that is already strained by the high input costs.” In his book Sandhu says that after 200 Sikh soldiers attended a meeting in Multan in 1907, soldiers at many places refused to fire at peasant rallies. Patiala-based academic and author of several books on Bhagat Singh, Chaman Lal, recalled that Banke Dyal, whose song is resonating today, had lost his job as a sub-inspector in Punjab police for his nationalist leanings. Lal explained that the biggest similarity between 1907 and today was rural indebtedness. “In 1907, farmers were not killing themselves under the burden of debt in the numbers that they are today. They also were not as unionised as they are in contemporary Punjab…. The invoking of Ajit Singh is credit to the influence of the Left on the peasants’ movement…. From their experiences of the past, the Punjabi peasantry realises that the State cannot be resisted with arms, but only with peaceful protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Siddique Kappan has no link with PFI: Journalists||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Tuesday denied the allegation of the Uttar Pradesh government that its arrested Delhi unit secretary Siddique Kappan was associated with the Popular Front of India (PFI) and said he worked for a web portal. The KUWJ sought a judicial probe by a retired judge of the Supreme Court into the veracity of the claims made by Uttar Pradesh police with regard to Kappan’s arrest on October 5. Kappan, who was going to Hathras to meet the family of a brutalised and murdered Dalit teen, was accused by the Uttar Pradesh government of travelling under the “cover” of a journalist and being an office secretary of the PFI. Kappan was booked for sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and put behind bars. “It is submitted that the accused is in no way connected with the Popular Front, either directly or indirectly or any of its activities in his life. He is from a humble family, working as a journalist from Delhi,” the counter-affidavit filed in the Supreme Court by the KUWJ said. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde will take up the KUWJ’s affidavit on Wednesday. The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of indulging in violence but it is not banned. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Mysore language school to get central varsity tag||The Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in Mysore, set up over 50 years ago to promote Indian languages, is to be upgraded to a central university. The education ministry last week formed an 11-member committee to study and suggest the governance structure, requirement of funds and the broad objectives of the proposed Bharatiya Bhasha Vishwavidyalaya (BBV). The proposed BBV will have a new Indian Institute of Translation and Interpretation. The committee headed by retired Gujarat-cadre IAS officer N. Gopalaswami has been given three months to submit a report. The other members include University Grants Commission chairman D.P. Singh, Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidyalaya vice-chancellor Rajnish Shukla, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey and Hari Singh Gaur University chancellor Balwant Shantilal Jani. The CIIL, set up in 1969, has been functioning as a registered society. It trains schoolteachers in second languages, helps in research on Indian languages and also in the translation of books written in different Indian languages. However, the education ministry has been receiving complaints about poor performance. For example, the CIIL has produced only 20 books on the grammar of different minor Indian languages in the past 50 years. It has translated another 20-odd books into English from different languages. Former CIIL directors D.G. Rao and Awdesh Kumar Mishra welcomed the government’s decision. “The CIIL was unable to offer degrees and diplomas. It will be able to offer such courses and undertake wider research after it becomes a university,” Prof. Rao said. He said the CIIL had seven centres across the country. Under the guidance of expert bodies when it becomes a university, they would do intensive research, Rao hoped. “The output from the CIIL has been low. Governments in the past have also thought about converting CIIL into a central university. Once done, the university will have a better system of checks and balances. Currently, accountability is low at the CIIL,” Mishra said. A faculty member at Jawaharlal Nehru University found problem with the composition of the 11-member committee. At least nine members are vice-chancellors or former VCs or faculty members from literature subjects or retired bureaucrat. “Ideally, the committee to examine the proposed BBV should have linguists as its members. This committee is heavily loaded with non-linguists,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry asking why there was such a poor representation of linguists in the panel did not yield a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Neurological illness not related to vaccine: Government||The neurological illness suffered by a clinical trial volunteer in Chennai after receiving the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate vaccine was not related to the vaccine, senior health officials indicated on Tuesday, making public for the first time the outcome of regulatory scrutiny. The officials said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the apex regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines, and other bodies had assessed the serious adverse event that occurred in October and determined that there was no need to halt the clinical trial. “The assessment criteria is objective and scientific — the initial causality assessment finding did not necessitate stoppage of the clinical trial,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency tracking the vaccine trials. The volunteer has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a notice sent to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is producing the vaccine and conducting the trial. Serum in turn has threatened to claim Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer for spreading malicious information about the vaccine. The dispute between the volunteer and the company has emerged amid what some health researchers have described as the lack of transparency by the CDSCO, the agency that also regulates clinical trials. The CDSCO has remained silent through the six weeks since the volunteer reported the adverse event, prompting health rights advocates to question why the trial had not been halted or why the organisation had not made public the outcome of the investigations. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said serious adverse events in clinical trials were probed by institutional ethics committees at the trial sites and by a data safety monitoring board that has domain knowledge and experts independent of the government. Under trial protocol requirements, the institutional ethics committee in Chennai, the trial site, had submitted its findings to the CDSCO for scrutiny by the regulator to determine whether the adverse event was related to the vaccine. The health officials did not explain why the CDSCO chose to remain silent about the investigation. But doctors familiar with clinical trial protocols said investigations into serious adverse events were likely to look into the medical history of the volunteers and were not made public to safeguard privacy. However, the health officials said the government had “nothing to do” with Serum’s statement threatening to seek Rs 100 crore damages from the volunteer. Health secretary Bhushan said the statement needed to be viewed in the context of the global race to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease, underlining that it typically takes eight to 10 years to generate a vaccine against a new infectious agent. “Given the size and impact of the pandemic, we’re trying to compress the timline of eight to 10 years into 16 months to 18 months,” Bhushan said. “Multiple vaccine players within the country and outside the country are trying to bring about their vaccines within this compressed timeline.” “When you have this context, there is a potential that commercial interests would dictate certain strategic actions on the part of commercial entities,” Bhushan said, responding to a query on Serum’s statement. “Governments of the day have nothing to do with it.” However, he added, it is the responsibility of the Centre and state governments to ensure that people are made aware of the safety and efficacy aspects of vaccines and counter all disinformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Police hurdle for 82-year-old Bilkis||Bilkis, 82, one of the acclaimed faces of the Shaheen Bagh protest against the Centre’s new citizenship regime, was on Tuesday prevented by police from addressing the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. Bilkis, known as Bilkis Dadi and hailed by Time magazine as among the 100 most influential people in the world and included by the BBC in its list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world in 2020, told reporters before she was taken away: “They (the farmers) have come to help us and I am going to talk to them. Their demands are ours too. I am also a daughter and daughter-in-law of a farmer.” Bilkis’s late husband was a fruit grower in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district. Bilkis, one of the elderly women who came to be called the “Dabang Dadis” of Shaheen Bagh, had on Tuesday afternoon gone to the Singhu border in north Delhi to meet the farmers protesting the Centre’s three new farm laws and demanding a legal provision ensuring minimum support price. A short while after she entered the protest site with a few associates, Delhi police escorted her out in a cop vehicle. Members of different factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Punjab had come to Shaheen Bagh with food supplies and set up a community kitchen there before the police cleared the protest site on March 24. The same outfits are part of the protests by the farmers at the Singhu and Tikri crossings between Delhi and Haryana, as well as the sit-in at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in north Delhi’s Burari. The Rakesh Tikait-led group of the BKU is protesting at the Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur. DCP (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma told The Telegraph that Bilkis had not been detained, nor had any other legal action been taken against her. “She is not at all belonging to the cadre who are doing this protest right now. Yesterday also it was reported to me that some outside people tried to intervene in their protest and they were not welcome and some manhandling was also done. Being a senior citizen and as you know the Covid pandemic is on the rise, in good faith and for her own well-being she was requested that she should leave. As a senior citizen she was escorted back,” Sharma said. Bilkis was taken home via Shaheen Bagh police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||India swims against English tide  ||Mother tongue-based education that India wants to introduce in BTech courses at IITs is gradually being replaced by the English medium in countries such as Germany, China and Japan that had been pioneers in education in local languages. Several academics have disapproved of the education ministry’s decision to push for Indian languages as an alternative medium of instruction to English in BTech courses from next year. They said there had been a rapid increase in English Medium Instruction (EMI) programmes across the world since the Bologna Declaration of 1999 that proposed a European Higher Education Area, allowing free movement of graduates between countries. Since China became a member of the World Trade Organisation in 2000, the country’s education ministry has been promoting EMI courses. The top universities of China offer over 150 EMI courses, according to the research paper “English Vs Chinese-Medium Instruction” published in the journal Sustainability in November 2018. About 30 top universities of Germany, such as the University of Bremen, Frankfurt School of Fine Arts and Management, Leipzig University and the University of Berlin, have already shifted to English as the medium of education. Japanese institutions are also increasingly shifting to EMI. A university professor in India claimed that the decision to introduce BTech courses in vernacular language was aimed at helping BJP and RSS cadres to get easy entry into IITs. “In the last six years, the central government has been packing universities with people with an RSS background as teachers, vice-chancellors and other staff by compromising quality. But because entrance-based admission (of students) is tough, there is a demand from their party cadres for a separate entry system. This vernacular BTech (idea) appears to be aimed at facilitating their easy entry,” he said, requesting anonymity. All educationists agree that the mother tongue is best suited for teaching any subject. “But the world has realised the need for a common language in a globalised era. The countries that had been focusing on teaching in their mother tongue are moving towards English as a medium of instruction to get a competitive advantage. It does not make sense for India to move towards mother tongue as a medium of instruction at this stage,” the professor said. Another issue is where would the students publish their research papers, he said. There are no peer-reviewed journals in regional languages except the literary publications. China, Japan and Germany have invested a lot in having journals in different subjects published in their respective languages. Yet, they are finding merit in shifting to English medium, the professor said. Former All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) chairman S.S. Mantha said education had evolved in the native languages in countries such as Germany, Japan and China from the beginning. But English had for long served as the medium in India, which has a vast number of local languages. “Now going back to the vernacular language means you have to capture all the technological knowledge of the last 200 years in these languages. Just translation of books written in English is not possible. Copyright will be a big issue apart from finding experts to translate,” Prof. Mantha said. At the school level, preparing textbooks may not be difficult but it is a stupendous task to prepare materials at the BTech level, he said. Former IIT Delhi director Prof. R.K. Shevgaonkar also found the idea problematic. “There is no common language in India unlike in Germany, China or Japan. Since most states have their own language, English has served as the common language for the pursuit of higher studies. Another issue is when we produce manpower, they should be globally competitive. English is a global language. The journals are published in English,” Shevgaonkar said. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry asking about the concerns expressed by the academics did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Amit Shah skips BSF Raising Day||Union home minister Amit Shah skipped the BSF Raising Day parade where he was to be the chief guest on Tuesday morning, pulling out at the last minute due to some “urgent engagement”. Sources in the ministry said Shah was busy planning the government’s strategy for the farmers’ protests. “The home minister decided to skip the BSF Raising Day event owing to some urgent engagement. He is said to be too busy strategising for the steps to be taken by the government over the farmers’ protests,” a ministry official said. According to him, Shah held meetings in the morning with other cabinet ministers to chalk out the strategy for the talks with farmers’ representatives later in the day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and his cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal met a 35-member team of farmers at Vigyan Bhavan. The meeting started at 3pm. Shah had on Monday tweeted that he would be the chief guest at the 56th BSF Raising Day Parade at 9am. It is unusual for the home minister to skip an event at the last moment without citing a reason. In his absence, Shah’s deputy Nityanand Rai officiated as the chief guest, took a ceremonial guard and reviewed the parade at the BSF camp in southwest Delhi. Senior BSF officials said it was disappointing to learn at the eleventh hour that the home minister would not be present on the force’s big day. The BSF, which has about 2.5 lakh personnel, was raised on December 1, 1965. It guards the 700km Line of Control with Pakistan under the army’s operational command, as well as the 2,289km border with Bangladesh. The BSF reports directly to the home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-519
02-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA flayed for lifestyle in Odisha||The Biju Janata Dal on Tuesday accused its expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi of leading a lavish lifestyle and spending lakhs of rupees in five-star hotels in Delhi during the lockdown when the state, particularly Ganjam district from where the legislator hails, was fighting to check the spread of coronavirus. After being expelled from the party on Sunday for “anti-people” activities, Panigrahi had challenged the leadership to explain the charges levelled on him. “When the people are dying and Covid warriors are fighting, Panigrahi was spending Rs 2.5 lakhs per day in five-star hotels,” BJD general secretary (media affairs), Manas Ranjan Mangaraj, said in a release on Tuesday. The BJD alleged that Panigrahi was also involved in cheating the youth by assuring them jobs at Tata’s Gopalpur project. “Projecting his would-be son-in-law as the MD of Tata Project, Pradeep Panigrahi had cheated youths of his Assembly constituency by assuring them to give a job in Tata’s project. The people of Odisha are aware of the activities of Pradeep. Those who have cheated the people of Odisha, have no place in BJD,” said Mangaraj. Panigrahi’s daughter was scheduled to marry suspended IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak’s son Akash on December 11. Akash has also been arrested by the vigilance sleuths. The BJD also cited how Tata Motors had lodged an FIR against Akash. The vigilance department had said in a release that Pathak accumulated assets worth 435 times than his known source of income. Panigrahi, who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik and acted as his representative for his Assembly constituency Hinjili, said: “I have trust on the chief minister. I am still confused whether he is aware of the harassment I have been subjected to.” In a letter to  Naveen, he alleged about police harassment. “Southern Range DIG and Berhampur SP using forces to file FIR against me which is unlawful under the law. If the protector of law become law breakers, this is called anarchy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Remember Howdy Modi in Texas? Abki baar, Trudeau’s turn||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has expressed concern about the farmers’ agitation and spoken up in support of the right to peaceful protest, upsetting the Indian government which spoke of “ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders” and described them as “unwarranted”. The Congress echoed the Centre’s stand that the Canadian comments amounted to interfering with India’s internal affairs. But at least one veteran diplomat pointed out that it was rude to call Trudeau names when Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself had echoed Donald Trump’s “Abki baar” slogan at the Howdy Modi event in Texas in 2019. Addressing the Sikh community of Canada during the birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, Trudeau said: “I would be remiss if I didn’t start by recognising the news coming from India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning. We are all very worried about family and friends. We know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protesters. We believe in the process of dialogue. We’ve reached out through multiple means to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns. This is a moment for all of us to pull together.” Prior to Trudeau speaking out, his defence minister Harjit Sajjan had tweeted on Sunday: “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right.’’ The New Democratic Party, led by Jagmeet Singh, started a petition urging “Trudeau to condemn the violence and make a clear statement calling on the Indian government to engage in peaceful dialogue rather than violence”. Simultaneously, several diaspora organisations had also begun mobilising opinion in Canada on the protests online. Although it was Trudeau’s remarks that drew a response from the external affairs ministry, the official reaction did not mention him by name. Responding to media queries, official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country. It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” Congress national spokesperson Shama Mohamed said: “I am against the farm bills passed by the present government without taking our farmers into confidence but that doesn’t give any right to the Canadian PM to meddle in our internal matters. We are a sovereign nation and know very well how to carry on with our matters.” Trudeau was essentially catering to his constituency when he spoke up for the protesting farmers. At least five members of his cabinet have their roots in Punjab. Sikhs account for roughly 1.4 per cent of Canada’s population. This is just a little less than the proportion of Sikhs in India, which stands at 1.72 per cent. Commenting on India’s response to the remarks by Canadian politicians, retired diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “MEA rudely calls him (Trudeau) ‘ill informed’. Convenient double standards! PM Modi can gather diaspora abroad & raise ‘Abki Baar’ slogans. But their Ldrs mustn’t address diaspora fears about their relatives/India.” Trudeau had used his week-long India visit in 2018 also for establishing a cultural connect with the native place of a sizable number of Canadians just ahead of the federal elections in 2019. That visit was mired in controversy over Sikh separatist Jaspal Atwal — who was in India on a valid visa — turning up at an event he attended in Mumbai, forcing the Canadian high commission to withdraw the invitation to him to attend the official reception for the visiting Premier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Doctor strike on Ayurveda surgery||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday called on modern doctors across the country to withdraw from non-essential medical services for 12 hours on December 11 to oppose what it views as the Centre’s efforts to mix traditional and modern medical practices. The IMA has sought withdrawal of all non-essential and non-Covid-19 services from 6am to 6pm on December 11. Emergency services, labour rooms, emergency surgeries and intensive care services will function, it said. The IMA wants the government to withdraw the notification listing 58 surgical procedures that postgraduate surgeons trained in Ayurveda would be permitted to perform. “We see a policy tilt towards what is being described as medical pluralism advocated… such moves will ring the death knell for modern medicine,” said Rajan Sharma, IMA’s national president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
02-12-2020||India||Farmers reject Modi govt's plan to set up a five-member committee||Farmers on Tuesday rejected the Narendra Modi government’s proposal to set up a five-member committee to look into their objections to the farm laws, standing by their demand for a repeal of the laws that they fear would leave them at the mercy of oligarchs. The talks are scheduled to be held again on Thursday. The blockade of some of Delhi’s entry points — with police barricades set up to deny the thousands of farmers massed at the border entry into the national capital — is set to enter the second week. Support for the farmers’ cause is growing despite efforts by the Right-wing ecosystem to discredit it. On Tuesday, several sportspersons said they would return their awards if the farmers’ grievances were not addressed. The three-hour meeting at Vigyan Bhavan was chaired by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food and civil supplies minister Piyush Goyal was also present as the issue of minimum support price — a key concern of the farmers — falls within his department’s purview. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was expected to chair the meeting as the Modi government’s main trouble-shooter, was not present. With this round inconclusive, the government has asked the farmer leaders to give their objections on the three farm laws and the electricity ordinance in writing by Wednesday for another round of talks on Thursday. The request left the farmers perplexed because they have already submitted several petitions to the government detailing their apprehensions. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, one of the farmer leaders, told reporters: “While the government was of the view that a committee should be formed to look into the issues raised by farmers, we insisted that the new laws should be repealed. Because of the deadlock, everyone agreed to meet again on December 3.” The past 24 hours had seen the government yield not once but twice to the farmers who have blocked two major thoroughfares on the Delhi-Haryana border, raising concerns among administrators of a possible disruption in the supply lines. After a series of meetings among senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah and Rajnath, as well as at the political level under the chairmanship of BJP president J.P. Nadda, the agriculture ministry had reached out to Punjab farmers’ unions late on Monday night for a discussion on Tuesday afternoon. The farmers’ organisations met early on Tuesday morning under the banner of the Punjab Kisan Unions Coordination Committee and announced before noon that they would not join the talks unless the government extended the same invitation to the all-India leadership of the farmers’ movement. Subsequently, the agriculture ministry invited the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) — which is the largest collective of 250 farmers organisations, and had given the call for the Dilli Chalo protest action that brought the farmers to Delhi’s borders — the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) and the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, paving the way for the meeting to be held. The Punjab farmers who have been at the vanguard of the protests have been repeatedly insisting that the government should talk to all farmers’ organisations, not them alone, as this is a nation-wide movement and not specific to one state. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sabha said the government’s decision to only call the Punjab farmers organisations for the talks was a “blatant effort by RSS-BJP to undermine the all-India movement.... AIKS condemns this heinous move to isolate the Punjab farmers’ movement which is the backbone of this struggle.’’ Senior BJP leaders have been projecting the farmers’ protests as limited to Punjab and used this argument to try to discredit the protesters, branding them “Khalistanis” and “Congress-sponsored”. However, not only have farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh arrived at Delhi’s borders to give the lie to this claim, BJP allies in Rajasthan and Haryana have since spoken up for farmers. Several sportspersons, including Padma Sri and Arjuna awardees, have extended support to the protesting farmers and said they would return their medals. Some of them — wrestler Kartar Singh, basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and hockey player Rajbir Kaur — plan to reach Delhi on December 5 to place their awards outside Rashtrapati Bhavan, which is where these top awards are presented by the President. A PTI report from Chandigarh quoted Cheema as saying: “We are the children of farmers and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place. But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same.’’ Tomar tweeted later that the government agrees with the farmers’ contention that the issues should be discussed with all the farmers’ organisations and not just a small committee. The government, he added, is working to resolve the issue at the earliest. Goyal, too, tweeted along similar lines.  The meeting was held amid tight security with all of Maulana Azad Road cordoned off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-520
