03-12-2020||India||Legal notice to Kangana for her tweet over farmers’ stir||A member of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Thursday sent a legal notice to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her tweet allegedly targeting farmers protesting against the new farm laws. The notice was sent by advocate Harpreet Singh Hora on behalf of the committee member Jasmain Singh Noni. The notice said that when Ranaut’s premises (in Mumbai) were demolished, she used social media “to gather solidarity” from her fans, stating that the action was an attack on her fundamental rights. “Similarly, the right to peacefully protest is part of the farmers’ rights under the Constitution of India and she cannot claim a right to demean and insult the farmers,” the notice said. As per the notice, Kangana had shared a tweet alleging that the ‘Shaheen Bagh dadi’, who made international headlines during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year in the Delhi neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh, also joined the farmers’ agitation over the new agri laws. The notice stated that the actor said in her tweet that the “same Dadi” who featured in Time Magazine was “available in 100 rupees”. The legal notice also said that several news reports claimed that the said two women were not the same. “And even otherwise, she has no right to defame any old woman for her political mileage,” it said. “This is a clear example of a hate tweet and needs to be tackled at the earliest,” the notice said. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The protesting farmers are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Farm law talks deadlocked after 8-hour meeting||Talks between the government and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers failed to yield a resolution on Thursday, as the union leaders stuck to their demand for repealing the new farm laws and even refused the lunch, tea and water offered to them during the nearly eight-hour-long parley. On its part, the government, represented by three Union ministers, assured the group of nearly 40 farmer leaders that all their valid concerns would be addressed. But the other side flagged several loopholes and deficiencies in the laws, which they said were passed hastily in September. The agriculture ministry tweeted that doubts of farmers were addressed by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who led the government’s side at the talks. Tomar later told reporters that the next meeting would take place on Saturday at 2 pm with a source adding that no final outcome could be reached on Thursday due to paucity of time. Union leaders, who came out of the meeting venue shouting slogans, said the talks remained deadlocked and some of them even threatened to boycott any further meetings if no solution was found on Thursday. “Discussions are over from our side. Our leaders have said they will not attend further meetings if a solution is not given today by the government,” said Pratibha Shinde, AIKSCC (All India Kishan Sangharsh Coordination Committee) working group member and president of Lok Sangharsh Morcha, which represents farmers of Maharashtra and Gujarat. Another farmer leader, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, said the government made many proposals including on MSP and the procurement system, which would be discussed among the farmer organisations on Friday, before Saturday’s meeting. Sources said the government gave a detailed presentation on the three new laws and asserted its intent towards the welfare of the farmers. However, the union leaders rejected the government's position at their fourth round of talks with three Union ministers at Vigyan Bhawan here. Besides Tomar, the government side included Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is also an MP from Punjab. The 40 farmer leaders present at the meeting refused the lunch offered by the government and preferred to eat the food ferried in a van from the Singhu border, where thousands of their colleagues were sitting in protest against the new agri laws. They did not accept tea and water offered to them during the meeting, which began around mid-day. During their marathon meeting on Thursday, farmers’ leaders told the government to focus on resolving the issues instead of trying to be a good host by offering lunch, Shinde said. “How can we have lunch offered by the government when our fellow farmers are sitting on roads,” said Shinde, whose organisation is among the 40 farmers’ groups engaged in the talks. The previous round of talks, held on December 1, had ended in a stalemate even after three hours of discussion as farmers' groups rejected the government's suggestion of a new committee to look into issues raised by farmers. The government had rejected the demand for repealing the laws and asked the farmers' bodies to identify specific issues related to the newly enacted Acts and submit those by December 2 for consideration and discussion on Thursday. Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a minimum support price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. On Wednesday, agitating farmers demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the Singhu and Tikri borders of the national capital for the last eight days as part of their protest against the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Arnab seeks stay on filing of chargesheet||Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, on Thursday filed an urgent plea before the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay in the filing of chargesheet and subsequent proceedings in the 2018 Anvay Naik abetment to suicide case. “Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who ordered re-investigation by the state CID, had no power to do so as the previous probe by the Alibaug police in Raigad district had been closed last year,” the application said. Arnab was arrested by the Alibaug police last month, for his connection with the case, before the Supreme Court granted him bail. Goswami in his plea stated that his arrest was illegal and sought to transfer the investigation to the CBI or some other independent institution. The Maharashtra government in May this year ordered a reinvestigation out of vendetta, the petition alleged. "The Home Department...or any other government authority does not have the power to order a reinvestigation or fresh investigation in a case where an `A summary' report (closure report) is filed and the same is accepted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate," it said. Last month, Deshmukh had announced in a press conference that a “strong chargesheet” will be filed in the case, which showed that the state machinery was getting involved in the issue with a “malafide premeditated diktat to the law and order officers,” it said. The re-investigation could not have been ordered without a judicial sanction and hence, the CID probe is illegal and "abuse of the process of law", Goswami said. The announcement of reinvestigation reeked of the “malice, spiteful nature and vendetta of the political dispensation” in Maharashtra, the petition claimed. Goswami also sought permission to amend his main petition seeking quashing of the FIR. He wanted to add arguments against the state home department's letter of May 26 which announced re-investigation and about which he learnt only last month, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
03-12-2020||India||Activist writes to Maharashtra CM over Shirdi temple dress code||Social activist Trupti Desai on Thursday said she has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to take action against the Shirdi Sai Baba temple trust over its appeal to devotees to dress in a "civilised" manner. In a video message, the activist also warned that if boards put up for devotees are not taken down by the trust, she and other activists would visit the temple town on December 10 and remove them. Taking cognisance of complaints that some people come to the shrine in "objectionable" clothes, the trust had put up boards outside the temple premises appealing to devotees to be dressed in a "civilised" manner or as per "Indian culture", when they come for a visit. "Despite our protest against these boards, the trust has not removed them. If the boards are not removed, we will come to Shirdi and take them down ourselves on December 10," Desai said in a video message. The activist said she has written to the chief minister urging him to take action against the trust for putting up such boards, which are an insult to devotees and violate the freedom of expression given in the Constitution. Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust's chief executive officer Kanhuraj Bagate had already clarified that they have not imposed any dress code on devotees and it was just an appeal. Around 9,000 devotees visited the temple on Thursday and when their feedback was sought on the content of these boards, none of them took any objection, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Domestic flights to operate at 80% capacity, says minister ||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said that the cap on the number of domestic flights that airline companies in India are permitted to operate has increased from 70 per cent to 80 per cent of their pre-Covid levels starting from the day. On November 11, the minister had said that airlines can operate up to 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights in view of the rising demand amid the pandemic situation. “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov 2020,” the aviation minister tweeted on Thursday. “Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 70% to 80% of pre-COVID approved capacity,” Puri stated. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent. On November 11, it was increased to 70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Those plotting love jihad will be destroyed, says Madhya Pradesh CM ||In a strong warning against religious conversion, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that those plotting anything like 'love jihad' will be destroyed. The comment comes as the state prepares to pass a controversial law that has stoked concerns of fanning discord and intolerance. "Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I'll break you. If someone plots religious conversion or does anything like 'Love Jihad', you will be destroyed," Mr Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Chouhan’s remarks come a week after his BJP-led government in the state said it is proposing a jail term of 10 years for anyone found guilty of using marriage to force someone to change religion. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had said that the state government has proposed a 10-year jail term for luring, threatening and forcing someone into marriage for religious conversion, in the proposed Dharm Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. Recently, several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have announced plans to bring laws to check alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, drawing sharp criticism from various quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||AAP govt rules out possibility of night curfew in Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party government on Thursday told the Delhi High Court that it does not plan to impose any night curfew in the national capital or its part at the present moment, to curb the spread of the coronavirus. On November 26, a bench comprising Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad sought to know whether the government was going to impose the curfew in Delhi, as did some other states. The government on Thursday submitted its reply before the bench clarifying its decision. In a status report filed in court, the Delhi government has said that on November 28 it issued an order directing that status quo be maintained with regard to permitted and restricted activities in the city till December 31. “Therefore, no new activity has been permitted/ allowed till December 31,” said the report, filed through Satyakam, the additional standing counsel. It also said that the Delhi government has issued another order on November 28 restricting 50 per cent attendance of employees (below grade-1) of non-essential services, government departments, corporations, public sector undertakings and local bodies. “The private establishments have also been advised to stagger the office timing and also stagger the presence of staff to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time,” the report said further. The court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increase in the COVID-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Indians want to fly to UK following Pfizer approval||Travel agents have started getting enquiries from Indians who want to fly to the United Kingdom at once to get the Covid-19 vaccine by Pfizer, which was approved by the British authorities on Wednesday. One travel agent is even planning to launch a three-night package for interested people, who want to get the benefit of the mass vaccination drive in the UK, which may begin next week. The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19 after "rigorous" analysis by its independent regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). A Mumbai-based agent told PTI that some people have raised questions about “how and when and if” they can travel to the country to get the vaccine. “I have told them it is too early to say (whether Indians can get a vaccine in the UK). Anyway, the first in line to get the vaccine would be the elderly and health workers in the UK who are most vulnerable to the coronavirus,” the agent added. Nishant Pitti, Co-founder and CEO, EaseMyTrip.com said even though it was not the season to travel to London, after Wednesday’s announcement, he has received several queries from Indians who have got UK visas and can afford to fly there. He said his company was waiting for clarity from the UK government on whether there would be compulsory quarantine requirements for travellers who want to get vaccinated and whether Indian passport holders are eligible for vaccination there or not. Pitti added that the company was planning to launch a three-night package for people who want to go to the UK to get vaccinated. “We are dealing with an airline to offer fixed price seats. We already have deals with London hotels. And we are planning to do some deals with a hospital over there so that we can generate a package for that,” he said. The recent UK government rules state that from December 15, every international arrival in the UK would have to remain in self isolation for five days and then get the RT-PCR test done on the sixth day. The passenger can leave isolation on the sixth day if found COVID-negative in the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth to launch own political party in January 2021||Actor-turned-politician Rajinikanth on Thursday, ending years of speculation, announced that he will launch his own political party in January 2021, in a big morale booster to his supporters and fans. The superstar, reassuring his brand of spiritual politics, said categorically that his party will fight the Assembly elections in 2021 and “emerge victorious”. The Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu are due in April and May next year. “We will win the assembly elections for sure and give honest, transparent, corruption-free, spiritual secular politics without caste, creed or religion. A wonder and miracle will happen,” the 69-year-old tweeted. An announcement on matters connected to the party launch would be made on December 31, he said. The superstar met the district secretaries of his ‘Rajini Makkal Mandram’ on Monday to deliberate about his political foray. While the office-bearers expressed their opinions, he conveyed his views on the matter to them, he told reporters outside his Poes Garden residence after winding up consultations with RMM secretaries at Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam. “They (functionaries) told me that they are with me whatever my decision may be. I will make it known by decision (on political foray) as soon as possible,” he had told reporters after the meeting. Rajinikanth had disclosed last month that he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016 at the United States and the doctors were against him venturing into politics amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in solidarity with farmers||Akali Dal stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre's new farm laws. In a separate announcement, dissident Akali leader and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also said he will return the Padma Bhushan conferred on him last year. Earlier, some former Punjab sportsmen too have threatened to return their awards. Badal's move follows over two months after his Shiromani Akali Dal pulled out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre, protesting against the three laws which deregulate the sale of crops. His daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also quit the Union Cabinet as protests over the farm bills erupted in Punjab, where the party is in opposition. I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today when he has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour, Badal said in his letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. Rebel SAD (Democratic) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said farmers including the elderly and women are staying put at the Delhi borders. We are also the sons of farmers. What will we do with the award? We stand shoulder to shoulder with them. Badal received the Padma Vibhushan award, the country second-highest civilian honour in 2015. A SAD statement said Parkash Singh Badal returned the Padma Vibhushan in protest against the betrayal of farmers by the central government, and the shocking indifference and contempt with which it is treating the peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers. Thousands of farmers from the state are now camping at the border of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three Acts that they say will lead to the phasing out of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which the government denies. In a letter e-mailed to the President Thursday morning, Badal said, After Panthic ideals of peace and communal harmony, farmers have been my second religious passion. Everything I have, everything I take pride in, every moment of glory or every office of public service that has been bestowed on me during my long public career has been pure because of my commitment to these ideals in which farmers have remained at the centre of everything, the five-time former chief minister wrote. When the country honoured me with Padma Vibhushan, I knew that it was only in acknowledgement of my commitment to the people in which the farmers featured most prominently. I owe it to them, he said. As an optimist, he hoped that the President would use his good offices to tell the government to win the confidence of farmers as well as strengthen the country's secular, democratic fabric. Hurt and betrayed, the SAD leader said when the Union government brought in the farm ordinances, there were assurances that the farmers' apprehensions will be addressed while introducing the relevant Bills. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the government's word. But I was shocked when the government simply went back on its word, he wrote. The former CM described the period after the betrayal as the most painful and embarrassing moment in his political career. "I just cannot put in words the pain and emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers," he said. Badal said he was deeply pained by the communal insinuations being made against the protesting farmers, and by the conspiracies and vicious propaganda to paint their peaceful struggle as anti-national. Badal described the black laws as the proverbial last nail in the coffin of the country's 'anna data'. The farmers are out on the streets battling police batons, tear gas shells and water cannons even as their sources of livelihood dry up. They have come to the national capital from all over the country, leaving their fields, crops and even their families and travelled long distances to get the attention of their own government, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||ICSE board asks CMs to allow schools to reopen||The Chief Executive and Secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) as in a written letter to all chief ministers of the country seeking permission to open schools partially from January onwards, especially for class 10 and 12 students, who will be appearing for the board examinations. It has Chief Election Commissioner of India to share information regarding the poll schedule of the states where elections are due in April and May, so that the council can finalise the datasheet of the exams accordingly. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all schools have been closed from March 2020 till date. However, despite the closure, most of our schools have continued with the teaching and learning process in an online, offline or blended manner, as indicated by a survey conducted by CISCE on the status of online teaching, assessment and completion of syllabus,” said Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive of CISCE. “For the final run-up to the examinations, CISCE has requested the chief ministers of all state governments and UTs to allow schools to reopen partially, specifically for the students of classes 10and 12 from January, 2021,” he added. “With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for doubt clearing lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” he said. Arathoon reassured that if allowed to reopen, the schools will be asked to follow the guidelines of the state governments regarding the Covid-19 situation, and to conform to the safety norms as well as the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the health department to curb the spread of the virus. “CISCE has also requested the Chief Election Commissioner of India to share the election dates of the states that are due to have their elections in the months of April - May next year,” he said. “This will enable CISCE to finalise the schedules for ICSE-Class 10 and ISC-Class 12 year 2021 examinations and to ensure that there are no clash of dates, interruption of the examinations or any inconvenience that may be faced by the candidates taking these examinations,” Arathoon added. Schools across India were shut down in March amid the outbreak of Covid-19 but were allowed to reopen from October 15. However, some states decided to keep them closed in view of the rising number of cases. The board had to cancel its pending exams in March due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and the result was declared on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||At meeting with Shah, Amarinder urges to find a ‘common ground’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Union Home Minister Amit Shah met on Thursday to find a solution regarding the situation at Delhi, where farmers have been protesting since last week. In the meeting, Singh urged Shah as well as the farmers to find an early resolution to the stir over the new farm laws, saying that the protests are affecting Punjab’s economy and the security of the nation. After meeting Shah at his residence, the chief minister said that a common ground must be found at the earliest and both the parties should not hold a rigid position about their requirements. “I came to meet the Home Minister to reiterate our position and to make a request to him and the farmers to resolve this soon because this (agitation) affects the economy of my Punjab as well as the security of the nation,” Singh told reporters after the meeting. He said he appealed to the home minister to find an early solution to the problem. Asked if he was trying to mediate between the agitating farmers and the central government, Singh said a discussion is going on between the two sides. “It is for them to resolve... we have reiterated Punjab's position,” the Congress leader said. According to sources, the meeting was held parallely with the interaction between the protesting farmers and the government at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. The meeting started around noon, after it got delayed by over two hours, sources said. The Punjab chief minister and his Congress party have been supporting the farmers' stir and the state Assembly has also passed a set of bills aimed at negating the Centre's farm legislation. Singh had earlier said that he and his government were willing to mediate in the talks between the Centre and the farmers in the collective interest of all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Jamia student arrested in Delhi riots case to be shifted to guest house for upcoming examination||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed the jail authorities to forthwith take Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year, to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in examinations scheduled from Friday. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also asked the jail superintendent to permit the accused to take studying material with him and also provide him with any other teaching material, if required. Tanha was directed to be taken to a guest house in Lajpat Nagar, which was suggested by the police and also agreed by his counsel. The court said that from the guest house, he will be taken to the examination centre at JMI university on December 4, 5 and 7 and shall be brought back to jail after the three exams are over. The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his counsel once a day during his stay at the guest house. A trial court has granted him three-day custody parole -- December 4, 5 and 7 -- to appear in compartment/ supplementary exams of BA Persian (Hons). However, he was not satisfied with it on the ground that his entire day will be wasted and he will not be able to study and sought interim bail for the purpose. Tanha was arrested on May 19 in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-515
03-12-2020||India||Muted celebrations at annual Feast of St. Francis Xavier in Goa||The annual Feast of St. Francis Xavier, a ceremony which used to attract thousands of people each year, was organised in a muted way in Old Goa on Thursday, as public gatherings were not allowed at the event in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While people formed long queues in the morning outside the campus of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, measures were taken to ensure there was no crowding at the place, and the event was telecast live online as well, said a priest. The Basilica of Bom Jesus is the area where the relics of the 16th century Spanish saint are reserved. “Precautions were taken to ensure social distancing and also allow people time to offer prayers at the relics,” said Fr Patricio Fernandes, Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus. Due to the outbreak of the pandemic this year, the Church authorities in Goa have withheld public gatherings for the congregational masses. Parishioners were not allowed to attend the masses, including the main event at 10:30 am, a senior priest at the Basilica informed. “For the feast mass, which is the main event, only 160 representatives from various parishes were invited and 40 priests also participated in it,” he said. “The masses (congregational prayers) were telecast live on various online platforms so that people do not move out of their homes,” he said. The veneration of the relics of St Francis Xavier was allowed from 5 am, but with a limited number of people at a time. The masses were streamed online from 6 am on various social media platforms, he said. According to official figures,Goa till Wednesday reported 48,241 COVID-19 cases and 693 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Potential life on Mars likely lived below the surface, says study||If life ever existed on ancient Mars, it would have lived up to several miles below the surface of the Red Planet, likely due to subsurface melting of thick ice sheets fuelled by geothermal heat, according to a study. The research, published in the journal Science Advances, examined various Mars datasets to see if heating via geothermal or underground heat would have been possible 4.1 billion to 3.7 billion years ago or in the Noachian era. They showed that the conditions needed for subsurface melting would have been ubiquitous on ancient Mars. Even if Mars had a warm and wet climate 4 billion years ago, with the loss of the magnetic field, atmospheric thinning and subsequent drop in global temperatures over time, liquid water may have been stable only at great depths, the researchers found. Therefore, life, if it ever originated on Mars, may have followed liquid water to progressively greater depths, they said. "At such depths, life could have been sustained by hydrothermal (heating) activity and rock-water reactions. So, the subsurface may represent the longest-lived habitable environment on Mars," said lead author Lujendra Ojha, an assistant professor at Rutgers University-New Brunswick in the US. The study may help resolve what is known as the faint young sun paradox -- a lingering key question in Mars science. "Even if greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and water vapour are pumped into the early Martian atmosphere in computer simulations, climate models still struggle to support a long-term warm and wet Mars," said Ojha. "I and my co-authors propose that the faint young sun paradox may be reconciled, at least partly, if Mars had high geothermal heat in its past," he said. The researchers noted that our sun is a massive nuclear fusion reactor that generates energy by fusing hydrogen into helium. Over time, they explained, the Sun has gradually brightened and warmed the surface of planets in our solar system. According to the researchers, about 4 billion years ago, the Sun was much fainter so the climate of early Mars should have been freezing. However, the surface of Mars has many geological indicators, such as ancient riverbeds, and chemical indicators, such as water-related minerals. These suggest the Red Planet had abundant liquid water in the Noachian era, the researchers said. This apparent contradiction between the geological record and climate models is the faint young sun paradox, they said. On rocky planets like Mars, Earth, Venus and Mercury, heat-producing elements like uranium, thorium and potassium generate heat via radioactive decay. In such a scenario, liquid water can be generated through melting at the bottom of thick ice sheets, even if the Sun was fainter than now. On Earth, for example, geothermal heat forms subglacial lakes in areas of the West Antarctic ice sheet, Greenland and the Canadian Arctic. The researchers noted that it is likely that similar melting may help explain the presence of liquid water on cold, freezing Mars 4 billion years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||MDH owner Dharampal Gulati passes away at 97||‘Mahashay’ Dharampal Gulati, the owner of Indian spices company Mahashian Di Hatti (MDH) passed away on Thursday at a New Delhi hospital. He was 97 at the time of his death. According to sources, Gulati, who was awarded the country's third-highest civilian award Padma Bhushan last year, was under medical supervision at the Mata Chanan Devi Hospital of the national capital, where he breathed his last. The popular entrepreneur, familiar to every Indian who watched him on the TV in his company’s advertisements over several years, was undergoing post-Covid treatment at the hospital and suffered a cardiac arrest, leading to his death. Gulati, popularly known as Spice King, was born in Sialkot (now in Pakistan) on March 27, 1923. He moved to India after Partition and set up his business in Delhi. MDH was founded by his father Chunni Lal Gulati. Tributes poured in on social media for the businessman, whose face became synonymous with the brand. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled his death and tweeted, “Saddened by the demise of ‘Mahashiyan Di Hatti’ (MDH) President Shri Dharampal Gulati ji, who was honoured with Padma Bhushan. He was a well-known personality of the Indian industry. His social service activities are also commendable. My condolences to his family and fans.” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal called him an inspiring personality, saying, “He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul.” “India’s most inspiring entrepreneur, MDH owner Dharm Pal Mahashay passed away this morning. I have never met such an inspiring and lively soul. May his soul rest in peace,” Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor'||Delhi's air quality remained very poor on Thursday, and it is likely to remain so for the next two days. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 342 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 373 on Wednesday. It was 367 on Tuesday, 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The predominant wind direction will be northerly and the maximum wind speed 6 kmph on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature was 8.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday and the maximum is expected to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said air quality is likely to remain in the "very poor" category till Saturday. There is a possibility of the air quality reaching the "severe" category between December 4 and December 7, it had said earlier. The city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be 3,000 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally crosses 95 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 95 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89.73 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 94.11 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,34,964 with 35,551 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,38,648 with 526 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 89,73,373 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.11 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active COVID-19 caseload continued to remain below 5 lakh. There are 4,22,943 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.44 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,35,57,647 samples have been tested up to December 1 with 11,11,698 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 526 new fatalities include 111 from Maharashtra, 82 from Delhi, 51 from West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 27 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Punjab. A total of 1,38,648 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,357 from Maharashtra followed by 11,808 from Karnataka, 11,733 from Tamil Nadu, 9,342 from Delhi, 8,527 from West Bengal, 7,817 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,003 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,842 from Punjab, 4,018 from Gujarat and 3,287 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||PM calls for ensuring opportunities for persons with disabilities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that India has taken numerous measures to ensure a positive change in the lives of persons with disabilities, as he gave a call for collectively working towards ensuring opportunity and improving accessibility for them. Modi's comments were in the context of the UN choosing the theme of "Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post-COVID-19 World" to commemorate the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is annually observed on December 3. This year, the UN has said, it will be commemorated on December 4 in conjunction with the 13th session of the Conference of States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (COSP13). Using the hashtag of the "International Day of Persons with Disabilities", Modi tweeted, "The resilience and fortitude of persons with disabilities inspire us. Under the Accessible India initiative, numerous measures have been taken that ensure there is a positive change in the lives of our Divyang sisters and brothers". The prime minister added, "In line with the year's @UN theme of 'Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post COVID-19 World', let us collectively keep working towards ensuring opportunity and improving accessibility for our Divyang sisters and brothers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Rahul attacks Centre over vaccine promise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the Centre over its statement that it had never spoken about inoculating everyone with a vaccine against Covid-19 and asked what does Prime Minister Narendra Modi stand by. The Centre on Tuesday said there may not be a need to vaccinate the country's entire population against COVID-19 if a critical mass of people are given a shot to break the chain of virus transmission, and made it clear it had never spoken about inoculating everyone. "PM -- Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections -- Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI -- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by?" Gandhi said in a tweet. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said at a media briefing that there may not be a need to vaccinate the country's entire population against COVID-19 if a critical mass of people is given a shot to break the chain of the virus transmission. "I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It's important that we discuss such scientific issues based on factual information only and then analyse it," Bhushan had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Selective Covid vaccine plan lifts eyebrows||Indian health officials have proposed a “smart vaccination” campaign to stop the Covid-19 epidemic by immunising only select groups and leaving others unvaccinated, a strategy some experts have criticised as worrying and not adequately backed by science. The experts say the strategy appears focused on the public health goal of controlling the epidemic and deviates from the key principle of universal immunisation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had affirmed earlier: “No person should be left behind.” Besides, some of the experts have argued, the current level of scientific knowledge about the infection does not justify any group being marked as less or more prone to transmit the disease. Some health researchers have also expressed concern that while countries such as America, Britain and Canada have made advance purchases of vaccines to cover their entire populations, India’s “smart vaccination” plan appears designed to limit the distribution of vaccines. The Centre has since July signalled that healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups will receive the vaccines on priority. The Union health ministry announced in October that it hoped to vaccinate 25 crore people from such vulnerable groups by July 2021. The “smart vaccination” plan seeks to couple this goal of vaccinating priority groups with public health considerations to try and control the epidemic without having to vaccinate the entire population, Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told The Telegraph. A parliamentary panel’s report on India’s response to Covid-19 outlines the “smart vaccination” plan, citing Bhargava who had briefed the panel six weeks ago. The plan assumes that the population can be categorised into three groups — core, bridge and general. “Once the core group is vaccinated, there is least chance of spread of the disease and there would not be a requirement for vaccinating (the) whole population,” the report said, citing Bhargava. “With preventive measures such as wearing masks and through smart vaccination, the (epidemic) can be contained without vaccinating the entire population.” Experts say the plan seems to assume that once healthcare workers, non-medical frontline workers and other vulnerable groups are vaccinated, they will be protected and therefore unable to spread the infection to their contacts. “When we vaccinate priority groups, we achieve three objectives,” said Samiran Panda, chief of the epidemiology division at the ICMR, the apex health research agency. “We protect healthcare workers and others who are at high risk of infection because of occupational vulnerability; we protect the elderly and those with underlying illnesses because they are at risk of severe disease and deaths. Once vaccinated, they all block transmission,” Panda said. But the proposal to define a core group within the population to guide vaccination has surprised some researchers. They say there isn’t enough evidence from either epidemiology or surveillance within the country to clearly make such population demarcations. “We still don’t know who transmits how much. Without such high-granularity information, it is hard to predict who should be in the core group,” said Gagandeep Kang, senior microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a vaccine science specialist. “The selection of the priority groups such as healthcare workers and elderly is entirely based on the need to protect them from the infection – not to block transmission. I worry that we don’t know enough to decide on a concrete plan to categorise people.” Medical experts say that while the assumption that the epidemic can be controlled by vaccinating select groups might be grounded in public health, the end of the epidemic does not mean vaccines are no longer needed. Infectious disease specialists have predicted that the Covid-19 epidemic will stop through a phenomenon they call herd immunity when around 60 per cent of the population is protected through immune responses generated by either vaccines or natural infections. But they caution that the virus will not disappear and that infections, severe disease and deaths will continue. “Suppose, the government vaccinates about 30 per cent of the population and the epidemic itself infected (another) 30 per cent of the population – we have 60 per cent protected,” said Santanu Tripathi, head of clinical pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “Even after that point, vaccines will be needed to protect all individuals. The rest of the population should be vaccinated for their individual protection.” Modi, while chairing a review meeting on vaccines on June 30, had underlined that India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, while starting with the priority groups, should seek to be universal with no one left out. Some experts contrasted India’s smart vaccination plan with the advance purchases of vaccines by other countries. “The governments in those countries are afraid of people’s reactions -- healthcare is a strong political issue there,” said Amar Jesani, a physician and medical ethics expert. “Here, people are gullible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||Karnataka cattle slaughter bill fuels concern||The Karnataka government is determined to impose a total ban on cattle slaughter and, in the process, do away with whatever little concessions that were allowed in the existing law. Despite the Congress voicing concerns over the wider ramifications and constitutional rights of those who might want to consume beef, the BJP government wants to emulate Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in implementing a total ban. State animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan is set to visit Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat to “study” how those two BJP-ruled states have enforced the ban. According to a government source, who cannot be named, the minister would return with “inputs from Gujarat and UP on banning cattle slaughter”. The Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, permits only the slaughter of bulls and male buffaloes above the age of 12 and certified unfit for breeding or working in farmlands. But the BJP wants to ban the slaughter of all cattle — male or female. The then BJP government led by Jagadish Shettar had moved an amendment bill in 2012 that increased the age of animal to be slaughtered and made punishment harsher. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday held a meeting with a delegation from the Muslim community who would be adversely affected once the law is passed. “The Muslim community members were extremely anxious about this law. So we discussed the ramifications,” Siddaramiah told reporters on Tuesday evening. “They (Muslims) are apprehensive that this law will put them in trouble in many ways,” Siddaramiah added. The majority of those engaged in cattle trading and meat business belong to the minority community. Siddaramiah challenged the BJP to bring in such a law in Goa where they are in power. “Why are they bent on bringing this law in Karnataka and not in Goa?” he asked, alluding to the state where a large number of people consumed beef. The Congress has decided to oppose the bill when it is tabled in the Assembly and launch a protest across the state. Karnataka is a state where cow vigilantes take law into their hands and attack cattle traders and transporters. The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada are among the worst hit by cow vigilantism. Dakshina Kannada district CPM secretary Vasant Achari said the law once enacted would not only lead to an increase in cow vigilantism, but also hurt farmers. “Most of the farmers own cattle. At least now they can sell them to cattle traders. But once this law is passed, farmers will have to take care of aged and ailing cattle, which is an expensive proposition,” Achari said. There is also an apprehension about the way the law would further divide people. “Even those who challenge the law would be seen as against cows and for their slaughter and thus against Hindu religion,” he cautioned. Karnataka has regularly witnessed brutal attacks in the name of cow protection ever since the Sangh parivar leveraged it as a symbol of religion and Hindu culture. Even a BJP worker was lynched to death in Udupi in August 2016. A professional cattle transporter, Praveen Poojary, 29, was waylaid by a mob of cow vigilantes and beaten to death. K. Phaniraj of Komu Sauharda Vedike (Forum for Communal Harmony), an NGO, told this newspaper that cattle rearing, trading and slaughter would get badly affected by the new law. “Instead of a blanket ban on the slaughter of all cattle, the government should ideally provide an alternative to the thousands who would lose their livelihood,” Phaniraj said. “Cattle trading is essentially an economic pursuit. Striking it down with a legislation will certainly lead to lot of issues in the society,” he said, adding cattle smuggling will continue and give rise to more cow vigilantism and violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||China ‘planned’ Galwan clashes: US report||A commission created by the US Congress has found evidence suggesting the Chinese had planned the Galwan clashes, potentially factoring in the fatalities. “Several weeks prior to the clash, defence minister Wei (Fenghe) made his statement encouraging Beijing to ‘use fighting to promote stability’,” the US-China Economic Review Commission has said in its annual report. “Just over two weeks before the incident, in another potential indication of Chinese leaders signalling their intent to escalate tensions, an editorial in China’s state-owned tabloid Global Times warned that India would suffer a ‘devastating blow’ to its trade and economic ties with China if it got ‘involved in the US-China rivalry’. “Satellite images depicted a large Chinese build-up in the Galwan Valley, including potentially 1,000 PLA soldiers, the week before the deadly skirmish.” Twenty Indian soldiers died in hand-to-hand fighting during the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh, while the Chinese casualties are unknown. The US report mentions all that is in the public domain on what has transpired along the Line of Actual Control since the Galwan clash. The US report also makes particular note of an Indian special forces soldier of Tibetan origin dying along the Line of Actual Control, reportedly from a landmine blast. “In an unusual move, India allowed the soldier’s funeral to be publicised and dispatched a high-ranking official from India’s ruling party to attend,” it says. The Special Frontier Force was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. This was the first time an SFF soldier got a public funeral in what was seen as a signal from India to the Chinese. The commission noted that China’s increasingly assertive behaviour had accelerated cohesion among the countries participating in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or the “Quad” — that is, the US, Japan, India and Australia. “Between March and May, these countries held weekly vice-ministerial-level meetings and one ministerial-level meeting to coordinate on containing Covid-19, restore their economies, and communicate shared strategic interests,” the report says. “Notably, for the first time the grouping also took on an expanded format, known as the ‘Quad Plus’, which saw Brazil, Israel, New Zealand, South Korea and Vietnam participating in various group discussions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-516
03-12-2020||India||SC says every case different when Arnab Goswami bail example cited during hearing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said “every case is different” when the example of bail for Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami was cited during a hearing into an application related to incarcerated journalist Siddique Kappan. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, representing the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that had filed the plea on Kappan: “Are you willing to go to the court (trial court) below?” Sibal said: “In Arnab Goswami’s case, Your Lordships have interfered when the bail application was pending. I will rely on that.” “Every case is different,” the bench said. “You show us any precedent where an association had moved the court seeking relief.” Goswami was in custody for eight days in a suicide abetment case before he was granted bail by the top court while Kappan has been in jail for the past 58 days. Kappan was picked up on his way to Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit girl had been brutalised and murdered. He was accused of trying to disturb peace and charged under the stringent UAPA. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, told the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, that the KUWJ was a third party in the case. Sibal submitted: “The FIR itself is false. He is arrested on the basis of false allegations…. There are judgments which say the court should consider the allegations in the FIR while considering release on bail.” The Chief Justice noted that it was not the accused or any of his family members who had gone to court. Sibal then said: “I can implead the wife and the daughter of the accused.” Following this, the court adjourned the matter for a week to enable Kappan’s wife or daughter to file a fresh application for his release. Kappan’s family lives in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Chinese syrups used to make adulterated honey in India||The Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment on Wednesday said its tests had found 77 per cent of honey samples sourced from big and small branded companies in India “adulterated with addition of sugar syrup”. Under the regulations of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), adding anything to natural honey — including sugar syrups — before sale is illegal. The CSE said its “honeygate” study had found that some Chinese companies were exporting huge amounts of these syrups to India and that their price was about half that of honey. It said these companies’ advertisements on Chinese e-commerce portals like Alibaba said their products enabled adulterated honey samples to cheat the FSSAI’s tests. “Out of 22 samples tested, only five passed all the tests,” CSE director-general Sunita Narain said. Narain said: “Honey samples from leading brands such as Dabur, Patanjali, Baidyanath, Zandu, Hitkari and Apis Himalaya, all failed the NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) test.” While NMR tests are used globally to detect adulteration by sugar syrups, the FSSAI does not use them on domestic honey. A Dabur spokesperson said the “recent reports seem motivated and aimed at maligning our brand” and insisted that Dabur Honey was “100 per cent pure” and that the company imported no “honey/syrup from China”. The spokesperson said Dabur complied with all the FSSAI norms and had “NMR testing equipment in our own laboratory, and the same is used to regularly test our honey sold in the Indian market”. An Emami spokesperson said the company’s “Zandu Pure Honey conforms to all the protocols and quality norms/ standards laid down by the government of India and its authorised entities such as FSSAI”. The reactions of the other brands will be published as and when they issue them. “Only 3 of the 13 brands (from which the 22 samples were sourced) – Saffola, MarkfedSonna and Nature’s Nectar (one of two samples) --- passed all the tests,” Narain said. With the Union ministry of Ayush prescribing honey as an immunity booster in its pandemic guidelines, the sale of honey has skyrocketed, jumping 35 per cent in March alone, industry sources said. India’s honey market, worth Rs 1,729 crore in 2019, was predicted to reach about Rs 3,060 crore by 2025, with trade experts clarifying this estimate had not considered the Covid push. The CSE suggested that the Indian authorities knew about the purported adulteration, underlining how the government recently made NMR tests mandatory for honey that is to be exported but not for domestic honey. “As of August 1, NMR tests have been made mandatory in India for honey that is meant for export, suggesting that the Indian government is aware of this adulteration business,” the CSE’s report says. Further, the CSE accused the Indian regulator of sowing confusion over the adulterating agent. “The FSSAI, in the past year, directed importers and state food commissioners that golden syrup, invert sugar syrup and rice syrup imported into the country were being used for adulteration of honey,” Amit Khurana, programme director with the CSE’s food safety and toxins team, said. But these three kinds of imported sugar syrups “are either not imported in these names or are not indicted (by the CSE) for adulteration”, he said. “Instead, Chinese companies are mostly exporting this syrup as fructose to India. Why did FSSAI put out what is clearly an erroneous order?” The CSE claimed that some factories in India were manufacturing the syrup with Chinese technology. A Dabur spokesperson said the “recent reports seem motivated and aimed at maligning our brand” and insisted that Dabur Honey was “100 per cent pure” and that the company imported no “honey/syrup from China”. The spokesperson said Dabur complied with all the FSSAI norms and had “NMR testing equipment in our own laboratory, and the same is used to regularly test our honey sold in the Indian market”. An Emami spokesperson said the company’s “Zandu Pure Honey conforms to all the protocols and quality norms/ standards laid down by the government of India and its authorised entities such as FSSAI”. Red flag Narain said the trigger for the investigation was the CSE’s discovery that while the sale of honey was going up, beekeepers were leaving the profession because of financial distress. “We felt there was something amiss --- while the sale of honey was going up, why were the beekeepers in such a state?” So, the CSE embarked on a bout of sleuthing that culminated in a series of tests in India and abroad, the entire exercise taking about five months, sources within the organisation said. First, the CSE undertook an undercover operation to track down the Chinese companies from advertisements in Chinese trade portals and got hold of the syrups. “To understand whether the sugar syrups would actually pass the laboratory tests undetected as claimed, the CSE then adulterated samples of pure honey,” Khurana said. “What was shocking is that adulterated samples with 25 per cent and 50 per cent sugar syrup passed the test of purity (by Indian standards).” The CSE then selected 13 of the bigger and smaller brands of processed and raw honey sold in India, and got 22 samples tested at the Centre for Analysis and Learning in Livestock and Food (Calf) at the National Dairy Development Board, Gujarat. Nearly all of them passed. “However, when the same brands were tested using nuclear magnetic resonance (at a) laboratory in Germany,” the CSE said, “almost all big and small brands failed.” Narain said: “We are hundred per cent confirmed about the findings.” The CSE claims that over the past four years, 11,000 million tonnes of fructose syrup have come to India as “industrial raw material” from the Chinese companies that advertise their product’s ability to beat the Indian tests. Narain told The Telegraph that adulterated honey was actually hurting those regularly taking it to improve their immunity. “With a high level of sugar syrup, we are getting empty calories without benefits, which can lead to weight gain, which is detrimental in the fight against Covid,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||I know CM will give justice: Pari’s father||The alleged kidnapping and murder of Pari, a five-year-old girl from Odisha’s Nayagarh district, has triggered a political earthquake in the state. While the winter session of the Assembly that was adjourned prematurely witnessed repeated pandemonium over the issue, the Opposition BJP and the Congress continue to stage protests across the state demanding the resignation of Nayagarh MLA and higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who is being accused of shielding the culprits. A special investigation team (SIT), headed by IPS officer Arun Bothra, has been constituted by chief minister Naveen Patnaik to probe the case. The team has begun its work but the BJP and Pari’s parents continue to demand a CBI probe into the case and the resignation of Sahoo. Pari was allegedly kidnapped while playing near her house in Jadupur village of Nayagarh in July. Later her skeletal remains were found dumped in a sack behind the house. While the BJP, whose national spokesperson Sambit Patra staged a demonstration over the issue in New Delhi recently and filed a petition before the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) seeking justice for Pari, the Congress is divided with a section of its leaders demanding resignation of the minister. On the other hand, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra has expressed satisfaction with the announcement of a court-monitored SIT probe which he has described as historic. With the issue set to snowball and have long-term political repercussions, this correspondent spoke to Pari’s father Ashok Sahoo, an autorickshaw driver, about the incident. How did your daughter go missing? Pari was my only child. We named her Pari as she looked like an angel. Whatever I have earned I have spent on her, buying her toys and whatever she demanded. On July 14, she was playing in front of our house with other children. But she did not return home. We frantically searched for her. After failing to find her, we lodged an FIR with the police the same evening. When was her body recovered? Torn by grief and frustrated over police inaction we could do little else but hope in vain for her return. Some elderly women in the neighbourhood asked us to search for her in the bushes behind the house. We found in the bushes what we are sure was her skull, 12 more pieces of her skeletal remains and her torn shirt. We immediately informed the police. The police came with the dog squad and a scientific team. Later, they took us to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for examination. They also took our blood samples, perhaps for a DNA test. But we have still not been informed about the results. We are completely in the dark about what they have done. What do you suspect? I don’t have any enemies still my child was killed. I have a strong suspicion that she was killed by people involved in the human organ racket, especially the kidney racket. Perhaps her kidney was removed for transplantation. Since I am an auto driver no one would have thought that the issue will raise so much heat. I have already told the police and the media the name of the accused who I know is involved in the crime. He is very close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo who hails from our district. Police are yet to take action against them. Have you raised the kidney theft allegation under political pressure? No, I want justice for my daughter. Why should I seek political favour? Both the BJP and the Congress have extended support to me. I feel with their support I would be able to get justice for my daughter and the police will stop torturing me. Many say Pari was killed in an accident by a JCB (an excavator) in front of your house. As the vehicle did not have valid documents and belonged to an influential BJD leader, an attempt was made to hide the crime. What do you have to say? I don’t believe this. No JCB ran on that day in front of my house. Let’s have a fair probe. I have undergone a lot in my search for justice to my daughter. What kind of problems did you face? The local police instead of arresting the accused picked up me and my relatives, including my father-in-law, a number of times and made us sit in the police station for hours. They are doing all this at the behest of some political leaders. I was even attacked with stones and had to get seven stitches in my head. I was even forced to leave my village Jadupur and I am now living with my in-laws in Jogiapalli. For the sake of a fair probe, the resignation of the minister is a must. The accused is close to the minister and his photograph with the minister has already gone viral. Why did you and your wife decide to commit self-immolation in front of the Assembly in November? In 2010 I had worked for the then school and mass education minister Pratap Jena as a security guard (Jena is now the state law minister). During that time I had seen how people protested in front of the Assembly. My daughter went missing in July and later her skeletal remains were recovered. After running to the police station several times, we got tired and fed up with the system. So we decided to end our lives in front of the Assembly so that the issue was highlighted properly. It seems you have become a pawn in the hands of some political parties. Don’t you have faith in the SIT probe? I have faith in chief minister Naveen Patnaik. I know he will give justice to me. I am not affiliated to any political party. Only those who have lost their children will understand the pain and anguish of a parent whose child gets kidnapped and killed in this heinous manner. My daughter’s remains were found dumped in the bushes wrapped in a gunny bag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Woman Maoist surrenders in Odisha||A woman member of CPI (Maoist), who carried a cash reward of Rs 4 lakh on her head, surrendered before Koraput police in Odisha on Wednesday. The police said in a release that Rame Madkami was inducted into the CPI (Maoist) in 2013 by luring her into the “Sanskrutika Gana Natya Mandai”, the cultural troupe of the ultras, at the age of 16 in gross violation of child rights. The police said she was given military training and was armed with a .303 rifle by the party when she was minor. After being promoted to the rank of area committee member (ACM), she was armed with an Insas rifle. Police said she was involved in a number of cases of violence. “Rame was fed up with the anti-social attitude of the party and with their indiscriminate and unjustified violence against her own people. She was also disgusted with the unnecessary civilian killings by the party, even after protests by local people and also because of upper hand of Telugu and Chhattisgarhi cadres in the party and their attitude towards Odiya cadres,” the release said. The police said though she had received a bullet injury during an exchange of fire in the forest area of Landulu village under Pedabailu police station in Andhra Pradesh, her party did not provide her proper medical attention as she belonged to the Odisha cadre. According to the Odisha government’s rehabilitation policy for Maoists who give up arms, Madkami will get Rs 4 lakh as she had surrendered voluntarily and would be rehabilitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Farmers threaten to burn effigies of Ambani and Adani||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have dug in their heels, iterating on Wednesday that they would not relent till the farm laws are repealed and extending their protest against the Narendra Modi government to the corporate houses who they believe these laws will serve. If the laws are not rolled back immediately, effigies of the Modi government, Ambani and Adani would be burnt in villages across the country on Saturday, the farmer leaders announced a day before the next round of talks with the agriculture minister. Late on Wednesday, home minister Amit Shah invited Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for a meeting on Thursday morning to discuss the farmers’ issue. The farmers’ meeting with the government is scheduled later in the day. The farmers, under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Coordination Committee, wrote to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday demanding that Parliament be convened immediately to repeal the three farm laws. The letter said that thousands, including the elderly, have for the past seven days been sitting on the highway in the harsh winter and that three farmers have died. It would be inhuman of the government to not address the farmers’ legitimate demands immediately, the letter added. The All India Motor Transport Congress, the apex body of transporters representing about 95 lakh truckers, rallied behind the farmers and threatened to halt operations in north India from December 8 if the government fails to address their concerns. If the issue is prolonged by the government, the transporters may go for a nationwide shutdown of operations, the AIMTC said on Wednesday. The farmers’ letter to Tomar also said: “We ask the government not to indulge in any divisive agendas with regard to the farmers’ movement which is united…. This was clear from the meeting proceedings yesterday.” On Tuesday, the Punjab farmers’ unions had rebuffed the attempt to reach out only to them, forcing the government to meet the leaderships of three all-India collectives. But after that the government met the Bharatiya Kisan Union, based mainly in western Uttar Pradesh and led by Rakesh Tikait, late in the night separately. The farmers in their letter asked the government not to hold separate meetings. Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border after a meeting of the farmers’ collectives in the afternoon that they had decided to move forward under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha and that Tikait too was with them now. The letter once again rejected the government’s offer to set up an expert panel on the farm laws, saying it reflected “lack of sincerity”. Pal added: “The government can keep us engaged in discussions for days on end but the protests on the streets will continue and intensify.” The entry points into Delhi from Haryana at Tikri and Singhu and from Uttar Pradesh at Noida are already barricaded, disrupting travel in the national capital region. Pal also thanked the sportspersons and ex-servicemen who have expressed solidarity with the farmers and announced plans to return their medals. Responding to media queries earlier in the day, agriculture minister Tomar had said: “I appeal to the farmers that the laws are in their interest and the reforms have been done after a long wait but if they have any objection, we are ready to address their concerns.” The government claims the new laws will benefit farmers, but the tens of thousands of farmers camped out at Delhi’s borders argue that this is a reform they never sought and do not want. If effigies are burnt in the country’s villages on Saturday, it will be a repeat of what had played out on Dussehra in villages across Punjab, where the protests have been on since the three farm laws were forced through Parliament in September. The laws are aimed at linking potential bulk buyers, such as WalMart Inc, Reliance Industries Ltd and Adani Enterprises Ltd, directly to the farmers, bypassing government-regulated wholesale markets and layers of commission agents. The farmers see the laws as an attempt to privatise agriculture, eliminate the agents who are a vital cog of the farm economy, deny them a guaranteed price for their grains and leave them at the mercy of the oligarchs. They worry that after initially paying good returns for their produce, corporate buyers would force down prices. The protesters said a similar move in Bihar had left farmers in the state worse off than before. “Some landholders from Bihar now work on our farms,” said 45-year-old Sukhbinder Singh, who grows wheat, potatoes and mustard on his 20-acre farm in Haryana. “If we don’t protest now, the next generation will curse us for not fighting the fight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||BJP IT cell head's tweet flagged as 'manipulated media'||Twitter on Wednesday tagged as “manipulated media” an image posted by Amit Malviya, the head of the BJP’s information and technology department and co-in-charge of Bengal, while the farmers’ protest was snowballing in the capital. Twitter’s action makes Malviya perhaps the first Indian politician to be flagged for fake news and puts him in the unsavoury company of Donald Trump, many of whose tweets had been called out during the recent US presidential elections. Malviya is accused of posting an edited video to suggest that a particular farmer was not beaten, contrary to the impression left behind by a photograph tweeted by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Friday. The purported full video showed a blow from another officer landing on the farmer. On November 28, Malviya had quoted a tweet by Rahul featuring a photograph showing a CRPF jawan aiming a baton at an elderly farmer at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border. Rahul had tweeted: “It is a very sad photo. Our slogan was ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ but today PM Modi’s arrogance made the jawan stand against the farmer. This is very dangerous.” Malviya tweeted a clip showing the same man running past the CRPF, where it is unclear whether any of their batons touched him. “Rahul Gandhi must be the most discredited Opposition leader India has seen in a long long time,” Malviya had posted above the clip. Several Twitter users later shared the full footage from Russia Today and Voice of America that show state and central forces hitting several farmers, including the farmer in the picture Rahul had tweeted. The farmer was identified as 57-year-old Sukhdev Singh from Kapurthala and interviewed by the news website Boomlive. He has injuries on his forearm, back and calf muscle. Twitter said in a message to viewers: “The video of police baton missing an elderly man during the farmers’ protest is edited, according to BoomLive and AltNews. An image of an officer at the farmers’ protest raising his baton to strike an elderly man went viral after being captured by PTI photojournalist Ravi Choudhary. “After being shared by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP’s Amit Malviya responded with a short edited video of the incident. Malviya’s edited video shows one officer with a baton missing the man in the viral image. However, BoomLive analysed a longer un-edited video which shows a second officer swinging his baton at the man. BoomLive has identified the farmer, who stated that he was hit and showed bruises he said were from the incident.” Twitter had first announced plans to call out fake news on its platform in February but has started doing so in India now. The company has not revealed whether Malviya is its first catch. Malviya did not respond to a WhatsApp message from this newspaper seeking his comments on Twitter’s action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Leadership unbending, doubts in BJP ranks ||The BJP leadership continued to adopt an unbending position on the new farm laws amid murmurs of “miscalculation” from some within the party and the RSS, as the farmers’ protest intensified on Wednesday. Party insiders said the government might be open to a few “minor changes” to the three new laws but there was no question of repealing them, as demanded by the agitating farmers. “Like the Shaheen Bagh protests (against the new citizenship regime), this one too is an effort to mislead a section of the farmers and build a political movement against Narendra Modi,” a BJP general secretary said. “There’s no question of relenting here, either.... The government will convince the farmers and resolve the situation amicably.” Some doubters within the party and the RSS, however, fear that the government may have “miscalculated” and have urged the leadership to “handle it with care”. “Sikh farmers are leading the protests. It would be foolish to underestimate their tenacity,” a senior BJP leader who does not hold any post said. He said that unlike the tactic adopted against the Shaheen Bagh protesters, the government couldn’t possibly label the farmers, particularly the Sikhs, as “anti-nationals” and win the perception battle. Ideologically, the RSS attaches great importance to a harmonious relationship between Hindus and the Sikhs of Punjab whose home state borders Pakistan. Atal Bihari Vajpayee had struck an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal keeping this in mind. Now with the Akali Dal dumping the NDA over the new farm laws and Sikh farmers at the barricades, the doubters in the party anticipate a period of turbulence. Many others, however, are confident that Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah would weather the crisis just as they have weathered farmers’ agitations in the past too. They referred to the movement in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, where six farmers were shot dead during an agitation for better prices in 2017, and how the party had succeeded in quelling it. The BJP’s official Twitter handle continued to portray the new farm laws as beneficial for the farmers and the protests as politically motivated. So far, the government has deployed the junior leadership, using agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal as an advance team to get a sense of the situation before the seniors step in. Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been holding internal briefings with Tomar and Goyal but have stayed away from the talks with the farmers’ representatives. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, an old hand at complex negotiations, was scheduled to lead the talks with the farmers on Tuesday but was pulled out at the last moment, sources said. “Amitbhai and Rajnathji will step in after getting a sense of the situation and after considering all the options to defuse the crisis,” a BJP insider said. Party sources said the government firmly believed that the new laws represented much-needed reforms in the farm sector and going back on them would be disastrous. “The government may consider bringing a few amendments to address the farmers’ concerns, but no material change will be made,” a source close to Rajnath said. He didn’t specify what amendments the government was ready for. The minimum that the agitating farmers want is a legal guarantee saying no private buyer can purchase from farmers below a minimum support price. BJP managers feel that such an amendment would defeat the main objective of the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Farmers protest ripples reach Bihar||The heat of farmers’ agitation reached NDA-ruled Bihar on Wednesday as the Opposition Grand Alliance and farmers protested on the streets against the controversial farm laws. The agitators threw vegetables on roads at several places, burnt effigies and moved around with paddy bundles to register their protest against the farm laws and express solidarity with the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. Various farmer organisations associated with different parties are now planning to spearhead a movement in Bihar over the deteriorating condition of farmers and the ills plaguing the agriculture sector in the state. CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPI national executive member Kanhaiya Kumar, CPM Bihar secretary Awadhesh Kumar and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Alok Mehta took out a protest march in Patna. They lambasted the central government for bringing laws against the farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has insulted the farmers by bringing these black laws. He should attend the talks with farmers and take back the farm laws. We will launch a countrywide agitation if the Union government does not accept the demands of the agitating farmers on Thursday,” Bhattacharya said. The CPI-ML general secretary pointed out that it has become a pattern for the Centre to first try to quell people’s agitations and spread adverse publicity about them. However, when the attempts fail, it blames the Opposition for instigating them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Congress youth wing gets new chief||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed B.V. Srinivas as the Youth Congress president, an appointment being seen as a reward to hard work instead of networking and nepotism. Srinivas had accidentally got the chance to head the Youth Congress as interim president in 2019 August because incumbent Keshav Chand Yadav had to suddenly resign because of a controversy. The young man from Karnataka grabbed the opportunity and compelled the party leadership to regularise his appointment by his dedication to public welfare and hard work. His work among the poor during the pandemic and lockdown impressed party leaders. He was seen helping stranded people with food and transport almost round the clock. Even now, the Youth Congress under his leadership is engaged in distributing eatables and cooked food to farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. Though he speaks Hindi with difficulty and is not known for his cerebral capabilities, his passion for social service and capacity to work among the people tirelessly helped him earn this post. Sources revealed that Krishna Allavaru, the Congress joint secretary who looked after Youth Congress, had developed differences with Srinivas and didn’t favour his continuance. However, the leadership was aware of the negative message that his exit will send out and decided to appoint him full-fledged president. Srinivas is the only second Youth Congress chief from the south in the history; the first being Ramesh Chennithala from Kerala. The party usually favoured Hindi-speaking youth from north India to lead the youth wing. Among the illustrious names to head the Youth Congress in the past are: Sanjay Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ambika Soni, Anand Sharma and Tariq Anwar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||Cong accuses govt of behaving like a 'slave of the capitalists'||The Congress has accused the Narendra Modi government of behaving like a “slave of the capitalists” by refusing to straightaway scrap the new farm laws despite the unanimous opinion of the agitated farmers from all over the country. Arguing that the pretence of negotiations was nothing but a delaying tactic and a ploy to break the farmers’ resolve, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Negotiations should have started after suspension of the three laws. Modi government has demonstrated political dishonesty. They are trying to stab the farmers in the back. The question is whether we are in a democracy or a handful of corporate houses are ruling this country? The government is behaving like the slave of capitalists.” Rahul Gandhi accused the government of dishonesty, tweeting: “Modi government should stop fooling the farmers. Stop dishonesty and atrocities. Stop the charade of negotiations. It should scrap the three anti-farmer black laws.” This position is in tune with the demand of the farmers who are viewing the process of negotiation with suspicion and dismay. Rahul, through another  tweet, said: “They promised to double farmers’ income. What they did is — quadrupled the income of friends and halved the income of farmers. Jhooth ki, Loot ki, Suit-boot ki sarkar (A government of lie, loot & suit-boot).” Surjewala drew his inspiration from this to declare the government a “slave of capitalists”.  He coined yet another slogan: “Dhanna-sethon ki chowkidar/ Modi Sarkar.” Surjewala said at a news conference: “The Prime Minister is repeatedly saying the new laws are good for farmers and Opposition parties were misleading them. The farmers have categorically stated their position — that their demand for scrapping of these laws is non-negotiable. There is obviously no meeting ground. What is being discussed then? What the government offered yesterday was a lollipop of a committee even as the positions are absolutely clear.” He added: “Why was this committee not formed before introduction of these laws? Why did the government not accept the demand of the joint Opposition to send the bills to a Parliamentary Select Committee for a deeper examination? Why were states not taken on board? Why no consultation with farmers and other stakeholders before bulldozing the laws using the emergency ordinance route during pandemic and national lockdown?” Highlighting the travails of lakhs of farmers who are stranded on the roads for over a week now, Surjewala said: “While farmers are out on the street in a do-or-die battle, the government has used force to raise hurdles and inflict injuries. They are more interested in putting up barbed wire fences and digging up roads to block their entry into Delhi. They used police and BSF to scare farmers. Where is the need for these coercive measures when the farmers of the entire country rejected these laws? Whose opinion should matter most if not farmers’? If we are a democracy, the natural response is to withdraw the laws.” The Congress also asked the Prime Minister himself to hold direct talks with the farmers on Thursday as nobody else mattered in this “one-man” government. Surjewala also said: “The Supreme Court says those who cause damage will pay compensation. Who will pay compensation for the losses caused by this agitation? Farmers didn’t venture out to block the roads, they wanted to reach Delhi. Why were they stopped? Why was the national highway dug up? The industry, states and the common people have suffered losses. Who will pay?” While the top leaders of the Congress have deliberately kept a distance from the movement as the farmers don’t want political parties to hijack it, the party’s MPs, MLAs and leaders from Punjab and Haryana, apart from the Youth Congress, have extended help to the protesters and held several demonstrations. The central leadership too has kept a close eye on the unfolding scenario and is also planning future course of action in case the deadlock continues longer in the absence of a compromise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-517
03-12-2020||India||UP farmer leadership to send daily batches of protesters to Delhi||The leaders of the agitating farmers plan to send fresh batches of protesters to Delhi’s borders every day to keep up the momentum, signalling their readiness for the long haul. Wednesday’s announcement by the Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the organisers of the agitation against the three new farm laws, will disappoint those hoping the protest would fizzle out as the biting north Indian winter sets in. “We have planned the protest in a way that will allow us to continue it for months and years. Every day, 100 farmers from one or other area of Uttar Pradesh will leave for Delhi’s borders in tractors,” state BKU vice-president Dinesh Pradhan told reporters. “They will carry foodgrain, vegetables, milk, stoves, blankets with them. We have realised it’s a long battle.” Pradhan said these farmers, and those already massed at Delhi’s borders, could return home after sometime if they wanted — the newest batches of arriving farmers would keep the protest going. Earlier on Wednesday, Pradhan had held a “panchayat” (meeting) of farmers at Amheda village in Amroha district, western Uttar Pradesh. He selected 100 farmers from the area to leave in the evening for the Chilla border between Noida and Delhi, about 150km away. “Every day, we are holding meetings in some or other village to mobilise protesters. Our farmers are agitated and want to join the protests at Delhi’s borders immediately,” Pradhan told reporters. He said the state BKU had held 200 such meetings over the past 10 days in the western Uttar Pradesh districts of Bijnore, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Moradabad, Agra and Mathura. “We are also inviting to our panchayats protesters who have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past two weeks, so that they can inspire our farmers,” Pradhan said. Dungar Singh, a farmer leader who had been camping at the Chilla border, attended the Amheda panchayat on Wednesday before heading back towards Delhi. “We are prepared to attend every meeting called by the government and listen to them. But we shall keep telling the government that we will not settle for anything less than withdrawal of the new farm laws,” Dungar said. “We farmers must not listen to the rumours portraying us as divided and the protesters as non-farmers. Such conspiracies against us are nothing new.” Harprit Singh, a farmer from Hardoi district of central Uttar Pradesh who had been protesting at the UP Gate border in Noida, too attended the Amheda meeting. “Most of the farmers from our (Hardoi’s) villages, including the women, are gradually heading towards the Delhi border,” he said. “Many of us are taking our cows and buffaloes along to the protest sites in our tractors, because there would be nobody left in the villages to feed our cattle.” Harprit added: “We have formed 60 teams of farmers in Hardoi and adjoining areas. Each team has 80 farmers. These teams will keep heading to the Delhi border for the next 60 days.” He went on: “By that time, fresh teams will be formed in those villages in Hardoi, Lakhimpur, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly where our leaders will hold meetings.” Farmers from several states are camping at the Chilla, Sindhu, Tikari, UP Gate and Ghazipur borders between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-518
