04-12-2020||India||Chargesheet filed against Arnab Goswami in suicide case||The police on Friday filed a charge sheet against Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, as well as two others, in a 2018 case related to abetment to suicide. The charge sheet was filed before an Alibaug court in the neighbouring Raigad district, where the alleged abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud has been lodged. Other than Goswami, the other two accused named in the charge sheet are Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda, said Pradeep Gharat, a special public prosecutor. “As many as 65 persons are named as witnesses,” he informed. On Thursday, Goswami filed an urgent plea before the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay in the filing of chargesheet and subsequent proceedings in the case. Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud committed suicide in 2018, allegedly because of non-payment of dues by firms of Goswami and other two accused. The case, closed for want of evidence in 2019, was reopened in May this year, with Goswami alleging that the Maharashtra government was pursuing a vendetta against him for his work as a TV journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Farmers call for nationwide strike on December 8||Farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi against three central agri-marketing laws have called for a countrywide shutdown on Tuesday, saying they will block all roads leading to the capital, amid a deadlock with the Centre. Addressing a press conference, Bharatiya kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said if the Centre does not accept their demands during Saturday's talks, they will intensify their agitation against the new farm laws. “In our meeting today, we have decided to give a 'Bharat Bandh' call on December 8 during which we will also occupy all toll plazas,” another farmer leader Harvinder Singh Ladkhwal said after a meeting on Friday. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” he added. “More people will join our movement,” Lakhowal was quoted as saying by NDTV. The farmers representatives said that during their talks with the government, they asked for the repeal of the three new laws, which they think will leave them at the mercy of big industrial players. The farmers, who faced a crackdown at the Haryana border from the state police last week, said they will burn effigies on Saturday, NDTV reported. "We see the government agreeing to our demands on Minimum Support Price, electricity and penalties for stubble burning but we won't stop till the laws are repealed," Jamhoori Kisan Sabha's Punjab President Satnam Singh Ajnala, told NDTV. On Thursday, a group of representatives of the farmers refused the lunch offered by the government during their fourth round of talks and stuck to their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws, rejecting offers of amendments. During the first two meetings, the government met only farmers’ unions from Punjab, which were at the forefront of the agitation. But since farmers from five north Indian states converged on Delhi's borders in response to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27, they insisted and got the government to invite their national-level collectives. The farmers refused government hospitality during the talks at Vigyan Bhavan. Lunch was brought for them from the nearby Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, and they ate standing or sitting on the floor in the dining area of Vigyan Bhavan. Tea too was brought from outside for them. “We cannot be sitting down for a sumptuous meal offered by the government when our farming community is out on the street,” a farmer leader explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||ED seize Mallya assets worth Rs 14 crore in France||Fugitive billionaire Vijay Mallya's assets in France worth 1.6 million euros have been seized by the Enforcement Directorate, the probe agency said in a statement today. "On the request of Directorate of Enforcement (ED), a property of Vijay Mallya located at 32 Avenue FOCH, France has been seized by the French Authority. The value of the seized asset in France is 1.6 million euros (Rs 14 crore). Investigations revealed that a large amount was remitted abroad from the bank account of Kingfisher Airlines Ltd," the ED said in a statement, as reported by NDTV.com The latest seizure of Mallya's assets comes as India fights a legal battle to extradite him from the UK. The founder of now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines is wanted for defaulting on loans worth up to ₹ 9,000 crore. He has been living in the UK since March 2016 and has been fighting his extradition to India. The 64-year-old's extradition was ordered by a British court in May but has been delayed by "secret proceedings" initiated in the country, the government told the Supreme Court last month. Vijay Mallya, who denies the charges against him, has repeatedly said that Indian banks can take back 100 per cent of the principal amount owed to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Covid a threat to country's internal security, says Ghulam Nabi||Covid-like pandemics can pose a threat to the country's internal security and policymakers should address this challenge, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Friday. Addressing the all-party meeting convened by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha also said that the country should be well placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage. "Covid-like pandemics can be one of the greatest threats to the internal security of any country. In the future, policymakers at the national level should include Covid-like pandemics as a threat to internal security, besides external threats and internal insurgencies, if any," Azad said in the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Expressing hope that the country's pharma manufacturers in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will get the final nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for a COVID-19 vaccine soon, he said that mechanisms for delivery of vaccine at the grassroots level should be ready. "Considering the challenges due to the population and size of the country, we should be well placed to get vaccines at an affordable price and at an early stage," he told the meeting. Scientists, policy makers and political leaders must work together to set parameters for vaccine prioritisation and distribution, said Azad, a former Union health minister. Calling for prioritisation of target population groups like healthcare workers, the elderly, police and those dealing with Covid-19-related activities, he said adequate trained human resources should also be developed. The government must prepare for building capacities for vaccine availability up to the district, community and primary health care levels, the Congress leader said. "We are hopeful that a vaccine will be introduced shortly," he said. The UK has already approved a vaccine for use domestically and in India too, several vaccine candidates are in advanced clinical trials, Azad said. "I am sure by January, our pharmaceutical manufacturers in collaboration with the ICMR will get a final nod from the DCGI," he said. He also asked the government to deal with issues of storage, distribution, number of dosages, eligibility and side effects of the vaccine. The Congress leader called for putting in place a vaccine safety monitoring mechanism in place to assess the adverse events after immunisation. "There could be adverse effects or side effects or even long term after-effects which may need time to be identified and which are not discovered in Phase I, II or phase III clinical trials. India has to be more cautious since we have a large and young population and the government should rigorously monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine," he said. Azad thanked doctors, nurses, paramedics, security forces and sanitation workers for their contribution and paid tributes to those front line doctors and workers who lost their lives in saving others during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
04-12-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks removal of farmers from Delhi borders||A plea in the Supreme Court was filed on Friday, which sought direction to remove protesting farmers from the Delhi borders immediately, saying that it poses hardships to commuters due to the road blockades and such gatherings might lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The plea seeks the top court’s directions to authorities to open roads at the borders, shift the farmers to an allotted place, and provide guidelines on social distancing norms and wearing of masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The petition, filed by law student Rishabh Sharma, has claimed that Delhi Police had on November 27 allowed these protesters to hold demonstrations peacefully at Nirankari ground at Burari here but despite that they have blocked the borders of Delhi. “Because of the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders, the roads have been blocked by the protesters and closed border points, which have affected vehicular traffic and people who are travelling to and from Delhi to get medical treatment in reputed government/private hospitals situated in Delhi are also affected”, the plea, which was filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar, said. “It is pertinent to note that in view of the prevention of the community spread of the pandemic disease Coronavirus (Covid-19), it is very necessary to remove the gathering and this protest is further blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus..,” it said. The plea referred to the October 7 verdict of the SC where it had said that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. The verdict came in view of the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh, where women and children protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The petitioner is seeking urgent direction from this court to issue a direction for immediate removal/ dispersal of such mass gathering of protestors at Delhi borders and shift them to the place already allotted by the Delhi police in view of immediate threat of coronavirus infection and spread,” the petition added. It said that the protesters can carry out peaceful agitations when the pandemic threat is over, and keeping in mind the increase in the number of cases, it is important that the protest must be stopped at once. Traffic moved at snail's pace at several border points of the national capital as police kept key routes connecting Delhi to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh closed in view of the farmers' protest against the new farm laws, which entered its ninth day on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||India summons Canada diplomat over Trudeau’s remarks||India on Friday summoned the Canadian High Commissioner and told him that the remarks made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and some other leaders on the farmers’ protests ‘constituted an “unacceptable interference’ in the nation’s internal affairs. The external affairs ministry said that the Canadian envoy was also conveyed that if such actions continue, bilateral ties between India and Canada will face “seriously damaging” impacts. Trudeau had recently backed the agitating farmers who are protesting against the three agri-marketing laws of the Centre, and said Canada would always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests. He had also expressed concern over the situation in the country. “The Canadian High Commissioner was summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs today and informed that comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs,” the Ministry of External Affairs said, adding that a demarche was made to the diplomat. The MEA said that such comments by the Canadian leaders have resulted in “gatherings of extremist activities” in front of the Indian High Commission and Consulates in Canada, which have raised concerns regarding safety and security. “We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimize extremist activism,” the MEA further said. Canada's Indian-origin Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan had also expressed concerns about the “peaceful protesters being brutalised in India”. “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right,” he tweeted on Sunday. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for the last nine days at the borders of Delhi against three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Former Boxing coach offers to return Dronacharya award in farmers' support||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India secured its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, on Friday said he will return his Dronacharya award if demands of the farmers protesting against new agriculture laws are not addressed. Sandhu, who served as India's national men's coach for over two decades before guiding women boxers for a couple of years, said it is his way of showing support to the farmers, who are protesting in "bitter cold without any consideration for their own well-being". "By doing this, I feel a huge morale pressure is off me. I come from a family of farmers, their fears need to be addressed. If the ongoing talks do not yield a result satisfactory to the farmers, I will return the award," Sandhu told PTI from his home in Patiala. Sandhu was the national coach when Vijender Singh became the first Indian boxer to fetch an Olympic medal back in 2008. It was during his tenure that a then-unprecedented eight Indian boxers qualified for the 2012 Olympics in London. Sandhu won the Dronacharya much before that in 1998. He also served as the national women's coach after his stint with the men came to an end. "This award means a lot to me but the plight of my fellow farmers means even more. It is painful for me to see them sitting on roads in this cold. All that the government needs to do is talk to them, clear their doubts and assure them," he said. "If the situation is resolved to their satisfaction, then I would not go ahead with it but if it is not, I will return the award," he added. Sandhu joined several former sportspersons in extending their support to the agitating farmers. Among them are Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the past few days, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Stan Swamy finally given straw, sipper by jail authorities||The advocate of activist Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, on Friday told a special court here that Swamy has been given a straw and sipper by the Taloja jail authorities. Swamy, 83, on Friday, filed three fresh applications seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to return his bag (seized by it at the time of his arrest), a clone copy of his hard disk (seized by it) and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail. Swamy claimed that he apprehends that he would be transferred from the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai. Swamy, who is suffering from various health ailments including Parkinson's disease, was arrested on October 8 by the NIA. Last month, he had filed an application seeking the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him at the time of his arrest. The NIA, however, told the court last month that it had not seized a straw and sipper from Swamy and hence there was no question of returning those items to him. Swamy then filed an application seeking a direction to the jail authorities to provide him with a straw and sipper and winter clothes. On November 26, the special NIA court had directed the jail superintendent to file his reply on the application. On Friday, Swami's advocate Sharif Shaikh told special NIA Judge D E Kothalikar that Swamy has been provided with straw and sipper and winter clothes by the jail authorities. Swamy had also filed a bail plea on medical grounds. The court had sought a report from the Taloja prison on his health condition. On Friday, the jail authorities told the court that they need time to submit the report, following which court posted the matter for further hearing on December 10. The court said it would also hear the three new applications filed by Swamy on December 10. NIA's lawyer Prakash Shetty told the court that the agency does not have any items belonging to Swamy. As per NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist) and had received funds through an associate for furthering Maoist agenda. He was also the convener of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Vaccine will be ready in weeks, says Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said a Covid-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks as he noted that experts believe the wait for it will not be long, and asserted that the vaccination drive in India will begin as soon as scientists give the nod. In his remarks here at an all-party meeting held virtually on Friday to discuss India's Covid-19 vaccination strategy, Modi said healthcare workers involved in treating coronavirus patients, frontline workers, who include police personnel and municipal staff, and old people suffering from serious conditions would be inoculated on priority. Modi sought to address most burning aspects of the issue, ranging from India's vaccine readiness to its pricing, and reiterated that the country had done better than even some developed countries and those with better health infrastructure in tackling the pandemic. Opposition leaders also expressed their views at the meeting with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad saying that a Covid-like pandemic could pose a threat to the country's internal security, and that policy makers should address this challenge. The Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, who is also a former Union health minister, said that the country should be well placed to get vaccines at affordable prices and at an early stage. Noting that there have been questions about the price of the COVID-19 vaccine, the Prime Minister said it was natural to have such queries and asserted that public health would be accorded top priority in the matter and states will be fully involved. This was the second all-party meeting called by the government on the pandemic since its outbreak. The Union Health Ministry gave a presentation in the meeting. It said the vaccine, when it becomes available, will be first given to about one crore health workers from both the public and private sectors, and then to about two crore frontline workers. Modi said nearly eight vaccine candidates, three of which were indigenous, were at different stages of trial and would be manufactured in India. Speaking about his interaction with Indian scientists involved in developing the vaccine and his visit to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad facilities where work is on in this regard, Modi said they were very confident of success. “Their confidence level is very strong,” he said, adding that various vaccines from different countries may be being spoken about but the world was keeping a watch on having a vaccine which was cheap and also safest. “That is why,” he said, “it is natural that the world is looking at India, a global centre for mass manufacturing of different vaccines at a very affordable cost.” In his remarks at the meeting, TMC leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said state governments have been cooperating with the Centre to fight the pandemic and in many cases, they are coming up with ideas to prevent the spread of the disease. “In West Bengal, the situation is being monitored categorically,” he said. The TMC government has taken various measures to fight the pandemic and these included setting up of dedicated COVID hospitals, plasma banks, and tele-counselling, free ambulance, special helpline, integrated helpline and admission helpline services, he said. The Prime Minister said a feeling of fear and apprehension marked the months of February and March, when India reported its first COVID-19 case, but now an atmosphere of "hope and confidence" has replaced it, asserting that India had come a long way in its fight against the disease. "India is one of the few countries where the testing and recovery rates are very high and the mortality rate is very low. Compared to developed countries, India has fought against COVID much better and has managed to save a lot of lives," Modi said. Striking a note of caution, the Prime Minister referred to a fresh surge in COVID cases in some countries and said no one knew what shape the future would take as he called for adhering to "proven weapons" like use of masks and adhering to social distancing to keep the virus at bay. “At a time when the country stands on the verge of having a vaccine, any carelessness can be damaging,” he asserted, underlining the need for having public participation and cooperation in curbing the pandemic. Modi also urged political parties to keep the masses aware and protect them from rumours which, he added, were often spread whenever there was a mass vaccination exercise. “The Centre is working in tandem with states for vaccine distribution,” he said, adding that India was better than many countries when it came to expertise and capacity of the programme. India has also prepared a software, Co-WiN, which would have real-time information about the vaccination drive, including available stock of vaccine, he said, adding that a "National Expert Group", with representation from the Union as well as state governments, will spearhead such an exercise. Besides Azad and Bandyopadhyay, floor leaders of various parties in Parliament including Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP and Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP were among those who attended the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Pralhad Joshi and Harsh Vardhan were also present. An official statement later said that the DMK, YSR Congress, JD(U), BJD, Shiv Sena, TRS, BSP, SP and the AIADMK also participated in the meeting. "The leaders assured the Prime Minister of their full support to ensure efficient and speedy vaccination. They hailed the leadership of the prime minister in tackling the pandemic and praised the scientific community as well as vaccine manufacturers for their efforts in vaccine development," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||BJP defeated in Maharashtra Legislative Council polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday found itself at a murky position in Maharashtra, where the results of the Legislative Council elections have been announced. Of the six seats where the polling was held last week, the BJP could manage to win only one. The NCP-Shiv Sena coalition is won four seats, while an independent member won the remaining one. The Shiv Sena, however, failed to win a single seat though its alliance partners bagged four. Sena's lone candidate lost in Amravati. The BJP, on the other hand, has missed out on its major strongholds, including Nagpur, which was earlier represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The BJP only won by-polls to the Dhule-Nandurbar local body seat, the results for which were declared earlier. "The results of Maharashtra Legislative Council polls are not as per our expectations. We were expecting more seats but won only one. We miscalculated the combined power of the three parties (Maha Vikas Aghadi)," Devendra Fadnavis told news agency ANI. Meanwhile, Sharad Pawar’s NCP won the Aurangabad and Pune graduate constituencies. NCP's Satish Chavan won the Aurangabad division graduates' constituency, defeating BJP nominee Shirish Boralkar. In Pune division graduates' constituency, NCP's Arun Lad defeated BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh by a margin of 48,824 votes. According to Pawar, the result was a reflection of the MVA government's performance in the last one year. The biennial elections to six legislative council seats - three graduates' and two teachers' as well as one local body seat were held on December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload stands at 95.71 lakh, recoveries cross 90 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 95.71 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 90 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 94.20 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,71,559 with 36,595 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,39,188 with 540 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 90,16,289 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.20 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload continued to remain below 5 lakh. There are 4,16,082 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.35 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,47,27,749 samples have been tested up to December 3 with 11,70,102 samples being tested on Thursday. The 540 new fatalities include 115 from Maharashtra, 82 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 31 each from Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, 22 from Chhattisgarh and 20 each from Punjab and Rajasthan. A total of 1,39,188 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,472 from Maharashtra followed by 11,821 from Karnataka, 11,747 from Tamil Nadu, 9,424 from Delhi, 8,576 from West Bengal, 7,848 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,014 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,862 from Punjab, 4,031 from Gujarat and 3,300 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Orissa HC seeks status report in Pari case||Orissa High Court on Thursday directed the police to submit a status report on what action it has taken during the past five months in the case of alleged kidnapping and murder of  five- year-old  Pari from Nayagarh district. Based on a petition filed by the president of Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, Surendra Panigrahi, the high court issued the directive and asked the Nayagarh SP to provide security to Pari’s parents —Ashok Sahoo and Saudamini. “We have sought protection for the family of Ashok Sahoo and the high court agreed to it and issued the direction to the superintendent of police of Nayagarh. It has asked him to submit a detailed report on the investigation into the case so far,” Panigrahi told The Telegraph. Both Ashok and Saudamini had to leave their native village Jadupur following an attack by the supporters of the suspected accused in the kidnapping and murder of Pari. The parishad also demanded a CBI probe into the incident as a senior minister, Arun Sahoo has been accused of shielding the accused involved in the gruesome crime. “We have urged the court to give a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to  Pari’s parents. All these issues will come up during the next hearing of the court scheduled to be held on December 16,” Panigrahi said. Union minister Pratap Sarangi on Thursday came down heavily on the Odisha government for failing to arrest the accused. “The state has no moral right to remain in power. It has utterly failed to solve the case and punish the accused involved in the case,” he said. Sources said the special investigation team (SIT), constituted by the government to probe the matter, has intensified its investigation. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later, her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. Her parents have accused the police of inaction as the people involved in the crime are close to higher education minister Arun Sahoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Farmers reject tweak, stick to repeal demand||Farmers’ leaders refused the lunch offered by the government during their fourth round of talks on Thursday and stuck to their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws, rejecting offers of amendments. According to the farmers’ organisations, the three ministers at the talks conceded the merit of some of their concerns and offered to tweak the laws, but the leaders of the 40 farmers’ unions and collectives unanimously dismissed the amendment route. “We told the government that cosmetic changes will not help,” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said. The farmers’ unions were, however, appreciative of the time the three ministers gave them on Thursday. The talks, which lasted well beyond six hours, ended with a decision to meet again at 2pm on Saturday. Among the amendments the government suggested, sources said, were: On the issue of a minimum support price (MSP), Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union appeared satisfied with a purported promise that no change is being envisaged for the time being. But the other union leaders said the government had given no assurance about a legally guaranteed MSP. This is expected to be discussed at length on Saturday. ANI quoted Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee as saying: “In the half-time, it seemed that today’s meeting will yield no result, in the second half it seemed that there is pressure of farmers’ agitation on government. Talks were held in a conducive atmosphere.” Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied at the meeting by food minister Piyush Goyal and the minister of state for commerce, Som Prakash. Goyal has been holding the food ministry, which deals with procurement and the MSP, since the death of Ram Vilas Paswan in October. Tomar told reporters the government would not be constrained by ego while talking to the farmers, and that it was willing to address their fears. He was confident that the talks would enter a decisive stage on Saturday and urged the farmers to call off their siege of Delhi, saying it was inconveniencing people. This was the fourth meeting between the farmers and the government since the farm laws had been enacted in September. In the first two instances, the government met only farmers’ unions from Punjab, which were at the forefront of the agitation. But since farmers from five north Indian states converged on Delhi's borders in response to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27, they insisted and got the government to invite their national-level collectives. The farmers refused government hospitality during the talks at Vigyan Bhavan. Lunch was brought for them from the nearby Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, and they ate standing or sitting on the floor in the dining area of Vigyan Bhavan. Tea too was brought from outside for them. “We cannot be sitting down for a sumptuous meal offered by the government when our farming community is out on the street,” a farmer leader explained. The farmers’ feistiness seems to be endearing them to the citizenry at large. The protest music being played at their camps along the Delhi-Haryana border, and the Punjabi language they are speaking, are fast becoming the flavour of the season. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh have blocked National Highway 9 near UP Gate, while thousands from Punjab and Haryana are massed at other points on Delhi’s borders, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal to return Padma Vibhushan in protest against government's betrayal of farmers||Parkash Singh Badal, former Punjab chief minister and the Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch, on Thursday joined the “award wapsi gang”, a derisive label coined by the current regime originally for writers who had returned awards to protest against the government’s silence on hate attacks. The 92-year-old Badal has informed the President that he has decided to return his Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian honour, in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s “betrayal of the farmers”. The Akali Dal, the BJP’s oldest ally, has already pulled out of the Modi government over the farm laws, and Badal’s action is certain to pile more pressure on the Modi government over the farmers’ protest. “I have decided to return this honour of Padma Vibhushan in protest against the government’s betrayal of the farmers on the three acts against which the farmers of my state and the country are agitating in this cold winter,” Badal wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind. Led by the Prime Minister, the ruling BJP had slammed prominent writers who had decided to return their awards in protest against the government’s silence on the killings of rationalists and lynchings of Muslims by cow vigilantes. Badal, who had in 1996 stitched the alliance with the BJP that broke in September this year, said the Modi government had gone back on its promise to hold consultations before bringing the bills to Parliament. “When the Government of India had brought the ordinances, assurances were given to us that the farmers’ apprehensions… would be addressed to their satisfaction when these would be converted into bills,” he wrote to the President. “Accordingly, I even appealed to the farmers to trust the government’s words. But I was shocked when the government simply went back on its word,” Badal added. Badal's decision comes at a time another ally, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in Haryana, has been exerting pressure on the Centre. The JJP derives its strength from the state’s land-owning Jat community, which has joined the farmers’ protest. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been claiming that many JJP MLAs are in touch with him. The BJP-led government in the state depends on the support of the JJP’s 10 MLAs. Some Independent MLAs supporting the government have already come out in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-513
04-12-2020||India||Indian wage floor lower than Pakistan's: Report||The gross minimum wage in India was lower compared with Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal last year, a report by UN’s labour arm says. It adds that with hardly any wages paid during the first two phases of the national lockdown, spanning 40 days, informal workers in India suffered a 22.6 per cent fall in wage earnings for the year. Formal-sector workers were better protected, undergoing wage losses of 3.6 per cent. For countries that have multiple minimum wages across regions or sectors, unlike India’s nationwide floor wage of Rs 176 a day, the Global Wage Report 2021, issued by the International Labour Organisation on Wednesday, considered the median value (the middle figure in a series). It found that the global median value of the monthly minimum wage was equivalent to Rs 9,720. In India, it was Rs 4,300, Pakistan (Rs 9,820), Nepal (Rs 7,920), Sri Lanka (Rs 4,940) and China (Rs 7,060).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Navy chief flags China security concern||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday said attempts to change the status quo on India’s northern borders had increased complexities in the country’s security situation and posed a challenge along with the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Covid-19 pandemic disrupted every aspect of life. The near simultaneous attempt to change the status quo at our northern borders has significantly increased the complexities in our security situation. The dual challenge scenario continues as we speak and the country collectively continues to battle the pandemic and tackle the security challenges,” he said. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked Line of Actual Control at several friction points and, according to estimates, have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Addressing a news meet on the eve of Navy Day, Admiral Singh said his force was alive to various threats in the maritime domain, including from China, and was fully ready to deal with them. He said the Indian Navy will formally write to the Centre on the pressing need to have a third aircraft carrier to enhance its maritime capabilities and air operations that are critical in the seas and are important for an “aspirational nation”. “We will soon make an official case for it… We are absolutely clear of the utility of the carrier. This is because air operations are integral to naval operations and air power at sea is required since the navy is all about reach and sustenance,” Admiral Singh said. Underlining that enhancing the underwater capability of the country has been a focus of the Indian Navy, he said: “If you are a nation that is aspirational and you want to become a $5-trillion economy shortly and you want to do well, you will have to go outwards and seek the world. The nation does not want the navy to be restricted to its shores… aircraft carriers are absolutely necessary.” The navy chief’s remarks are significant in the wake of the growing influence of the Chinese navy in the Indian Ocean region. Currently, India has INS Vikaramaditya as the only operational aircraft carrier while INS Vikrant is under construction. “Vikrant is in an advanced stage and will begin sea trial in early 2021,” the navy chief said, adding that Chinese research and fishing vessels have been active and three warships deployed in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean region, but there has been no infringement of India’s maritime boundaries. He said the Indian Navy is in the process of procuring Smash 2000 rifles to enhance its anti-drone capabilities in the seas. The rifles can take down unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) meant to carry out combat operations. Admiral Singh said the navy will also soon take forward the process of acquiring six more submarines. Referring to the situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, Singh said the Indian Navy had pressed into action its assets, including the P8I reconnaissance aircraft and Heron Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, in the region. “Whatever we are doing is in close coordination with the army and the Indian Air Force,” he said. He said the navy has put in place a standard operating procedure in the event of any infringement of its maritime domain in the Indian Ocean region by China. On the rapid expansion of the Chinese PLA and possible challenges for India, Admiral Singh said the navy was cognizant of it and was focusing on its overall combat prowess. “As a primary manifestation of India’s maritime power, the Indian Navy stands ready to fulfil its mandate to protect our national interest in the maritime domain,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||India buys China stand on Brahmaputra dam||India and China on Thursday maintained a semblance of accepting each other’s concerns and contentions about Chinese plans to construct a major dam on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet even as the disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh remains a vexed issue. After the Chinese Communist Party-owned Global Times reported on Sunday that China will build a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo (as the Brahmapura is called in China), there was concern that this would affect the lower riparian countries — India and Bangladesh. China sought to allay fears with statements coming out of its embassy in New Delhi on Wednesday and Beijing on Thursday. India, for now, appears to have accepted the Chinese contention that they are only undertaking run-of-the-river (which involves little or no water storage) hydropower projects. Fielding questions on the subject at the weekly briefing, external affairs ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said: “The government carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra river. As a lower riparian state with considerable established user rights to the waters of the trans-border rivers, the government has consistently conveyed its views and concerns to the Chinese authorities and has urged them to ensure that the interests of downstream states are not harmed by any activities in upstream areas. “The Chinese side has conveyed to us on several occasions that they are only undertaking run-of-the-river hydropower projects which do not involve diversion of the waters of the Brahmaputra.’’ On Wednesday, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong had claimed that China has always taken a responsible attitude towards the development and utilisation of cross-border rivers, and adopts a policy that protection goes together with development. “Any project will undergo scientific planning and demonstration with full consideration for the impact on the downstream areas and the interests of both upstream and downstream countries. At present, the downstream development of the Yarlung Zangbo river is still in the stage of preliminary planning and demonstration. There is no need to over-interpret it.” A somewhat similar statement was repeated in Beijing on Thursday by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||ED searches 26 PFI premises in 9 states in money-laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday raided 26 premises in nine states linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI), including its chairman O.M. Abdul Salam and national secretary Nasarudheen Elamarom, in connection with a money-laundering probe. Sources in the agency said the raids were being conducted in Bengal, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Maharashtra under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “Multiple money-laundering cases against the PFI have been clubbed into one and the searches are still continuing,” said an ED official. The PFI describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban on the organisation since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation. The PFI called the raids a gimmick and an attempt to divert attention from the farmers’ issue. “Modi government has always used national agencies against its political opponents and to crush dissent in the country to the point that the credibility of these agencies has come under question,” the organisation said in a statement. The central government has come under immense pressure following the farmers’ protests blockading Delhi and the ED raids are nothing but a “gimmick” to divert the issue, it said. It said authorities “intend to prevent the organisation from its fight against the anti-constitutional CAA-NRC, as it is a forerunner and stays a major force in the citizenship agitations across the country”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Amarinder Singh asks farmers and Centre to reach an amicable solution||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asserted that nothing except scrapping of the new farm laws was acceptable even as the Narendra Modi government indicated its readiness to make some amends to address the apprehensions of the farmers. Interestingly, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had also asked both the government and the farmers to find a meeting ground at the earliest. He didn’t insist on scrapping or withdrawal of these three laws after his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. As farmers resumed negotiations with the government on Thursday morning, Rahul tweeted, “Accepting anything else than complete scrapping of the black farm laws will be a betrayal of India and her farmers.” Amarinder’s tenor was indisputably different as he appealed to both the sides not to show rigidity. “My appeal to farmers is that they just urgently find a solution to this problem. It is impacting national security and Punjab’s economy. The two sides should not take rigid positions and a meeting ground must be found,” he said. This position is not in tune with Rahul who advocated rigidity by insisting on just one acceptable solution. Amarinder, however, stressed the need to protect the MSP and continue with the Agricultural Produce Market Committee-based mandi system but didn’t set any precondition like withdrawal or scrapping of laws. Sources said the chief minister’s concern over the deadlock can be understood as Punjab is in a state of paralysis owing to the movement going on for months now. They said apart from Punjab’s economy, the chief minister is concerned about lakhs of people from the state stranded on the road. Rahul’s stance appeared to be in tune with the farmers’ inflexible position. Farmers have not yet shown any  inclination for a compromise and even asked the government on Thursday to stop the charade of negotiations if they were not willing to withdraw the laws. The Congress also echoed their demand for calling a special session of Parliament to withdraw the three farm laws. Congress’s leader of the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, wrote to Speaker Om Birla to convene the session to discuss farmers’ movement and Covid-19 vaccine protocol. Many other Congress MPs like Manish Tewari and Partap Singh Bajwa also called for an immediate Parliament session. Amarinder’s mellowed posturing allowed the Akali Dal to criticise him as it asked why was he linking the peaceful farmers’ movement with national security. Amarinder has often stressed that Punjab was a sensitive border state which has suffered a lot because of militancy. He had earlier warned that Pakistan and China could fish in troubled waters and exploit peasant unrest to foment trouble. He also expressed grief over the death of two farmers, Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, who were participating in the ongoing protests against the farm laws and announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to their families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi seeks clarity on Centre's Covid vaccine policy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sought clarity on the Narendra Modi government’s coronavirus disease vaccination policy amid concerns among health researchers that the Centre is deviating from universal immunisation and could leave millions unvaccinated. Rahul used Twitter to flag what some health experts view as contradictory signals from the Centre — an assurance from Modi in June that the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign would be universal and “no person should be left behind”, but suggestions by health officials that the government would not vaccinate everybody. “PM — everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections — Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI (Government of India) — never said everyone will get vaccine,” Rahul tweeted. “Exactly what does the PM stand by?” The BJP, while releasing the Bihar Assembly poll manifesto in October, had pledged free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone in the state, prompting the Opposition to accuse the party of playing politics through the pandemic. Amid clinical trial results from outside India promising high-efficacy vaccines, Rahul had on November 23 also asked Modi to clarify the country’s vaccination policy. “The PM must tell the nation: Of all the Covid vaccine candidates, which will GOI choose & why? Who will get the vaccine first & what will be the distribution strategy? Will PMCares fund be used to ensure free vaccination? By when will all Indians be vaccinated?” Rahul had tweeted. He isn’t alone seeking answers. Health researchers say they are puzzled by what appears to be the Centre’s efforts to backtrack from an earlier commitment to universal immunisation and instead discuss proposals that will select only certain groups of people and leave others unvaccinated. In a review meeting on June 30, Modi had asserted that the Covid-19 vaccination policy while starting with priority groups such as healthcare and frontline workers and other vulnerable groups should also be universal and not leave any person out. But since early October, top health officials have signalled that the government has no intention to vaccinate everybody. Members of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines had told this newspaper in October that people already infected with Covid-19 and thus carrying antibodies could be left out of vaccination campaigns. Earlier this week, Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, suggested that the goal of vaccination is only to break the chain of transmission. “Our purpose is to break the chain of transmission. If we’re able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break that chain, we may not have to vaccinate the entire population,” Bhargava said. “The role of masks is important. Masks will be protective and should continue to be used so as to break the chain of transmission.” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also said on Tuesday: “I want to make this clear: the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country.” Health experts have cautioned that vaccinating a critical mass of the population — even several hundreds of millions of people — would leave the unvaccinated vulnerable to the infection, severe disease and death. “No one is safe until everyone is safe,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Selectively offering vaccines to certain sections of the population is not going to break the chain of transmission.” “While those at high risk of getting infected such as healthcare and frontline workers have to be prioritised to match the vaccine availability, there needs to be a comprehensive plan in place to sequentially protect everyone,” he said. Experts expect the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India to be the first Covid-19 vaccine to roll out for public use in the country. The Serum Institute has indicated that it would apply for emergency use authorisation of the vaccine and health experts believe, if drug regulators are convinced with the clinical trial data and expedite approval, immunisation could begin in January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
04-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu BJP intellectual cell chief is Rajinikanth’s party coordinator||Movie superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday said he would launch a political party in January ahead of the May 2021 Tamil Nadu elections, ending 24 years of suspense over whether he would enter politics. “A political party will be launched in January. The announcement will be made on December 31,” Rajinikanth, who turns 70 on December 12, tweeted. “In the coming Assembly elections, with the people’s support, we will usher in a transparent, corruption-free, secular government, beyond caste, religion. It will be the birth of spiritual politics.” The actor later confirmed the decision at a media interaction. He said he would take the “full plunge” into politics only after completing the shooting of his latest film, Annathai, by March. Speculation that the proposed outfit might be “pro-BJP” continued despite the phrasing of the tweet appearing to distance Rajinikanth from the BJP’s brand of politics. The actor declared that Arjun Murthy, head of the state BJP’s intellectual cell, would be “chief coordinator” of the new party. Hours later, Murthy resigned from the BJP. State BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan promptly accepted his resignation, relieved him of all party posts and told the cadre not to have any association with him. At the media conference, Rajinikanth also introduced Gandhian activist and Tamil writer Tamizharuvi Manian as a key office-bearer who would “oversee” the new party’s formation and launch. Rajinikanth fans across the state celebrated, bursting crackers and distributing sweets. Speculation about Rajinikanth joining politics has continued since he helped fashion Jayalalithaa’s defeat in the 1996 Assembly elections. The actor had openly attacked Jayalalithaa for corruption and backed the breakaway Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC), led by G.K. Moopanar. Rajinikanth’s one-line indictment —“If Jayalalithaa is voted back to power, even God cannot save Tamil Nadu” —went down well, helping the DMK-TMC-CPI combine win the election. On Thursday, the actor brought up his declared intent in 2017 to launch a political party before the Assembly polls and contest all the 234 seats. He said he had never gone back on a promise and was now fulfilling it. “I had planned to travel all over Tamil Nadu and build awareness among the people to create an upsurge for change before launching the political party,” he said. But a kidney transplant and subsequently the pandemic hindered the programme. Rajinikanth said his doctors had advised him against interacting with people too much, “but even if my life is at risk, I have now decided to enter politics as people’s welfare is paramount”. “The time to rewrite Tamil Nadu’s destiny has come. There’s a great need for change... it’s now or never. Voted to power, we will change everything,” Rajinikanth promised. Some among the Hindu Right and Rajinikanth’s fans believe that the actor alone can fill the “vacuum” left by the deaths of Jayalalithaa and M.K. Karunanidhi. This despite fellow actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Neethi Maiyam having already contested last year’s Lok Sabha polls. Several Opposition politicians, however, suggested that Rajinikanth’s health problems would make it difficult for him to emerge as “MGR-II” — a reference to the late M.G. Ramachandran, a movie star who formed the AIADMK and ruled Tamil Nadu as chief minister from 1977 to 1987. AIADMK chief minister E.K. Palaniswami played down the sudden development. “I have not seen his statement in full; I shall respond later,” he said in Salem. Deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam, also of the AIADMK, welcomed Rajinikanth’s announcement, adding that an alliance “with his party is possible”. DMK parliamentarian and spokesperson T.K.S. Elangovan was unimpressed. “Even a few days ago, he had sounded undecided. Now he has said something. We don’t know what the pressure is on him to say this,” he told The Telegraph. “It won’t affect the DMK, for at best he may take away AIADMK votes.” Dalit MP and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan was dismissive, saying: “There is no clarity in his idea of ‘spiritual politics’.” He said the term tended to imply majoritarian communal politics in the national context, for which there was little scope in Tamil Nadu where Dravidian parties and progressive Left forces held sway. TMC president G.K. Vasan said one had to “wait and see” what impact the announcement had on the popular mood. “If he’s going to complete his film assignments only by March, when will he have the time for the elections?” state Congress president K.S. Azhagiri said. He suggested that Rajinikanth’s “spiritual politics” may have little in common with the Gandhian notion of spirituality. Rajinikanth had been expected to meet Amit Shah during the Union home minister’s recent trip to Chennai, but it didn’t happen. However, BJP ideologue Swaminathan Gurumurthy, who edits the Tamil political weekly Thuglak, recently met Rajinikanth and advocated he enter politics to take on both the Dravidian majors — an indirect plea for him to back the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-514
