05-12-2020||India||Modi to lay foundation stone for new Parliament Building on December 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone on December 10 for a new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Saturday. "The existing temple of democracy is completing 100 years... It is a matter of pride for our countrymen that the new one will be built by our own people as a prime example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Birla said here announcing details of the new proposed building. "The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of independence (2022), Parliament session will be held in the new building," he said. Birla said the new building will be earthquake resistant and 2000 people will be directly involved in the construction of the new building and 9,000 indirectly. He said as many as 1,224 MPs can sit together in the building, while a new office complex for all MPs of both the houses would be built at the site of the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan. The existing Parliament building will be conserved as it is an archaeological asset of the country, Birla said. The existing building is a British era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi. The Foundation Stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres and is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Birla said. He said the outlook of the new building will be similar to the existing one. "There will be a basement, ground, first and second floors in the new building and its height will be same as the old building so that both should are in symmetry," he said. The Lok Sabha Speaker said the invitation will be extended to all political parties. While some would attend physically and others would attend virtually, Birla said, while adding that the ground laying ceremony at 1 pm on December 10 would follow all Covid-related guidelines. As per rules, the speaker of the lower house of parliament is also the custodian of the parliament building. Sufficient steps have been taken to control air and noise pollution during the construction work for the new parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs and those will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating 'paperless offices'. The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for the upper house members. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha of 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has twelve gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
05-12-2020||India||Farmers adopt ‘maun vrat’, seek ‘yes or no’ answer from govt ||The government proposed another meeting on December 9 with representatives of protesting farmers as the fifth round of talks held on Saturday ended in a deadlock with participating farmers opting to observe “maun vrat (vow of silence)” while seeking a clear “yes or no” answer to their demand of repealing the three farm laws. Sources said the team of ministers who were holding the talks sought some time from the farmers’ unions to present a concrete proposal after further consultations within the government. Hence, the December 9 date for the next round of negotiations. The agriculture ministry later tweeted that the fifth round of talks had ended. Union leaders said they do not want anything less than the complete repeal of the laws, which they claim were  meant to end the mandi and minimum support price procurement systems for the benefits of corporates. During the meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar also appealed to the union leaders to send back the elderly, women and children to their homes from protest sites. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 26, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September. As their meeting with three Union ministers, including Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash, continued for more than four hours, farmer leaders told the government to reply in “black and white” whether it would repeal the laws or not. Gurlabh Singh Mahal, legal advisor to Punjab Kisan Union, said the farmer leaders wanted the government to answer in “yes or no” and decided to go on a “maun vrat” after the government did not reply to their pinpointed demand. Some farmer leaders present at the meeting put a finger on their lips and held a paper with the words “Yes or No” written on it. During a break earlier in the day, the farmers' group decided to have their own food and tea, as they did on Thursday during the fourth round of talks. At the beginning of the fifth round of talks here at Vigyan Bhawan _ it began at 2.30pm _ Union agriculture minister Tomar told a group of 40 representatives of various farmer unions that the government was committed to cordial talks and welcomed all positive feedback on the new farm laws, sources said. Later, minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, addressed the leaders in Punjabi and said the government understood their sentiments. "We are ready to address all your concerns with an open mind," a source quoted Parkash as telling the union leaders. But a member of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said farmers would walk out of the meeting if the three farm laws were not withdrawn. Farmer leader Jagmohan Singh Patiala, speaking from Singhu border, said farmers from across the country had decided to attend the meeting as one. “It will be one stage, one morcha and one voice,” he said. In his opening remarks, Tomar, who is leading the talks for the Centre, said the government had no intention of hurting farmers' sentiments. The agriculture minister welcomed feedback on the three farm laws, while agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal summarised the proceedings of the previous four rounds of talks with farmer unions during the meeting, sources said. The two sides are believed to have discussed contentious issues like provision of dispute resolution and registration of traders in proposed private mandis under the new laws. Ahead of the meeting, Tomar and Goyal, along with senior Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliberate over proposals likely to be made to the agitating groups. Modi’s decision to hold deliberations with Union ministers, who have so far been the face of the Centre's efforts to end the farmers' agitation, signifies the importance the Prime Minister has attached to defuse the crisis, sources said. On Thursday, talks between the Union ministers and a representative group of thousands of agitating farmers had failed to yield any resolution, as the union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of new farm laws despite the government offering to "discuss and consider with an open mind" some key points of concern raised by farmers in the three new laws. Farmers on Friday announced a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government does not accept their demands. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of a minimum support price (MSP) and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP and mandi systems would continue and would be rather further improved and strengthened. Undeterred by the winter chill, thousands of farmers have stayed put at various border points of Delhi for the past nine days as part of their protest against the Centre's farm laws. Before the start of the meeting, an All India Kisan Sabha functionary said only repealing of the new farm laws will end the stalemate. “At this juncture, we have transport unions, retail businesses and other associated groups who have shown solidarity with us. Our movement is not just about farmers,” AIKS finance secretary Krishna Prasad said. Outside the meeting venue, employees of the Indian Tourist Transporters Association (ITTA), which has supplied vehicles for the transit movement of the protesting farmers, had gathered with a banner which read, “We support farmers”, and shouted slogans backing the peasants' agitation. ”I belong to a farmer's family. I can relate to their fears. We had farmland at Mahipalpur and now you see T-3 terminal out there. We are supporting the protesting farmers in their cause,” IITA president Satish Sehrawat told PTI. He said the association is providing transportation facility to the farmers since their first meeting. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) state general secretary Onkar Singh Agaul said: “Our demand remains the same that the government should withdraw all three farm laws. We want MSP to be guaranteed through law”. He also sought scrapping of the electricity amendment law and an ordinance on stubble burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Punjab sportspersons to return their awards on Sunday||Several former sportspersons from Punjab including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees left for Delhi today to return their awards in support of the farmers' protest against the Centre's three agriculture reform laws. They are on their way to join the farmers camping at the national capital's Singhu border before returning their awards to the president on Sunday. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at five Delhi gateways for the past nine days to press their demand for a repeal of the recently enacted farm laws. "We have left for Delhi today and will join the farmers' protest," said former wrestler Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee. "Many former players like Sajjan Singh Cheema who could not join us because of health or other issues have given their sports awards to us," he said. The sportspersons said they have sought time from President Ram Nath Kovind to return the awards. "If we are not allotted a time to meet the president, we will place our awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Sunday," said former hockey player Rajbir Kaur. Other former sportspersons who are headed to the national capital are Dhyan Chand awardee hockey Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna awardee Kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh had announced that they would return their awards. Enacted in September, the three farm laws are anticipated to bring "reforms" in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks uniform  RT-PCR test cost||A plea in the Supreme Court, filed on Saturday, sought a direction to the Centre to make sure refunds are paid for ‘exorbitant’ amounts charged by hospitals and private labs to conduct Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests in detecting Covid-19. Filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ajay Agrawal on his pending PIL, the interim plea seeks to fix a uniform rate of Rs 400 for the testing countrywide, as has been done by Odisha. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, on November 24, had issued notice to the Union Health Ministry on Agrawal's PIL and had sought its response within two weeks. The fresh plea said that when hospitals and laboratories were charging Rs 4,500 for the test, the actual cost, including that of the testing kit, was between Rs 800 to Rs 1,200, and even now, "exorbitant rates" are being charged in various states when the total cost incurred is about Rs 200 only. “This exorbitant over and above amount charged from poor and innocent people of this country needs to be refunded immediately as it is not only unrealistic and unreasonable but shocking,” the plea said. “"In a country like India where crores of people are living Below Poverty Line and the country's GDP has gone down to minus 23.9 per cent (-23.09 per cent) during the lockdown period, and therefore, this overcharged amount be refunded to the affected people forthwith,” it added. “The exorbitant money taken from the people is nothing but extortion and the responsible persons be punished and the excess amount be refunded at the earliest,” the plea further said. The plea cited the example of Odisha, saying that the state had fixed the rate after analysing and examining all aspects. “For the last several months these private labs and hospitals were looting the poor people of this country. Like in Delhi the notification was issued on 18.6.2020 fixing the maximum rate Rs 2400 and the cost of the kit and other things used in the test has gone down in the month of April-May itself, at the rate which is available at present,” Agarwal said in the application. While issuing the notice, the top court had said that the PIL would be heard with another pending plea of Sachin Jain pertaining to the cost of treatment for Covid-19. “There is no other cost as the machines used for the RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they conduct a large number of tests. And the matter is concerned with 135 crore citizen of the country as everybody is worried about the coronavirus and forced to get their test done at this exorbitant price,” the PIL noted. It alleged that the owners of the private laboratories and hospitals are using the calamity into opportunities for minting crores and crores of rupees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Left parties back farmers' Bharat Bandh call||The Left parties on Saturday extended their support to the nationwide strike called by farmers' organisations on December 8. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc made the announcement in a joint statement. "The Left parties extend their solidarity with and support to the ongoing massive agitation by Kisan organisations from all over the country against the new Agri laws. The Left parties extend their support to the call given by them for a Bharat Bandh on December 8," the statement said. "The Left parties condemn the RSS/BJP's malicious campaign, on preposterous charges, against the struggle of our annadatas to safeguard Indian agriculture and the country's food security," it said. The statement also said that the Left parties support the farmers demand the scrapping of the three agri laws and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. "The Left parties appeal to all other political parties and forces who stand with the farmers cause and have demanded the repeal of these laws to extend their support and cooperation to the December 8 bandh call," it said. Hardening their position, agitating farmers on Friday announced a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 and said they would occupy toll plazas on that day if their demands for repealing the agri-marketing laws are not met. Talks between farmer leaders and Union ministers have turned out to be futile so far. The farmers have rejected the Centre's proposal of amending the laws and have instead demanded that a special session of parliament be called to repeal the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Covid: Haryana health minister, who received a shot of Covaxin, tests positive||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tweeted on Saturday that he tested positive for Covid-19, days after being administered with a shot of Covaxin. He has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt, he said. "I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona (sic)," the 67-year-old, who is also the state home minister, tweeted on Saturday. Vij had volunteered to be the first person to receive a dose of the Covaxin during its third phase of human trials, which began in Haryana on November 20. The Union health ministry, however, said Covaxin is a two-dose anti-coronavirus vaccine and Vij had received just one. “The antibodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken. This is a two-dose vaccine. The minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” it said. The minister, too, said antibodies start to develop after administration of the second dose, which is given 28 days after the first shot, and there is no protection during this period. “I was told that antibodies start to develop after the second dose, which is administered after 28 days of getting the first shot. And full antibodies are developed 14 days after the second dose is given. So, the complete cycle takes 42 days. In between there is no protection,” he told PTI. Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech, which has collaborated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In Bengal, urban development minister Firhad Hakim became the first volunteer to be administered with a dose of Covaxin. Earlier, the vaccine makers said that the Phase III trials of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India, making it the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||'Nothing but hypocrisy', BJP attacks Canada in stringent terms||The BJP on Saturday slammed Canada's stand on farmers' protests in India as "nothing but hypocrisy", saying it is a strident critic of minimum support price and other agricultural policies at the WTO, and often questions India's domestic agricultural measures, including food and livelihood security. "It (Canada) also opposes import restrictions to protect India's farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India's agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has a scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers," BJP's foreign affairs department in-charge Vijay Chauthaiwale tweeted. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had recently backed the agitating farmers in India, saying his country will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests. He had expressed concern over the situation. Reacting strongly, India on Friday summoned Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel and told him that the comments made by Trudeau and others in his cabinet on the protests were an "unacceptable interference" in the country's internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a "seriously damaging" impact on bilateral ties. In a series of tweets tagging Trudeau and Patel, Chauthaiwale said, "Canada's criticism of India on farmer's issues is nothing but hypocrisy. Canada is strident critic of MSP and other agriculture policies at the WTO, and often questions India's domestic agriculture measures including food and livelihood security." Noting that Canada is a member of the Cairns Group of agri exporters, he said the body's objective in WTO negotiations is to seek increased market access in countries like India. It also seeks reduction in the agri subsidies provided to domestic producers, even if such subsidies are subsistence-level, he said. "It also opposes import restrictions to protect India's farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India's agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers," the BJP leader said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given topmost priority to enhance farmers' income by increasing minimum support price, giving better access to technology and providing adequate insurance cover for agri products against natural calamities, he said, adding that "Unfortunately, Canada has refused to acknowledge it".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally goes past 96 lakh ||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 96.08 lakh with 36,652 new cases in a day, while 90,58,822 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.28 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,08,211 and the death toll climbed to 1,39,700 with the coronavirus claiming 512 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.45 per cent. There are 4,09,689 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 14,58,85,512 samples have been tested up to December 4 with 11,57,763 samples being tested on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 512 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 73 from Delhi, 52 from Bengal, 29 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, 20 from Punjab, 19 from Haryana, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Karnataka. A total of 1,39,700 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,599 from Maharashtra followed by 11,834 from Karnataka, 11,762 from Tamil Nadu, 9,497 from Delhi, 8,628 from West Bengal, 7,877 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,020 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,882 from Punjab and 4,049 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Bhupesh Baghel stresses on the importance of 'discussion' for the smooth functioning of a democracy ||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday stressed on the importance of “discussion” for the smooth functioning of a democracy while referring to the three farm bills, brought in by the Narendra Modi government, that have triggered farmers’ protests in different parts of the country. “Discussions are quintessential for the smooth functioning of any democratic nation throughout the globe. They aid in problem-solving, better policy formulation and ensure participation in the policy making process,” said Baghel. “When we formulate policies without discussion, then its fate turns out to be the same as agricultural bills passed by the central government,” he added. Baghel was addressing a Leadership Keynote session of the 19th edition of Infocom, an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph, and gave the example of how lack of discussions over the farm bills resulted in criticism against the new provisions that the Modi regime has brought in the garb of reforms in the agriculture sector. The Chhattisgarh chief minister appreciated the ABP group’s endeavour in “constantly encouraging the practice of holding healthy discussions”. In his address, titled “Chhattisgarh in the new normal”, at eastern India’s biggest ICT conclave, Baghel dwelt elaborately on how the Indian economy was heading towards a recession and then contrasted how Chhattisgarh managed to buck the trend. “This (Union) government has brought us down to a stagnant minus GDP growth rate of 23.9 per cent from the pre-existing GDP growth rate of 8 per cent. “This has never happened even after so many years of Independence. Today the Indian economy has entered into the dark phase of recession,” Baghel said. He added that he was pained to see that adequate measures weren’t taken by the central government even after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s warning that the country was heading towards a recession. According to Baghel, the plight of an average Indian citizen today proves that India’s economy has been badly affected due to cumulative effect of multiple central policies. “The upset farmers have reached Delhi, labourers are unemployed and agitated, and middle-class citizens are losing their jobs. Unemployment and inflation are constantly increasing and there are no signs of peace prevailing in our borders,” the chief minister added. Even amid such despair, Chhattisgarh has managed to keep its economy stable because of “pre-planning, visionary decisions, strong will power and positive attitude”, he said. In his speech Baghel mentioned that since his government came to power on December 17, 2018, it had worked for the development of the rural and agrarian economy. Waiving off agricultural loans worth Rs 9,000 crore within an hour of forming the government was one among many such steps. “Chhattisgarh is the only state in India to procure paddy at the price of Rs 2,500 per quintal,” he said, adding that the state government has introduced the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, under which the state government is transferring Rs 5,750 crore directly into the bank accounts of 19 lakh farmers. “The biggest factor which contributed towards Chhattisgarh’s stable state of economy amid Covid-19, was the amount that was provided by the state government to the farmers,” Baghel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||BJP tonga rally in former Hurriyat leader Geelani’s hometown||The BJP on Tuesday organised a unique tonga (horse-drawn carriage) rally in separatist stronghold and Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s hometown Sopore, the apparent theatrics giving more ammunition to the Opposition to claim that the Jammu and Kashmir administration was going out of its way to help the national party. The rally saw the participation of a handful of BJP activists who had many more security men guarding them while ordinary residents mostly stayed away. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which has joined the fray for the ongoing District Development Elections, claims that non-BJP candidates are being locked in the name of security to prevent them from campaigning while the BJP candidates have a free run. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti recently said these elections have become a joke on democracy as the candidates were being arrested or stopped from campaigning. The government and the Union Territory election body have denied the charges. Adnan Ashraf, spokesman for People’s Conference which is a part of the alliance, said the BJP rally reinforces their belief that the administration was going all out to help the national party. “Security is a big variable in Kashmir, although it may not be so outside. It shows that the administration is bothered only about the security of one side which is the BJP,” Ashraf told The Telegraph. The BJP men, led by its Jammu and Kashmir general secretary Vibodh Gupta, campaigned for the party candidate for DDC elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Committee recommends night curfew in run-up to New Year in Karnataka||The Karnataka government is set to restrain New Year’s Eve celebrations in public places for the first time in recent memory citing a report that recommended stringent restrictions since a Covid-19 second wave was likely early next year. Thousands of revellers who might be waiting to hit popular streets such as MG Road and Brigade Road might have to wait until next year with the government and its disaster management authority bent on limiting public gatherings. However, chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa on Friday ruled out going forward with the health ministry’s technical advisory committee’s recommendation to impose night curfew during the run-up to the New Year’s Eve. The committee, comprising top officials of the department of health and family welfare, had in its report recommended night curfew between 8pm and 5am from December 26 to January 1. “As of now, there are no plans to impose night curfew,” Yeddyurappa told reporters here on Friday. This meant that pubs and restaurants would function with 50 per cent seating capacity, as prescribed by the authorities when they were allowed to reopen in September. Health minister K. Sudhakar favoured restrictions, but said it was up to the chief minister to take a call on the committee’s recommendations. “New Year is not a festival for Indians,” said the minister who was with the Congress until last year. “There is no meaning in celebrations when there is loss of lives and livelihoods in the society. It is meaningless to celebrate New Year at this juncture,” he said, adding the next 45 days would be crucial in containing the pandemic. “Going by the example of other countries, the second wave occurred between 45 and 90 days of the first wave receding to a near-normal level,” Sudhakar said after a meeting with the technical advisory committee. Karnataka has witnessed a steady decline in the Covid-19 cases since October. From over 10,070 cases and 130 deaths on October 1, the daily count has shrunk to 1,446 on Thursday when 13 deaths were reported in the state. Revenue minister R. Ashok told reporters on Friday that he was among the ministers who suggested cancelling all public events for New Year’s Eve but had no issues with pubs and restaurants staying open. “But bars and pubs can go ahead with their business. The city corporation commissioner has already intimated them to maintain social distancing by allowing only half the capacity,” he said. “We have instructed the police commissioner and the city corporation commissioner to ensure only pass holders gain access to the pubs and bars on New Year’s Eve,” he said alluding to the measures to restrict numbers. “People can celebrate at home with their family and friends, but please do not come out to the streets,” urged the minister. “We have celebrated New Year’s Eve all these years. So nothing is going to happen if we skip for one year since it will help contain the spread of Covid-19,” Ashok said, adding that revellers should exercise caution and follow the safety guidelines. A. George, partner of a popular pub in upscale Indiranagar, one of the major party hubs, said they were yet to receive any fresh guidelines from the authorities. “But ultimately it is up to the people to follow the guidelines and help us and the authorities,” said George.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-510
05-12-2020||India||Former poll chiefs flag NRI voting challenges||The Election Commission has written to the Union law ministry to extend the postal ballot facility to non-resident Indian voters, and the foreign ministry has indicated its readiness to implement the proposal whenever it’s cleared. Two former chief election commissioners, however, told The Telegraph there were several in-principle and practical challenges, from speed of postal delivery, embassy manpower and possible influence by foreign employers to enforcement of the code of conduct and parity with internal migrants. Online registration for overseas voters — which allows them to vote in their home constituencies in India even if they ordinarily live abroad — began in 2012. Of the 25,606 overseas voters who came home to vote in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 25,091 were from Kerala, with Kozhikode and Malappuram districts leading the way. A bill to amend the Representation of the People Act and allow NRIs to nominate proxies to cast their votes lapsed in 2019. However, the Election Commission’s November 27 letter told the Centre that a mere change in the Conduct of Election Rules, 1971, would be enough to extend the Electronically Transferable Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) to NRIs. It said an amendment to the act was necessary only to extend the right of proxy voting to new categories of people like NRIs. In the letter, the poll panel said it had received several requests for postal voting rights from Indians abroad, and was “technically and administratively” ready to implement the system during the upcoming Assembly polls in Assam, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. “With the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, the commission is now confident that the said facility can also be extended to the overseas electors,” the letter said. The required changes to the rules include designating a diplomatic or consular representative as an officer in whose presence an NRI voter would sign a declaration form and receive the postal ballot paper. Under the ETPBS, the designated officer can download the form only once from an Election Commission portal for a particular voter, using a one-time password received by the voter. The voter then fills in the form in private, puts the ballot paper inside a small envelope and seals it. This is then put inside a larger, bar-coded envelope and sent by speed post. Asked whether the ministry of external affairs (MEA) was ready to carry out the poll panel proposal, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a news conference on Thursday: “Whenever a decision is taken on EC’s proposal, the MEA is completely prepared to implement it.” However, implementation of the proposal would be challenging, former chief election commissioner O.P. Rawat said. “For the ETPBS, we currently have an agreement with India Post to deliver it within six days from all locations within India. The EC would need to have a system to receive the ETPBS from NRIs within a timeframe,” he said. “During my term, in 2017, we had a meeting with the MEA on whether embassies could be used for polling. They said they did not have enough staff for this.” Rawat added: “Many Indian labourers’ passports are kept by their employers abroad. The EC must have thought about the risk that these labourers can be arm-twisted to influence their voting preference by the employer…. We had commissioned the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing to develop a software for secure online voting, but that is not yet developed.” Another former chief election commissioner, S.Y. Quraishi, said that questions remained on how the poll panel would enforce the model code of conduct in the NRIs’ countries of residence. “In India, a candidate can’t give a cup of tea to a voter. But we can’t stop a liquor party in London or New York. Also, we can’t have two standards. Internal migrants will demand the same right as migrants to other countries,” he said. “That number may be so large that it would require a huge exercise by the EC.” The poll panel’s letter to the law ministry was silent on the additional safeguards required for overseas voters. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday demanding consultations with all political parties before NRIs are allowed to vote from their countries of residence. The CPM has consistently backed NRIs’ right to vote in Indian elections from their countries of residence. In his letter, Yechury raised the question of “how to protect the secrecy and integrity of the ballot”. “The current reported proposal of the ECI has never been discussed at an all-party consultation as is the normal practice and a well-established precedent,” Yechury wrote. “It is clear that none of the alternatives which were part of the study of the expert group commissioned by the ECI in 2015 to draw up a concrete proposal could come up with a foolproof arrangement. “Clearly, the issue is how to protect the secrecy and integrity of the ballot which will be received by the individual elector. The fact that these voters are working in conditions which are not immune from external influences, including their foreign employers, is the most worrying factor.” In a reply to the Lok Sabha in February, the external affairs ministry had said that 1.36 crore Indian citizens lived abroad, two-thirds of them in the Gulf countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA in custody in  fraud case||Expelled Biju Janata Dal MLA Pradeep Panigrahi, who was arrested in connection with a fraud case, was sent to judicial custody for 14 days after his bail petition was rejected by the sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Bhubaneswar, on Thursday night. Panigrahi will be lodged in Jharpada special jail. Panigrahi, a former minister who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who had put him in charge of his own constituency Hinjili in Ganjam, earned the wrath of the BJD leadership after raising questions about the government’s Covid management in Ganjam. The crime branch of Odisha police on Thursday arrested Panigrahi in connection with a fraud case. A release issued by the crime branch said that Panigrahi had collected money on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak by making false promise of providing jobs to people in a Tata company. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also decided to question Panigrahi on his accumulation of properties. Akash is the son of suspended Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak, who is facing charges of accumulating property worth crores beyond his known sources of income. Both father and son were arrested recently and are currently being interrogated by vigilance officials who have taken them on a three-day remand. Akash was arrested ahead of his marriage with Panigrahi’s daughter that was scheduled for December 11. Akash has been accused of making money by cheating youths in the name of offering them jobs in a Tata company. Akash and his father came under the vigilance department scanner after they hired chartered flights several times during the coronavirus pandemic. Panigrahi was expelled from the party soon after the arrest of Pathaks. According to the crime branch release, Panigrahi has been arrested in a case of impersonation, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and other cyber offences committed by Akash, who posed as the managing director in-charge of Tata Motors passenger car division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Congress questions Kovind refusal to meet CMs to discuss farm laws||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday suggested that President Ram Nath Kovind might be “under some compulsion” that had led him to deny Congress chief ministers an audience to discuss the new farm laws that have triggered a nationwide agitation. “Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh sought an appointment from the President to submit his views on the situation arising out of the three farm laws but wasn’t given time,” Gehlot tweeted. “Then all four Congress chief ministers sought time to place our views on the farm bills but the President must have been under some compulsion that he did not give time.” It’s unusual for the President not to meet a chief minister on a formal request. Official engagements do continue even when the Centre is locked in a political confrontation with the states and rival parties, although Presidents rarely intervene in such situations. Kovind has met Opposition delegations in the past, including one that requested him to deny his assent to the new farm bills. Unlike some of his predecessors, for instance Pranab Mukherjee, Kovind has largely desisted from commenting on issues agitating the nation. He has, for instance, avoided expressing his views on the protests against the new citizenship matrix, the miseries caused by the lockdown, or the police’s burning of the Hathras victim’s body, allegedly without her family’s consent. Rashtrapati Bhavan had conveyed to Amarinder that the laws passed in Punjab (to nullify the effects of the three new national farm laws) were still pending with the governor and there was therefore no point meeting the President at this stage. Amarinder had protested, arguing he had wanted to tell the President about the crisis developing over the Centre’s new farm laws and the possible problems arising out of the agitation and the suspension of goods and passenger trains in Punjab. Gehlot tweeted: “The central government didn’t pay heed to the farmers’ demands, which have triggered a nationwide movement. Had conversations continued with the government in a democratic spirit, such a situation would not have developed. “The common people too would not have been inconvenienced because of the road blockades. The Centre should withdraw the farm laws without delay and tender an apology for the misconduct with the farmers.” The Congress, which wants the three farm laws repealed, has refused to scale down its stand. “This is a battle for the livelihood of crores of people, not only the farmers,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a party event on Friday. “Big grocery stores are being opened by corporate houses in every city and the jobs of small retailers will be finished by these people. The government has hatched a conspiracy to hand over agriculture trade to five-six big corporate players. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders are lying on the MSP (minimum support price) and the mandi (wholesale market) system and are trying to trick the farmers into accepting this new regime that will ruin their lives.” The farmers want a legal guarantee saying no one can buy their produce below the MSP, as is the rule at mandis. But the government has so far not conceded the demand while arguing that the farmers’ fears about the new farm laws forcing them to sell below the MSP are unfounded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Plea against farm law protest in Supreme Court||A petition filed in the Supreme Court on Friday sought immediate removal of the protesting farmers from Delhi’s borders, saying their continued presence would cause “havoc” by spreading Covid infections. Petitioner Rishabh Sharma, a Delhi University law student, also cited the hardships the border siege was inflicting on the public. “Lives of lakhs of people protesting at Delhi’s borders (are) at immediate threat since the virus is very contagious and if by chance this coronavirus disease takes the shape of community spread, it will cause havoc in the country,” the petition said. It sought the court’s “immediate intervention” and “appropriate direction for restricting mass gathering of people at any place”. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November 26, protesting against three farm laws that the Centre bulldozed through Parliament in September. “This protest is further blocking the roads for all the emergency/ medical services” at a time Delhi’s Covid cases are rising and outstation patients are looking to use the capital’s hospital facilities, the petition said. It said Delhi police had on November 27 allowed the protesters to gather peacefully at a ground in the Burari locality but they were still blockading Delhi’s borders. The petition cited the recent apex court judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case that said protests cannot be allowed to block public roads and that an indefinite number of people cannot assemble wherever they choose. It also cited another apex court judgment — Himat Lal K. Shah vs Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad & Anr, 1973 — that had observed: “The social interest promoted by untrammelled exercise of freedom of utterance and assembly in public street must yield to social interest which prohibition and regulation of speech are designed to protect. But there is a constitutional difference between reasonable regulation and arbitrary exclusion.” The petition argued that the government was “not in a position to remove these protesters as they are huge in number”, and that “this protest is causing lot of trouble to the citizens of India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Delhi HC quashes JNU ads for quota violation||Delhi High Court has rapped the JNU administration for violating the national reservation policy in faculty recruitment, prompting the university teachers’ association to castigate the NDA government for failing to act on its complaints on the matter. Justice Jyoti Singh on November 17 quashed the advertisements for two JNU posts whose reservation status had been altered following the introduction of the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota last year. The teachers’ association obtained a copy of the judgment on Thursday. It had come out during the hearing that a 2017 JNU roster for forthcoming recruitments had reserved 87 posts for the Scheduled Castes (15 per cent quota) and Scheduled Tribes (7.5 per cent), which was revised to 56 in a 2019 roster. This suggests that the bulk of the 10 per cent EWS posts were taken out of the SC and ST quotas instead of from the general category. The petition had been filed jointly by Pradeep Shinde, an assistant professor with JNU’s Centre for Informal Sector and Labour Studies, and another assistant professor from the Centre for Asian Studies whose name couldn’t be ascertained. Both posts had originally been advertised in 2016 but the process was scrapped in 2018 amid a debate over whether reservation should be implemented institution-wise (as before) or department-wise (which would reduce the reserved seats). Fresh advertisements were issued in 2019 after the issue was resolved in favour of institution-wise calculation, and after the EWS quota had been introduced. Shinde, an SC, could not apply as the university had changed the reservation status of the advertised post of associate professor in labour studies from SC to ST. The other teacher, an ST, could not apply as the advertised post of professor at his centre had been changed from ST to unreserved. Under a roster universities followed till 2019, every 4th post was reserved for the Other Backward Classes or OBCs (27 per cent quota) while every 7th and 13th posts were reserved for the SCs and STs, respectively. Subsequently, every 10th seat should have been reserved for the EWS quota, with little clash with the other reserved categories. However, the petitioners’ counsel Akhil Sibal presented the 2017 and 2019 JNU rosters in court, showing how the SC and ST categories had lost 31 posts. He argued that under the rules, any backlog — advertised posts that remained unfilled — should continue to retain their reservation status. Monica Arora, JNU’s counsel, argued that incorporating the EWS quota had caused a shift in the “reservation points” (numerical positions) of a few reserved posts but claimed that SC and ST posts had not been exchanged with other posts or de-reserved. “The burden to rebut and prove that the reservation rosters were correctly recast was on the university, which in my view it has failed to discharge,” the judgment said. “Mere statements and denials that there has been no de-reservation or exchange of reservation points would not be enough for the university to rebut the data/tables placed on record by the petitioners.” While quashing the advertisements for the two posts, the court did not give any ruling on the alterations in the reservation status of these or the 29 other SC and ST posts. “Take a relook at the issue of roster if so required,” the court told the JNU administration. Shinde said the petitioners planned to move a higher court to get the alterations in reservation status reversed. The JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA) had over the past couple of years written half-a-dozen letters to the education ministry alleging violations of the reservation policy, and other recruitment rules, by vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. On Thursday, it slammed the government for its inaction. “The high court order not only vindicates the JNUTA’s position but also implicates not just the JNU VC but the ministry of education as well,” the association said in a statement.Emails to the education ministry and the VC seeking their reactions have brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Police scuffle with farmers in Odisha ||A minor scuffle broke out between the farmers and the police on Thursday here when the former tried to march towards the Odisha Assembly protesting against the new central farm laws. Police used iron barricades to stop them. The protest rally was organised to extend support to thousands of farmers in New Delhi who have been demanding repeal of the acts and justice for farmers. State convenor of the All India Kishan Sangharsha Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Suresh Panigrahi said, “It’s a question of survival for farmers. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the central farm laws. We are organising protest rallies across the state to support the agitating farmers in Delhi.” Panigrahi said: “The Centre is resorting to all kind of tactics to weaken the farmers’ movement. They are trying to divide the farmers’ unity. They will not be successful. Many of us have already left for Delhi to join the strike and the Delhi Challo call given by the farmer leaders. Many more will leave for Delhi soon. The agitation across the state will continue till the Centre accepts the demands of farmers, AIKSCC.” According to the decision of the state unit of AIKSCC, a statewide agitation will be held on December 5 against Modi government’s anti-farmer laws. “Agitation will be organised at Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur and Berhampur on December 10,” said Panigrahi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Editors Guild expresses concern over farm law protest coverage||The Editors Guild of India on Friday expressed concern over the news coverage of the farmers’ protest, saying certain sections of the media were trying to delegitimise it by labelling the protesters “Khalistanis” and “anti-nationals” without proof. This goes against the tenets of responsible and ethical journalism, and such actions compromise the credibility of the media, the Guild said in a statement. “The Editors Guild of India is concerned about the news coverage of the farmers’ protest in the national capital, wherein certain sections of the media have been labelling them as ‘Khalistanis’, ‘anti-nationals’, and other such terms to delegitimise the protests without any evidence or proof,” the Guild said. It advised media organisations to “display fairness, objectivity and balance in reporting farmers’ protests, without displaying partisanship against those who are exercising their constitutional rights to express themselves. Media should not be complicit to any narrative that derogates dissent stereotypes to protesters based on their attire and ethnicity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||PM fuels early Covid vaccine hopes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the Covid vaccine could be ready for rollout in a few weeks but made no commitment on how it would be priced or who would foot the bill for the vaccination. The Prime Minister confined himself to saying the Centre was holding discussions with the state governments about its pricing, which would be done keeping in mind public health. Addressing an all-party meeting convened to discuss the preparations for the vaccine and its distribution, Modi, often accused of weakening the country’s federal structure with his style of governance by fiat, was more collaborative. He said the state governments were being consulted on selecting the priority groups for the vaccination, creating the cold chains for distribution and the vaccine cost. According to Modi, eight potential vaccines are at various stages of trial in the country. They include the three indigenous ones. Experts have said India would not have to wait long now. “The sense is that the vaccine will be ready in the next few weeks. The moment scientists give the green light, the vaccination campaign will be launched in India,” Modi said. On who would be the first to be vaccinated, the Prime Minister said that on the basis of suggestions received from state governments, priority would be given to healthcare and frontline workers, besides the elderly with underlying health issues. He said a COWIN app was being created to map the delivery of the vaccine, and urged everyone present to help fight any rumours that might be spread about the vaccine. While detailing the preparations for the vaccine to be rolled out, he stressed the need for people to keep their guard up and continue wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Although many of the Opposition parties made a case for vaccinating people free of cost, as with the immunisation campaign against polio and small pox, the government made no commitment. Adhir Chowdhury of the Congress told reporters later that the government had been unable to provide a road map for vaccinating the public, especially the poor. The DMK’s T.R. Baalu tried to bring up the farmers’ protests but was cut short by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, who asked him to stick to the subject. When Baalu persisted, others claimed, his microphone was remotely muted during the meeting, held in the virtual mode. According to Jay Galla of the TDP, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan informed the MPs that a national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid had been formed to plan and execute the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||RJD to launch agitation on farm laws||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Friday invoked Mahatma Gandhi against the controversial farm laws and geared up to spearhead a vigorous agitation in Bihar. The party will begin with a daylong dharna in front of the Gandhi statue at the Gandhi Maidan in Patna from Saturday. The party has appealed to all organisations related to agriculture and farmers to join the agitation. The RJD asserted the three new farm laws were “the biggest attack on the thoughts and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who considered villages, agriculture and farmers as foundation of our country. Therefore we are starting with a sit-in protest under the leadership of our leader Tejashwi  Yadav at the Gandhi murti (statue) in Gandhi Maidan”. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav pointed out that it was the Champaran Satyagraha that turned Gandhi into Gandhi that we all know. “Gandhiji protested against the compulsory indigo farming and the atrocities on farmers in Champaran. A similar situation has arisen today. The farmers will have to work like labourers, but their rights and honour will be taken away from them due to the new farm laws,” Tejashwi said. Gandhi had visited Patna on April 10, 1917. He went to Muzaffarpur on the same evening to enquire about the grievances of farmers forced by the British to cultivate indigo on a fixed portion of their land (3 out of every 20 cottahs of land, also known as the Tinkathia system). Gandhi stayed at Muzaffarpur for three days and then proceeded to Motihari in East Champaran to get a firsthand account of the situation. He launched a satyagraha, which culminated in the abolition of the Tinkathia system of indigo farming. It also gave the weapon of non-violent agitation to the country that brought a new vigour to the freedom movement. The farmers across the country, including a large number of them at Delhi, are at present protesting the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act brought by the central government earlier this year. They fear that these laws will end the MSP (minimum support price) system, make them dependent on the private agrimarketing companies, and leave them at the mercy of big players in the field. Tejashwi said the current BJP-led government at the Centre has conspired to privatise everything and it was the turn of agriculture now. “I appeal to the farmers and their organisations to come out on the streets against these black laws in agriculture and strengthen the ongoing agitation against them. The present and future of farming and farmers are at stake. Farmers of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states are angry with the present government. It did not even consult the farmers before bringing these laws,” he added. The RJD leader also pointed out that the repeal of the APMC Act by chief minister Nitish Kumar in Bihar in 2006 has harmed the farmers so much that they have been forced to become migrant labourers. “The farmers in Bihar do not get adequate price for their produce. The procurement of paddy this season has not started. The farmers here have been forced to leave agriculture and become migrant labourers,” Tejashwi said. Around 70 per cent of the population in Bihar is dependent on agriculture and allied activities. Over 93 per cent farmers in the state are either marginal (having less than 2.5 acres of land) or small farmers (having less than 5 acres of land). Meanwhile, the CPI-ML has decided to block the movement of vehicles and trains in the state on Saturday to protest against the new farm laws. It has also announced that an indefinite satyagraha and traffic blockade will be held in Bihar if the laws are not repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||BJP makes huge gains in Hyderabad polls but loses Gadkari hometurf Nagpur||The BJP on Friday made huge gains in the Hyderabad civic polls, rising from minnow to serious competitor on the back of a polarising campaign, but suffered a blow in the Maharashtra legislative council elections where it lost from stronghold Nagpur. By late evening, with results in 149 of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s 150 seats declared, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) had won 55 while the BJP tally was 48, ahead of the 44 picked up by Asasuddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. The Congress had won 2. In the previous polls in 2016, the TRS had won 99 seats, Owaisi’s party 44 and the BJP just 4, which means the BJP’s gains have come at the ruling party’s expense. The improved showing is significant for the BJP, for Hyderabad accounts for 24 of Telangana’s 120 Assembly seats — of which the BJP holds just 2 — and 4 Lok Sabha constituencies. Hyderabad has a large Muslim population, and the BJP had run a high-decibel campaign targeting Owaisi to gain a foothold in a southern state it had little presence in. Among the campaigners were home minister Amit Shah, party chief J.P. Nadda and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Some BJP leaders posted self-congratulatory tweets addressing “Bhagyanagar”. Adityanath had said that if the BJP won, it would rename Hyderabad as “Bhagyanagar” – apparently after the Bhagyalakshmi temple near Char Minar. However, in Maharashtra, the BJP won just 1 of the 6 legislative council seats that were up for grabs. The ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine won 4 while 1 seat went to an Independent. The real jolt was the BJP losing the Nagpur “graduate constituency”, a stronghold where all its top state leaders had campaigned. Seven of the council’s members are elected by graduates from the state’s seven divisions, of which one is Nagpur, made up of six districts. The results are a setback for the BJP’s efforts, led by former chief minister and now leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, to topple the Uddhav Thackeray government. Nagpur city is the home turf of senior Union minister Nitin Gadkari as well as Fadnavis, apart from being the headquarters of the RSS. The Congress has won Nagpur, whose previous winners included Gadkari and Fadnavis’s father Gangadhar Rao Fadnavis. The BJP also lost the Pune graduate constituency while wresting the Dhule local body constituency from the Congress on the back of defection by the previous incumbent. Apart from 30 members elected by the MLAs, the council has members elected by geographical constituencies of graduates, teachers and local bodies apart from 12 nominated members. In public, BJP leaders tried to ignore the Maharashtra results and celebrate the Hyderabad performance. “Well done Bhagyanagar....!!!!! Great going team @BJP4Telangana. You made a mark,” BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh had tweeted in the morning as the initial trends put the BJP on top. “#GHMC elections outcome, BJP’s d only alternative to TRS misrule. Our resolve to herald change in Telangana is further strengthened by today’s results,” Telangana BJP leader P. Murlidhar Rao later tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-511
05-12-2020||India||Ramesh Pokhariyal tells IIT Bhubaneswar students to chase their dreams||Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank on Friday urged all the graduating students of IIT Bhubaneswar to strive hard to accomplish their dreams despite the enormous challenges they were likely to face in the times to come. He also urged them to do their best to make the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan successful. Addressing students on the 9th Convocation of IIT Bhubaneswar through video conferencing, he said: “The Education Policy (NEP-2020) will go a long way in instilling the future of the new students which will pave the way for holistic and multidisciplinary education. Students should strive hard to rise to the occasion of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The education ministry is promoting a culture of research, innovation and entrepreneurship in Indian education system.” The Union minister asked students never to forget the contribution of their alma mater — IIT Bhubaneswar — which has helped them excel through innovative teaching, learning and mentoring that has put them on the path of success. “I must compliment the institute for the outstanding wellness, teaching excellence and research aura the institute has created,” he said. He also hailed IIT Bhubaneswar for facilitating the cream of global class education through several innovations during the pandemic and serving as a role model which the nation can be proud of. The minister inaugurated Student Activity Centre (SAC), the Play Courts, and the School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Management (SHSSM) of IIT Bhubaneswar. Speaking on the occasion, Union minister of state for education, Sanjay Dhotre said: “I am sure the students will contribute by way of innovations and research by fulfilling the dream of our Prime Minister’s visionary program: “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” by being self-reliant leading to creation of employment opportunities inside the nation.” Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Bhubaneswar, Rajendra Prasad Singh, expressed confidence that students of the institute will be the torch bearers of nation building and pave the way for the creation of a modern and decisive India. Director, IIT Bhubaneswar, Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar pointed out how the institute has achieved successes in all of its innovative endeavours including running the academics by holding timely classes. Conducting comprehensive exams and live convocation online has been successful. “It is a matter of double celebration with the 9th Convocation Ceremony and Inauguration of state of the art Educational Landscapes at IIT Bhubaneswar which will add to the quality education of the students thereby creating a global class infrastructure at the Institute,” he said. On this occasion, the IIT presented degrees to 35 PhD, 141 MTech 70 MSc and 200 BTech students. The President of India Gold Medal was awarded to Aditya Pal of the Computer Science and Engineering, Director’s Gold Medal was awarded to Sanket Dey Chowdhury of the School of Infrastructure and Souvick Chakraborty of Physics domain from the School of Basic Sciences for best academic performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||India warns Canada over farm law protest comments||The external affairs ministry on Friday summoned Canadian high commissioner Nadir Patel and handed over a demarche warning that bilateral ties would be seriously damaged if the Prime Minister and ministers of his country continued to comment on the farmers’ protests in India. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had picked up the cudgels for the farmers – particularly their right to peaceful protest -- in a message to the Sikh community of Canada on Gurupurab on Monday. Later on Friday, asked for a reaction at a news conference in Canada, Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest anywhere around the world and we are pleased to see moves toward de-escalation and dialogue.” Asked further if he was worried about damaging bilateral relations, Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest and for human rights around the world.” New Delhi, too, has in the past commented on internal matters of other countries, especially on basic human rights, which allowed India to punch way above its weight in the comity of nations even before it became a strong economy. These include apartheid in South Africa, the atrocities in the erstwhile East Pakistan that resulted in the Indian intervention that helped create Bangladesh, the constitution-making process in Nepal when India sought seven amendments, and more recently the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to fast-track citizenship for select minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Besides Trudeau, several other Canadian public figures had expressed concern at the bid to clamp down on the protests. Trudeau’s cabinet has five ministers with roots in Punjab. People with roots in Punjab account for about half the Indo-Canadian population. On Friday, the Indian external affairs ministry said in a statement: “Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada. These comments have encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our high commission and consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security. We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism.” More than the protests, the efforts last week to stop the farmers from proceeding towards Delhi had caught attention abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Farmers call for country-wide hartal on December 8||The protesting farmers have announced a road map towards stepping up their agitation with a call for a country-wide hartal on December 8, unhopeful of a breakthrough at Saturday’s scheduled meeting with the government over the contentious farm laws. The farmers have also lined up sit-ins at toll plazas from a yet-to-be decided date to prevent the collection of toll. The steps were announced on Friday after a meeting of the various farmers’ collectives participating in the protest at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on G.T. Karnal Road. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who spoke to groups of protesting farmers over the phone, is expected to launch a state-wide agitation on December 7 against the new farm laws and hold a mega rally in Calcutta on December 10. The Bengal Congress will support Tuesday’s hartal. “The farmer friends have called for a nationwide strike on December 8. We will support the strike in Bengal and participate in it,” Bengal Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury said. The All India Kisan Sabha has vowed to make the strike a success in Bengal. “We have cancelled the sit-in demonstration in front of the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on December 8. The call for the strike has been given by our national leadership; we will make it successful in Bengal,” said Amal Halder, a Kisan Sabha leader associated with the CPM. The sit-ins at toll plazas will be a repeat of what Punjabs’ farmers have carried out in the state since October 1. They let vehicles through but would not allow toll collection on the national highways. On Friday, the farmers again made it clear that there would be no going back on their demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws and the withdrawal of an electricity bill that proposes to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the government, after trying to divide the farmers, was now seeking to wear them down with meetings. The longer the government is dragging the issue, the more traction the protests are getting, he added. While Punjab has taken the lead, Haryana has joined in full force over the past week. Now, with the panchayat elections over in Rajasthan, farmers from there too will start moving towards Delhi, he said. Although the Centre says it is willing to listen to the farmers with an open mind, Delhi police have sent a notice to former Lok Sabha MP and All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah for participating in a protest on Parliament Street on September 25 against the farm laws. The AIKS called it an attempt to intimidate farmers and union leaders. Mollah has participated in the two rounds of talks held with the government this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Ram temple trust cash theft charge levied by former BJP MP ||Ram Vilas Vedanti, a sadhu from Ayodhya and former BJP MP, has joined Dharam Das, mahant of Nirvani Ani Akhara, in alleging that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was mismanaging the funds meant for construction of the Ram temple. “All is not well in the trust, which was formed by the central government early this year for the construction of Ram temple. The present members of the trust are involved in financial embezzlement,” Vedanti told reporters in Ayodhya on Thursday. “This was the reason that they didn’t give me and (Dharam) Das any space in the trust. Former VHP president Ashok Singhal had included me in the Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas, which was active before the Supreme Court’s verdict. But my presence was ignored in the formation of the new trust,” he added. Das was one of the parties in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, in which the Supreme Court had given its verdict in November last year in favour of the Hindu side and asked the central government to form a new trust for the proposed temple. The apex court had also asked the state government to give an alternative five acres of land to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board. Das had written to the Union home ministry on November 13 threatening that he would move the Supreme Court unless some sadhus of Ayodhya were made members of the trust within two months. Das had also alleged embezzlement of funds in the trust. Only one sadhu from Ayodhya — VHP leader and Maniram Chhaoni mahant Nrityagopal Das, who headed the now-defunct Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas — is part of the trust. Das claims his predecessor Baba Abhiram Das alias Abhinandan Mishra, a mahant of Hanumangarhi temple, had surreptitiously installed the idol on the night of December 22, 1949, setting off far-reaching events. Das said on Thursday, “The trust is more interested in financial embezzlement than in construction of the temple. We will try to remove those members of the trust who are working with bad intentions. We will not let them live in Ayodhya.” “I am waiting for the home ministry’s reply and taking legal views to move the Supreme Court,” he added. A trust member said on the condition of anonymity, “Some sadhus are unhappy because they didn’t get space in the trust. All the names were decided by the home ministry only. We can add them in some sub-committees in future after a discussion with the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Militants fire at Valley poll candidate ||Suspected militants shot at and injured a District Development Council election candidate from a party widely called the “BJP’s B team” in the first election-related militancy violence in Kashmir. The suspected militants shot at Anees ul Islam, who is contesting the polls as Apni Party candidate in Sagam village of South Kashmir’s Kokernag. The party was created last year in the aftermath of the abrogation of Article 370 as an alternative to traditional pro-India parties in Kashmir. Official sources said the candidate was moving without security. The incident has triggered panic as many non-BJP candidates are campaigning without security. They claim that the government was putting hurdles in their campaigning to scuttle their chance of win while the BJP candidates have a free run. A police spokesman said Anees received minor injuries to hand and thigh. “The injured was immediately evacuated to a nearby hospital where his condition is stated to be stable,” he said. The spokesman said the candidate was instructed to get a personal escort for campaigning, which “he did not take”. “All the candidates (fighting elections) have already been instructed to inform us before going out for campaigning (so that proper security arrangements are made). The information regarding his movement was neither conveyed to the PCR (police control room) nor to the police station concerned,” he said. Doctors said Anees had bullet injuries in his hand and buttocks, suggesting the assailants did not aim to kill him. Parties from People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 and is bitterly opposed to Apni Party, condemned the attack. The attack took place as the third phase of DDC elections was underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
05-12-2020||India||Language push will be end of IITs: Director||IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao has said that teaching entire BTech programmes in local languages would mean the “beginning of end for IITs”, describing this as his “personal opinion”. His comment came in a Facebook post on Wednesday at a time the Centre is pushing for the teaching of technical subjects in the “mother tongue”. Rao said that some first-semester BTech courses can be taught in local languages, and students weak in English provided extra support to improve their proficiency in that language. “Offering entire BTech programmes in local languages would mean language will become a criterion in our faculty selections. This will be the beginning of end for IITs,” Rao wrote. Rao, who was taught in the Telugu medium till Class XII, wrote that every vernacular-medium student must have the opportunity to take the JEE Main and JEE Advanced in their mother tongue. “Once these students, who have had their schooling in local languages, enter IITs, we must have ‘study help’ groups which will help these students to migrate to English over a period of time,” he wrote. “The earlier these students become conversant in English, the better it will be for them. We are producing global technocrats, not technocrats for Tamil Nadu, Andhra, etc. “We are also dealing with a huge aspirational generation. We must not confine their aspirations by tying them to one language or one mode of Instruction.” Late last month, the education ministry had said the IITs and the NITs would offer BTech courses in the “mother tongue” too from 2021. Several IIT teachers and officials have suggested off the record that such a move would damage these premier tech schools’ brand image. They have also cited problems relating to infrastructure, teacher training and the students’ career opportunities. A committee set up in 2011 by the technical education regulator too had advised against the teaching of engineering in the regional languages, citing the lack of material, terminology and teacher training. “IIT education involves integration of a lot of research and open study materials,” Rao wrote. “Offering complete BTech and master’s courses in local languages will deprive the students of a vast amount of resource material available in English. As said, by translating a few books (in)to English, the problem can’t be solved.” He suggested that some first semester courses in “specific IITs” can be offered in at least one local language, depending on the students’ choice. At IIT Delhi, for example, this can be Hindi, he suggested. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal set up a task force on Wednesday to prepare a road map on the teaching of technical courses in the mother tongue. The task force, headed by higher education secretary Amit Khare, will submit a report in a month. “Shri Pokhriyal said that the meeting today is a step in the direction towards achieving Prime Minister’s vision that student may pursue the professional courses such as medicine, engineering, law, etc in their mother tongue,” a government media release said. Rao advocated freeing institutions from bureaucratic control. “Let’s free up our educational institutions from bureaucratic controls and let’s create competition among them by also providing them autonomy. Autonomy and competition need to go hand in hand,” he said. “Let’s convert our institutions to multi-disciplinary institutions and let’s challenge them to solve problems of the society. There is so much of talent in our institutions, which is all getting wasted,” he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-512
