06-12-2020||India||Opposition parties pledge support to Bharat Bandh||Several parties, including the Congress, TRS, DMK and AAP, joined others in the Opposition on Sunday to extend support to protesting farmers in their call for a nationwide strike on December 8 against the three new central farm laws. On Saturday, the Trinamul Congress, RJD and the Left parties, besides a joint platform of 10 central trade unions, also backed the farmers’ protests. Former Union agriculture minister and NCP Chief Sharad Pawar warned the Centre that if the situation persists, the stir would spread nationwide and everyone would stand by the protesting farmers. “I hope wisdom dawns on the government and it takes cognisance to resolve the issue. If this stalemate continues, the protest will not be limited to Delhi, but people from nook and corner of the country will stand by the protesting farmers,” NCP leader Sharad Pawar said. The Congress on Sunday extended its “whole-hearted support” to the Bharat Bandh, saying it will hold demonstrations on the day at all district and state headquarters to back the protesters. Addressing the press at the AICC headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful.” TRS President and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhara Rao said all his party leaders will support the bandh and ensure its success. He also said the farmers were protesting legally and recalled his party’s opposition to the laws before they were enacted in September. The DMK-led Opposition bloc in Tamil Nadu also extended support to the strike, saying the farmers' demand for repealing legislation was "totally justified." DMK Chief M K Stalin had led a state-wide protest on Saturday against the farm laws. In a statement, Stalin, TNCC chief KS Alagiri, MDMK founder Vaiko and Left leaders, among other DMK allies, said the ongoing protest outside Delhi by farmers was growing every day and drawing global attention. The grouping appealed to farmer unions, traders' bodies, government employees' associations, labour unions and others in the state to extend "grand support" to the bandh and make it a success on Tuesday. Actor Kamal Hassan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) also announced its support for the farmers. AAP President and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh' call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it.” The ruling TMC in Bengal had on Saturday extended "moral support" to the December 8 nationwide strike and said it would stage sit-ins in various areas for three days. “There will be moral support from the party, as we are in wholehearted agreement on the issues... But, because as a party our position is anti-bandh, we won’t be out on the streets to enforce one,” Trinamul MP Sudip Bandhopadhyay said. The Left parties -- Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc -- had announced their support in a joint statement. In Patna, Opposition parties led by RJD's Tejashwi Yadav had on Saturday protested against the farmers' bill. The joint forum of trade unions that has supported the farmers' stir includes Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC). The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, a farmers' body, said it will join the "non-violent" protest on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for 11 days against the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
06-12-2020||India||Farmers ask one and all to join Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh||Farmers camping at Singhu border protesting the Centre's new agri laws on Sunday sought maximum participation from all quarters in Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh amid reports that a number of Opposition parties, including the Congress and the Left, have come out in solidarity with them. Farmer leaders said over 250 farmers from Gujarat would be coming to the national capital to join the stir. They welcomed the support extended by a number of political parties and called upon all others to come forward and support the bandh.
"This agitation is not only of Punjab farmers but is of the entire nation. We are going to strengthen our agitation and it has already spread across the nation. Since the government was not able to deal with us properly, we gave a call for Bharat Bandh. During yesterday's (Friday) meeting, even the ministers were upset with our call for Bharat bandh," farmer leader Baldev Singh Yadav said at a press conference.
"We have announced a Bharat Bandh on December 8, which will start in the morning and continue till evening. During which, shops and businesses will remain shut. Ambulances and emergency work will be exempted from the bandh. Also, 250 farmers from Gujarat will be coming to Delhi to join the protest," he added.
Yadav also appealed to everyone to make sure that the Bharat Bandh remained peaceful. "We won't let anyone turn it violent and would take strict action against them. We request everyone to be part of the bandh," he said. The Congress on Sunday expressed its "whole-hearted" support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called on December 8 by farmer unions. Addressing the media at the AICC headquarters here, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its whole-hearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8."
Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and 'Kisan sammelans' has been raising the party's voice in support of the farmers, he said. "All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful," Khera said. Among the other parties that have come out in support of the bandh are Trinamul, RJD, TRS, DMK and AAP. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new farm laws stayed put on the borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as they threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government did not accept their demands.
Swaraj India party president Yogendra Yadav said, "We have always stood firm on our stand. We have always demanded that the government take back all the three farm laws. We have not changed our stand. We are firm on it".
"Many organisations from Maharashtra and other states are also supporting the Bharat Bandh. Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan will witness closure of all mandis but weddings would be exempted from the bandh. Many political parties have extended their support to us and we urge everyone to participate in the bandh," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
06-12-2020||India||Bank unions extend support to protesting farmers||Multiple bank unions have extended their support to the farmers protesting against the three new agri-marketing laws that were recently passed by the Centre, and urged the government to find a solution on the issue at the earliest. The All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA) in a statement requested the government to come forward and resolve the issues and the demands of the farmers in theis, as well as the nation’s, interest. Officer unions All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Indian National Bank Officers' Congress (INBOC), too, have asked the Centre to initiate a substantial dialogue to resolve the impasse by referring the bills to a select committee by a special Presidential Order. Farmers say that the three new farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- would result in the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of industrialists. The government, however, portrays them as major reforms in the farming sector that will remove the middlemen and enable agriculturists to sell their products anywhere in the country. “Our nation needs peace and main stakeholders of the nation should not be made to suffer, as the agriculture sector alone performed positively in the COVID-19 pandemic, which reflects the inherent strength of the sector,” the three unions said in a joint statement. Farmers constitute 80 per cent of the customer base of the public sector banks, regional rural banks, co-operative banks and old generation private banks and thus are major stakeholders of India's banking system, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
06-12-2020||India||Cylinder blast in Mumbai building injures 16||At least 16 people were injured in a fire incident that followed a gas cylinder blast at a four-storeyed building in Mumbai’s Lalbaug area on Sunday morning, officials said. According to a fire personnel, four out of these sixteen people, including a minor, are in a critical condition as they sustained 70 to 95 per cent burn injuries. The blaze erupted around 7.20 am on the second floor of Sarabhai building in Ganesh Galli locality, he said. “There was a cylinder blast after gas leakage. The wall of a room collapsed after the blast,” Kishori Pednekar, the Mayor of Mumbai, told PTI. “I personally visited the spot. The condition of a minor girl is stated to be critical and she is referred to Masina Hospital (at Byculla in south Mumbai),” she added. The cylinder blast resulted in a fire in the building premises, which in turn injured 16, a fire official said. He added that the injured persons were admitted to the  KEM Hospital and Global Hospital in Parel area, as well as other medical facilities. It was a 'level-one' (minor) fire. Two water tankers were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control by around 7.50 am, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
06-12-2020||India|| Congress pledges ‘whole-hearted support’ to Bharat Bandh call||The Congress on Sunday extended its “whole-hearted support” to the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers on December 8 against the three central agri-marketing laws, and said it will hold demonstrations on the day at all district and state headquarters to back the protesters. The leaders of tens of thousands of farmers, who are sitting in the borders of Delhi against the laws, have announced a nationwide strike on Tuesday, saying it would be implemented with full force. Addressing the press at the AICC headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its whole-hearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8.” Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and Kisaan rallies, has been raising the party's voice in support of the farmers, he said. “All our district headquarters and Pradesh headquarters will participate in this bandh. They will hold demonstrations and ensure that the bandh is successful,” Khera announced. “The entire world is witnessing the plight of our farmers. The entire world is seeing the horrible sight of farmers sitting outside the capital in the middle of the night in winters waiting for the government to listen to them,” he said. The spokesperson hit out at the Centre for bringing in the new laws and asked why it hurried so much in enacting them. “In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government in June surreptitiously brings ordinances, what was the hurry, the entire country was focussed on the fallout of Covid-19, the economic, social, health fallout, but the government was busy surreptitiously bringing ordinances to help its industrialist-corporate friends,” he alleged. “Where was the need to bring these legislations so fast, you suspended the opposition parties from Parliament? You did not follow parliamentary procedure and hurried through the passing of the bills, why was the hurry,” he asked. Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a 'maun vrat' seeking a clear 'yes or no' reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
06-12-2020||India||Aurangabad bus conductors to have body cameras ||Maharashtra’s Aurangabad city will soon see its bus conductors and ticket inspectors equipped with body cameras, in a bid to keep tab on the behaviour of passengers and other such activities during commute, an official said. This follows the complaint of some women conductors of the state-run buses, who alleged misbehaviour with them during duty hours. “Acting on it, the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation has decided to install body cameras in the front pockets of shirts of the conductors and inspectors of its buses to record the activities in the vehicles during their duty,” an official of the corporation said in a statement on Saturday. “The cameras will help in the real-time examination of tickets and to keep an eye on other activities in the buses,” he explained. The ASCDCL administration has also deployed former defence servicemen as line inspectors, who will check tickets of passengers and their behaviour, the official said. These officials will also ensure safety of the passengers and give their feedback to the authorities, he added. The corporation has a fleet of 100 buses, out of which 29 are being run on 12 different routes in the city at the moment, providing service to around 5,000 passengers in a day, another official said. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation's employees have been hired as drivers and conductors of these buses, he said. During the lockdown period, these civic-run buses were used to transport Covid-19 patients. The ASCDCL resumed its services for daily passengers last month, he added. The ASCDCL has been formed by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to implement smart city projects and is headed by Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Vaccine: days after UK approval, Pfizer India seeks DCGI nod||Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to seek from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) an emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine in the country, after its parent company secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. The firm, in its application submitted to the drug regulator, has sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in the country, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources said. "Pfizer India has submitted an application on December 4 to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorization (EUA) for its COVID-19 vaccine in India," a source said. "The firm has submitted the EUA application in Form CT-18 for grant of permission to import and market Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in the country," the source said, citing the application. The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19, with the UK regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granting a temporary authorisation for its emergency use. The British regulator said the jab, which claims to offer up to 95 per cent protection against COVID-19, is safe for roll-out. Bahrain on Friday also announced that it has granted an EUA for the two-dose vaccine made by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The pharma company has already applied to the US FDA seeking EUA for the vaccine. The extreme low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius required for storing the vaccine poses a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining such cold chain facilities would be very difficult, top government officials have said. When contacted, Pfizer said it remains committed to engaging with the Government of India and explore opportunities to make this vaccine available for use in the country. "During this pandemic phase, Pfizer will supply this vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approval," the global pharma major said in a statement. Five vaccines are in advanced phases of clinical trials in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca COVID-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR has already started the phase-3 clinical trial. Drug firm Zydus Cadila has received the approval from the DCGI to start the phase-3 clinical trials of the indigenously-developed anti-coronavirus vaccine. Dr Reddy's Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have announced that they commenced adaptive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, Also, Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||India records over 36,000 cases in 24 hours||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 96.44 lakh with 36,011 new cases in a day, while 91,00,792 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.37 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,44,222 and the death toll climbed to 1,40,182 with the coronavirus claiming 482 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.45 per cent. There are 4,03,248 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.18 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 14,69,86,575 samples have been tested up to December 5 with 11,01,063 samples being tested on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Song-dance ban at Tikri border||Anyone found singing, dancing or drinking at the farmer protest sites will be identified as an intruder sent to defame the agitation and handed over to the police, farmer leaders said on Saturday. Speaker after speaker who addressed the farmers gathered at the Tikri border between Ghaziabad and Delhi alleged a “conspiracy” to paint the protesters as violent, “non-serious” or paid agitators, and stressed the need to stay vigilant and defeat these efforts. “There is no place for entertainment here. We are gathered here to fight a long battle against the anti-farmer central government,” Hari Krishna, a farmer leader from Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, said. “Those who are dancing, singing, drinking or playing recorded music from their tractors are not part of the protests. They need to leave the place immediately or we will hand them over to the police.” Hari Krishna said those who wanted to sing bhajans or gurbanis could do so while sitting at one place, but nobody would be allowed to create a racket. “We are aware that some anti-farmer people and groups are trying to prove that the protesters against the new farm laws are not farmers,” said Kirat Singh, who had come from a village in Haryana. “They want to prove that we are non-serious and antisocial. But we know their tricks and want to send a clear message to those conspirators that we will defeat them.” Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had alleged that “unwanted eleme nts” had joined the protesters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Show respect: lesson taught in Punjabi||Punjabi music and film star Diljit Dosanjh’s rejoinders in Punjabi to Bollywood enfant terrible Kangana Ranaut over her disparaging comments on the farmers’ agitation have broken the Internet and are shaping up to become a cultural phenomenon. Public spats between film personalities are not uncommon but tweets in a language spoken by only 3 per cent Indians going viral in the country is rare. Dosanjh’s tweets have become a rage, with several translations offered online. They have inspired memes such as: “Whole of South Indian Twitter rushing to learn Punjabi in a day because of Diljit Dosanjh; Central government has been trying to get us to learn Hindi for 70 years.” Dosanjh’s retort of “gallan na ghuma (don’t change the topic)” has already become a standard response to Right-wing trolls, for whom Ranaut has been a rallying point because of her outbursts against the Opposition. Amandeep Sandhu, author and chronicler of Punjab’s history, explained the appeal of Dosanjh’s ripostes to Ranaut, who had targeted two elderly women, one protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the other against the new farm laws. “The influence of Punjab on food, cinema and music is so deep that it is easy to catch up with the language, especially when it is written in the Roman script. Everyone is happy to see the humbling of somebody who looked like the representative of the middle class — struggled to achieve fame, won national awards, and established herself as a great actress — but now speaks like a paid troll,” Sandhu said. “He did not curse, but just kept prodding and was squarely focused on what Ranaut had said about the old lady.” Ranaut had on November 27 tweeted the pictures of Bilkis, the 82-year-old face of last winter’s Shaheen Bagh agitation against the new citizenship regime, and an elderly woman from the farmers’ protest. The actress suggested they were the same person — a protester for hire. In a tweet she later deleted, Ranaut wrote: “Ha ha ha she is the same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most powerful Indian…. And she is available in 100 rupees. Pakistani journo’s have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally.” On Wednesday, Dosanjh posted the first of a series of tweets in Punjabi, written in the Roman script, questioning the defamation of the protesters. He tweeted a BBC video of the second woman that identified her as Mohinder Kaur and in which she explained why she opposed the new farm laws. “Look at this proof @KanganaTeam. A person shouldn’t be so blind. She (Ranaut) keeps on saying anything,” Dosanjh wrote. Ranaut called Dosanjh a “pet” and a “bootlicker” of Karan Johar, a filmmaker she has berated as the “flag-bearer” of nepotism in Bollywood. She accused Dosanjh of misleading the farmers, being party to unspecified bloodshed, and “defending those who caused Delhi riots” — an insinuation, echoed by the Right wing and the police, that protesters like Bilkis had plotted the February riots that killed 53 people, 40 of them Muslims. “You think these people (protesting farmers) want violence? You bring up violence on every topic, what do you want? They’re equivalent to god for us. You never learnt how to talk with respect. Punjabis will teach you how to talk to your elders,” Dosanjh hit back. “Bring it on, you ill-minded rude person,” he said in another tweet. “I was talking about a mother whose picture you put calling her a Rs 100 daily wager. Did you hear her reply or should I send again? Don’t  twist the topic, don’t run away. Your connections may work in Bollywood, not with Punjabis.” Dosanjh’s reminders that Punjab is not Bollywood and his questioning of the way in which even elderly women have become fair game for political defamation have led to many Punjabi celebrities — including those like Mika Singh who have backed Ranaut in the past — speaking out against the actress. Bollywood remained silent except for the usual suspects such as Swara Bhaskar, Taapsee Pannu and Richa Chadha. “Diljit has spoken on behalf of many in the industry who can’t. He could do so because he has the moral conviction to speak against what is wrong,” film critic and author Ziya Us Salam told this newspaper. “Also, he does not have the high stakes that the Khans or Karan Johar have. He has taken the bull by its horns…. He was smart to speak in Punjabi — which is addressed to the farmers — and often writing  something in Hindi or English to keep the attention of others.” Dosanjh’s salvo has compelled the BJP — which found itself at the receiving end of the Punjabi rage provoked by Ranaut — to distance itself from her. Party spokesperson and Punjab politician R.P. Singh tweeted on Friday night: “@KanganaTeam I respect you for your courage & acting but I will not accept anyone disrespecting or demeaning my mother. You must make a public apology for doing so. #MohinderKaur.” Ranaut tweeted a statement on Friday night claiming she had promoted agro-forestry and calling the new farm laws “revolutionary”. “I am with my farmers and people of Punjab hold special place in my heart…. My request to farmers across the nation is don’t let any communists/ Khalistani tukde gangs hijack your protests,” she said. The actress has been slapped with a legal notice from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee for her tweets against the farmers’ agitation. Dosanjh visited the protest site at Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday evening and addressed the protesting farmers in Punjabi and Hindi. “I’m saying it in Hindi too, sir, so you don’t have to Google it. Nothing besides (issues of) the farmers is being spoken about here,” he said. “May the issue not be diverted. May the government agree to whatever the farmers want. Everyone is sitting here peacefully; no talk of bloodshed (here). Many things happen on Twitter; everyone takes you in circles. But I fold my hands and pray to you, the national media, please show it that we are sitting here peacefully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Highway is new home, with friendly neighbours ||Tents pitched on tractors, people busy chopping vegetables to get meals ready, solar panels to charge mobile phones, medical camps and even hookahs — once a thoroughfare teeming with traffic, Delhi’s Tikri border resembles a pind (village) now. “This is going to be our home in the near future as it is going to be a long fight. We are here to stay,” says Gurunam Singh, 50, who came from Punjab’s Mansa district. Since they arrived at the Delhi gateway nine days ago, the farmers have been preparing langar every day to feed over 5,000 people, including locals and visitors.
Doctors have set up medical camps to tend to farmers braving the winter chill. Gurunam, who set out from home on November 26, complained of chest pain soon after he arrived at the Tikri border and was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here. After he was discharged from the hospital, he chose to stay back with other protesters. “We are from Punjab, we spread love wherever we go. Neither coronavirus nor winter can stop us from fighting our battle,” said Gurunam. Over 500 tractors are lined up along the road. Many have posters with messages like “No farmer, no food, no GDP, no future”. Honey, a second-year BA student who discontinued his online classes to join the protest, is busy making one such poster. It reads: “We are farmers, not terrorists”. “I am a farmer’s son. If today I don’t fight for the farming community’s rights, what is the point of such an education?” he asks. Some good samaritans have set up solar panels so that the farmers can charge their mobile phones. Others are providing water, soap, dry fruits and mosquito repellents. Temporary toilets have also been set up at the Tikri border. Acknowledging the support, the farmers said people have not just opened their doors to them but also their hearts. Sandeep Sharma, who runs a small workshop in the area, has laid out pipes to ensure farmers have enough water for bathing and washing clothes. “These farmers are our guests. They are our backbone,” Sharma said. “We would consider ourselves fortunate if we are able to help them today.” “Within a week, we have developed a close relationship with them. When they have breakfast or lunch, they insist we join them,” he added. Krishnan, who supplies medical oxygen, has extended an electricity connection via his shop to the farmers for charging their mobile phones. Two brothers who are doctors in Chandigarh have set up a free medical camp at the Singhu border with the help of friends. Sukhwinder Singh Brar and Ramanjit Singh Brar have stored medicines in two cars. “Most people are coming with complaints of hypertension, joint pain, diarrhoea, constipation,” said Sukhwinder. A team of 10-15 people are working at the camp, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Gehlot: Amit Shah met Congress rebels ||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday created ripples in political circles by claiming that a fresh operation to topple his government was about to begin. Speaking at a Congress function through a videoconference in Jaipur, Gehlot not only talked about Rajasthan but also said the BJP was planning to pull down the Maharashtra government as well. The chief minister had accused the BJP of a similar conspiracy a few months ago when his government was teetering on the brink but the crisis blew over as rebel deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot returned to the party fold along with his supporting MLAs. On Saturday, Gehlot did not offer any proof but said even Union home minister Amit Shah and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had during the failed operation last time met some Congress MLAs. “It was a one-hour meeting. The MLAs themselves told me. They were shocked to see Amit Shah there. He bragged about pulling down five governments and asserted that even the sixth, in Rajasthan, will be toppled. He asked the MLAs to have patience,” Gehlot said. Arguing that the involvement of Shah in such sinister operations was shocking, he recalled how great personalities such as Sardar Patel had occupied the office of Union home minister in the past. Gehlot is clearly not ready to delink the BJP and the central government from the Congress rebellion as he reiterated on Saturday that the conspiracy was foiled by effective political management. He said: “Ajay Maken was a witness to the entire drama. The government survived because we swiftly acted against rebels.” Maken, who is now general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, was also present at Saturday’s meeting. Gehlot’s fresh salvo indicates the trust deficit between the Pilot group and the state government. The allegation of a meeting of the rebels with Shah clearly indicates the plot was not restricted to party’s internal affair. The chief minister might have raised this bogey again as the rebels were promised rehabilitation at the time of reconciliation and he is not amenable to the idea. The BJP reacted angrily to the chief minister’s charge, saying he was disturbed because of his own inability to run the government and the party successfully. BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria said: “Gehlot is worried about the internal frictions. Assurances were made to the rebels and they are not being fulfilled. This dissatisfaction is bound to trigger another explosion.” BJP state president Satish Punia said: “It is unfortunate that the chief minister has taken the name of Amit Shah without providing any evidence. This is irresponsible, against political morality.” Gehlot had repeatedly named Shah and other BJP leaders during that crisis some months ago but he has claimed for the first time that the home minister personally met Congress MLAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Hunt for name takes Centre to RSS lab||“Hitler admirer”, “promoter of communalism”, “Hindu supremacist”, “Godse’s friend”…. A resume bursting with diabolic qualifications has been sprung on the Centre after it decided to name a new campus at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Kerala after M.S. Golwalkar, the late RSS chief. Science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan had on Friday announced that the new campus in Thiruvananthapuram would be named “Shri Guriji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection”. On Saturday, the CPM and the Congress, the principal political players in Kerala and sworn enemies, spoke in one voice, albeit without coordination, against the decision. The expression of outrage was not confined to blind opposition. An alternative name has been suggested — that of a 19th-century bacteriologist and social reformer who overcame caste-based prejudices. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday wrote to the Union health minister: “I request you to reconsider the decision, if it has already been taken, or not to contemplate such a decision, if already not taken.” Vijayan suggested that the new campus be named after an Indian scientist of international repute. “This will keep up the reputation of the institution and help avoid controversies in the public domain,” he wrote. “The institute is a premier research institution and has been above political divides.” Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who is locked in a bitter feud with Vijayan over multiple controversies, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi objecting to the new campus being named after Golwalkar. “Rajiv Gandhi was a great leader who laid the foundation for the country’s progress in science and technology. We can never agree with the decision to give an RSS leader’s name for the second campus named after him (Rajiv),” a statement issued by Chennithala’s office quoted the Congress leader as saying in the letter. The letter demanded that the second campus too be named after Rajiv. “An organisation that stands for communal hatred, fascism and intolerance, RSS is an organisation that is accused of fomenting several communal riots in India,” Chennithala wrote. “It is ridiculous to give the name of a man who once headed such an organisation to a centre of science. This will only help in the growth of communalism. What was Golwalkar’s contribution to science for the campus to be named after him?” Congress politician and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “What is MSG’s (Golwalkar) contribution to science other than promoting the disease of communalism?... Must GoI (government of India) memorialise a bigoted Hitler-admirer who in a 1966 speech to VHP asserted the supremacy of religion over science?” Tharoor suggested the campus be named after P. Palpu, a bacteriologist and social reformer born in Thiruvananthapuram in 1863. An expert in serum therapy and tropical medicine, Palpu was director of the Vaccine Institute and Fellow of the Royal Institute of Public Health. “This forward-looking scientist and medical practitioner would be far more appropriate than an obscurantist ideologue of no scientific achievement and no discernible contribution to public health,” Tharoor said. “It’s an insult to Thiruvananthapuram and it should be resisted.” CPM politburo member M.A. Baby accused the government of a “mischievous move to create communal polarisation in Kerala”. “Naming an institution in Kerala after this Hindu supremacist who laid the foundation for communal polarisation is a deliberate move to provoke,” Baby wrote in a Facebook post. “It is to insult and humiliate our state, which is the land of leaders of cultural renaissance and secular progressive ideals.” Baby added: “Golwalkar was a close friend of Nathuram Vinayak Godse who killed Gandhiji. Golwalkar was arrested on February 4, 1948, in connection with the Gandhi murder case. He got bail after being in jail for six months. “He was the one who gave the lead in spreading communal hatred in India as the chief of RSS when Gandhiji was shot dead. It was during his leadership between 1940 and 1970 that the RSS carried out the biggest communal riots in India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||VIP curse afflicts Covid vaccine trials||A Haryana minister’s tweet two weeks ago and a Union health ministry message on Saturday identifying him as a recipient of a candidate Covid-19 vaccine has puzzled experts who described them as possibly irresponsible statements or breaches in clinical trial protocols. Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij had tweeted that he would receive on November 20 a dose of Covaxin, a home-grown candidate vaccine from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, stirring surprise as protocols disallow recipients from knowing whether they are receiving a vaccine or a placebo. Vij announced on Saturday — again via Twitter — that he had tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the social media platform users to speculate about the vaccine’s efficacy and the health ministry to circulate a message saying the minister had taken “only one dose of the vaccine”. “The antibodies against the infection build up only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose is taken. Since this is a two-dose vaccine. (The) minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” the ministry said in a message circulated to reporters. Researchers feel the episode illustrates how desires by India’s VIPs to associate themselves with the high-profile Covid-19 vaccine trials can sometimes raise questions about the integrity of the trial protocols. Medical experts said there was nothing surprising about a volunteer in the clinical trial developing Covid-19 but could not explain how the minister and the health ministry had claimed he had received the vaccine. The clinical trial is aimed at assessing the protective efficacy of the candidate vaccine through what experts call a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised study in which roughly half of about 26,000 volunteers receive the candidate vaccine while the rest get the placebo. “In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, neither the trial investigators at the site nor the recipients know who is getting the vaccine and who is getting the placebo,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Calcutta who is familiar with trial protocols but was not associated with this trial. The protocols thus raise the question how minister Vij knew he would receive the vaccine and not the placebo. Experts say it is possible that Vij did not know but assumed that he would receive the vaccine and tweeted about it without understanding its implications. “Sometimes, trial participants develop the misconception that they would receive the vaccine and not the dummy placebo,” Tripathi told The Telegraph. “But this represents a failure of the mandatory informed-consent process ahead of the trial which is supposed to clearly convey to participants that they have an equal chance of receiving either the vaccine or the placebo.” A senior doctor associated with the clinical trial said the doctors at the trial site were themselves unaware of who had received the vaccine and who the placebo. Asked why Vij had tweeted that he had received the vaccine, the doctor said: “Ask the minister.” The health ministry did not respond to queries asking how it had claimed that Vij had received a vaccine dose. Under standard protocols for multi-centred clinical trials, the randomisation codes that assign the vaccine vials to certain volunteers and the placebo vials to others are maintained at a central site coordinating the trials and are not shared with the trial sites. “No one at the trial site knows who’s getting the vaccine,” the experts said. Bharat Biotech issued a statement on Saturday underlining that the trial was a “double-blind study” where the volunteers have a 50 per cent chance of receiving either the vaccine or the placebo. Health researchers say the minister’s infection could be easily explained through multiple mechanisms. No candidate vaccine is expected to be 100 per cent effective. The most promising Covid-19 vaccines so far have shown protective efficacies of about 95 per cent, implying 5 per cent remain unprotected. Had Vij received the vaccine, he may have been among the smaller proportion of volunteers expected to develop the infection. Had he received the placebo, he may have been among the larger proportion of volunteers expected to develop the infection. A clinical trial specialist said that any participant who has been told whether they had received a vaccine or a placebo should not be included in the final data analysis of the trial. Politicians in some states have offered to “inaugurate” the trials. In Karnataka, health minister K. Sudhakar graced the inauguration. In Bengal, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar inaugurated the trial while minister Firhad Hakim joined as a volunteer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||British MPs build wider campaign on farm laws ||Thirty-five British MPs have opened a new and wider flank on the farmers’ protest, going beyond Canadian concerns and raising questions about the “impact” of the farm laws. The MPs, several of them with Indian roots, have urged the UK government to speak up for Indian farmers’ right to protest peacefully as well as against the three new farm laws. They have also underscored that 92 per cent of UK Sikhs have ties to farmland in India. The UN too has supported the farmers’ right to protest. Responding to a question on the protests in India, Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, said: “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.” India had sharply criticised Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for backing the farmers’ right to protest, issued a demarche and warned of damage to bilateral ties. But New Delhi has fallen silent since late Friday night after Trudeau maintained: “Canada will always stand up for the right for peaceful protest anywhere around the world.” A media report has suggested that external affairs minister S. Jaishankar has decided not to participate in the next meeting of a Canada-led group of foreign ministers, scheduled on Monday, to evolve a common strategy against the pandemic. The purported reason for the no-show decision is scheduling problems, but it is being linked to the strain in ties with Canada. Jaishankar had last December cancelled a meeting with a US Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude the Indian American Congresswoman, Pramila Jayapal, from the interaction. Jayapal had moved a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown. What the UK parliamentarians are demanding goes beyond what their Canadian counterparts had sought and got Trudeau to do. The concern in Canada related mainly to the Indian government’s use of force against the farmers, and Trudeau’s statements defended the right to protest peacefully. On the two occasions Trudeau has spoken publicly on the issue over the past week, he has not mentioned the contents of the three laws. In the UK, parliamentarians from across the political spectrum have written to the secretary of state for foreign, Commonwealth and development affairs, Dominic Raab, requesting him to call an urgent meeting with the 35 signatories to discuss the “deteriorating situation in the Punjab and its relationship with the Centre”. The letter has called for “representations to be made by yourself to your Indian counterpart about the impact on British Sikhs and Punjabis with longstanding links to land and farming in India”. Explaining the reasons for seeking this intervention, Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi — whose letterhead the joint letter bears — has tweeted: “Many constituents, especially those emanating from the Punjab, have contacted MPs to express solidarity with the farmers.... Dozens of MPs duly deliberated and signed a cross-party letter, seeking justice for the peacefully protesting farmers.” The letter makes it clear that these British MPs had been monitoring the protests in Punjab even before the farmers moved towards Delhi last week. They have written to both Raab and the Indian high commission in London over the past month about the new laws’ impact on farmers and those dependent on farming in India. The letter also refers to an ongoing survey by the Sikh Council UK that shows that 92 per cent of UK Sikhs have ties to agricultural land in India and 84 per cent are personally concerned about the impact of the new laws. Various groups in London have planned protests outside the Indian high commission on Sunday in solidarity with the farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-508
06-12-2020||India||Farmers go into silent mode with telling placards||Farmers’ representatives gave the government the silent treatment on Saturday as they saw the talks to break the stalemate go round in circles for the third time this week. Done talking, the farmer leaders sealed their lips and held up small placards with just “Yes or No” written on them, asking the government whether it would repeal the three laws. This silent protest lasted about an hour after which the three ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar (agriculture), Piyush Goyal (food) and Som Prakash (minister of state for commerce) — left the room, apparently to talk to the decision-makers in the government. They returned to seek more time yet again. Already prepared for the long haul, the farmer leaders accepted the request but said they would not only continue their agitation but go ahead with the countrywide hartal on Tuesday.
They reaffirmed that they would not settle for anything less than the repeal of the three new farm laws besides the withdrawal of the electricity bill that proposes to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution. During the day’s talks, the government had again offered amendments to the three laws, showing willingness to concede more than what was suggested earlier. But the farmer union leaders argued that cosmetic changes would not alter the character of the laws. “No amendment, only withdrawal/ repeal,” was the refrain, with the farmers’ representatives underlining that the farmers had not sought these laws and that these had been thrust on them.
Briefing reporters after the meeting at Vigyan Bhavan, Tomar appealed to the protesting farmers to send the elderly, women and children back home keeping in mind the cold winter.
This point had been raised during the meeting, too. The farmers are said to have told the ministers that if they gave it in writing that the laws would be repealed, the protesters would clear out without delay. Tomar said the government had sought a few firm suggestions from the farmers but had not received them. Farmer leaders countered this saying they had several times given their objections to the new laws in writing to the government. “We have only one demand, and we are clear about that,” a farmer leader said.With the sowing season over, the farmers are prepared to have their patience tested. They feel empowered by the support they have been receiving from the public despite the inconvenience caused by the road blocks. They are also keenly aware that the Narendra Modi government would not yield easily and is buying time to explore the possibility of sowing dissension within their ranks to weaken the movement, or to provoke them into violence to de-legitimise the agitation. The next round of talks has been scheduled for Wednesday morning, but the farmers are not holding their breath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||UGC extends PhD theses deadline ||Research scholars who were required to submit their theses in June 2020 should be given time till June 2021, the University Grants Commission has told the universities citing the constraints the students faced because of the pandemic. Research scholars receive fellowships for five years and must submit their theses by the end of the sixth year, although they can do so anytime after the third year. With the pandemic closing the universities — most are closed even now — the UGC had in April asked the institutions to give these research scholars time till December to hand in their theses. A notification from UGC secretary Rajnish Jain on Thursday asked the varsities to grant them another six-month extension. Some research scholars have demanded the same extension for all the existing batches, since they all had been hampered in their work by the Covid-induced closure of universities. For instance, they said, those who completed their fifth year in June 2020 should have their thesis submission deadline extended from June 2021 to June 2022, and that the UGC should clearly state this right now. “Otherwise, some of the universities may restrict the students who completed their fifth year in 2020 to their normal sixth-year option instead of giving them an extra year,” Abhishek Nandan, a PhD student from Hyderabad Central University, said. The research scholars who completed five years in June 2020 should get an extra year’s fellowship, said Parichay, a PhD student from Pondicherry University. He said many students had planned to submit their theses at the end of the fifth year and it was “not their fault that they could not do so”. “Since the Covid crisis has ensured they will need additional time to complete their work, they should receive the fellowship for that additional period,” he said. Asked by The Telegraph, Jain declined comment on this demand. Lokendra Pratap, a PhD student at JNU, said he had last month received his fellowship dues for July, August and September but “many others haven’t”. Students of central universities protested outside the UGC office on Friday demanding immediate release of their fellowship arrears. A UGC notification on Saturday said the October dues had been released earlier in the day. “The funds have been released from our side. The students will get it by today or tomorrow. The disbursal of the November dues is under process,” Jain said. Told that some students were still to receive their pre-October dues, Jain said: “Let them write to us; we’ll check and clear it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
06-12-2020||India||BJP, Congress teams in Pari village in Odisha ||Politics over the alleged kidnapping and murder of a five-year old girl from Odisha’s Nayagarh district intensified with the BJP and Congress teams meeting the parents of the girl in their  village, Jadupur, on Saturday. While the BJP team was led by its national spokesperson Sambit Patra, the Congress team was led by Odisha in charge A. Chella Kumar.
The BJP team met the deceased’s parents in the morning while the Congress team met them in the afternoon. On the other hand, the ruling Biju Janata Dal has asked the Opposition not to politicise the murder case. After meeting the parents, Patra said: “Everyone in their village knows who has killed Pari. They understand the ground realities. As long as minister Arun Sahoo does not resign there will be pressure on the police. The BJD should suspend Sahoo from the party.” On the charge of doing politics over the issue, he said: “I am not doing politics. I am here to meet the family as a citizen of Odisha seeking justice for Pari. All should be united to give justice to Pari. Our fight will continue till justice is given to the family and the accused involved in the heinous crime are punished. Even after five months of her death no arrests have been made. It’s because of political pressure only.” Patra also held a meeting at Nayagarh with the local BJP leadership and discussed how best to ensure justice to the parents of the deceased. The Nayagarh Assembly constituency is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested the last general elections in 2019. Patra had already met the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and briefed it about the issue. The NCPCR has summoned both the Nayagarh SP and Collector on the issue.
Minister Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh, has been accused of shielding the person involved in the crime. The perpetrator of the crime is known to be a supporter of Sahoo. After meeting Pari’s parents, senior Congress leader and in charge of Odisha Congress, A. Chella Kumar said, “Our intention is very clear. We have demanded a court monitored SIT probe. Whoever the culprit should be brought within the ambit of law and punished. Its not the only case of a girl missing. More than 5,288 minor girls have gone missing in the country in the last four year. We don’t prefer a CBI probe. We have seen what the CBI has done in the case of the death of a girl in Rayagada.” However, BJD’s spokesperson Lelin Kumar Mohanty said, “No political party should indulge in politics over Pari’s death case. SIT is doing its job” In another development, the Special Investigation Team constituted by the Odisha government to probe Pari’s murder detained the prime accused Babuli Nayak in the case for interrogation and also raided his three-storeyed house. “The State government and DG have assigned me the duty. I know my responsibilities. The SIT was constituted only four days back. Give me two weeks time to crack the case. Please wait,” said SIT chief Arun Bothra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-509
