07-12-2020||India||Centre rushes 3-member medical team to Andhra in wake of mysterious disease||The Centre is rushing a three-member team of medical experts to Eluru in Andhra Pradesh where a mysterious disease has affected nearly 350 people, the Vice President Secretariat said on Monday. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who hails from Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, on Monday, spoke with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan after scores of people including children were hospitalised with an undiagnosed illness. A Vice President Secretariat statement said the Union Health Ministry has informed that Dr Jamshed Nayar, an associate professor (emergency medicine) from AIIMS; Dr Avinash Deoshtawar, a virologist from the National Institute of Virology, Pune; and Dr Sanket Kulkarni, the deputy director and a public health expert from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, are being sent to Eluru. Those affected complained of dizziness, fainting spells, headache and vomiting. The vice president was also informed that a poison control team from AIIMS had on Sunday discussed the matter with the doctors at Eluru. Of the 347 affected, close to 200 patients have been discharged from hospital after treatment. Most of the patients were in the age group of 20-30 years, while there were about 45 children who were below the age of 12 years. Naidu spoke with the directors of AIIMS at Delhi and Mangalagiri. He was informed that blood samples of the children have been sent to Delhi, the VP secretariat said. Later, Naidu spoke with Harsh Vardhan and urged him to extend all necessary help in diagnosing and providing treatment to the afflicted. The minister assured him that all steps would be taken to find out the cause of the illness once the lab reports are received, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Athletes march towards Rashtrapati Bhavan to return awards, halted midway||Led by two-time Asian Games gold-winning former wrestler Kartar Singh, a few sportspersons from Punjab on Monday marched towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan to return "35 national sports awards" in a show of solidarity with farmers agitating against new agriculture laws but were stopped midway by the police. Kartar, who received the Arjuna award in 1982 and Padma Shri in 1987, was accompanied by Olympic gold-winning former hockey player Gurmail Singh and former women's hockey captain Rajbir Kaur among others. While Gurmail is a 2014 Dhyanchand awardee, Rajbir was bestowed the Arjuna in 1984. "The farmers have always supported us. We felt bad when we saw that our farmer brothers were lathicharged, roads were closed. Farmers are sitting on streets in the bitter cold for their rights," said Kartar, gold medallist in the 1978 and 1986 Asian games. "I am a farmer's son I still do farming despite being IG, Police," he added. The athletes, who reached Delhi on Sunday, began their march from the Press Club of India but were halted near Krishi Bhavan by the police and sent back. "I would like to request the government to repeal the draconian law. When the entire country was shivering for the fear of corona, they passed the bill in both houses and got it passed from the President," Kartar said. "I agree there is a need for change in farm laws but when our children are not happy, the government's priority should be to make them happy...Why is the government forcibly trying to push the farmers into accepting the contentious bill?" he asked. The Indian Olympic Association offered its first comments on the sportspersons' involvement in the protest, urging them to have faith in the government and to treat their national honours and the agitation as "two separate things." "Off late sportspersons are seen to be announcing return of their National Awards as a mark of their support for the recent farmer's issue. National Awards and farmers issue are two separate things," IOA President Narinder Batra and Secretary General Rajeev Mehta said in a joint statement. The marching athletes claimed to have the support of several Arjuna and other national sports awards winners. Earlier, Khel Ratna awardee and India's first Olympic medal-winning boxer Vijender Singh had also threatened to return the honour in support of the protesting farmers. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at various Delhi border points for over a week, protesting against the new farm laws, which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate houses. Farmers' concern is that these laws, aimed at reforming the sector, will eliminate the MSP and mandis that ensure their earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their produce. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8, supported by various political parties. Noted Punjabi poet Surjit Patar announced on Monday that he will return his Padma Shri award in support of farmers who are protesting against the Centre's farm laws. In a statement, Patar said he was pained at the insensitive attitude of the central government towards the demands of farmers who have been protesting peacefully. The 75-year-old said he has decided to return his Padma Shri award with a heavy heart. Patar had received the Padma Shri in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Centre, Delhi police issue advisories for Bharat Bandh||The Centre on Monday asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during Tuesday's 'Bharat Bandh' called by the farmer's unions and supported by Opposition parties while asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained, officials said. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. The states and UTs were told that peace and tranquillity must be maintained during the 'Bharat Bandh' and precautionary measures taken so that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said on Monday. The Delhi Police meanwhile reiterated Centre's stand and said elaborate security arrangements have been made in view of the 'Bharat Bandh' and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt the movement of people or "forcefully" shut shops. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police (PRO), said adequate arrangements have been made by the Delhi Police to ensure normal movement of people on roads during 'Bharat Bandh' on Tuesday. "Delhi Police has also issued a traffic advisory for smooth movement of vehicles and commuters. Anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement, life or forcefully closes shops will be strongly dealt with, as per the law," he said. Delhi Police has also appealed to everyone to not disrupt the life of common citizens and residents of Delhi. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police on Monday said the Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed, it said. "The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road," it said. Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic, it said. "The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers' protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid the Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use the DND," the Traffic Police said. The Gazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi," it added. However, the Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers and Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, it said. The Traffic Police said those travelling to Haryana can take the route via Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan or Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's two borders to protest against the new farm laws, which many farmers say will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a 'maun vrat' seeking a clear 'yes or no' reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Transporters' union to support Bharat Bandh on Dec 8||Transporters' union AIMTC (All India Motor Transport Congress) on Monday said it will suspend operations in the entire country on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities. It has already extended its support to the farmer agitation from day one. "Earlier it was decided that the transport fraternity from northern India will participate in the Bharat Bandh, but now it has been resolved in the meeting that transport associations and unions in other parts of the country will join the Bharat Bandh and suspend their operations on December 8, 2020," said AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal. AIMTC in a statement said the decision was taken in a virtual meeting of road transport fraternity of India and it was unanimously decided to extend support to the Bharat Bandh. AIMTC's former President and Chairman of its Core Committee, Bal Malkit Singh said it has been decided to organise peaceful demonstrations and protest rallies at truck terminals in districts. Terming the farm sector as the backbone and life-line of the nation, AIMTC said the leaders of transport associations and unions from almost all 739 districts and talukas in the country also came forward and decided to organise a peaceful demonstration or protest rallies in truck terminal under the banner of AIMTC and later try to give a memorandum to District Collectorate and the Commissioners to resolve the issues of the farmers amicably. "We wholeheartedly support the cause of the farmers and look forward to a peaceful and amicable resolution of their issues raised by the government," the statement said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for 11 consecutive days at the borders of the national capital against the Centre's new farm laws. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Air India staff arrested for trying to smuggle gold through Delhi airport||An Air India crew member and a catering staff were arrested by the customs officials for allegedly trying to smuggle into the country gold valuing about Rs 72.46 lakh at the Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi, an official statement said on Monday. The crew, who had come in a flight from London on Sunday, after seeing the customs officers had secreted the gold in the overhead bin of the aircraft, it said. The officers later apprehended the staff of the catering company - M/s Ambassador Sky Chef - and based on the discussion between the above-said crew of Air India and staff of the catering company recovered four kadas' of gold-coated with silver colour from the aircraft on the identification of the crew, the statement issued by the customs said. The total weight of the recovered gold is 1.667 kg, having tariff value of Rs 72.47 lakh, it said. The gold was seized and both the accused were arrested, according to the statement. Further, both the above said persons admitted their role in smuggling of 1.5 kg of gold on December 3, 2020 from London into India, it said. Thus, these two persons were directly or indirectly involved in the smuggling of gold to the tune of 3.11 kg (1.5 kg on December 3 and 1.667 kg on Sunday), the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Farmers: BJP accuses Opposition of indulging in double standards||The BJP lashed out at the Opposition parties on Monday for coming out against the farm reforms enacted by the Narendra Modi government as it cited their earlier support to many provisions of the new laws to accuse them of "shameful double standards." Senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged that a section of farmers has fallen in the grip of a few people with "vested interests" and asserted that the government was working to address their misgivings about the reforms, which have drawn strong protests from a section of cultivators. While appreciating the protesting farmer unions for not associating their stir with political parties, Prasad said the BJP's rivals have jumped into their protest in a bid to save their existence after being repeatedly rejected by people in different elections across the country. He read out from the Congress' manifesto for the 2019 general election to note that it had promises "repeal" of the APMC Act and also said that Rahul Gandhi had asked Congress-ruled states in 2013 to take measures to allow farmers to sell their produce directly. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, who was agriculture minister in the UPA government, had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of three reforms, Prasad said. When the Modi government has enacted these provisions, all these parties are now opposing them. This exposes their "shameful double standards," he said. Opposition parties, including many regional outfits, on Sunday, came out in strong support of the 'Bharat Bandh' on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi's borders for 11 days demanding the repeal of the Centre's new agri-marketing laws. Prominent leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah also issued a joint statement backing the proposed day-long strike and pressed the Centre to meet the legitimate demands of the protesters. The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
07-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine: Serum Institute applies for emergency use authorisation ||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine in the country. Earlier, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first company to seek a similar approval from India's drug regulator for Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19 in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. Pune-based SII has collaborated with AstraZeneca and Oxford University for manufacturing the vaccine and is conducting phase-three clinical trials of the Covishield vaccine in India. "As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, COVISHIELD," Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala said in a tweet. He further added, "This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support." According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI. Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm has stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the UK and one each in Brazil and India, shows that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and most importantly against severe COVID-19 infections. According to sources, this vaccine is logistically feasible for distribution in the country's both urban and rural parts as it can be stored at two to eight degrees celsius. Earlier on November 29, Poonawalla in a virtual press conference had said that the company was in the process of applying in the next two weeks for an emergency use licensure for Covishield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav detained by police||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav was today detained by the police after he led a brief sit-in protest in Lucknow even as the administration sealed the road leading to his residence right ahead of his "Kisan Yatra" scheduled in Kannauj district. A little past noon, Mr Yadav, wearing his party's trademark red cap, and along with a bunch of supporters, broke through police barricades placed near his residence on Lucknow's Vikramaditya Marg. Following resistance by the police, he and his supporters squatted in the middle of the road as SP workers raised slogans against the government, reported news agency ANI. Shortly afterwards, he was detained by the police. Earlier, the authorities had informed that the Kisan Yatra had been denied permission, and detained several SP leaders, besides sealing Vikramaditya Marg. The clampdown had been justified citing the Covid-19 protocol in place across the state. "We were informed that people will gather at one spot and launch a procession from there, and I understand that any crowd that remains static for half an hour or an hour, doesn't help anyone, not even the SP President. We had even requested that the programme be dropped," Kannauj district magistrate Rakesh Mishra told NDTV.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Central Vista: SC nod for foundation ceremony, but with riders ||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the Centre to proceed with the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Central Vista project on December 10 after the government assured it that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decides the pending pleas on the issue. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar that there would be only foundation stone-laying ceremony, and no construction, demolition or felling of trees would be done for the project as of now. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September last year, envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project against which various pleas have been filed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone on December 10 for the new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had said on December 5. This matter was listed suo moto in view of certain developments. After interacting with the Solicitor General and when the concern of the court was expressed, on instructions, the Solicitor General stated that there will be no construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s) nor demolition of any structure will be done, including the further trans-location of the tree(s) will be kept in abeyance, until the pronouncement of judgment in all these cases, said the bench. We take that statement on record. In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on December 10, 2020, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, said in its order. The top court is seized of pleas which have raised questions over several aspects, including the environmental clearance granted to the project. During the hearing conducted on Monday through video-conferencing, the bench asked Mehta to apprise it within five minutes about the government's view on the issue of construction work for the project. The bench observed that it would not allow construction or demolition till its decision on the pending pleas opposing the project. The top court said however that the Centre can proceed with the requisite paperwork in the meantime. On November 5, the apex court had reserved its verdict on a batch of pleas which have raised questions over the Centre's ambitious Central Vista project, which covers three km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi. Mehta had earlier argued in the top court that the project would "save money" which is paid as rent for housing central government ministries in the national capital. Mehta had submitted that the decision to have a new Parliament building has not been taken in haste and no law or norms have been violated in any manner for the project. The Centre had also said there was no arbitrariness or favouritism in selecting a consultant for the project and the argument that the government could have adopted a better process cannot be a ground to scrap the project. Gujarat-based architecture firm HCP Designs has won the consultancy bid for the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The top court is hearing several pleas on the issue, including the one filed by activist Rajeev Suri, against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the nod to change of land use. Earlier, the apex court had said that any change at the ground level made by authorities for the Central Vista project will be "at their own risk". It had made it clear that the fate of the project, which includes several new government buildings and a new Parliament House, will depend on its decision. The pleas have also challenged the grant of a no-objection certificate by the Central Vista Committee (CVC) and also the environmental clearances for the construction of a new parliament house building. One of the pleas was filed against a Delhi High Court order which had said the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) was not required to apprise it before notifying changes in the Master Plan to allow the Central Vista project. The division bench of the Delhi High Court had on February 28 stayed an order of its single judge bench which had asked the DDA to approach the court before notifying any change in the Master Plan for going forth with the Centre's ambitious project to redevelop the Central Vista. The stay order of the high court on the single-judge bench's February 11 direction had come on the intra-court appeal of the DDA and the Centre. The petitioners before the high court had opposed the Central Vista project on the ground that it involves a change in land use of the green area adjoining Rajpath and Vijay Chowk for building new Parliament and government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Kejriwal visits Singhu border to review arrangements for protesting farmers||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday visited the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre's new farm laws, and reviewed arrangements made for them by the city government. The visit comes a day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) extended its support to the ''Bharat Bandh'' called by protesting farmers on December 8. Kejriwal was accompanied by his Cabinet ministers and some party MLAs during the brief visit to the protest venue on the Delhi-Haryana border. "I checked the arrangements. We received a lot of pressure to allow the use of stadiums as temporary prisons but we did not give permission and I feel this helped the movement. Since then our party MLAs and ministers have been involved in ensuring that farmers do not face any discomfort," he said. "We are working like 'sewadaar'. Here I have not come as a chief minister but as a 'sewadaar' to serve the farmers. It is our responsibility to support the farmers. I hope soon a solution is reached," he told reporters. On the bandh called by farmers on Tuesday, the chief minister said, "AAP will participate in the nationwide strike. I hope the whole country joins it peacefully and I appeal to them to join and support the farmers". "I have come to survey the arrangements. The toilets are clean. Water isn't reaching all points so a motor and a pipeline will be placed," he said. "The farmers said they are happy with the arrangements. Our MLA Jarnail Singh spent the night here in support of them. All our volunteers and party members are involved in serving the farmers," Kejriwal added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Sunny Deol believes BJP will do what's best for farmers||BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol says he believes the government at the Centre always thinks about the betterment of farmers and hopes the party will ensure the right outcome after talks with farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have gathered at various border points of Delhi since November 26 as part of their protest against the BJP-led central government farm laws. The protesting farmers are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. Deol on Sunday evening issued a statement on his Twitter handle in Hindi, saying the matter is between the farmers and government, but there are people who are trying to gain something out of the agitation. "I know that many people want to take advantage of the situation and are creating problems. They are not thinking of farmers. They may have their own agenda. "I stand with my party and farmers and will always be with farmers. Our government always thinks of the betterment of farmers and I am sure that the government will ensure the right outcome after holding talks with farmers," the BJP MP from Gurdaspur said in a statement. The 64-year-old actor also distanced himself from Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu's stance on the farmers protest, saying he has nothing to do with the latter's comments. "Deep Sidhu, who was with me during the election has not been with me for a long time and whatever he is speaking, he is saying on his own. I am in no way related to his activities," Deol added. The farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, fear the new farm laws will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Last week, Deol tested positive for coronavirus and is currently under home quarantine at a farmhouse near Manali in Kullu district and is recovering well. He had undergone a shoulder surgery at Mumbai and was recuperating in Manali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Active Covid cases falls below 4 lakh, recoveries surge||India's coronavirus infections rose to 96.77 lakh, while the active caseload fell below 4 lakh and the recoveries surged to 91.39 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,77,203 with 32,981 new infections being reported in a day and the death toll rose to 1,40,573 with 391 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 3,96,729 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 4.10 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 91,39,901 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.45 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,77,87,656 samples have been tested up to December 6 with 8,01,081 samples being tested on Sunday. The 391 new fatalities include 69 from Delhi, 46 from West Bengal, 40 from Maharashtra, 28 from Kerala, 24 each from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and 20 from Punjab. A total of 1,40,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 47,734 from Maharashtra followed by 11,856 from Karnataka, 11,793 from Tamil Nadu, 9,646 from Delhi, 8,72 from West Bengal, 7,924 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,033 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,916 from Punjab, 4,081 from Gujarat and 3,337 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||'Very dense' fog lowers visibility to 'zero' in parts of Delhi||A thick blanket of fog shrouded the national capital on Monday morning, leading to "zero" visibility in some areas and affecting traffic movement. This is the first time that visibility has dropped to "zero" in the city this winter season. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said the Palam weather station recorded zero visibility due to very dense fog at 6:30 am. At the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, moderate fog was recorded which lowered visibility to 300 metres, he said. The visibility should be around 800 metres at the airport for flights to take off, the senior scientist said. Mahesh Palawat, an expert at Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, tweeted, Today, first time Palam Airport Visibility has gone down to zero metres due to dense fog. At 06:30 hours, both runway 28 & 29 are 150 metres. Chances of flight delay. Srivastava said moisture-laden easterly winds and low wind speed led to very dense fog in parts of the city. Delhi is likely to witness moderate fog on Tuesday as well, he said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is dense, 201 and 500 moderate, and 501 and 1,000 shallow. Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 12 degrees Celsius. The mercury is likely to dip with the wind direction changing to westerly-northwesterly. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the upper end of the very poor category on Monday and is likely to improve with the wind speed picking up, according to IMD officials The air quality had turned severe on Saturday with slow wind speed allowing the accumulation of "locally-generated" pollutants. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 394 at 9 am on Monday. The 24-hour average was 389 on Sunday and 404 on Saturday. Air pollution in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad (AQI 432), Greater Noida (410), Faridabad (405) and Noida (414) entered the severe zone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The IMD said the maximum wind speed will be around 15 kmph on Monday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||A fight for the Constitution and all it protects||If Amit Shah blew the dog whistle in the Hyderabad civic polls by promising to liberate the city from the “Nawab and Nizam culture”, a riposte has been winding its way through the lanes and alleys of a panchayat in the Kerala capital. “If you want to know my caste and my faith, they are not attached as a tail to my name but they precede my name. It is sakhavu (comrade).” So goes a voiceover in a 12-second teaser featuring Geetha Nazeer, a CPI member, journalist and author contesting the rural polls in Chemmaruthy, around 40km from the capital city. The three-phased local body elections this time, scheduled to begin on Tuesday and conclude on December 14, are unlike any the southern state has witnessed so far. The unpredictable factor is the BJP, for which Kerala remains the coveted yet distant final frontier. “It is going to be a watershed election in Kerala. Since the 1980s, Kerala has had a two-front system, one led by the CPM and the other led by the Congress. After this election, we will know whether this balance of power will be maintained or not. The favourable factor for the BJP is that it is in power in Delhi. It may not have grown to a level sufficient to replace the CPM or the Congress but these elections will show to what extent the BJP has emerged as a force in Kerala,” said B.R.P. Bhaskar, a political commentator and veteran journalist. “Even if it is a small number, if the BJP is able to break the two-front system, it will change the pattern of the elections in Kerala,” Bhaskar added. Like in Bengal, the Assembly elections in Kerala are just a few months away. Needless to say, all parties have been accused of playing the communal and caste cards, which have reaped electoral dividends in the state in spite of its progressive record on multiple social indices. It is against such a backdrop that the unequivocal declaration of Geetha stands out. Unlikely as it may sound, the contest in Chemmaruthy, whose population was put at 32,444 by the 2011 census, has a few “national” elements. The male voiceover in Geetha’s teaser that gives primacy to political belief over caste and personal faith is borrowed from a 2017 movie, Sakhavu, that sought to shed light on the ideological corrosion in the communist movement. Kerala, as well as the rest of India, has no dearth of explosive film dialogues but other than chest-thumping slogans dripping ultra-nationalism few make it to the electoral platform. Certainly not those that refuse to milk religious sentiments. In 2020 — three years after the film was released — the message that teaser and Geetha seek to convey has added significance because of the “Love Jihad” bogey BJP mascot and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has reinjected into the national discourse. It is not accidental that Yogi also blew his version of the dog whistle in Hyderabad by suggesting that the city be renamed Bhagyanagar. If Geetha’s message is an uncompromising stand against the so-called “Love Jihad”, it resonated in Chemmaruthy for a personal reason, too, although the candidate may never have intended it to be so. Geetha is the daughter of the late N.E. Balaram, the communist ideologue whose Sanskrit was as impeccable as his knowledge of political theory. She had married Nazeer —  son of the late T.A. Majeed, a Muslim minister in the first elected communist government in Kerala —  when the contrived phrase “Love Jihad”  was non-existent. Make no mistake. Geetha is not fighting this election as one that pits ideology against religion. Rather, she is fighting for pluralism. “Whichever caste one belongs, whichever religion one believes in and even for those who do not believe in anything, our Constitution offers protection to all of them. Attempts are now being made to sabotage such a Constitution. We must realise that. We must be aware that they have pushed the country to such a stage that we cannot even choose the food we want to consume,” Geetha told a campaign meeting earlier this week. Geetha told this reporter later: “Unfortunately, the people who adopted intolerance as a winning strategy are at the seat of power at the Centre. Whoever sows the seeds of hatred and animosity in the minds of the people are an enemy to the nation; the British began it and the BJP is following that strategy.” Geetha’s contest also has a bearing on another factor in Indian politics: dynasty. She is the daughter of one of the most respected communists in Kerala but no one can accuse her of taking undue advantage of her family ties. At 64, Geetha is contesting popular elections for the first time. For half-a-century, she played an active role in the party, starting out with student politics and closely associating herself with the women’s wing of the CPI.  It is after such life-long contribution in public life that she has chosen to enter power politics, that too from the lowest rung of democracy. Geetha is well-known in Left circles in Kerala but was unwittingly thrust into the larger limelight a few years ago when she ran into chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan by chance. Vijayan, the Marxist who sports the stern visage of a martinet, broke into an uncharacteristic smile and embraced her. Both hail from Kannur’s Pinarayi village, where the Communist Party’s Kerala unit was born. In an accidental coincidence, Geetha is running for public office at a time the Left is said to be suffering from the ideological corrosion that the movie, Sakhavu, tried to explore. In popular perception, the CPM-led government has been dealt blow after staggering blow by a series of controversies, including a smuggling scandal. Ironically, although few administrations  in recent memory in Kerala have done so much for the people in such a short time, the Vijayan government is facing daunting headwinds as the Assembly elections approach. Perhaps keeping in mind the significant presence of minorities in Kerala, the BJP has so far desisted from playing the polarising card as brazenly as Shah and Yogi did in Hyderabad.
The BJP has fielded 105 Muslim candidates in the local body elections,  including two women in Malappuram district, a Muslim-majority district and a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Sreeraj Kaimal, a 40-year old first-time BJP candidate, contesting in another panchayat, said: “People have stopped believing the ‘communal party’ label foisted on the BJP by its rivals. There is a strong change in the attitude among Christians. Even if that does not reflect in election results, this is a positive sign for the party.” However, a voter who spoke to this reporter on condition of anonymity said: “If they don’t have communal agenda, why did they come to a Muslim house like ours and say ‘Don’t think I am a BJP candidate and so you cannot support me’. I felt bad when they spoke to me like that. It is a question of my identity as an Indian citizen.” Bhaskar, the political commentator, said: “When you look at the electoral history of Kerala, it shows the Left Front always had the upper hand in local body elections. In the Parliament election, most of the time it was the Congress and in Assembly, the alternate system has been in place.  But  people are also aware that of the three major forces in Kerala, the only party that has the opportunity to wield power at the Centre is the BJP. This is one advantage for the BJP. The other advantage of the BJP is that the good effect of the Kerala renaissance, which made it a progressive state, is wearing thin. So, even if the BJP does not perform well, it will emerge as a balancing power in several villages. Also, the BJP has campaigned very well.” Nazeem Beegum is an independent journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||BJP loses election in Varanasi ||University-educated legislative council voters in Varanasi and its neighbourhood have defeated BJP candidates a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid his constituency a visit. The Samajwadi Party has wrested from the BJP both council seats up for grabs from Varanasi — voted on exclusively by teachers and graduates —in the December 1 elections, results announced on Saturday show. Modi had toured Varanasi city and nearby Sarnath on November 30, courting various castes and communities by praying at the Kashi Vishwanath temple and invoking the Ganga, Guru Nanak, Gautam Buddha and Dalit guru Sant Ravidas. At his two public meetings he had defended the new farm bills, accused the Opposition of misleading and instigating the protesting farmers, and asked the crowds whether they were happy with his performance. The BJP-invited audiences had clapped enthusiastically. But the voters of the Varanasi graduates’ constituency and Varanasi teachers’ constituency — representing the intelligentsia of Varanasi and seven neighbouring districts — appear to have been unimpressed. The state’s MLAs elect 38 of the council’s 100 members while the local bodies elect 36. Eight teachers’ constituencies and eight graduates’ constituencies together elect 16 members while the remaining 10 are nominated by the governor. Overall, the BJP gained 3 seats in the December 1 elections, winning 6 of the 11 seats decided, while the Samajwadis won 3, a gain of 1 seat. Independents won the remaining 2. The Samajwadis now hold 53 council seats, with the BJP second at 22. Ashutosh Sinha defeated the BJP’s Kedarnath Singh by 3,850 votes from the Varanasi graduates’ constituency. Lal Bihari Yadav defeated Independent candidate Pramod Kumar Mishra by 936 votes from the teachers’ constituency, pushing the BJP’s Chet Narayan Singh to third. Kedarnath and Chet Narayan had won the last three elections. State BJP politicians dismissed suggestions that Modi was losing his appeal, at least among those with higher education, saying legislative council polls were not a measure of a Prime Minister’s popularity. Modi had during his Varanasi visit taken a cruise on the Ganga and lit earthen lamps at Rajghat to kick off the Dev Deepavali celebrations, held every Kartik Purnima. He later visited Sant Ravidas Ghat and garlanded the poet-saint’s statue. He paid homage to Guru Nanak on his birth anniversary, and visited the Buddhist pilgrimage site of Sarnath to watch a light-and-sound show on the Buddha’s life. Losing BJP candidate Chet Narayan said: “We are reviewing the results before reaching a conclusion on the reasons for the defeats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Congress leads parties in support of farmers||The Congress on Sunday backed the farmer unions’ call for a Bharat Bandh on December 8, asking party workers to mobilise support for the agitation against the new farm bills.
The chief ministers of Punjab and Rajasthan indicated these Congress-ruled states would ensure the success of the nationwide strike. Parties such as the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS), Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, NCP, DMK, Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPM, CPI, Samajwadi Party and the Trinamul Congress too have expressed support for the farmers’ movement. The Congress central leadership has instructed the state units to hold demonstrations and meetings in every district to garner support for the farmers. “Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are the main producers of wheat and paddy, and they are protesting. If the situation is not resolved soon, we will see farmers across the country joining them,” NCP leader and former Union agriculture minister said. Pawar regretted that the Narendra Modi government had passed the three bills in haste, ignoring the Opposition’s demands for a deeper examination and consultations with the stakeholders through a parliamentary committee. All the farmers’ objections that the government is discussing now had been raised by the Opposition parties but the BJP had bulldozed every hurdle in Parliament. The farmers have now forced the administration to relent by demonstrating their collective strength. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera questioned both the Prime Minister’s intention and wisdom, alleging that every decision of his that had not been envisioned by previous governments had proved disastrous. “The country suffered whenever the Prime Minister took a decision on his personal initiative, be it the demonetisation or these farm laws. The question today is, why are the farmers compelled to sit outside Delhi in protest? What was the (reason for the) haste in bringing these laws in the midst of a pandemic?” Khera said. “How was it decided that these laws are in the interest of the farmers, when the farmers say (these laws) will ruin them?” Khera added: “Now the cat is out of the bag — the agriculture minister (Narendra Tomar) has himself said that the corporate (groups) will get angry if we repeal these laws. We know in whose interest the Prime Minister acted, the farmers know, the world knows. “The conspiratorial attitude of the government was also manifested in the attempts by ministers and BJP leaders to malign the farmers. They were called Khalistani, Pakistani and Chinese agents.” The Congress has also brought the charge of doublespeak against the government, which has been claiming the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act will not be abolished and the new laws will not affect the mandi (wholesale market) system that ensures a minimum support price for farmers. The party has uploaded a video from an event during the recent Bihar elections that shows the Prime Minister purportedly saying: “Nitish Kumarji is present here. He understood how the APMC Act has harmed the farmers and hence he scrapped it very early in his tenure. What Bihar did, the entire country is now traversing the same path.” Bihar abolished the APMC Act and the mandi system in 2006. Various studies have shown how this hurt the state’s farmers. While Bihar has the worst public procurement system now, its farmers’ incomes reduced sharply after the APMC Act was revoked. The Congress has uploaded another video showing farmers in Bihar talking about their plight and praising the system in Punjab and Haryana. munications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Out of 30 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, only 793 metric tonnes procured in Bihar by the government agency. The MSP for paddy is Rs 1,868 but farmers in Bihar had to sell their produce in market for Rs 8,00 per quintal.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has reaffirmed his support for the agitating farmers, dismissing speculation about a change in his stand under pressure from the Enforcement Directorate. “I don’t care about these ED investigations. The Akali Dal government conducted investigations against me for 13 years; let there be investigations for 13 more years. I stand with the farmers; the whole of Punjab stands united with the farmers,” he said. Amarinder questioned the Centre’s intentions, saying: “The farmers gave 10 days’ notice to the Centre before marching to Delhi. Why did they not start negotiations then?” “The farmers were protesting, sitting on train tracks, for two months in Punjab and my government did not take a single step against them. Why? Because we know they are right, their demands are genuine. Congress-ruled states passed laws against the central laws. We are fully with the farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-506
07-12-2020||India||Outrage at Twitter action||Journalist and human rights activist Salil Tripathi’s Twitter account has been suspended for uploading a “moving, beautiful poem” for his mother about the Babri Masjid demolition, Gujarat and 1947, author Suketu Mehta tweeted on Sunday, the 28th anniversary of the demolition. Tripathi’s poem is titled  My Mother’s Fault. “Salil Tripathi is one of our most important human rights activists. Absolutely unacceptable for @TwitterIndia to suspend his account. India need’s Salil’s voice!” Mehta, who wrote Maximum City, tweeted. Author Salman Rushdie, too, expressed outrage. “This is an outrageous act of censorship against one of the most important advocates of free speech. @Twitter stop it now! @jack what’s going on?” Rushdie tweeted, tagging Twitter boss Jack Dorsey. My Mother’s Fault By Salil Tripathi You marched with other seven-year-old girls,
Singing songs of freedom at dawn in rural Gujarat,
Believing that would shame the British and they would leave India. Five years later, they did. You smiled,
When you first saw Maqbool Fida Husain’s nude sketches of Hindu goddesses,
And laughed,
When I told you that some people wanted to burn his art. ‘Have those people seen any of our ancient sculptures? Those are far naughtier,’
You said. Your voice broke,
On December 6, 1992,
As you called me at my office in Singapore,
When they destroyed the Babri Masjid. ‘We have just killed Gandhi again,’ you said. We had. Aavu te karaay koi divas (Can anyone do such a thing any time?)
You asked, aghast,
Staring at the television,
As Hindu mobs went, house-to-house,
Looking for Muslims to kill,
After a train compartment in Godhra burned,
Killing 58 Hindus in February 2002. You were right, each time. After reading what I’ve been writing over the years,
Some folks have complained that I just don’t get it. I live abroad: what do I know of India? But I knew you; that was enough. And that’s why I turned out this way. (The poem first appeared in Salil Tripathi’s book, Offence: The Hindu Case (2009), published by Seagull Books)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Farmers' call for bandh unites Opposition||Over a dozen Opposition parties have backed the farmers’ call for a countrywide bandh on Tuesday, while grateful farmer leaders have clarified that no political party would be allowed to use its banners while joining the agitation. The farmer unions have stressed that participation is voluntary and are trying to ensure the bandh remains peaceful, aware that the smallest incident would be blown up by what they call the “godi (lapdog) media” and the government’s army of online trolls. Government supporters have hit back by levelling the charge of hypocrisy against some of the Opposition parties — particularly the Congress and the NCP — alleging they had advocated these same farm reforms when in government. “We welcome the support extended by political parties but we have one condition: they cannot come with their banners,” said Tejinder Singh Virk of the Terai Kisan Union of Uttarakhand. He said that farmers from Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh were picketing the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, belying the government’s claim that only one community from a single state was agitating. Eleven parties have issued a joint statement of support for Tuesday’s shutdown call. They are the Congress, NCP, Rashtriya Janata Dal, DMK, Samajwadi Party, CPM, CPI, CPIML Liberation, National Conference, Forward Bloc and the RSP. The Shiv Sena and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti have separately expressed support for the bandh call. Trinamul too is backing the farmers, and a team from the party has visited the protesters at the Singhu border. “These new agri laws passed in Parliament in a brazen anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of MSP and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporate and domestic corporate,” the joint statement by 11 parties said. “The central government must adhere to the democratic processes and norms and meet the legitimate demands of our kisans-annadatas.” The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has urged all traders and commercial establishments to down shutters on Tuesday, while repeatedly underscoring that participation in the bandh is voluntary. Roads will be blocked and the supply of vegetables is expected to be affected on Tuesday. Exceptions will be made only for health and emergency services, besides weddings in north India where this is the marriage season, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said. Baldev Singh of the All India Kisan Sabha said violence would not be tolerated during the bandh, and action would be taken against those who use force. About Saturday’s talks with the government — the fifth since the three farm bills were passed — Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh said: “We are still engaged with the process because we don’t want a breakdown of conversation.” BJP national secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh dug out newspaper reports from April 2008 that described how farmers were protesting a ban on private purchase of wheat. “The very same farmers of Haryana & Punjab demanding private firms operation. Then why is this Bandh on Dec 8. Who is doing it..? #FarmersWithModi,” Santosh tweeted. An August 2010 letter from then agriculture minister Sharad Pawar is also circulating on various social media platforms. The letter advocates amendments to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act to encourage the private sector to provide alternative and competitive marketing channels in the overall interest of the farmers. Pawar came in for special attention from the Right wing on Sunday because of his statement that the government should take the farmers’ protest seriously or it could spread to other parts of the country. Pawar, who is on record saying the bills were well-intentioned, has questioned the haste in which they were passed without discussion. He had participated in a day’s fast in September in solidarity with the Rajya Sabha MPs who had been suspended for disrupting proceedings after their demand for a proper counting of votes during the passage of the bills was rejected. The government’s critics contended that Pawar alone could not be accused of doing somersaults — he had for company none other than Narendra Modi. They highlighted how Modi had as Gujarat chief minister stalled a switch to the GST before becoming its most ardent advocate as Prime Minister, even organising a midnight session of Parliament for its rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Pfizer's Covid vaccine fine print||Pfizer has signalled its desire to introduce its Covid-19 vaccine in India but asserted that the product would be available only through the government under its global policy to refrain from private sales during the current pandemic phase. The US-based pharmaceutical company has sought from India’s drug regulatory agency an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the vaccine that has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 and was approved last week for public use by UK regulators. Pfizer’s application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory agency, is the first EUA submission for a Covid-19 vaccine in India and implies a potential addition to the bouquet of vaccines that the Indian government hopes to use in its vaccination campaign. But the application comes amid uncertainty over whether the government will procure the Pfizer vaccine — if the CDSCO grants EUA approval — with some health officials having indicated that the Pfizer vaccine would be hard to use in India because of its ultra-low-temperature requirements: minus 70°C during transport. Without government procurement, the vaccine will not be available for public use in India because Pfizer is currently selling only to governments. “During this pandemic phase, Pfizer will supply this vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approval,” a Pfizer spokesperson told The Telegraph. Pfizer has offered to help in distribution through specially designed temperature-controlled “thermal shippers”, in which the vaccines can be maintained at minus 70°C for 10 days unopened. Once the shipper is opened, and if it’s being used for temporary storage at a vaccination centre, the vaccine can be used for 30 days with re-icing every five days, the company said. The vaccine can be stored for five days at temperatures between 2°C and 8°C in the standard refrigeration units available in hospitals across India. A senior health policy adviser to the government told this newspaper on Sunday that the Pfizer vaccine appeared “difficult to accommodate” given India’s public health infrastructure and the low temperature requirement. “The EUA is an independent regulatory decision -– any company can file for EUA,” the official said. The company declined to specify the likely cost of the vaccine for India or how many vaccine doses it could offer India in the early months of 2021. A company spokesperson also declined comment on a report from a health organisation in the US that Pfizer’s vaccine would cost about $19.50 per dose. Pfizer and its collaborator BioNTech, a Germany-based biotechnology company, have said they have a production capacity of 50 million doses during 2020 and 1.3 billion doses during 2021. But Pfizer already has orders from several countries, including Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Peru, Qatar, the UK and the US. The Union health ministry had earlier this year indicated that wanted to vaccinate around 250 million people from priority groups such as healthcare workers and other vulnerable people, with 500 million vaccine doses, by July 2021 and was looking at all possible candidate vaccines. A vaccine from AstraZeneca-Oxford manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to become the second to seek EUA approval. A Serum official has indicated that the company would apply for EUA later this month, citing clinical trial results from Brazil and the UK. India is also evaluating three other vaccines through clinical trials -– two home-grown candidate vaccines and Russia’s Sputnik V. “Between Serum and the two home-grown candidate vaccines, all of which we expect will work with variable efficacy, India will have about 800 million doses in 2021,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School for Biosciences at Ashoka University. “Supply will not be a problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Cops cite Covid to stall Babri march||Delhi police on Sunday stalled a march to mark the anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition, citing the ban on public gatherings in Covid season. Civil society group Lok Raj Sanghatan (LRS) — and its predecessor, the Committee for People’s Empowerment — has been organising the march along with other groups and political parties every year since 1993. The marchers condemn the 1992 vandalism in Ayodhya and demand punishment for those involved. Sunday’s march from Mandi House to Jantar Mantar Road was to start at 10.30am. S.Q.R. Ilyas, president of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s Welfare Party of India (WPI) — one of the participants — told The Telegraph the police asked the marchers to disperse as soon as they started gathering at the Mandi House roundabout. “The police said we had been denied permission, to which I told them that peaceful protests are our right. As they had blocked our path, we decided to conduct the programme there itself and some speeches were made,” he said. “Around 10.45am, while I was speaking, a large number of police personnel came towards us, took away the mic from me and asked all of us to sit in a police van. There were some 500 of us, so they took 30 people inside the van and asked the rest to leave.” Ilyas said that those detained at Mandir Marg police station included WPI leader Mohammed Arif, LRS president Raghavan Srinivasan and secretary Birju Nayak, and Communist Ghadar Party of India spokesperson Prakash Rao. They were released around 4.45pm. Ilyas himself was not detained. Ilyas’s son Umar Khalid, a human rights activist and former JNU student leader, is in prison facing trial under terrorism charges for organising protests against the new citizenship regime that the police blame for the communal riots here in February. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal told this newspaper: “The denial of permission had been intimated well in advance. They were requested to follow the Covid guidelines, which they did not and were hence detained.” Asked whether any charges had been filed, he said if they had, it would be disclosed later. Last month, former CPM parliamentarian and current general secretary of the party-backed All India Kisan Sabha, Hannan Mollah, was booked for a protest against the new farm regime on the charge of violating the restrictions against gatherings. The sections applied can bring a jail term of up to seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
07-12-2020||India||Banaras Hindu University dharna for hostel reopening ||Some 250 students of Banaras Hindu University have been on a dharna in front of the vice-chancellor’s campus residence since Saturday evening, demanding the hostels and libraries be reopened immediately. The university had suspended classes in March and closed the hostels in early April because of the pandemicinduced lockdown. While most boarders vacated their hostels and rented rooms outside, some stayed back, cooking meals inside their rooms and scaling the boundary walls of their hostels to buy essentials. A few girls too stayed back in their hostel, where a small gate was kept open. Nearly 50 women students have joined the protest on the lawns of VC Rakesh Bhatnagar’s quarters. The students planned to spend Sunday night in the open too, amid the cold. “We are trying to solve the problems of the students,” chief proctor O.P. Rai said. “Locking the gates of the hostels doesn’t mean the inmates are locked inside (their rooms). The gates were locked to prevent the entry of outsiders, keeping in mind the pandemic.” Santosh Tripathi, a protesting student, said: “The VC doesn’t want to open the hostels and sent his subordinates to persuade us to suspend our dharna. The proctor said a committee would be formed soon to decide when the hostels and libraries would be reopened.” He added: “The VC has formed committees twice in the past two months for the same purpose. We don’t need a third committee. We expect good intentions from the VC.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-507
