08-12-2020||India||Three Covid-19 vaccine candidates under DCGI’s ‘active consideration’||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said three Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including those developed by Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer, are under the active consideration of India’s drug regulator for their early approval, and there is hope that it would be possible for all of them. Over the last four days, Pfizer India, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Pune-based Serum Institute of India have been applying to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI)  for the emergency use authorisation of their potential Covid-19 vaccine. Addressing a press conference, Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said that the pandemic situation in India is in a stable condition with the active number of cases exhibiting a “clear-cut declining trend” even though in several countries, the scenario is quite the opposite. “The concern and anxiety that arose following an increase in daily cases of infection in Delhi has also settled now,” he said. Asked what steps would be followed by the DCGI in the absence of a water-tight emergency use authorisation law for granting licence to vaccine makers, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said not all countries' regulatory framework or rules and acts mention emergency Use authorisation. “So, the fact that this phrase is not used in the national regulatory framework of any country does not mean that specific country does not have an enabling provision to accord an approval which is early and which is distinct from a regular market approval,” Bhushan said. “India's regulatory framework has a specific provision for grant of emergency use authorisation. Although this phrase is not used,” he added. Under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, in specific special situations, relaxation, abbreviation, omission, or deferment of data including local clinical trial data may be considered for approval. “This is our law. Similarly other countries also have their legislations,” Bhushan elaborated. He mentioned that eight vaccines in India are at various stages of development, while providing a comprehensive view of India’s Covid-19 vaccine scenario. “Another vaccine, which is in initial stages, is the one being developed by Aurobindo Pharma. So there are a total of nine vaccines out of which six are in clinical trials and three are in pre-clinical stage,” Bhushan said. “There are multiple vaccine candidates in different stages of development and some may get licensed in the next few weeks. But we cannot foretell at this moment because licensure or market authorisation is the domain of the national regulator,” he added. Bhushan also revealed that a mobile app, Co-Win, was being developed to monitor the vaccination process. “Co-WIN digital platform includes a free downloadable mobile application which can help record vaccine data. One can register themselves on it if they want the vaccine. There are five modules in Co-WIN app -- administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and report module,” he said. Bhushan said the administrator module is for the administrators who will be conducting these vaccination sessions. “Through these modules, they can create sessions and the respective vaccinators and managers will be notified,” he added. About cold chain infrastructure augmentation, the health secretary said presently the system consists of 85,634 equipment for storage of vaccines at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country. “Data on frontline healthcare workers is being uploaded on Co-WIN software in preparation of Covid-19 vaccination. The current cold chain is capable of storing the first lot of three crore Covid-19 vaccines for healthcare and frontline workers,” he said. He also informed that while  2.38 lakh auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) provide vaccination under universal immunisation programme, only 1.54 lakh such workers will be called in for Covid-19 inoculation. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended that around one crore health workers should be given priority in the vaccination drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Opposition joins hands to meet Kovind over farm laws||A representation of Opposition parties will meet President ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over their concerns on the three new agri-marketing laws enacted by the Centre in September, and to seek their revocation, senior leaders said Tuesday. According to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechuri, the five member delegation, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he, will meet the President on December 9 at 5 pm. “The five of us will probably meet before we meet the President and finalise our strategy. We have spoken to all Opposition leaders and decided our next course of action. The delegation has been limited to five because of the Covid-19 situation although we are trying to see if they allow more leaders to join. In that case we have to rush leaders to Delhi as they are mostly in their respective states,” he said. The news was also confirmed by CPI general secretary D Raja. Sharad Pawar, also confirming his presence, told reporters, “Leaders from different political parties (those opposing the farm bills) will sit, discuss and take a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind.” A sit-in meeting of the Opposition parties was ruled out as most of the leaders are not in Delhi. Opposition parties including the Congress have extended their support to the farmers agitation and demanded the repeal of the three laws. A group of farmer leaders were scheduled to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening, around 7pm, a  day before the sixth round of formal talks with Union ministers is supposed to be held on Wednesday. Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on Tuesday, in response to the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Farmers seek an answer from Amit Shah: yes or no?||Home minister Amit Shah met a select group of farmer union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock on Tuesday night, a day before the government's crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers. Sources said 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations. Among those who were taking part were Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha and Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Some farmer leaders said they first expected the meeting to take place at Shah's residence here, but the venue was shifted to the Pusa area. Earlier, farmers had let it be known that they would demand a simple "yes or no" answer to their demands when they met Shah with union leaders claiming that the Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws was  "successful" and had impacted life in at least 25 states. "There is no midway. We will demand just 'yes' or 'no' from Home Minister Amit Shah at today's (Tuesday) meeting," farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa said at a press conference at the Singhu border. Mansa claimed the Central government has bowed down before the Bharat Bandh. Another leader Gurnam Singh Chadhuni said the Bharat Bandh was successful and that the Central government knew it did not have a way out. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, added Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on Tuesday, in response to the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and many trade unions, came into effect with the maximum impact expected in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests. Security was beefed up throughout the country as loud demonstrations were witnessed in several places. In Delhi’s borders, the number of agitators swelled where thousands of farmers have been holding protests for the last 12 days. Protesters blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. The protest remained peaceful in other parts of the country. In the national capital, markets were open but app-cas remained off the roads, and tension spiralled when the ruling Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Chief MinisterArvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest by the Delhi Police. City police denied the claim but the party stuck to its guns and said the move was a response to Kejriwal meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border, the main access point for those coming to the city from Punjab. “No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence... When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets,” partly leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said. Joining the 'Bharat Bandh' call, some auto-rickshaw and taxi unions also took their vehicles off the roads in the city. Shops, commercial establishments and 3,400 fuel pumps remained closed in Punjab. All major parties in the state, incldingthe ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- have also extended their support. “Over 50,000 government employees have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers”, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.  Opposition parties including the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support to the protest in the BJP-JJP ruled state. Farmers gathered on key roads and highways since Tuesday morning to protest. “Everyone should hold a peaceful protest,” Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said in a video message. The Haryana Police traffic advisory warned that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm, when a ‘Chakka Jam’ is scheduled. Reports of clashes between the workers of the ruling Congress workers in Rajasthan and the BJP came in from Jaipur in Rajasthan.  In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress has joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but has stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Life was disrupted with the railway tracks being blocked in several places and sit-ins on major roads and private vehicles off the roads in many parts of the state. However, public transport, including buses and taxis, operated though in fewer numbers. Daily life was hit in Bihar when protesters blocked highways, roads and railway tracks to extend their support. RJD supporters, and workers of Pappu Yadav's Jan Adhikar Party rallied across Patna and forced shopkeepers to close their shops, deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police. Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers' organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore. Congress and Left supporters blocked major roads elsewhere in the state, affecting normal life in the Biju Janata Dal-ruled Odisha. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, including its capital Raipur, wore a deserted look too with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away. “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) have been staging protests at various locations in the state in support of the shutdown,” said CKMM's Sanket Thakur.  Madhya Pradesh saw sporadic demonstrations, particularly in Seoni-Malwa in Hoshangabad district where protesters under the banner of the Krantikari Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (KKMS) raised slogans and demanded a rollback of the laws. In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine has extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) also remained closed in many parts of the state. The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected till afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Andhra’s ‘mystery illness’ caused by nickel and lead||Presence of lead and nickel in drinking water and milk has been primarily established as the root cause of the mysterious sickness among people in Eluru city of Andhra Pradesh, which has till now claimed one life and left over 500 ill. Based on the preliminary findings of the expert teams from AIIMS and other state and central institutions, health officials presented a report to Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in Eluru on Tuesday. A release from the Chief Minister’s Office, citing the report, said that lead and nickel were the causatives of the unknown disease. Since Saturday night, people in the city were seen fainting suddenly, after suffering from fits and nausea. The symptoms, according to GGH doctors, included a bout of epilepsy for 3-5 minutes, memory loss for a few minutes, anxiety, vomiting, headache and back pain. “More tests are being conducted by Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and other institutes and the results are expected soon,” the CMO release said. “The Chief Minister directed the authorities to conduct a thorough investigation on the heavy metal content in the patients bodies and constantly monitor the treatment process,” it added. According to health authorities, out of the 505 people affected, 370 had recovered. Another 120 were being treated at the hospital. Nineteen more people were admitted to government hospitals in Vijayawada and Guntur for better treatment. Apart from experts deployed by the World Health Organisation, a three-member team drafted by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare arrived in Eluru on Tuesday and went round the affected areas to collect samples. Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas said the affected people were recovering well and there was no need to panic. “Full details as to what triggered the mysterious disease will be known only after the central agencies submit their reports. Primarily, lead has been found to be the cause of the outbreak,” he informed. A special sanitation drive was undertaken in Eluru city and also in the adjoining rural pockets and Denduluru from where the cases were reported. Srinivas, who represents Eluru, went round the localities on Tuesday and inspected the overhead drinking water reservoirs and supervised the sanitation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Bandh leaves a mark across states||Commercial establishments and shops were closed, transport got affected and traffic was disrupted as protesters demonstrated on roads as well as railway tracks in several parts of the country on tuesday, answering the farmers’ call of Bharat Bandh against the three central agri-marketing laws. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and many trade unions, came into effect with the maximum impact expected in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests. Security was beefed up throughout the country as loud demonstrations were witnessed in several places. In Delhi’s borders, the number of agitators swelled where thousands of farmers have been holding protests for the last 12 days. Protesters blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. The protest remained peaceful in other parts of the country. In the national capital, markets were open but app-cas remained off the roads, and tension spiralled when the ruling Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Chief MinisterArvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest by the Delhi Police. City police denied the claim but the party stuck to its guns and said the move was a response to Kejriwal meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border, the main access point for those coming to the city from Punjab. “No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence... When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets,” partly leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said. Joining the 'Bharat Bandh' call, some auto-rickshaw and taxi unions also took their vehicles off the roads in the city. Shops, commercial establishments and 3,400 fuel pumps remained closed in Punjab. All major parties in the state, incldingthe ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- have also extended their support. “Over 50,000 government employees have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers”, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira. Opposition parties including the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support to the protest in the BJP-JJP ruled state. Farmers gathered on key roads and highways since Tuesday morning to protest. “Everyone should hold a peaceful protest,” Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said in a video message. The Haryana Police traffic advisory warned that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm, when a ‘Chakka Jam’ is scheduled. Reports of clashes between the workers of the ruling Congress workers in Rajasthan and the BJP came in from Jaipur in Rajasthan. In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress has joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but has stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Life was disrupted with the railway tracks being blocked in several places and sit-ins on major roads and private vehicles off the roads in many parts of the state. However, public transport, including buses and taxis, operated though in fewer numbers. Daily life was hit in Bihar when protesters blocked highways, roads and railway tracks to extend their support. RJD supporters, and workers of Pappu Yadav's Jan Adhikar Party rallied across Patna and forced shopkeepers to close their shops, deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police. Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers' organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore. Congress and Left supporters blocked major roads elsewhere in the state, affecting normal life in the Biju Janata Dal-ruled Odisha. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, including its capital Raipur, wore a deserted look too with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away. “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) have been staging protests at various locations in the state in support of the shutdown,” said CKMM's Sanket Thakur. Madhya Pradesh saw sporadic demonstrations, particularly in Seoni-Malwa in Hoshangabad district where protesters under the banner of the Krantikari Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (KKMS) raised slogans and demanded a rollback of the laws. In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine has extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) also remained closed in many parts of the state. The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected till afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||India to be in an advantageous position in the post-Covid world, says Modi||Observing that overcoming challenges in the post COVID-19 world and keeping up with the emerging trends is crucial for businesses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India was in an advantageous position with its huge pool of skilled workforce. In a written message to the three-day TiE Global Summit (TGS) being held virtually, Modi said over the last six and a half years, the government has injected a new spirit through wide-ranging reforms in policies and governance and as a force multiplier, technology has been making a positive impact in lives of crores of people. "Overcoming the challenges in the post-Covid-19 world and keeping up with the emerging trends and opportunities is crucial for the businesses and enterprises to stay relevant. In such a scenario India finds itself in an advantageous position with its huge pool of skilled workforce and demographic potential," he said in the message. The PM said the nation was marching ahead with its resolute resolve to build a strong and self-resilient India that encapsulates the vision of world welfare and full integration. The intellect and intent of the youth powers the country's transformation trajectory that has witnessed unprecedented pace and scale in the last few years. Comprehensive measures with integrated approach have enabled a robust ecosystem for enterprise and innovation and have given wings to the ambitions and aspirations of the nation, he said. According to Modi, initiatives such as TiE Global Summit add strength to the youthful nation's entrepreneurial energy. He expressed hope that the gathering of industry leaders, investors, policymakers and various other stakeholders would come up with a future ready roadmap fostering innovation, cooperation and entrepreneurship. The event is scheduled to be inaugurated by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday evening while Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Telangana Industries and IT minister K T Rama Rao and Andhra Pradesh leader of opposition N Chandrababu Naidu are expected to attend the summit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare on fast in farmers' support||Social activist Anna Hazare on Tuesday sat on a day-long hunger strike to support agitating farmers who have called Bharat Bandh demanding the repeal of the Centre's agri laws. Hazare also said the agitation should spread across the country so that the government comes under pressure to act in the interests of cultivators. In a recorded message, Hazare appreciated farmers' protests at the borders of Delhi saying no violence has taken place in the last 10 days of the agitation. "I appeal to the people of the country that the agitation which is going on in Delhi should spread across the country. The situation needs to created to create pressure on the government, and to achieve this, farmers need to hit streets. But no one should resort to violence," said Hazare who began his fast in Ralegan Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. He said this was the "right time" for farmers to come out on the streets and get their issues resolved. "I had backed this cause earlier also, and will continue to do so," he said. Hazare also expressed the need to grant autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) and to implement the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Commission. The octogenarian warned of agitation if the government fails to grant autonomy to the CACP and implement recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. "The government only gave assurances but never fulfilled these demands," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||CM Kejriwal under house arrest, says AAP  ||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest after he met protesting farmers at the Singhu border, a claim denied by the city police. Kejriwal had visited the Singhu border on Monday and reviewed facilities for farmers protesting against the agri marketing laws. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed the Delhi Police has put Kejriwal under house arrest. "On the direction of the Home Ministry, the Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu border. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence and he has not been allowed to meet anyone. When our MLAs went to meet the chief minister they were beaten and thrown on the streets. The party volunteers were also not allowed to meet," he alleged. "BJP leaders are standing at the gates of the residence and are being welcomed by police personnel. There is heavy barricading on all sides and even the housemaid is not being allowed inside the residence. The Centre is scared that if in this Bharat Bandh, the chosen CM of Delhi stands with farmers then the lie of the Centre will be exposed," Bhardwaj charged. Mayors, deputy mayors and various other senior leaders of the three BJP-led municipal corporations of the city have been sitting on a dharna outside the official residence of Kejriwal since Monday to demand the release of "due funds". Bhardwaj further said that AAP members will ensure that Kejriwal is "released". "We were told that there are direct orders from the MHA to keep Kejriwal under house arrest till farmers protest is going on. Today, all our party members have assembled here and we will go towards Kejriwal's residence. if police stops then we will not misbehave but will go to the residence and ensure that Kejriwal is released," he said. Refuting the charge, a senior Delhi Police officer said, "This is not true. The chief minister can come and go anywhere. We have our security personnel deployed outside his residence. Even last evening, he had come out". "There is absolutely no restriction on movement of people. We have deployed our teams there as a precautionary measure to avoid any clash between BJP and AAP members," the officer said. Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) also tweeted a photo of the entrance of Kejriwal's residence and denied the allegations. "This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all," the DCP North Delhi tweeted. Other AAP leaders also claimed that the Centre has put Kejriwal under house arrest to ensure that he does not express his support to farmers during the strike. "Arvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest ever since he returned from the Singhu border. The government does not want Kejriwal to stand with farmers and that is why they took this step," AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh charged. "By putting Kejriwal under house arrest, the Centre wants to curb all the voices that have come out in support of farmers," Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain charged. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has extended its support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmers' organisations. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Huge dip in new Covid cases, below 27,000 after five months ||The number of new COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours was recorded below 27,000 after nearly five months on Tuesday, taking India's infection tally to over 97 lakh, while total recoveries surged to 91.78 lakh, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,03,770 with 26,567 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,40,958 with 385 new fatalities, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 91,78,946, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.59 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 3,83,866 active cases of the infection in the country which comprises 3.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It had gone past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to ICMR, 14,88,14,055 samples have been tested up to December 7, with 10,26,399 samples being tested on Monday. The 385 new fatalities include 63 from Delhi, 48 from West Bengal, 40 from Maharashtra, 23 each from Haryana and Kerala, 21 from Chhattisgarh and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. The total number of deaths reported so far in the country includes 47,774 from Maharashtra followed by 11,867 from Karnataka, 11,809 from Tamil Nadu, 9,706 from Delhi, 8,771 from West Bengal, 7,944 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,038 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,934 from Punjab, 4,095 from Gujarat and 3,347 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
08-12-2020||India||Almost blind activist Gautam Navlakha ‘denied glasses’ in jail||Jail authorities have prevented an “almost blind” Gautam Navlakha from accessing glasses sent by his family after his specs got inexplicably “stolen” inside the highsecurity
Taloja Central Prison, the rights activist’s lawyers and partner have said. The episode carries echoes of the way the Navi Mumbai prison had earlier forced Father Stan Swamy, an 83 year old Parkinson’s Disease patient, to languish for weeks without his straw and sipper despite his inability to drink liquids unassisted without the device. “Gautam Navlakha, nearly 70, patient of several ailments, had his spectacles stolen on November 27. It was an emergency, for he is close to blind without his glasses. Yet, he was not permitted to call his home for a replacement until three days later, but even that call proved futile,” Navlakha’s lawyers said in a statement on Monday night. “His partner Sahba Husain had a new pair made and sent it to Taloja jail. The jail authorities were informed that Gautam was almost blind without the spectacles and that they would be arriving any day and to ensure that the parcel is accepted and not returned. In spite of this the jail refused to accept the parcel when it arrived by post.” Navlakha and Swamy, a Jesuit and tribal rights activist, are accused of links with the banned CPI Maoist and have been arrested with 14 other activists, lawyers and writers in connection with the Elgaar Parishad Bhima Koregaon case. Sahba Husain told The Telegraph: “Whom do I turn to? Isn’t the state government responsible for the jails? They seem to be oblivious of the condition of their jail where Gautam and others have been thrown to perish. It took me oneandahalf months to send him underclothes and slippers, which they kept returning. He uses highpower glasses and is blind without them.” She added: “I had them made and sent on December 3, and today I saw from the speed post website that they had been returned on December 5. Had they (jail authorities) at least opened the package they would have seen the prescription and the note from the optometrist. “The chargesheet has been filed, the trial has not begun, I can’t even meet him in jail, nor can he call regularly because the authorities say this is for Covid. The process itself is the punishment.” Navlakha wears dark glasses with power during the day, and used the stolen specs at night. He is the oldest in his barrack of 21 inmates. He has been given no explanation how the glasses could be stolen inside a highsecurity ward. Swamy had initially claimed the National Investigation Agency had seized his bag, containing his sipper and straw, when he was lodged at Taloja jail on October 9, a day after his arrest in Ranchi. The agency denied the charge, and Swamy filed a fresh plea to direct the jail to give it back to him. His lawyer told the court last week that he had been given a sipper, after almost a month’s legal proceedings, along with warm clothes that he had sought. Fellow accused and Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, had to petition Bombay High Court to be moved to a private hospital after he caught a urinary tract infection in the jail hospital that had failed to change his urinary catheter for three months. In a media release in October, the NIA had claimed that Navlakha who turns 69 this month  was a Maoist operative tasked to “unite intellectuals against the government” who also recruited cadres and had links with Pakistan’s ISI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Supreme Court frowns on vista work, allows PM’s event||The Supreme Court on Monday rapped the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny, but allowed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament House on December 10. The three-judge bench, however, recorded an undertaking from the government that no further construction, demolition or tree removals would be taken up until the court had decided on a batch of public interest petitions seeking scrapping of the project. “It should not be a fait accompli to the court. Some deference should be shown to the court,” the bench, headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta after taking cognisance of news reports about continuing construction and tree removals for the project. “We thought we were dealing with a prudent litigant (the Centre) and deference will be shown to the matter being heard,” the bench, which included Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, added. The project, estimated to cost over Rs 20,000 crore, aims to erect new buildings for Parliament, the central secretariat and the residences of the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. “Just because there is no stay it does not mean that you can go head-on with everything…. We expected that you will also act in a prudent manner — there should be no demolition or construction,” Justice Khanwilkar said. “You can lay the foundation stone, you can carry on paperwork but no construction or demolition, no cutting down any trees…. We expected that you will continue with paperwork, etc, but not move forward so aggressively that you will start construction.” Justice Khanwilkar added: “We did not pass any clear stay order because we thought you are a prudent litigant, and you will show deference to the court. The news items in public domain show you are starting construction.” Mehta apologised and the hearing was briefly halted so he could seek instructions from the government. After proceedings resumed, Mehta assured the court that no further construction, demolition or tree removals would be taken up without the court’s consent. “In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on 10th December, 2020,” the court order said. Environmentalists and other NGOs have moved a raft of public interest pleas arguing the Central Vista project is unnecessary and alleging the government has not conducted a proper environment impact assessment. During earlier arguments, the Centre had defended the project saying: “The old Parliament building is under tremendous stress, necessitating a new Parliament building.” It had assured the court that no heritage structure would be dismantled — rather, they would be converted into museums.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||President keeps sports heroes waiting||Police on Monday afternoon stopped a march to Rashtrapati Bhavan by seven sportspersons who, led by two-time Asian Games champion wrestler Kartar Singh, wanted to return their awards and medals. The athletes, who planned to return 35 awards in all, are yet to receive an appointment from President Ram Nath Kovind. Their march was stopped as soon as it had begun from the Press Club of India. “We felt bad to see our farmer brothers lathi-charged and the roads closed (to prevent them entering Delhi),” Kartar, who won gold in the 1978 and 1986 Asian Games, told reporters. “Farmers are sitting on the streets in this bitter cold for their rights. I’m a farmer’s son and I still do farming despite being an IG (inspector-general of) police.” Kartar retired from Punjab police in 2013. The other six athletes included the Dhyan Chand awardee hockey player Gurmail Singh, part of the gold-winning team in the 1980 Olympics, and his wife and former national women’s hockey captain and Arjuna awardee Rajbir Kaur. Gurmail retired as a superintendent of police, and he and his wife joined the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2017. Recently, Olympic bronze-winning boxer and Congress member Vijender Singh too had threatened to return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award and the attendant benefits if the new farm regime was not rescinded. Gurmail told reporters: “Let the government declare that it will withdraw the (new farm) laws…. We are returning the awards because the farmer stands above all; everything else comes later.” After being stopped at a police barricade in front of Krishi Bhavan, the athletes left with their awards and said they would be joining the protesting farmers at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana. News agency PTI quoted a statement issued by the Indian Olympic Association on Monday, which said: “Of late sportspersons are seen to be announcing return of their national awards as a mark of their support for the recent farmers’ issue. National awards and farmers’ issue are two separate things…. “Every Indian, including us, loves and supports the farmers and we all would always like our farming community to be happy as they are the ‘annadatas’ (providers) of our country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Kerala CPM worker murdered||The murder of a CPM worker in Kerala’s Kollam district has taken a political turn with the party accusing the Sangh parivar of plotting the incident to disturb peace in the state. Manilal, 45, who worked as an aluminum fabricator and was an active member of the CPM in Munroe Island in Kollam, died of a single stab that is suspected to have pierced his heart. Within hours of the incide­nt that took place around 8.30pm on Sunday at a busy intersection in Munroe Island, police detained accused Asho­k­an and his accomplice Sathyan. No arrests have been made till Monday evening as the investigation team was waiting for the post-mortem report. Ashokan is a former cop with Delhi police and had returned to his native place a few months ago after taking voluntary retirement. Kollam rural police superintendent K. Ilango told repor­ters on Monday that all angles were being probed. “We are lo­oking at the personal and poli­tical angles,” he told reporters. Manilal is the fifth CPM worker to be killed in just five months. The incident, which took place just 36 hours before the local council polls, has sent shockwaves across the state. Local CPM sources said Manilal had just finished campaigning for the local body polls, stepped out of the Left Democratic Front’s election campaign office and was on his way home when an inebriated Ashokan arrived in an autorickshaw driven by Sathyan. An argument ensued when Ashokan allegedly abused Manilal and the CPM. Manilal is suspected to have slapped Ashokan who then drew a knife and stabbed him in the chest. While Ashokan and Sathyan fled the scene in the auto, party workers rushed a bleeding Manilal to a CPM-run co-operative hospital where he was declared dead. CPM state secretariat member K.N. Balagopal, who was among the leaders who visited the spot, told a news channel on Monday that it was indeed a political killing. “Before the last local council election (in 2015), Manilal had joined the BDJS (Bharat Dharma Jana Sena), but later returned to the CPM apparently because of that party’s links with the BJP. That could be a reason for this cold-blooded murder,” Balagopal said. He said Ashokan was inducted into the BJP by state president K. Surendran at a public event in October. But Kollam district BJP president B.B. Shrikumar told The Telegraph that Ashokan had nothing to do with the BJP or any of the Sangh parivar organisations. “I am the district president and I would know if someone was admitted to our party,” he said. “Manilal and Ashokan were friends and the murder followed a drunken brawl. The CPM is trying to leverage this incident to draw electoral benefits since they realised they would lose the Kollam local body,” Shrikumar said. Acting secretary of the state CPM unit, A. Vijayaraghavan condemned the incident and blamed the BJP for the murder. “This brutal murder was part of a Sangh parivar conspiracy to disturb peace in the state ahead of the local body polls,” Vijayaraghavan told reporters in Thrissur. “Destroying peace by giving membership to criminals is the BJP’s larger agenda in Kerala,” the CPM leader said. He reminded that Manilal was the fifth CPM worker to get killed at the hands of either Congress workers or RSS activists. Congress worker and ward councillor Kavil Nisam was arrested in August over the murder of CPM worker Ziyad in Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district. At least four Congress workers were charged with the twin murders of Mithilaj and Haq Mohammed in Venjaramoodu, Thiruvananthapuram, on August 30. In a similar incident, a man linked to the Bajrang Dal was arrested for stabbing to death P.U. Sanoop, a CPM branch secretary in Thrissur in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||No coercion on Bharat Bandh: Farmers’ unions||The farmers’ unions on Monday stressed that participation in Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh was voluntary and that no one should be forced to comply. The agitation leaders are awaiting word from the government interlocutors on whether a decision has been taken on their demand for repeal of the three new farm laws. Given the security the government is arranging to tackle the bandh, the farmer leaders do not appear very hopeful about their demands being met right away, or even about receiving a proposal for consideration. While the government has launched a broadside against Opposition parties that have backed the bandh call, the farmer leaders have been contending they cannot be held responsible for anyone supporting their agitation. “We have been clear from the beginning that we will not allow our platform to be used by any political party,” Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Morcha told reporters at the Singhu border on G.T. Karnal Road. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal came today (Monday) but he was not allowed to get onto the stage and address the farmers.” Commenting on the BJP allegation that the farmers are being misled by political parties, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told The Telegraph: “No one was with us for six months. The political parties have come out in support only now when the andolan (movement) has peaked.” The farmers have made it clear that political parties supporting them should do so without their party banners, even during Tuesday’s bandh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||CRPF moves to drop khaki to create separate identity||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the country’s largest paramilitary force, has moved a proposal seeking to change the khaki uniform of its over 3 lakh personnel to give the CRPF a separate identity. CRPF director-general A.P. Maheshwari last week had moved the proposal with all the formations of the force while interacting with them online and sought their suggestions. “CRPF being the largest paramilitary force is the sentinel of the Union with regard to the internal security. The khaki uniform, which is worn by CRPF personnel, is very common with all the state/UT police, paramilitary forces. Besides, khaki uniform is also worn by postal delivery man as well as delivery of Indian Gas supplier which somehow degrade our quality/action,” said a CRPF circular on his address to the officers. “To make the CRPF more unique with the uniform and give a separate identity, a new uniform other than khaki should be introduced,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||BJP ‘land jihad’ allegation backfires||When the courts quashed the Roshni Act that regularised encroachments on government land in Jammu and Kashmir, a gleeful BJP had alleged the legislation represented a “land jihad” by Muslims keen on settling in Jammu to change its Hindu-majority demography. Now the BJP-controlled administration of the Union Territory has sought a review of Jammu and Kashmir High Court’s October 9 order, having realised that the bulk of the 19-year-old law’s beneficiaries in Jammu were non-Muslims. The government affidavit, moved on Friday, has sought modification of the court order — which declared the Roshni Act unconstitutional and directed retrieval of the occupied plots — saying it may “unintentionally” affect a large number of poor people. Lists of the act’s beneficiaries that the government has released over the past fortnight under the court’s orders reveal that the overwhelming majority among the beneficiaries in Jammu were non-Muslims. For instance, one of the earliest lists that named 541 beneficiaries in Jammu contained only 3 Muslim names. Jammu lawyer Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, who had campaigned against the law for years but felt outraged when it was given a communal colour, recently told this newspaper that of the 44,000 kanals (5,500 acres) encroached on in Jammu district, only 1,180 kanals (2.7 per cent) had gone to Muslims. Jammu district is one of Jammu province’s 10 districts. The government’s affidavit urged the high court to distinguish between influential and ordinary beneficiaries. Earlier, the administration had publicly accused several senior Valley politicians, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, of being beneficiaries of the act, passed during Farooq’s tenure as chief minister. The politicians had denied the allegation. Many believe that the first lists were released just before the district body polls, which started on November 28, to tarnish politicians who had formed an alliance to contest the elections to try and prove to the world that Kashmiris want Article 370 restored. Ahmad, the lawyer, told a news conference in Jammu that at least three senior BJP politicians had encroached on government land and wondered why their names had not been made public. The BJP has denied the charge. “We would like to bring to the kind notice of the hon’ble court the fact that a large number of common people would suffer unintentionally,” the government affidavit says. “This includes landless cultivators and individuals who are themselves residing in dwellings on small areas. They are unfortunately clubbed along with the rich and wealthy land-grabbers....” The affidavit urged the court “to come up with appropriate mechanisms” to enable the poor beneficiaries to retain their plots “subject to an appropriate ceiling and on payment at an appropriate rate”. Raja Muzaffar Bhat, a politician and activist campaigning against the eviction of poor beneficiaries, said the government seemed to have realised that “their men” would be hit. “I think there was pressure from influential people within as well as from ordinary people to make amends.…There are a lot of non-Muslims in Jammu, many of them also poor, who have benefited and they would have been hit hard,” Bhat told The Telegraph. “The government has issued thousands of eviction notices to poor people who have been living for generations on forestland. They have the right to live there under certain central laws that were extended (to Jammu and Kashmir) after the abrogation of Article 370 provisions.” BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta said the review had been sought to “avoid collateral damage”, and drew a distinction between “general people and rich land-grabbers”. Evictions “could have caused unrest among the poor”, Gupta said, adding that the review plea had “nothing to do with politics or winning elections”. “Some people see politics in whatever we do and are raising these issues after realising they are losing the (district body) elections,” he said. The eight-phase District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir end on December 22. According to the high court, 604,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of encroached-on government land had been transferred to the occupants against nominal payments. Of this, the Jammu region accounted for 571,210 kanals (71,401 acres) — 17 times the land regularised in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Deadline extended third time for engineering admission||Technical education regulator All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has extended the deadline for admission into engineering courses in a few states from November-end to December 31, suggesting the students may have to forgo their summer vacation completely. Last week, the council issued a notification in this regard. This is for the third time this year that the council has extended the deadline of admission that usually gets over by August-end. Academicians disapproved the idea of no summer vacation arguing that they do contribute to efficiency and academic excellence. Earlier states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Haryana had demanded extension because their state-level common entrance tests (CET) were delayed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The last date for admission to Engineering Courses is extended up to 31st December, 2020 in only those cases where counselling and admission had not started due to delayed CET of the state or where counselling has yet not been over with a rider that classes were not started for more than 15 days to take care of the academic requirements of the students to avoid academic loss,” said the notification. AICTE member secretary Prof Rajive Kumar told this newspaper that the institutions can complete the academic transactions by adjusting the summer vacation. “The admission gets over by August. This year, there will be a loss of four months for many students. The institutions can still compensate this loss by shortening the summer and winter vacations,” Kumar said. Usually, the engineering institutions complete their first-year transactions by April. Then the students get more than two months of summer break. They also get a winter break from Christmas (December 25) to January 10. Prof Sunil Sarangi, former director of NIT Rourkela, said that cancelling a vacation completely is not a good idea. “Vacation is not a waste of time. It is required for students and employees to enhance their productivity and efficiency. So complete cancellation of leave would affect the quality of learning,” Sarangi said. He said the state-level CETs are being held about a month after the national-level entrance tests like JEE Main and JEE Advanced. He said that states must reduce their waiting time and conduct the tests immediately after the national-level tests. The AICTE should also provide guidance to states on scheduling their tests, he added. A teacher of an engineering college in Karnataka said in view of the economic recession, parents would not prefer to get their wards admitted into costly courses. Hence, the demand for engineering courses is low. “Admission is an important activity for a private college. They will prefer to linger the process as much as possible to get their seats filled up,” he said. Despite all efforts, only 50 per cent seats get filled in most of the private colleges. This year, the occupancy of seats may go below 40 per cent, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Supeme Court rejects  ‘ambitious’ Arnab plea ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain Arnab Goswami’s ARG Outlier Media’s plea for protection from any “coercive action” against the channel’s employees or staff by Mumbai police in connection with various criminal cases registered against the media outlet, terming the petition as “ambitious”. Besides seeking protection for the channel’s employees from any coercive action in connection with the TRP manipulation case, the channel also wanted various other criminal cases registered against its employees and others for allegedly causing disaffection among people through as a couple of its programmes to be transferred to the CBI. “How can we entertain this? The petition is ambitious. You want Maharashtra police not to arrest or take any coercive action against your employees. You want the cases to be transferred to the CBI? How can this be done in one petition? You better withdraw it,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee told senior advocate Milind Sathe who appeared for the channel. Following this, the channel withdrew the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||Kerala to challenge constitutional validity of farm laws in Supreme Court||The Kerala government has decided not to implement the contentious farm laws and instead challenge their constitutionality in the Supreme Court. State agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Monday told reporters in Thrissur that the state would file its petition this week itself challenging the constitutional validity of the laws that impinge on what is essentially a state subject. “As per the Constitution, the central government has no right to frame laws on state subjects. This (the farm laws) is a blatant violation of the constitutional provisions in this matter,” said Kumar. He said the state government has directed the advocate general to file cases against all three agriculture-marketing legislations that have led to a nationwide agitation. Thousands of farmers  have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi for about two weeks demanding that the farm laws be repealed. “The Centre is trying to take away even the states’ powers mainly to protect the interests of large corporations,” the minister said. While Opposition-ruled states such as Rajasthan have already moved the apex court against the farm laws, Kumar said Kerala was yet to take a decision on whether to implead in those cases or file separate petitions. “We have asked the advocate general to provide legal advice on this,” he said. Agitating farmers have expressed fear that the new set of laws would eventually dismantle the cushion of minimum support price and they would end up at the mercy of large corporate buyers. The Left parties have come out in support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmers’ organisations that have declared that they would settle for nothing less than the withdrawal of the farm laws hurriedly passed by the NDA government. Kerala had become the first state to fix minimum support prices for vegetables. Announced in October, the scheme came into force on November 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-504
08-12-2020||India||BJP accuses Congress of double standards ahead of countrywide bandh||The BJP on Monday accused the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, of “shameless double standards” for supporting the farmers’ protest, betraying jitters before the countrywide bandh on Tuesday. The ruling party fielded law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in Delhi and chief ministers and former chief ministers in the states to launch an all-out attack on the Opposition ahead of the strike. Prasad claimed the Manmohan Singh government had been pushing the same reforms when it was in power. “This press conference is designed to expose the shameless double standards of the non-BJP Opposition parties as far as reforms in the farming sector is concerned,” he said. “In its 10 years, the Manmohan Singh government and their state governments have been doing the same things,” Prasad said, adding that contract farming had started in many Congress-ruled states. The BJP has been levelling these charges ever since the protests against the new farm laws began. What, however, was important in the repetition on Monday was the timing, a day ahead of the countrywide strike call issued by the farmers’ unions and backed by the Opposition. The minister said while he appreciates the farmers for not allowing political parties to join their protest, the way the parties were jumping on the bandwagon showed they were “opposing the Narendra Modi government for opposition, forgetting their work in the past”. Prasad quoted from the 2019 poll manifesto of the Congress and said the party had promised to “repeal the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) Act” and make “inter-state trade free of restrictions”. The BJP has levelled this accusation in the past too and the Congress has responded that their idea of reforms was very different. On Monday, too, the Congress iterated that it was not against reforms but was against allowing corporate takeover of the farm sector, which it accused the new farm laws of doing. Prasad sidestepped the details in the new laws and alleged that the Opposition was using the farmers’ protest as another issue to target Modi. The minister also attacked NCP chief Sharad Pawar, saying that as agriculture minister in the UPA government he had written letters to all chief ministers and pitched for “private sector participation”. “...Private sector participation is essential for which an appropriate policy and regulatory mechanism environment needs to be in place,” Prasad quoted from a 2010 letter purportedly written by Pawar to then Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit. He referred to a media interview and said Pawar in 2005, in response to a question, had said that the “APMC Act will end in six months” and claimed he had even talked about stopping financial support to states if they didn’t go for reforms. The Left parties were supporting the UPA government and didn’t oppose these moves, Prasad said. But although Prasad accused Pawar of opposing the farm laws, the NCP boss has only opposed the manner in which they were pushed and has urged the government to take the protest seriously. Since the farmers’ protest began, the BJP has been trying to malign and discredit it, branding the protesters “Khalistanis”. On Monday, however, Prasad did not comment on the farmers. Badal writes to Modi A day before the bandh, longtime BJP ally Parkash Singh Badal who had walked out of the National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek his “personal intervention” to resolve the farmers’ crisis. The Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch invoked the days of the Emergency and “dictatorship” to underline the need for amicable solution through consensus with all stakeholders. The first step should be withdrawal of the three farm laws, followed by making minimum support price a “statutory legal right”, as recommended by the Swaminathan Commision, he wrote. “In the end, I wish to re-emphasise the need for a liberal, secular democratic approach to solve all the problems facing the country today, including this one,” Badal wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi pins ‘Adani-Ambani’ tag on farm laws||The Congress on Monday asserted that it was not opposed to reforms in agriculture but would not allow corporatisation of the sector to the detriment of farmers. Rahul Gandhi stressed this point by describing the controversial laws as the “Adani-Ambani Laws”. In a tweet on Monday morning, he said: “The ‘Adani-Ambani Farm Laws’ have to be revoked. Nothing less is acceptable.” In the evening, Rahul issued a call to support Tuesday’s Bharat bandh, again using the label “Adani-Ambani Farm Laws”. “A peaceful Bharat bandh will be observed on December 8 in support of the farmers’ protest. We fully support the bandh. Injustice and atrocities on farmers is intolerable. Withdraw the Adani-Ambani Farm Laws.” Party president Sonia Gandhi too has decided not to celebrate her birthday on December 9 in solidarity with the protesting farmers. General secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal wrote to the state units and frontal organisations of the party not to hold any celebrations, including cake-cutting. The party has asked its workers to hold demonstrations in every district in the country and ensure the success of the Bharat bandh. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar later told a news conference: “The Congress is not opposed to reforms in agriculture sector. Rahul Gandhi has also said on several occasions that there is need for improvement in the existing mandi system. But if there is an attempt to hand over the entire agriculture trade to a few corporate houses, we will not allow that. We don’t believe that there are merely some flaws in the three laws; we believe the objective is wrong. The basic intent of the government is under suspicion.” Jakhar continued: “The objective is corporatisation. The government wants to allow the corporate houses to indulge in cherry-picking, aimed at privatising profits and nationalising losses. The government should not act as a lobbyist of corporate houses.” The Congress leader said: “Why was a consensus not evolved before enacting the laws? What is happening at Vigyan Bhawan (point-by-point negotiation) should have happened in Parliament.” Asked why the Opposition parties were not paying heed to the Prime Minister’s repeated assurances that the existing procurement system would not be abolished and the MSP (minimum support price) would continue, Jakhar said: “The question is about lack of credibility. Modiji said notebandi will finish corruption and black money but nothing of that sort happened. Modiji said railways will never be privatised and privatisation started within months. Modiji said the corona battle will be won in 21 days. His track record doesn’t leave any room for trust.” Jakhar added: “The Prime Minister’s feelings were hurt when Opposition MPs, sitting throughout the night in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on Parliament premises in protest against unconstitutional passage of the farm laws, refused tea brought by the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. But his feelings were not hurt when water cannons were used on peaceful march of farmers, roads were dug on the way and lakhs of farmers were forced to sit in this winter on the Delhi border. “He referred in his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ to a farmer benefiting from the new laws and the same farmer is now sitting in protest at Singhu border. Now he doesn’t have time to talk to them.” Jakhar also brought in the national security angle.  “Farmers are sitting on Delhi border and their sons are sitting on borders with Pakistan and China. Majority of soldiers come from rural background. “Food security is part of national security. Our foreign policy can be influenced if we have to depend on any country for food imports. If national security cannot be outsourced, even food security cannot be outsourced,” he said. Responding to law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s charge that the Congress had promised the same in its manifesto, Randeep Surjewala said: “What you are doing is called, Chor machaye shor. Modi government secretly brought ordinance in the darkness of night and pushed the bills through Parliament by voice vote to help crony capitalists. And the blame will be shifted on the Congress!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Farm law protests: Akhilesh Yadav barred at home, detained ||The police prevented Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav from stepping out of home early on Monday morning, and later detained him in the afternoon when he began a dharna near his residence protesting against the new farm laws. Earlier, the former chief minister had told reporters his party had planned protests across Uttar Pradesh in solidarity with the protesting farmers. “I wanted to go to Kannauj to lead the protest there but the police didn’t let me move out of my home for many hours in the morning. Nor did the Kannauj administration give us permission for a procession,” he said. “I wrote today to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to withdraw the new farm laws as they are a death warrant for the farmers. We have announced our support for the farmers’ Bharat Bandh call (on Tuesday).” Later, as Akhilesh started his dharna at the Bandariyabagh Crossing, about 50 metres from his home, the police took him to the Eco Garden park, 10km away, and detained him there from about noon to 5pm. Akhilesh said the police had put many Samajwadi leaders under house arrest across the state. Chandrashekhar Singh, local station house officer, said: “We had posted forces near the leader’s (Akhilesh’s) house to prevent him going to Kannauj. We later detained him and his supporters and released them after a few hours.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke on the importance of reforms in general without mentioning the contentious new farm laws. Ahmedabad: Twenty-three farmer groups here have formed the Gujarat Khedut Sangharsh Samiti and are supporting the Bharat bandh. “We will hold protests all over Gujarat on December 10,’’ Jayesh Patel of Gujarat Khedut Samaj said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
08-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine emergency use scan ||India’s drug regulatory agency is set to review applications for the emergency use authorisation of one homegrown and two foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines which, if approved, would enable the government to roll out its planned immunisation campaign within weeks. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Monday filed an EUA application with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the third such submission to the regulator after EUA applications from Pfizer and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. The Serum Institute is manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India. The Pfizer vaccine has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 in clinical trials in the US and other countries, while the AstraZeneca vaccine has shown 62 per cent efficacy in one dosing regimen and 90 per cent efficacy in another in the UK and Brazil. Bharat’s vaccine is currently under assessment for efficacy through a nationwide clinical trial involving 26,000 volunteers. Health officials said each vaccine would be assessed through accelerated reviews to determine they qualify for EUA, a process that allows the CDSCO to waive certain regulatory requirements to make available critical drugs or vaccines during health emergencies. The EUA reviews for the three vaccines would rely on different sets of clinical trial data. Pfizer has submitted clinical trial data from other countries, while the Serum Institute will combine foreign and Indian clinical trial data, and Bharat’s data was generated within India. The Union health ministry has indicated that the Covid-19 immunization campaign would initially seek to vaccinate around 10 million healthcare staff and 20 million frontline workers with high occupational vulnerability to Covid-19. The goal would be to vaccinate in the coming months 250 million to 300 million people from high-priority groups vulnerable to the infection or severe disease, said an official guiding India’s Covid-19 vaccination strategy. India will need 500 million to 600 million doses of vaccines for the planned campaign. The Serum Institute has said it can produce around 70 million doses per month, which can be stretched to 100 million doses a month, with half of it available for domestic use and the rest intended for the global market. Pfizer has not made public how many doses it can supply India with. Serum’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, has told the UK-based Financial Times that the vaccine will be available for purchase in India by March or April. He was quoted by the newspaper as saying that Serum would initially supply the Indian government and then expected to sell 20 to 30 million doses to private facilities. But a government official involved in the Covid-19 vaccination strategy told The Telegraph on Monday that there was “no decision” yet on private market sales of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-505
