09-12-2020||India||Karnataka passes anti-cow slaughter bill despite mayhem||The Karnataka Assembly on Wednesday passed the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill amid uproar, as members of the Congress party staged a walkout in protest. Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020 seeks a total ban on the slaughter of cattle in the state and proposes strict punishment to those who engage in smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering them, BJP sources said. "Yes, the bill has been passed in the Assembly," Karnataka Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy told PTI. The bill intends to protect cows, their calves, as well as buffaloes and their children below 12 years of age. A provision saying that special courts will also be set up to punish the guilty. It also makes provision for setting up Goshala or cattle-sheds for the protection of livestock. The police have been given power to conduct checking, while those maintaining these livestock will be given protection, the bill says. The bill was passed without any discussion as there was din in the House. Earlier, when Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan tabled the bill in the evening, Congress MLAs led by leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah trooped into the well of the House. They alleged the bill was not discussed for tabling in the Business Advisory Committee meeting. “We had discussed yesterday that new bills will not be tabled.We had agreed that only the ordinances will be passed. Now he (Prabhu Chavan) has all-of-a-sudden introduced this anti-cow slaughter bill,” Siddaramaiah said. However, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he had clearly said in the meeting that important bills will be tabled on Wednesday and Thursday. The Congress has expressed fears that the bill, if passed, may be misused for polarisation on communal lines and target the minorities. On the other hand, the BJP has been saying the bill is to protect the cows which are holy to the Hindus. A team of officials led by Chavan had recently visited Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where the law has been enacted, to study its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
09-12-2020||India||Farmers reject govt offer of ‘written assurance’ on MSP||As thousands of farmers continue to protest at various borders of the national capital demanding the repeal of three new farm laws, the government on Wednesday proposed to give a "written assurance" that the existing minimum support price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers' unions rejected the proposal and said they would intensify their agitation until the government accepts their demand for a complete repeal of the three laws. They said they would block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways on or before December 12, and all roads entering into the national capital, one-by-one, if their demands were not met. The government also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. In a draft proposal sent to 13 agitating farmer unions, the government also said it is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September, but it did not mention anything about the main demand of protesting farmers for the repeal of the laws. At a press conference later in the day, farmer leaders said there was nothing new in the government proposal and they would  continue their protest. “The proposals sent by Union Home Minister Amit Shah contained the same things as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told farmer leaders in previous meetings,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal. Separately, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a post-Cabinet media briefing that the government was sensitive to the concerns of farmers as he expressed hope that ongoing deliberations with them, which he termed a "work in progress", over the three agriculture-related laws would yield some results soon. He said the government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers agitating against the three legislations and is keen to resolve their issues In the proposal, sent by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it was ready to consider with an open heart the issues which farmers have on the new laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the draft proposal said. On farmers' concern that mandis would weaken after the enactment of the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card was allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it was open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it had already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it was ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it was ready to find an appropriate solution. On Constitutional validity of farm laws, the Centre said it had the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas. It had followed legal provisions while enacting the laws and earlier for bringing ordinances, it added. The draft proposal was received by 13 agitating agricultural union leaders, including Joginder Singh Urgrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), whose party is one of the biggest among the 10 farm bodies. “Farmer unions have received the draft proposal from the government,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait told PTI. Home minister Amit Shah, at Tuesday night's meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting on repealing these laws. Wednesday's scheduled meeting between the protesting farmer unions and the government interlocutors also stood cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
09-12-2020||India||Opposition delegation meets President, seeks repeal of farm laws||A delegation of Opposition parties including Rahul Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Left leaders on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind seeking repeal of the three farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting on various borders of the national capital. The five-member delegation of Opposition leaders included CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and DMK leader TKS Elangovan, besides Gandhi and Pawar. "We met the President and informed him of our view regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed the President that it is critical that they are taken back," Gandhi told reporters after meeting the President. He said the way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, "we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them". The former Congress chief said the new laws appeared aimed at handing over the farming sector to the "friends of the prime minister", but the farmers are fearless and would not back off and will continue with their peaceful agitation. NCP leader Pawar said various political parties have requested President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the Select Committee of Parliament. Yechury said, "We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws." The Opposition delegation was limited to five because of the COVID-19 situation. The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
09-12-2020||India||Saffron spread in Rajasthan blow for Congress in local polls ||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan suffered a jolt in the panchayat elections on Wednesday as the BJP beat it by bagging 1,989 of the 4,371 panchayat samiti seats. The saffron party dubbed the win as a farmers' mandate amid protests against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws. The Congress, on the other hand, won 1,852 seats, with almost all results of the four-phase local government polls being declared. The CPI(M) won 26, while the RLP won six and the BSP bagged five.  Independent candidates won 439 panchayat samiti seats. The BJP, at the zila parishad level, made 353 of the 635 seats its own, while the Congress got 252. Only one zila parishad seat result is yet to be announced in the election held across 21 of the state's 33 districts. The BJP candidates are now in majority in 13 of these district boards and the party is set to head one more with the help of ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP). The Congress has won five of the remaining zila parishads. The results, which came as a boost for the BJP amid the farmers’ protest in Delhi, were declared just days before the Ashok Gehlot government completes two years in Rajasthan, and only months after it tackled a revolt among the Congress MLAs led by sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. On Twitter, BJP president J P Nadda called the Rajasthan success a symbol of trust farmers, labourers and the poor have in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. Rajasthan Congress president Dotasra said his party will perform better in the next election. “Many thanks to all the candidates for increasing the base of the party in the panchayat elections held in 21 districts of the state”, the Congress leader tweeted. “These results motivate us to do better in future; Congress will do better in the upcoming elections by keeping good synergy between the government and the organisation,” he added. But BJP state president Satish Poonia said the results signaled farewell to the corrupt government in the state. The polls were held in the districts of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Govt ready to provide ‘written assurance’ on MSP||The Centre on Wednesday said it was ready to give a “written assurance” to protesting farmers that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement would continue to function but was silent on their primary demand of repealing the laws. In a draft proposal sent to 13 farmers’ bodies, the Centre said that the government was ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September. It also proposed to make required amendments on at least seven issues that farmers complained about regarding the new laws, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. The Centre has not touched one of the three laws, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, at all in its draft proposal. Instead, it has proposed seven amendments to the two other laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. In the proposal, sent by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it was ready to consider with an open heart the issues which farmers have on the new laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the draft proposal said. On farmers' concern that mandis would weaken after the enactment of the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card was allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it was open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it had already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it was ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it was ready to find an appropriate solution. The draft proposal was received by 13 agitating agricultural union leaders, including Joginder Singh Urgrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), whose party is one of the biggest among the 10 farm bodies. “Farmer unions have received the draft proposal from the government,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait  told PTI. Home minister Amit Shah, at Tuesday night's meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting on repealing these laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Nine states implemented One Nation One Ration Card policy: Finance Ministry||A total of nine states as of now have implemented the Centre’s ‘One Nation One ration Card’ system, following which it has granted them to raise an additional Rs 23,523 crore, said an official release on Wednesday. Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh have successfully completed the Public Distribution System (PDS) reforms. Uttar Pradesh has emerged the biggest beneficiary of this scheme with an additional borrowing window of Rs 4,851 crore, followed by Karnataka at Rs 4,509 crore and Gujarat at Rs 4,352 crore. Department of Food and Public Distribution in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is the Nodal Department to certify that a State has met the conditions stipulated for this reform, the Finance Ministry statement said. It also informed that to become eligible for additional borrowing, states have to complete the process by December 31, 2020, and added that several other states are likely to finish the reform within the stipulated time. In addition to the One Nation One Ration Card, it said, other reforms specified as a precondition to avail additional borrowing are : ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. In view of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic for mobilisation of financial resources, the Indian government has strengthened the hands of the States through multiple measures including grant of additional borrowing permission of 2 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21,” the statement said. “This has enabled the States to mobilise additional financial resources to fight the pandemic and maintain the standards of service delivery to the public”, it said. However, it said, to ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, a part of the additional borrowing was linked to the States carrying out reforms in the sectors critical for service delivery to the citizens. However, it said, to ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, a part of the additional borrowing was linked to the States carrying out reforms in the sectors critical for service delivery to the citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Kejriwal still confined to home, claims AAP||The AAP on Wednesday alleged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's movement is still "restricted" and the main gate of his residence remains closed at the behest of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, a claim denied by the city police. Police sources said the chief minister left his residence around 11 am to attend a programme. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had on Tuesday alleged the Delhi Police put Kejriwal under house arrest after he met farmers protesting against the Centre's agriculture reform laws at the city's Singhu border. However, a senior Delhi Police officer dismissed the claim as "totally baseless". Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said there is an atmosphere of "undeclared emergency" around the chief minister's residence. "I am telling you with full responsibility that the movement of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is still restricted at the behest of the (Union) home minister. The main gate of the chief minister's residence is still closed," Chadha said. "In a way, there is an atmosphere of undeclared emergency. All this, just because we did not allow the stadiums to be converted into prisons for farmers," he said. A senior police officer said there is no restriction on any kind of movement of the chief minister. "The police deployment outside the chief minister's residence is part of security protocol," he said. According to police sources, Kejriwal left his residence around 11 am to attend a programme. On Tuesday, Kejriwal came out of his residence after hours of drama outside. Addressing party workers, he said the Centre tried its best to ensure that he did not step out. He said if he was not stopped, he would have gone and supported farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. Kejriwal claimed the Centre was "very angry" as his government did not allow Delhi stadiums to be used as prisons for farmers. "We faced a lot of pressure to allow the use of stadiums as temporary prisons, but we did not give permission and I feel this helped the movement. But since then the Centre has been very angry," the chief minister said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre's offer to amend the contentious laws has failed to cut ice with the protesting farmers who have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the legislation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||SC seeks status report from Centre, states on Covid guidelines||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought "detailed" response from the Centre as well as states on issues ranging from adhering to Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks and social distancing norms to implementation of fire safety guidelines in hospitals and nursing homes across India. The top court was hearing a suo motu case registered by it to ensure proper treatment of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and dignified handling of dead bodies there. Recently, it also took cognisance of the fire incident in a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot in which several patients had died, raising the issue of lack of proper fire safety measures in hospitals across the country. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the Gujarat government, to file detailed affidavits within three days on the issues such as enforcing of Covid-19 guidelines and fire safety measures in hospitals and nursing homes. The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, directed the states as well to file affidavits by Friday on steps taken on these issues and fixed the suo motu case for hearing on December 14. The bench directed that the Justice (Retd.) DA Mehta committee will probe the Ahmedabad fire incident, besides the fire tragedy at a Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot which is already being inquired into by the panel. At the outset, the law officer said he would request the Gujarat government to appoint a judge to probe the fire incidents in hospitals if the apex court suggests any name to head such an inquiry. "It is upon the discretion of this court," Mehta said. Mehta said the Centre has asked all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to send a status report on the implementation of fire safety guidelines to prevent recurrence of fire incidents in hospitals and nursing homes. A detailed report on fire safety would be prepared after getting the inputs from states, he said. The bench then asked about the fire safety audit of Gujarat and hospitals there and said as to how many nodal officers have been appointed. It then enquired about the steps taken to enforce the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks in public and adhering to the social distancing norms. "File a detailed affidavit giving all steps taken," it said. Earlier, the apex court had said that people are violating with impunity the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks at public places and are not adhering to social distancing norms. It had pulled up the authorities for not ensuring strict compliance of these measures to contain coronavirus and had asked the Centre and states to give suggestions so that appropriate directions can be issued to implement these guidelines. The top court had however stayed the Gujarat High Court direction to send people caught without wearing masks to do community service at the Covid-19 patient care facilities. It had taken note of the submissions of the Gujarat government that the order was harsh, having serious repercussions on the health of the violators. The top court had asked the Gujarat government to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. The apex court had also expressed concern over the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||SC says posters should not be affixed outside homes of Covid patients||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's guidelines and said posters and signages should not be affixed by authorities outside homes of COVID-19 patients in the country. The apex court, however, added that such posters can be affixed only in specific cases when the competent authority issues specific directions under the Disaster Management Act. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said this in its verdict on a plea seeking directions to do away with the practice of pasting posters outside homes of those infected by coronavirus. The bench, also comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, disposed of the plea, saying the Centre has already issued guidelines, and therefore, states and union territories should not affix such posters. The Centre had earlier told the top court that its guidelines do not contain any instructions regarding affixing posters and signages outside homes of COVID-19 patients, and there cannot be any stigma attached to it. The bench had reserved its judgement on the plea on December 3. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had on December 3 referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and told the bench that guidelines do not require any such affixation of posters. The counsel appearing for petitioner Kush Kalra had told the apex court that there are no such instructions in the guidelines to affix posters outside the home of those found COVID positive but the reality is very different. While hearing the matter on December 1, the top court had observed that once posters or signages are pasted outside the homes of COVID patients, the people affected are treated as "untouchables", reflecting a different "ground reality". In its affidavit, the ministry had said that its guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found COVID positive. Mehta had told the bench that the Centre has not prescribed this practice and some states might be pursuing it on their own to prevent the spread of the virus. The apex court had earlier asked the Centre to consider issuing guidelines to do away with the practice of pasting posters outside the homes of COVID-19 patients. It had directed so without issuing any formal notice to the Centre on Kalra's plea seeking framing of guidelines in this regard. In its affidavit, the ministry has said that all states have been intimated to this effect that the MoHFW has not issued any such guideline to identify Covid-19 patients. The Central government, through MoHFW has already communicated to the Additional Chief Secretaries ...secretaries (Health) of all the states and UTs pointing it out that the MoHFW guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found COVID-19 positive, the affidavit said. On November 3, the Delhi government had told the high court that it has instructed all its officials not to paste posters outside homes of Covid-19 positive persons or those in home isolation; and the ones pasted have been ordered to be removed. Kalra, in his plea before the high court, had contended that names of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 were being freely circulated to the Resident Welfare Associations and on WhatsApp groups and this was "leading to stigmatisation and drawing of unnecessary attention".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||India's Covid cases inching towards 98 lakh, 32,080 new infections in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 97.35 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 92 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,35,850 with 32,080 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,41,360 with 402 new fatalities, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,15,581, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.66 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below four lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 3,78,909 active coronavirus infections in the country now which comprises 3.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and 70 lakh on October 11. The figure crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 14,98,36,767 samples have been tested up to December 8, with 10,22,712 such examinations being conducted on Tuesday. The new fatalities include 57 from Delhi, 53 from Maharashtra, 49 from West Bengal, 31 from Kerala, 30 from Punjab, 23 from Uttar Pradesh and 20 from Rajasthan. The total number of deaths reported so far in the country includes 47,827 from Maharashtra, 11,880 from Karnataka, 11,822 from Tamil Nadu, 9,763 from Delhi, 8,820 from West Bengal, 7,967 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,042 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,964 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Agricultural scientist refuses to accept award in solidarity with protesting farmers ||An agricultural scientist refused on stage to accept an award from a Union minister in solidarity with the protesting farmers and later urged the Centre to withdraw the new “anti-national” farm laws. Varinderpal Singh, principal soil chemist at the state-funded Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, had climbed onto the stage on Monday after being called to receive the Fertilisers Association of India’s golden jubilee award for his scientific work. He thanked chemicals and fertilisers minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda and the association for the recognition but politely refused to accept the award just as the minister was about to hand it to him. Singh apologised for any “inconvenience” his action may have caused. “My conscience does not allow me to receive this award.... I feel I would be guilty if at this moment I receive this award,” the scientist said. Singh later wrote to Gowda, expressing his regret at having to turn the award down. Singh wrote: “It is a time of crisis for the nation when farmers are on the roads with their genuine demands and the government is not accepting their request to withdraw the anti-national laws.” In a separate letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Singh wrote: “My (conscience) does not allow me to receive this award from any government official because of unnecessary pains given by the GOI to the peacefully protesting farmers.” He added: “The way the government tried to break the courage of farmers and the way the farmers remained disciplined is now history.... Ignoring the genuine demands and keeping Indians on roads during winter is not in the interest of the nation.” The contents of both letters have been uploaded by a Twitter user. Singh was to receive the award for work that led to the development of a lead colour chart that helps optimise the use of urea on farms. The technology has the potential to reduce urea consumption and save about Rs 750 crore in Punjab alone, Singh wrote to Modi. He described the farm laws as anti-farmer, antisocial and dangerous for the socio-economic structure of India. He flagged how civilians and academics from various states too had demanded withdrawal of the farm laws. “Under these circumstances, I regret to accept the FAI golden jubilee award. I love to stand by the farmers instead of receiving any cash award or gold medal at this time of crisis of the nation,” Singh wrote to Modi. A social media user posted on Twitter a video of Singh’s rejection of the award, drawing multiple comments, some condemning his act and others hailing it. One Twitter user called the on-stage rejection “outrageous” and “pure nautanki (theatrics)”. But another wrote: “What courage and spine! Huge respect for (Singh). Wish people from IITs and IIMs etc would stand up in solidarity with farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||‘Tough reforms difficult’, says Amitabh Kant||Amitabh Kant, cheerleader to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Niti Aayog CEO, has said “tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.…” Addressing a virtual event organised by Swarajya magazine, Kant said: “Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.… You needed political will to carry out these reforms (mining, coal, labour, agriculture) and many more reforms still need to be done.” Later, responding to a tweet from a newspaper, Kant tweeted: “This is definitely not what I said. I was speaking about MEIS scheme & resources being spread thin & need for creating global champions in manufacturing sector.”  (MEIS is meant to reward exporters.) It is not clear which part of the statement Kant was denying as the newspaper withdrew the tweet and uploaded a report on the event attended by Kant. A video clip did show Kant saying: “Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context, we are too much of a democracy.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Farm talks with Amit Shah fails to resolve standoff||Union home minister Amit Shah made an attempt at resolving the standoff with the farmers on Tuesday evening but it made little headway with both sides sticking to their guns. This led to Wednesday's scheduled meeting between the protesting farmer unions and the government interlocutors being postponed. During the more than three hours of discussions, Shah offered to consider more amendments to the contentious new farm laws but the farmers said that nothing short of repeal would do. The government, however, bought some time for itself by promising to send the amendments it is willing to make in writing to the farmers by Wednesday morning. These, according to Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), will be placed before all the farmer organisations for consideration because the delegation that met Shah on Tuesday was only representative. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and food minister Piyush Goyal attended the meeting. According to those present, Tomar again listed the amendments the government was prepared to accept and was reminded by the farmers that they had heard all this several times before. Shah then stepped in to say the government was willing to consider more amendments. When the farmers insisted on repeal, he urged them not to be adamant. Shah’s shot at finding a way out of the impasse came soon after the Bharat Bandh witnessed a peasant-worker mobilisation across the country. The bandh remained peaceful across the country, with the states governed by parties that had supported the programme witnessing more success. In Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the BJP governments went in for preventive detentions to stop union leaders from mobilising people to participate in the bandh. The olive branch was extended late in the afternoon, with the Union home minister’s office inviting the Punjab farmer unions to a meeting at Shah's residence in the evening. They were asked to send a delegation of 13. Soon after, farmer leaders told reporters at the Singhu border that their representatives would be going to the meeting. But they remained unrelenting on their main demands for repeal of the new farm laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. “We will go to the meeting but there is no going back on our demands,” Bhog Singh Mansa said. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM) leader Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” said the farmers’ unions had no option but to stay the course — an indication that the groundswell of opinion against the three new laws had left the leaders with little room to negotiate. Mansa and “Kakaji” were among the 13 who met Shah. The meeting got delayed because the farmer leaders got caught in rush-hour traffic, made worse by the police barricading for the Bharat Bandh. In the middle of the journey, the farmer leaders were informed of a change in venue — the meeting was now to be held on the Indian Council for Agricultural Research compound in Pusa on the edge of Lutyens Delhi. There was some disgruntlement among the Punjab farmers over the selection of representatives for the meeting, in particular the exclusion of Joginder Singh Ugrahan who heads the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta-Ugrahan, one of the largest unions in the state. In a statement, Ugrahan said: “These organisations should not have gone to meet him separately because it creates misunderstanding among struggling people.” Ugrahan said Shah had approached his organisation twice in the past for separate talks but it had refused, insisting that all the organisations be invited jointly. All India Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawale, however, clarified that the 13 union leaders attending the meeting would not be giving any undertaking to the government. “Since the home minister had invited us for talks, we thought it best to keep the conversation going despite the short notice,” Dhawale said. “That he had called today soon after the Bharat Bandh is testimony to the success of the bandh. Our future course will be decided by all the unions together.” Dhawale said the Punjab unions had decided among themselves who to send to the meeting. The remaining four — “Kakaji”, Mollah, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait — represent their respective collectives: RKM, AIKSCC, BKU (Haryana) and BKU (Uttar Pradesh).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-501
09-12-2020||India||Opposition asks govt to convene a Parliament session||The Opposition has asked the Narendra Modi government to immediately convene a Parliament session and pass a new law to protect the interest of farmers and introduce effective agricultural reforms instead of misleading the nation and creating confusion in the minds of people by selective leaks and false narratives. While former agriculture minister and NCP leader Sharad Pawar, whose letter to chief ministers on reforms in the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act was cited by the government to accuse the Opposition of hypocrisy, dismissed the ploy as a diversionary tactic, the Congress said the three new laws had nothing to do with reforms. An Opposition delegation will call on President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday evening to formally convey their stance on the issues involved. Pawar has called a meeting of senior Opposition leaders on Wednesday to discuss the evolving situation before a small delegation consisting of the NCP veteran himself, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D. Raja and DMK’s T.K.S. Elangovan meets the President. Emboldened by the success of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, the Opposition parties are expected to firm up their position and draw up their own plan of action. Pawar responded to the government’s diatribe on Tuesday, saying: “I had said that the APMC (Act) needs some reforms. The APMC Act should continue but with reforms. There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But their (Modi government’s) three acts do not even mention the APMC. They are just trying to divert attention. There is no need to give importance.” The NCP, which fully backed the farmers’ movement and participated in the Bharat Bandh in Maharashtra on Tuesday, said that Pawar’s call for reforms did not mean facilitating a corporate takeover to the detriment of farmers. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda told a media conference in Delhi on Tuesday: “These farm laws do not reflect reforms. They did not discuss these laws with anybody, not even farmers’ unions. Let them withdraw these laws and call a Parliament session to discuss what kind of reforms are needed to help the farmers. These three laws are interlinked and together pose a grave danger to farmers’ survival.” Arguing that the government was promoting corporate houses on the lines of America, Hooda said: “The economy in India rests on agriculture. Many other sectors are linked. Agriculture generates maximum employment…. The new laws will create two markets. One under the APMC where taxes, market fees and MSP will be applicable and the other outside which will be free, unregulated. The new laws allow even hoarding. That will allow big corporate players to control the system and manipulate pricing.” Explaining that the corporate players won’t honour the MSP without a legal compulsion, the former chief minister said the MSP was guaranteed earlier even under contract farming. Explaining that the Congress reforms meant opening more procurement centres, he said agro malls had been opened by his government in Haryana to facilitate the sale of produce by farmers, not to help the corporate groups. The Congress deployed all its strength on Tuesday to help make the Bharat Bandh successful. While it had a big impact in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, demonstrations were held in most other states. Rahul, who has adopted an uncompromising position on these three laws brought by the Modi government, describing them as a trap that will enslave India’s poor, again tweeted on Tuesday morning: “Modi ji, stop stealing from farmers. Citizens know today is Bharat Bandh. They will support it to make the struggle of farmers successful.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “this battle is between those who fill your ‘thali’ (plate) and those who fill the ‘thaili’ (bags) of billionaires”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal ‘house arrest’ claim by Aam Aadmi Party||While farmers blocked several highways into the capital, Delhi’s bandh played out outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Tuesday — with his party claiming that he was under “house arrest”, a claim the police denied. At 10.29am, Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party tweeted: “BJP’s Delhi Police has put Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence.” In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the CPM’s Subhashini Ali and Dalit activist Chandrashekhar Azad were confined to their homes by the police to prevent them from joining the bandh. Deputy commissioner of police (North Delhi) Anto Alphonse replied to Kejriwal’s charge with a picture of only five security personnel outside his gate beside a few barricades and a police car. He tweeted: “This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all.” On the other side of the barricades outside Kejriwal’s gate, the mayors of Delhi’s three municipal corporations — ruled by the BJP — have been on a sit-in since Monday demanding Rs 13,000 crore from the Delhi government. They were joined by senior party leaders, including MP Meenakshi Lekhi, on Tuesday. AAP leaders, who protested near the income tax office on Tuesday morning, as part of the bandh, soon rushed to Kejriwal’s house where they were stopped 100 metres from the main gate. — on the opposite end from where the BJP was protesting. While police offered to take some of them inside, they are yet to explain why all — including MLAs, MPs and municipal councillors — were not allowed. Around 200 police personnel and central forces remained on Flagstaff Road through the day between the BJP and AAP gatherings. His partymen were allowed in through a side entrance after which Kejriwal came out and said, “I wanted to spend some time on the border with the farmers today, not as a CM, but as a sewadar. I wanted to show my support to them by sitting with them for half-an-hour or so. I think they got to know about my plan, and so they did not let me know. But even though I could not go, I was praying from my home for the movement of the nation to be successful.” He added, “The Centre then decided to let the farmers enter Delhi, and they asked the Delhi government for permission to convert nine stadiums in Delhi into jails... But we decided to stand in support of the farmers, which I think helped the farmers’ movement. Since that time, the central government is angry with us for not converting the stadiums into jails.”The “house arrest” evoked scepticism. Activist Smita Gupta wrote on Facebook, “How come it’s become about Kejriwal in Delhi? AAP is beyond belief. Towing the Sanghi distraction from farmers issues.” Entrepreneur and the former head of Twitter’s politics and government department, Raheel Khursheed, also tweeted, “Reminder that Mr Kejriwal supported the suspension of civil/political liberties in Kashmir post Aug 5 2019, perhaps not realising that he too could be at the receiving end of similar measures — albeit much milder in scope & scale. At least for now.” BJP leaders soon disclosed CCTV footage of the chief minister attending a wedding on Monday night, and Alphonse claimed that Kejriwal had left his home at 8pm and returned at 10pm, unobstructed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||High-risk, 50-plus on vaccine priority radar||People older than 50 and those below 50 with certain underlying illnesses could be among three prioritised population groups to receive the Covid-19 vaccine from the government, the health ministry said on Tuesday. It also underlined an infrastructural challenge, saying the existing cold chain network of deep freezers and refrigerators has the capacity to store Covid-19 vaccines to support the immunisation of only 10 per cent of the estimated 300 million prioritised people. The prioritised populations recommended by a national expert group include about 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, and 270 million people either aged above 50 years or with co-morbidities, the ministry said. “These are the (expert group) recommendations. The government has to take a decision on this,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, adding that immunisation for these groups need not be sequential. “When immunisation starts, it can be simultaneous, depending on the availability of vaccines. As vaccine availability increases, immunisation can be (done) in parallel (for) different priority groups, not sequentially,” he said. The expert group has recommended that “every single Indian who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated” — a subtle shift from earlier signals from the Centre that the Covid-19 immunisation would be universal, reaching out to “each and every person”. Bhushan said the prioritised groups would include healthcare providers and workers in the public and private healthcare sectors; personnel from state and central police departments, the armed forces, home guard and civil defence organisations; disaster management volunteers and municipal workers. “These groups have been prioritised for their occupational vulnerability,” said a senior official guiding the planned immunisation campaign. “People above 50 and those below 50 with co-morbidities are prioritised because they are at high risk of severe disease and death.” Medical studies worldwide have shown that people with illnesses such as diabetes, high blood pressure or kidney disease are at higher risk of severe disease and death if infected with Covid-19, compared with those without such co-morbidities. The existing immunisation network has around 85,000 pieces of cold chain equipment such as deep freezers, vaccine refrigeration units and transport vehicles, distributed across 28,947 “cold chain” points. The current capacity can accommodate Covid-19 vaccines to support the immunisation of only 30 million people. Bhushan said the ministry had consulted the states and Union Territories and assessed the additional requirements for the cold storage network. He added that additional supplies of equipment were expected to start rolling in from December 10. India’s drug regulatory agency is set to review applications for the emergency authorisation use of Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech. Vaccine science specialists expect this regulatory process to take anything from weeks to days, given the urgency to release the vaccines. The Pune-based Serum Institute, which is manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India, has indicated it can provide 100 million doses of the two-dose vaccine to the government in January. India will need about 60 million doses to cover the prioritised healthcare and frontline workers. Health officials are hoping that the home-grown vaccine jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and currently under efficacy trials, too would become available by early 2021. “We’re hoping that at some point, there will be enough vaccines for everybody. But for now our priority is on accessing vaccines for the prioritised population groups,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the expert group on Covid-19 vaccine administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Lawmakers from US speak up for farmers’ right to protest peacefully||American lawmakers have spoken up for farmers’ right to protest peacefully and urged the Narendra Modi government to hold a “productive” dialogue with them, following in the footsteps of their Canadian and British counterparts. New Delhi had bristled after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau amplified the Canadian lawmakers’ concern but has been silent about the remarks from the UK and the US, apparently drawing comfort from these countries’ governments not having yet thrown their weight behind the legislators’ views. The lawmakers who have spoken up in the US come from both sides of the political divide, as in Canada and the UK. “I stand in solidarity with the Punjabi farmers in India protesting for their livelihoods and protection from misguided, manipulative government regulations,” Republican Congressman Doug LaMalfa, a rice farmer himself, tweeted. “Punjabi farmers must be allowed to protest peacefully against their government without fear of violence. #IstandWithFarmers.” Similar views were expressed by Democrat Josh Harder, who represents a district of California in the House of Representatives. “India is the world’s largest democracy — they owe it to their citizens to allow peaceful protest. I encourage these folks and PM Modi to have peaceful, productive discussions,” he tweeted. Congressman T.J. Cox, a Democrat, said: “India must uphold the right to peaceful demonstration and ensure their citizens’ safety. The rights of farmers protesting must be respected and meaningful dialogue is the way forward.” For Congressman Andy Levin from Michigan, a union organiser, the farmers’ protest  is an inspiration. “I’m inspired by this movement, and I see it as a harbinger of a people power year in 2021!!” he tweeted. Three other members of the House of Representatives — all Democrats — have written a joint letter to the Indian ambassador in the US urging the “Indian government to demonstrate its respect for these crucial democratic freedoms, and to be a model of democratic values in the vital Indo-Pacific region”. Conceding that agricultural policy is an internal matter of India, the three signatories focused on the protests and the clampdown by the Modi government, adding that many of the farmers who faced the force of the state have children, relatives and friends in the US as citizens who have reached out to their elected representatives with concerns about these developments. The letter also articulates their distress over the “actions by the Indian governments that have restricted these (democratic) rights for many Indians; not only for farmers, but also for religious minorities, and human rights organisations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||End Covid duty, urges junior doctors at Karnataka’s govt medical colleges||Junior doctors at Karnataka’s government medical colleges are demanding to be taken off Covid duty, saying the pandemic shift is denying them the time to pursue the postgraduate courses they have enrolled in. They have also demanded a waiver of this year’s PG tuition fees saying constant Covid duty has turned 2020 into a wasted year for them academically, bereft of lectures, seminars or indoor and OPD experience in their specialities. Both the junior and senior resident doctors are also seeking immediate clearance of their stipend arrears and the introduction of a risk allowance for those among them now serving at the Covid care centres. Members of the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors met medical education director P.G. Gireesh on Tuesday with their demands. Some 3,000 junior residents (those yet to complete their PG courses) and more than 700 senior residents (who have completed their PG courses) are posted at the state’s 14 government medical colleges, 69 Covid care centres and other state-run hospitals. The PG students among them, enrolled in the government medical colleges, say all of them have been put on Covid duty. They want the government to relocate the Covid care centres out of their campuses and recruit fresh doctors to run them. “We have had no academics for nine months. So, we want the annual fees of Rs 1.10 lakh (which the PG students have already paid) to be carried over to the next year,” a PG student from the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said. Gireesh, however, told this newspaper the students had “understood the situation” and promised to cooperate with the government. “I told them the stipend dues would be paid soon. But it’s wrong to say they need risk allowance, a fee waiver and the reservation of the medical college hospitals only for non-Covid cases,” Gireesh, a cardiology professor at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, said. “The government had hiked their stipends in May by 30 to 50 per cent considering that the junior and senior residents were deployed at the Covid care centres. And now they are asking for a risk allowance....” The senior residents are entitled to a monthly stipend of Rs 60,000 and the junior residents, Rs 45,000. Association president L. Dayananda Sagar said the resident doctors were not ready to retract their demands. “We will try and meet the health minister,” he said. Postgraduate medical student C. Namratha said: “For the last nine months, we have only handled Covid cases. We want the government to allow us to complete our courses.” She said Karnataka had enough hospitals to handle “a waning epidemic”. “Lakhs of non-Covid patients have been denied treatment at government medical college hospitals. This amounts to a threat to their lives and a shortage of patients for medical students,” she said. Karnataka has witnessed a steady decline in daily Covid cases, from over 10,000 on October 1 to 998 on Monday. However, the state health department has forecast a likely second wave, owing to the festival season, around January-February. If the PG students want to be taken off Covid duty, why are they demanding a risk allowance? “All we are asking for is a risk allowance for the nine months we have worked at the Covid centres, and letters of appreciation for our services,” Namratha said. PG student Awanna Bagewadi regretted that the fees the Karnataka government charged for postgraduate medical courses was among the highest in the country. “We are paying over Rs 1 lakh a year and yet are unable to complete our academics. If the government doesn’t relieve us of Covid duty, we won’t be able to focus on our specialisations,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Faces of farmer protest||Joginder Singh Ugrahan, 75, President, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan)
A former soldier from Sunam tehsil of Sangrur district, Punjab, Ugrahan in 2002 formed what has now become the largest faction of the BKU. The group’s leaders have claimed that almost two-thirds of the protesters gathered at Delhi’s borders are its members. Ekta Ugrahan has been one of the most uncompromising defenders of farmers’ interests in Punjab, and is arguably the most influential secular organisation in the Malwa region of the northern state. It began agitating in September, staging protests outside the homes of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. Ugrahan’s comrade-in-arms is the union’s general secretary, Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, 70, an activist from Moga district who quit his job as a government school teacher to join the farmers’ movement in the late 1990s. Jagmohan Singh, 64,General secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) An activist since childhood, Singh went to jail before he turned 18. A postgraduate from the border village of Karma in Ferozepur, Punjab, Singh is a qualified acupuncture therapist. He quit his job with the department of cooperatives in 1985 to devote his time to activism, shaken by the anti-Sikh riots in the country the previous year. He joined the BKU-Ekta group in 1993, and split to form the Dakaunda group in 2005. Singh is considered an expert in agricultural laws, negotiations and the history of the farmers’ movement, and is consulted by other groups too. He began protesting in June against the ordinances that preceded the new farm laws, and was instrumental in bringing in several Punjab groups to cooperate with the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of farmers. Darshan Pal, 70, President, Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab Pal is seen as an ideologue of the far-Left in Punjab. An MD in anaesthesia, he retired early from the Punjab Civil Medical Service and began organising the peasantry in 2007. Before this, he had been involved with several umbrella groups of Left-leaning activists, including the now-banned Revolutionary Democratic Front (to which the imprisoned professor G.N. Saibaba belongs) and the People’s Democratic Front of India, whose members include the jailed author Varavara Rao and anti-dam activist Medha Patkar. The PDFI had organised several Singur visits by its activists to protest the eviction of peasants to set up Tata Motors’ Nano factory — one of several attempts at reindustrialising Bengal that led to the downfall of the Left Front government in 2011. Gurnam Singh, 64,President, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Haryana Hailing from Charuni Jattan in Kurukshetra district, Haryana, Singh leads the most prominent faction of the BKU in the state. He is known for creative protests, having led shirtless protesters, organised the dumping of potatoes on highways, and climbed up a high water tank last year to force the state government to procure the sunflower crop. His wife Balwinder Kaur contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Kurukshetra on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket, while Gurnam himself contested last year’s Assembly elections as an Independent from Ladwa. Haryana police booked him last week in an attempt-to-murder case after he allegedly got the protesting farmers to drive their tractors through a police barricade on a highway. Hannan Mollah, 74, General secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (CPM farmer arm) Mollah, a former CPM parliamentarian who has been a politburo member of the party since 2015, was elected from Uluberia in Bengal eight times in a row. He has been a grassroots communist since the age of 16 and was elected to his current position in the AIKS, considered India’s largest group of organised peasantry, in 2012. Under Mollah and AIKS president Ashok Dhawale, a 68-year-old doctor from Mumbai known for organising tribal peasants in Thane and Palghar, the organisation has led several large farmer agitations, most notably in Maharashtra in 2018. Mollah was initially not invited to the ongoing talks but the government later relented when the farmers insisted the agitation was not confined to Punjab and therefore its leaders from outside the state should be invited too. The CPM stalwart brings decades of political and parliamentary experience to the negotiation table. Mollah has been booked by Delhi police on the charge of violating pandemic regulations while protesting against the new farm regime. Over the last fortnight, the AIKS has held militant demonstrations against the new laws across India, particularly in Maharashtra. Rakesh Tikait, 51, National spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait is the son of Mahendra Tikait, one of the farmer leaders who in 1978 founded the BKU, which a decade later led a historic demonstration by lakhs of farmers in Delhi demanding waivers of water and power bills. Rakesh Tikait’s BKU faction joined the current agitation after farmers of Punjab and Haryana faced police action 
at Delhi’s borders on November 27. His group’s participation in the talks too happened later than others’. Tikait lost his deposit in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, which he contested on a Rashtriya Lok Dal ticket from Amroha, Uttar Pradesh. He recently rued that defence minister Rajnath Singh was not part of the talks. Tikait, who has been striving to shake off the perception that he is close to the BJP, has got his supporters to block the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur. He brings to the table the support of sugarcane farmers of Uttar Pradesh, who have tilted towards the BJP since 2014 but are now resentful of the new farm laws that some fear will undermine their bargaining power over sugarcane procurement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Military veterans stand in solidarity with agitating farmers||A group of 128 military veterans on Tuesday expressed support for the agitating farmers, stressed the “jawan-kisan link” and condemned the authorities’ use of force on the protesters. They urged the Centre to consider the farmers’ demand to repeal the three new farm laws. “The purpose of this statement is to inform (the) protesting farmers that armed forces veterans unconditionally and unequivocally support their rightful demands being conveyed in a democratic and peaceful manner,” the veterans said in a statement. “We stand in solidarity with the peacefully protesting farmers, empathise with them, and support their demands. We condemn the use of force on farmers with tear gas and water cannons.” Admiral L. Ramdas, the former navy chief, issued the statement and it was endorsed by 127 other military veterans. “We understand the pulse of serving armed forces personnel, 80 per cent of whom are from the farmer background and are a part of the very organic jawan-kisan link. Neglecting the importance of this organic link can seriously affect our country’s security,” the statement said. “We strongly urge the government to consider the demands of agitating farmers to repeal the laws since no prior consultation with the primary stakeholders was held.” The veterans pledged to uphold the Constitution and the right of peaceful dissent and democratic protest. “In the larger interest of maintaining the integrity of the social fabric of our country, we strongly urge the government to accept the demands of (the) agitating farmers and agitating workers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Odisha peaceful on Bharat Bandh day||The Bharat Bandh called on Tuesday by farmers and trade unions against the Centre’s new farm laws passed off peacefully across Odisha. The shutdown partially impacted life. While bus and train services came to a halt, two-wheelers plied on the roads freely. Business establishments downed their shutters. As the Odisha government had announced a holiday on Tuesday, all government offices remained closed. All banks and private offices were also closed. The Congress activists openly supported the bandh. While chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s BJD lent moral support to farmers and organisations that had called the bandh, its workers refrained from hitting the streets. On the other hand, Left activists, farmers and Congress workers organised pickets in different parts of the state. Trains were stranded at different stations across the state due to the agitation by members All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. While road communication was hit due to the bandh in Rourkela, Cuttack, of the Sambalpur and Berhampur, there was smooth traffic flow in the rural areas. Senior minister and BJD leader Padmanabh Behera said, “We are with the farmers. Our party had also opposed the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha. We are eagerly looking forward to the discussion between farmer unions and the Centre on Wednesday.” BJD MP Sasmit Patra said that the party has drawn the Centre’s attention towards farmers’ issues and urged it to allay their apprehensions with regard to the fallout of the new laws. “The BJD has always demanded doubling of the MSP (minimum support price) as suggested by the Swaminathan Committee and will continue to hold this stand,” said Patra. However, the Congress on Tuesday launched a blistering attack on the BJD for not taking an active part in the bandh. “Both the BJP and the BJD are supporting each other tactfully. But here in Odisha, people have extended full support to the Bharat Bandh,” said Odisha PCC president Niranjan Patnaik. He also asked the BJD to explain what it had done for the farmers in the last 21 years. “The BJD is just making a fool out of the farmers. Whatever has been done for farmers has been done by the Congress,” Patnaik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Bandh paralyses normal life in Bihar ||The Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws had an extensive impact in Bihar on Tuesday throwing life out of gear as protesters blocked roads while the Opposition parties extended their support. Sporadic incidents of arson and violence also marked the bandh as the police remained just spectators. The protesters adopted unique ways at several places to register their opposition to the farm laws, which they believe, are inimical to the interests of the farmers. Though the bandh call was from 11am to 3pm, people supporting it came out early on a foggy morning and started enforcing it, spreading confusion among the commuters. Marriage processions were also stuck at several places. Several farmers squatted on National Highway 31 in Khagaria district and baked rotis, made garlands out of them and wore them. They asserted that they would join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi if the Centre  does not take back the “black farm laws”. The Opposition Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) put up a joint show in Nawada district with members of the Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties coming out on the streets to enforce the bandh. RJD supporters blocked the highways around Patna by squatting and burning tyres. They also threw vegetables on the road to indicate that the farmers were not benefiting from cultivation. The protests led to a massive traffic snarl on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu connecting the state capital to north Bihar. The RJD had asked its leaders and legislators to protest in all parts of the state, which they did promptly, but focused more on cities and towns. However, party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav did not join the protest. RJD state unit president Jagadanand Singh had directed the party leaders and workers to adhere to the appeal by the farmers’ organisations to the political parties to desist from using their flags, banners and posters while participating in the bandh so that it remains apolitical. However, most of them used the party insignia while participating in the strike. RJD supporters in Darbhanga took out a shirtless procession during the bandh, while the party MLA from Bodh Gaya, Kumar Sarvajit, handed over roses and paddy stalks to the common people to seek their support for the agitating farmers. The RJD MLA from Belaganj, Surendra Prasad Yadav, got the shops forcibly closed. “The Bharat Bandh was a historic success in Bihar. Apart from cities, its impact was seen in the villages as well. Our party members participated wholeheartedly making it successful. The effect of this bandh would be felt not only in agriculture but also in all sectors of the society,” RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan said. Former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) held a violent demonstration at the Dak Bungalow crossing in the heart of Patna. They forcibly stopped traffic and also held a few vehicles hostage for some time. The police later intervened and a fight erupted between them but the situation was brought under control. “We have joined the protest on behalf of the farmers of Bihar who are suffering in every manner. They are unable to sell their paddy due to its very low rate in the open market, while the government is not procuring it at the minimum support price (MSP). The new farm laws will help hoarders, big businessmen and destroy agriculture in the state and the country,” Pappu said. The Left parties led by the CPI-ML joined the bandh, blocking national highways and stopping trains at various places in the state, including Darbhanga, Saharsa, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Aurangabad, Bhojpur, Samastipur, East Champaran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Purnea and Supaul. Meanwhile, former minister and ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar asserted that the Opposition parties in Bihar took the excuse of the bandh to vent their frustration over defeat in the recently held Assembly elections. “The Opposition parties are venting their frustration over their defeat and seeking revenge by indulging in activities that inconvenience the common people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Bandh paralyses normal life in Bihar ||The Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws had an extensive impact in Bihar on Tuesday throwing life out of gear as protesters blocked roads while the Opposition parties extended their support. Sporadic incidents of arson and violence also marked the bandh as the police remained just spectators. The protesters adopted unique ways at several places to register their opposition to the farm laws, which they believe, are inimical to the interests of the farmers. Though the bandh call was from 11am to 3pm, people supporting it came out early on a foggy morning and started enforcing it, spreading confusion among the commuters. Marriage processions were also stuck at several places. Several farmers squatted on National Highway 31 in Khagaria district and baked rotis, made garlands out of them and wore them. They asserted that they would join the farmers’ agitation in Delhi if the Centre  does not take back the “black farm laws”. The Opposition Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) put up a joint show in Nawada district with members of the Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties coming out on the streets to enforce the bandh. RJD supporters blocked the highways around Patna by squatting and burning tyres. They also threw vegetables on the road to indicate that the farmers were not benefiting from cultivation. The protests led to a massive traffic snarl on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu connecting the state capital to north Bihar. The RJD had asked its leaders and legislators to protest in all parts of the state, which they did promptly, but focused more on cities and towns. However, party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav did not join the protest. RJD state unit president Jagadanand Singh had directed the party leaders and workers to adhere to the appeal by the farmers’ organisations to the political parties to desist from using their flags, banners and posters while participating in the bandh so that it remains apolitical. However, most of them used the party insignia while participating in the strike. RJD supporters in Darbhanga took out a shirtless procession during the bandh, while the party MLA from Bodh Gaya, Kumar Sarvajit, handed over roses and paddy stalks to the common people to seek their support for the agitating farmers. The RJD MLA from Belaganj, Surendra Prasad Yadav, got the shops forcibly closed. “The Bharat Bandh was a historic success in Bihar. Apart from cities, its impact was seen in the villages as well. Our party members participated wholeheartedly making it successful. The effect of this bandh would be felt not only in agriculture but also in all sectors of the society,” RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan said. Former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) held a violent demonstration at the Dak Bungalow crossing in the heart of Patna. They forcibly stopped traffic and also held a few vehicles hostage for some time. The police later intervened and a fight erupted between them but the situation was brought under control. “We have joined the protest on behalf of the farmers of Bihar who are suffering in every manner. They are unable to sell their paddy due to its very low rate in the open market, while the government is not procuring it at the minimum support price (MSP). The new farm laws will help hoarders, big businessmen and destroy agriculture in the state and the country,” Pappu said. The Left parties led by the CPI-ML joined the bandh, blocking national highways and stopping trains at various places in the state, including Darbhanga, Saharsa, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Aurangabad, Bhojpur, Samastipur, East Champaran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Purnea and Supaul. Meanwhile, former minister and ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar asserted that the Opposition parties in Bihar took the excuse of the bandh to vent their frustration over defeat in the recently held Assembly elections. “The Opposition parties are venting their frustration over their defeat and seeking revenge by indulging in activities that inconvenience the common people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-502
09-12-2020||India||Patriotic films for Odisha jail inmates||Jail authorities in Odisha have decided to screen patriotic and motivational films in jails on Sundays to motivate jail inmates to shun the wrong path and to make them stress free. The pilot project will begin from Jharpada jail here. Director general, Odisha Prison Administration, S.K. Upadhya told reporters,  “ All these reform processes have been undertaken as a part of the implementation of Odisha Model Jail Manual 2020.” The jail authority has set up a projector along with a large screen and sound system. “Sitting arrangement has been made for 100 inmates. We will also make efforts to show them films pertaining to human rights, health, legal aid and other issues,” jail officials maintained, adding that musical systems have already been installed in different places in the jail to air  soothing, devotional and spiritual songs to ease the stress and anxiety level  of prison inmates. Officials further said: “ An attempt would be made to give them good moral values so that even after they are released from jail they will not take up the wrong path again. Once the scheme is implemented successfully here at Special Jail in Jharpada in Bhubaneswar, it will be extended to other jails.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-503
