10-12-2020||India||Nadda convoy attack staged, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday insinuated that the attack on BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy earlier in the day near Diamond Harbour was staged and denied all allegations against her party. “Every day they (BJP activists) are coming out (for rallies) with firearms. They are slapping themselves and blaming it on the Trinamool Congress. Just think of the situation. They are roaming around with the BSF, CRPF, Army, CISF....then why are you so scared,” she said during an address in Calcutta. On Thursday morning, Nadda’s convoy on Thursday, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in the South 24 Parganas district of Bengal, from the state capital. Sources in the saffron party also alleged that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also totally ransacked in the attack. Several union leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah slammed the ruling Trinamul Congress over the incident. “Bengal has descended into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule. The manner in which political violence has been institutionalized and brought to the extreme in West Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying,” Shah tweeted. He has also ordered a probe into the incident, NDTV reported. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar accused the state administration of failing to act in spite of his alerting the chief secretary and the director general of police. “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP President Convoy and political police @WBPolice in support,” he tweeted. “Am sure they have immunity and protection of political police with administration extension of political outfit,” Dhankhar wrote, adding, “Events indicate total abdication of lawful authority.” The incident resulted in injuries to several BJP leaders, including party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and vice president Mukul Roy. However, Nadda, who was in a bullet-proof vehicle, was unharmed. Police ultimately chased away the protesters and Nadda managed to reach the meeting venue. “What I witnessed today is shocking and unprecedented. West Bengal has become a state characterised by utter lawlessness and intolerance. The administration has completely failed and goonda raj prevails,” Nadda said in the meeting. “This goonda raj cannot be allowed to continue. This is jungle raj, the administration has collapsed.” he added. Dilip Ghosh, whose vehicle was also attacked, claimed that “Bengal has turned into Syria” under the TMC. West Bengal Police however insisted that “nothing happened to the convoy”. “Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” it tweeted. “Everyone is safe and the situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the police wrote in another tweet. Incidentally, the Diamond Harbour area is represented by Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||BJP ‘goons attacked’ Manish Sisodia’s house, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday claimed that BJP goons ‘attacked’ the house of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. The Delhi Bharatiya Party however denied the allegation, saying their protest was peaceful. Earlier on Thursday, BJP workers staged a demonstration near Sisodia’s residence over an alleged conspiracy to kill mayors and leaders of the party-ruled municipal corporations staging an indefinite dharna demanding payment of dues from the Kejriwal government. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the incident. “I strongly condemn the systematic, organised and violent attack on Dy CM Manish Sisodia's home. The goons entered his house in police presence when he was away. Why is BJP getting so desperate by the day in Delhi,” he tweeted. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj in a press conference claimed that the police removed the barricades around Sisodia’s house and did not stop the workers from entering it. He also played a purported video of the outside area of the minister’s residence where a group of people can be seen forcefully entering inside. “BJP goons attacked the house of deputy chief minister while he was not at home. The Delhi Police helped the BJP goons in this act,” he said. The police did not comment anything about the incident immediately. AAP leader Atishi dubbed the incident as a “black day” in the national capital’s political history. “This is a black day in Delhi's political history that the Union Home Minister is now using his party goons and Delhi Police to attack the family of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in his absence from his residence,” she said during the press conference. Reacting to the charges, Delhi BJP vice president Ashok Goel Devraha claimed AAP leaders were trying to divert attention from the 'conspiracy' to kill BJP mayors and other corporation leaders. “We protested outside Sisodia's residence to make it clear that the BJP workers are capable of answering any form of challenge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Govt willing to hold further talks with farmers to resolve deadlock, says Tomar||A day after protesting farmers rejected the government's offer for a written assurance on MSP and amend few provisions in the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday urged union leaders to consider the proposals and said he is ready for further discussions with them. “The government is ready to consider with an open mind any provision in the new laws where farmers have any issues and we want to clarify all their apprehensions,” Tomar said at a press conference here. “We kept waiting for suggestions from farmers' leaders to address their concerns, but they are stuck on the repeal of laws,” he said, while virtually ruling out conceding to the key demand with which thousands of farmers are protesting on various borders of the national capital for nearly two weeks. Tomar said the government has always been ready for dialogue with farmers and it remains so. “We are concerned about the farmers protesting in cold weather and during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers’ unions should consider the government's proposal at the earliest and then we can mutually decide on the next meeting, if required,” the minister said. Hours later, the farmers however said that they will block railway tracks if their demand of repealing the laws is not met, and will announce the date soon. Addressing reporters at the Singhu borders, farmer union leaders also reiterated that they will intensify their agitation and start blocking all highways leading to the national capital. “We will block railway tracks if our demands are not met. We will decide on the date and announce it soon,” farmer leader Boota Singh said. “Centre has admitted that laws have been made for traders. If agriculture is a state subject, the Central government does not have the right to make laws on it,” added Balbir Singh Rajewal, another leader. The government fad on Wednesday proposed to give a “written assurance” that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers’ unions rejected the proposal and said they would intensify their agitation until the government accepts their demand for a complete repeal of the three laws. The government has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system. Tomar, who along with his cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal had met senior party leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday night, said the government is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September, which he said were passed after detailed discussions in Parliament. Goyal, who was also present at the media briefing, said the new laws do not affect the APMC and that would remain protected. Farmers are only being given an additional option to sell their produce at private mandis. The farmer leaders had said on Wednesday there was nothing new in the government proposal and they will continue their protest. Shah, in a Tuesday night meeting with 13 union leaders, had said the government would send a draft proposal on key issues raised by the farmers regarding the three farm laws, even though the meeting had failed to break the ice with farm union leaders who are insisting for repealing these laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was also cancelled. In the proposal, sent by Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the government said it is ready to consider with an open heart the objections which farmers have on the new farm laws. “The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals to the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” it said. On farmers’ fears that mandis would weaken after the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them. On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a pan card is allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers. On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it is open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at the SDM level. On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it has already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity's sake, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required. On fear about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it is ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue. On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won't be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers. On farmers' demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it is ready to find an appropriate solution. On farmers' demand to provide registration of farming contracts, the government said till state governments make an arrangement for registration, an appropriate facility will be provided at the SDM office wherein a copy of the contract can be submitted 30 days after its signing. On Constitutional validity of farm laws, the ministers said it has the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas. It had followed legal provisions while enacting the laws and earlier for bringing ordinances, the ministers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||India's aspirations will get fulfilled in new Parliament building, says Modi||Describing the laying of foundation stone of the new Parliament building as a "milestone in India's democratic history", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said if the old Parliament house gave direction to the country post-independence, the new one would be a witness to the making of a self-reliant India. Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone of the new building and performing the ground-breaking ceremony, Modi said many new things were being done in the new Parliament House, which will increase the efficiency of the MPs as modern methods will be incorporated in the work culture. "It is a very historic day. Today is a milestone in India's democratic history," he said. "We, the people of India, will together build this new building of Parliament. This new building will be an inspiration when India will celebrate its 75 years of independence," Modi said. "I can never forget the moment in my life when I had the opportunity to come to Parliament House for the first time in 2014 as an MP. Before stepping in, I bowed and saluted this temple of democracy," he said. If the old Parliament House gave direction to India post-independence, the new building would be a witness to the creation of a self-reliant India, Modi said. "If work was done to fulfil the needs of the country in the old Parliament building, then the aspirations of 21st century India will be fulfilled in the new building," the prime minister said. Priests from the Sringeri Math Karnataka did the rituals for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the new Parliament building site and it was followed by a 'sarva dharma prarthana' (inter-faith prayer). Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh also offered prayers during the ceremony. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has 12 gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Naqvi praises Centre for addressing farmers' issue 'transparently'||Amid the ongoing protests against three new farm laws, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said the Modi government was "sensitive" about the demands made by farmers and has addressed their main concerns in a "transparent" manner. He also said that most of the farmers were "satisfied" with the steps taken by the central government, and added that their interests were "safe and secure" in its hands. "The government is completely sensitive about the demands of farmers. That is why it has addressed their main concerns effectively and in a transparent manner. Most of the farmers are satisfied," Naqvi told news agency PTI. Without naming the opposition parties, which have been targeting the BJP government over the farmers' stir, he said, "Unfortunately, defeated dynastic forces are trying to hijack democracy by taking a destructive path." The Minority Affairs minister also accused the opposition parties of confusing farmers for their own political gains. On Wednesday, farmer leaders rejected a government proposal to amend the laws and remained adamant on their demand to scrap the legislation, which they say will lead to the dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and mandis (markets) that ensure earning. Naqvi said the central government was "very clear" on the issue of MSP that "nobody is going to touch it." He further said that markets would also continue to exist and farmers' land would be "completely safe and secure". "Nobody can touch farmers' land...The interests of farmers are 100 per cent safe and secured. This is the government's guarantee," he added. The three contentious laws at the centre of the farmer protests are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. PTI ENM ARU NP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Modi lays foundation stone of new Parliament building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building here at an event that was attended by leaders from various political parties, cabinet ministers and ambassadors of different countries. Modi also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the building, which is expected to be completed by 2022. Pujaris from the Sringeri Math Karnataka did the rituals for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the new Parliament building site. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has 12 gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Need to avoid actions that may complicate border situation, says Rajnath ||In a veiled reference to China's aggressive military behaviour, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate situation will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region. He was speaking at the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting-Plus (ADMM-Plus), a platform comprising 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners including India and China. Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe was among those who attended the virtual meeting, officials said. In his address, Singh talked about "the current regional environment with visible strains", and appreciated the central role of ASEAN-led forums, including ADMM-Plus in promoting dialogue and engagement towards a pluralistic, cooperative security order in Asia. "As we enhance mutual trust and confidence, exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region," he said. Singh's comments came amid the seven-month-long military standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh and Beijing's increasingly expansionist behaviour in South China Sea and Indo-Pacific. The defence minister also said that the ability of the grouping to collectively respond to challenges based on the fundamentals of freedom, inclusivity and openness in the region will define its future. "Threats to the rules-based order, maritime security, cyber-related crimes and terrorism, just to name a few, remain the challenges that we need to address as a forum," Singh said at the virtual meeting. The defence minister also talked about the outlook on the Indo-Pacific, saying it underscores the impetus to cultivate strategic trust and continuously promote ASEAN centrality in the regional architecture. "The concepts of 'vasudhaive kutumbakam' 'the whole world is one family' and 'sarve bhavantu sukhinah' 'all be at peace' are the core of the Indian civilisation. Therefore, inclusivity, equality and openness are the principles underlining this concept," he said. The defence minister also called for sustained efforts to address the threats of bio-terrorism, transnational trafficking and pandemics, and emphasised on building capacity to address shared security challenges. "Our composition is another pillar of our strength as it includes defence ministries of 18 key countries that are major stakeholders in the regional security dynamic," he said. In his address, Singh also underlined the need for confronting the challenges emerging from the coronavirus pandemic. "Amongst the new challenges that have emerged, COVID-19 has changed the world and left us many hurdles to overcome. Unfortunately, the disruptive effect of the pandemic is still unfolding," the defence minister said. "The challenge is, therefore, to make sure that the world economy moves on the path of recovery and when it does gather steam, to ensure that the recovery leaves no one behind," he added. The inaugural ADMM-Plus was convened in Hanoi in 2010. The defence ministers then had agreed on five areas of practical cooperation to pursue under the new mechanism, including maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping operations. The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing in the last few years with the focus being on ramping up cooperation in the areas of trade and investment as well as security and defence. Besides 10 ASEAN countries, the ADMM-Plus includes Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Covid: more than 30,000 cases, 412 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 97,67,371 with 31,521 fresh infections, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.53 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.74 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll rose to 1,41,772 with 412 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,53,306. The active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 3,72,293 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 3.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,07,59,726 samples had been tested up to December 9 with 9,22,959 being tested on Wednesday. The 412 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra, 50 from Delhi, 47 from West Bengal, 35 from Kerala, 26 from Haryana, 20 each from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,41,772 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,902 from Maharashtra followed by 11,900 from Karnataka, 11,836 from Tamil Nadu, 9,813 from Delhi, 8,867 from West Bengal, 7,987 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,045 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,980 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
10-12-2020||India||Glimpses from a day at Singhu border||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Lockdown: reduced food intake because of a decline in income||Two of every three respondents belonging to marginalised sections such as Dalits, tribals and backward classes have told a national survey that they have reduced their food intake because of a decline in income post-lockdown. The Right to Food Campaign, a network of civil society groups working on food rights, released on Wednesday the findings of the survey — Hunger Watch — carried out in September. The survey covered 3,994 respondents from 11 states, including Bengal, and tracked hunger among the vulnerable and marginalised communities during the pandemic. The respondents included 2,186 people from rural areas and 1,808 from urban areas. Around 59 per cent were Dalits and tribals and 23 per cent were Other Backward Classes (OBCs). About 45 per cent were daily wage labourers and 18 per cent were farmers. Nearly 62 per cent respondents said their income had fallen compared to the pre-lockdown period. Around 25 per cent said their income in the previous 30 days was half of what it used to be before the lockdown. About 53 per cent reported that their consumption of rice or wheat had decreased, with one in four saying it had reduced a lot. The survey did not specify what it meant by “a lot”, saying the description was based on perception. Sixty-four per cent respondents said their consumption of dal had decreased, with 28 per cent reporting that it had reduced a lot. Seventy-three per cent said they were eating less green vegetables than before, with 38 per cent saying they were eating a lot less. Fifty-six per cent never had to skip meals before the lockdown, but in the previous 30 days one in seven have had to skip meals often or sometimes, the survey found. Seventy-one per cent reported that the nutritional quality of food had worsened. Two-thirds reported that the food quantity had either decreased somewhat or decreased a lot. For about 45 per cent, the need to borrow money for food had increased since the lockdown. About 75 per cent respondents said they had some kind of ration cards, such as the National Food Security Act (NFSA) card or the Antyodaya Anna Yojana card or state ration cards, that gave them subsidised grains. The government has announced 5kg of additional grains and 1kg of pulses per person per month to NFSA card-holders. Nearly 86 per cent of the NFSA card-holders surveyed said they had received the free grains and pulses. At a media conference in Delhi, Deepa Sinha from the Right To Food Campaign said the organisation supported the farmers’ agitation. She said the food security act provided for procurement, storage and movement of grains. “Weakening the minimum support price and procurement mechanism could have serious implications for the public distribution system, pushing it towards cash transfer,” Sinha said. The Right To Food Campaign believes that adequate amount of food cannot be bought with such cash transfers. She demanded universal PDS that provides every individual with 10kg grains, 1.5kg pulses and 800gm cooking oil every month for at least the next six months, up to June 2021. Sinha demanded nutritious hot cooked meals through anganwadi centres and school midday meals for children. She also demanded an enhanced social security pension of at least Rs 2,000 per month for elderly people, single women and disabled persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Govt offers amendments in writing, farmers reject||Farmers on Wednesday unanimously rejected the amendments offered in writing by the Narendra Modi government to the three contentious farm laws, calling them “insincere” and an insult to cultivators. The farmers also do not see much merit in returning to the negotiating table without a substantial new offer. They feel the government is only maintaining a facade of accommodation without actually yielding much. Since the written proposals were sent to them after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, the farmers have decided to intensify the agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi highway till December 12 and targeting the businesses of the Ambanis and Adanis, arguing that these two corporate houses will be the biggest beneficiaries of the three new farm laws. In keeping with the hardening of stance, the farmers have coined a new slogan: “Sarkar ki asli majboori — Adani, Ambani, jamakhori (The government is helpless before Adani, Ambani and hoarding)”. Hoarding by the private sector has been allowed under the new farm laws. Farmers have been advised to give up their Jio phones, SIM cards and other apparatus. Besides, establishments owned by the Ambanis and the Adanis will be picketed and their products boycotted. Also, BJP ministers will be gheraoed. Toll plazas will be “freed” on December 12 across the country in a repeat of what Punjab farmers had done on the national highways running through the state from October 1. As part of this particular exercise, farmers will picket at toll plazas and prevent the collection of levy by allowing vehicles to pass through free of charge. Briefing journalists at the Singhu border after the proposals reached them, farm union leaders said there was nothing new beyond what had been offered at Saturday’s meeting with the government’s interlocutors — agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, food minister Piyush Goyal and junior commerce minister Som Prakash. Detailing what transpired at the meeting called by the home minister, Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh told reporters that the government was now doing what it should have done before introducing the laws. “Had they held discussions before promulgating the ordinances, they would not be facing this situation.” The amendments that the government has committed itself to in writing are those that were discussed at Saturday’s meeting during which the farmers had iterated that the three laws had to be repealed. In the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, which some of the farmers’ organisations call the “Agricultural Produce Market Committee Bypass Act”, the Centre has agreed to enable state governments to collect market cess/fees on transactions outside the government mandis and allow the local administration to register the trades. Also, farmers will be allowed to go to civil courts for dispute resolution. In the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act (FAPAFS), billed the Contract Farming Promotion Act by farmers, the government has agreed that till the system of registering contracts by the state government is put in place, a signed copy of the contract shall be deposited in the SDM’s office within 30 days of signing. Also, the government has assured that the law will be tweaked to make it clear that farmers’ land cannot be attached under any circumstances. On minimum support price and procurement, the Centre is not willing to go beyond a written assurance that the current procurement levels of the government at MSP will be maintained in future. The farmers have been demanding a legal guarantee for MSP. According to Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, these proposals do not address most of the concerns raised by the farmers’ organisations, particularly about removing regulations on traders and companies functioning outside the APMC mandis. In the FAPAFS law, the farmers have questioned the absence of protection for those who enter into contracts with companies. “Thus, despite the attempt by the government to portray itself as reasonable, it is being very rigid in not addressing the key demands of the farmers, and simply playing a public relations game of trying to change perceptions,” Vissa said. New Delhi: The mood was melancholic but the metaphor bucolic. “Murgi baithe raha, anda nahi diya (The hen kept sitting but laid no egg),” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said on Tuesday evening, describing what transpired at the meeting called by Union home minister Amit Shah. Mollah, who has attended four rounds of talks so far, added: “They 
kept saying ‘amendment’, ‘amendment’, ‘amendment’, essentially repeating what they have been saying. We kept saying ‘repeal’, ‘repeal’, ‘repeal’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Fact-finding report points Delhi violence finger at Amit Shah||A fact-finding report released by the CPM on Wednesday on the communal violence in Delhi in February has held Union home minister Amit Shah responsible for the escalation of the violence and prejudicing the probe. “The role of the home ministry under Mr Amit Shah was in substantial measure responsible for the escalation of the violence,” said the report, titled Communal Violence in North East Delhi, February 2020. The report concluded that “it is incorrect to describe the communal violence as Delhi riots. ‘Riots’ describe a situation where both sides are equally participatory…. However, the offensive was from the Hindutva mobs while the other side, in the main, was desperately trying to save themselves from such attacks…. In almost all areas, there is video evidence of the police siding with the Hindutva mobs.” As many as 53 people were killed — 40 were Muslim and 13 Hindu. The report said: “On March 11, 2020, Mr Shah informed Parliament that he had been in constant touch with top police officials in Delhi, monitoring the situation. The question is, why was curfew not imposed from February 24, when violence escalated? Why was the army not deployed? Even the additional deployment of Delhi police and Rapid Action Force personnel was not only grossly inadequate, but also extremely delayed.” The report, steered by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat and state secretary K.M. Tewari, was undertaken to give context and explanations to the responses of 400 people interviewed by the party’s relief and rehabilitation solidarity committee. The report breaks new ground by listing several specific instances of violence that go against the general narrative pushed by the police and highlights several identical FIRs and confessions cited by the police as well as complaints of torture. Quoting a chargesheet filed in one of the cases — in which several students have been charged with terrorism for allegedly inciting riots by their protests against the new citizenship regime — the report shows that the number of personnel deployed during the riots from February 23 to 27 ranged from 1,393 to 4,756 in a district with a population of 26 lakh. The report adds: “Before any investigation was done, the home minister laid down its findings (in the Lok Sabha on March 11). The subsequent investigation was only to substantiate and validate this narrative. “Shah dismissed the well-documented speeches by BJP leaders that called for shooting traitors or alleging that members of the minority community will invade homes of Hindus to rape and kill. “Then he went on to describe what he thought were the real hate speeches. He said that Congress leaders gave hate speeches on December 14, 2019, at a rally calling upon people to come out onto the streets because it was a do-or-die battle. With this, he not only sought to build the version that it was really the Opposition that incited violence, but more significantly, he blamed the minority community for the violence.” In the Lok Sabha on March 11, Shah called the riots a “well-planned conspiracy” and praised the police for controlling the violence within 36 hours. The Congress and the CPM walked out during his speech. The report describes attacks even on February 28, five days after the killings began. PTI quoted West Delhi BJP MP Parvesh Verma as saying on January 28: “What happened in Kashmir with Kashmiri Pandits could happen in Delhi also. Lakhs of people gather at Shaheen Bagh, they could enter houses, rape and kill your sisters and daughters. The people need to decide now.” The Election Commission of India barred Verma, Union minister Anurag Thakur and BJP candidate Kapil Mishra from campaigning for the Delhi Assembly polls for several days as punishment for incendiary and communal remarks. Veteran police officer Julio Ribeiro had called the police inaction against the trio as “a licence to rant, rave and threaten those who are peacefully protesting perceived wrongs”. Police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava had defended the probe, saying that more complaints of minorities had been registered as FIRs than that of the other community. Besides the speech of Mishra on February 23, the report highlights provocative sloganeering in Shivratri processions of February 21. It added that two Muslim boys were waylaid near the Maujpur-Babarpur Metro station on February 22. The report slammed the Delhi government for delays and partial compensation, and sought an independent probe by a retired high court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers undeterred by Covid||Protesting farmers say the fear of contracting Covid-19 cannot deter them. “The government has already tied a noose around our necks with these laws… We cannot afford to be afraid of coronavirus,” said Gagandeep Singh, at the protest for 10 days. Gurvasan Singh, an elderly farmer, said: “We are losing our rights. We do not have time to worry about coronavirus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Karnataka Assembly passes cattle slaughter bill||The Karnataka Assembly on Wednesday passed a bill making slaughter of any form of cattle an offence punishable with up to seven years in prison. The ruling BJP pushed through the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, without proper debate in the Assembly amid protests from Congress and Janata Dal Secular members. The bill was passed through voice vote amid chants of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and “Vande Mataram” from the ruling benches. It will now travel to the Legislative Council for its approval, most probably on Thursday before the four-day winter session concludes. While the government was expected to table the bill, the Opposition was taken by surprise when it was taken for voice vote without a proper discussion. An angry leader of the Opposition, P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress, told the House that his party would be boycotting the rest of the brief winter session set to conclude on Thursday. The new law that will replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, has broadened the definition of the “cow” to cover all forms of cattle — male and female. Section 4 of the new law prohibits slaughter of any cattle — cow or buffalo — even for traditional customs. While the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, had also banned slaughter of cows, she-buffalos and calves, it permitted the slaughter of bulls and he-buffaloes above the age of 12 and certified unfit for breeding or agriculture use. The new law provides for jail terms between three and seven years, penalty of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh, or both, for the first offence. Those booked for a second offence could be jailed for up to seven years, slapped with a fine between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, or both. In contrast, the law that would be replaced soon provides for jail term of up to six months and fines of up to Rs 1,000, or both. While a large number of slaughter animals are transported to neighbouring Kerala and Goa, the new law will limit all such movement to only for the purpose of animal husbandry and agriculture, that too after going through a certification process. Opposition lawmakers led by Siddaramaiah trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans against the government, soon after animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan tabled the bill in the afternoon. They slammed the government for tabling a bill that was not discussed in the business advisory committee meeting held on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||No need for Covid caution notices: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that the states and Union Territories are not under any obligation to display caution notices outside the homes of Covid-19 patients and any such directive can be issued only if there is specific directive from the Union government under the Management Act, 2005. The apex court passed the order after recording an undertaking from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who informed the court that no directive had been passed by the Centre on affixing notices outside the homes of Covid patients and that the health and family welfare ministry had through a circular on November 19 reiterated that there was no need for such a practice. “The Union of India has already issued D.O. letter dated 19.11.2020 extracted above to guide the States and Union Territories, we only observe that no state or Union Territory is required to paste posters outside the residence of Covid-19 positive persons, as of now. The state governments and Union Territories can resort the above exercise only when any direction is issued by the competent authority under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the apex court said in a judgment. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R.Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the judgment while disposing of a PIL filed by social activist Kush Kalra challenging practice of affixing notices outside the homes of Covid patients in many states, particularly Delhi and Punjab, as being discriminatory and in violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21. The petitioner had pleaded that directions be issued to stop publishing the names of Covid-positive persons by officials of the health department in the states and Union Territories and also to stop freely circulating their names in welfare associations of colony and apartment complex, which are a serious violation of fundamental rights, right to privacy and right to live with dignity. “Covid-19 positive persons cannot be denigrated merely because they have contracted the illness. Illness of a person cannot be made a reason or ground for discrimination and differential treatment. These are the principles upon which Article 14 (Right to Equality) of the Constitution is founded. Moreover, the Constitution does not and can never permit discrimination on the ground of illness and physical suffering. “Covid-19 with its malefic effects is the most harrowing experience, both physically and mentally. To add to this is the traumatising experience of living in isolation and the severe curtailment of freedom. A Covid-19 positive person is already subjected to restrictions by the State in the form of isolation, which amounts to curtailment of rights under Article 19 (Freedom of Speech) of the Constitution. The State cannot be permitted to affix posters outside residences and circulate names which lead to further curtailment of the rights of such persons guaranteed by Article 21 (Right to Life and Personal Liberty) of the Constitution,” the petitioner had pleaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||BJP uses Rajasthan poll victory as mandate for farm laws||The BJP on Wednesday used the party’s win in Rajasthan’s rural local body polls to claim it as a mandate for the farm laws, seeking in the process to obliquely dub the ongoing protests as politically motivated. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar was fielded by the party as the Rajasthan panchayat poll results came, dealing a blow to the faction-ridden ruling Congress in the state. “The Rajasthan victory in the local body polls is phenomenal for the BJP. The people, particularly farmers of rural areas, have given a decisive mandate for BJP, defeating the Congress with huge margins,” Javadekar said, stressing the party had won 14 of the 21 zilla parishads. “This is a farmers’ mandate and a vote for the farm reforms.” He refrained from commenting anything on the intensifying farmers’ protest. saying his focus was on highlighting the “meaning” of the Rajasthan panchayat polls. Despite ground reports that farmers from many states had joined the protest, the BJP has been trying to dub it as only a show by farmers of Congress-ruled Punjab. Javadekar went on to mention the local body poll results in Arunachal Pradesh, Hyderabad and the Bihar bypolls to claim it was “only BJP, BJP...,” in all directions. “Be it east, south or north... wherever you go it’s BJP, BJP, BJP...,” he said, stressing that the people of the country were with Narendra Modi despite all the efforts of the Opposition to “mislead and instigate” the people. The Arunachal Pradesh local body polls are still to be counted but Javadekar said the BJP had already won many seats unopposed as no one contested against the party’s nominee. In Hyderabad local polls early this month, he said, the BJP had won 49 of the 150 seats and polled more votes than the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti. Javadekar sought to celebrate the people’s support for the BJP despite all-round gloom, claiming it was a reflection of the people’s faith in the leadership of Modi and rejection of the Congress and other Opposition parties. “Despite corona, despite economic slowdown due to the pandemic, despite migration of labour and despite the instigation by Opposition parties and misinformation campaign against the farm reforms, people of India are standing behind the BJP and also for all reforms under the dynamic leadership of Narendra Modi,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||HC pulls up JNU for holding back dues of professor who protested ||Delhi High Court has set aside Jawaharlal Nehru University’s decision to put on hold the pension payment of a professor for taking part in a ceasework against the policies of the institution. In its verdict on November 23, a single-judge bench of Justice Jyoti Singh referred to three previous judgments of the Supreme Court and Punjab and Haryana High Court and held that pension was not a bounty that the employer could put it on hold. Delhi High Court directed JNU to release the retirement benefits of Prof. Kunal Chakrabarti, a former faculty member at the School of Historical Studies, within four weeks along with 9 per cent interest for the period since his retirement in May last year. Chakrabarti and 47 other faculty members had taken part in a protest on the campus in July 2018 against the policies of vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. The university had discontinued its policy of deprivation points to students from backward districts during admission to research courses in 2018. The VC had also been accused of ignoring the list of experts suggested by academic bodies of the university for selection of teachers. The protesting teachers had been showcaused as the university had considered their participation in the ceasework as an act of violation of academic rules and regulations. The teachers were chargesheeted in June 2019 but they moved Delhi High Court, which stayed the proceedings and notices against them. Chakrabarti retired in May 2019 and applied for retiral benefits such as pension and gratuity in June that year. In August 2019, JNU responded saying that his retirement benefits would be kept on hold till the chargesheet was finalised. He sought information under the RTI Act about the delay but got no information. Chakrabarti then moved the high court seeking disbursal of dues with 18 per cent annual interest for the period of non-payment. In its affidavit, JNU had said that since Chakrabarti had retired, approval had been sought from the President of India, the visitor of the university, for initiating proceedings against him. JNU informed the court that the gratuity was paid in October 2019 but the pension had been put on hold in view of the showcause notice and the actions proposed under Rule 9 of the CCS Pension Rules. According to the rules, the pension of an employee can be withheld in part or full if he or she is found guilty of misconduct or negligence of duty during service by any departmental committee or the judiciary. In this case, no chargesheet was issued, so no proceedings were pending against Chakrabarti. “Pension is neither a bounty nor a matter of grace depending upon the sweet will of the employer,” the high court judgment said. “Pension is not an ex gratia payment but it is a payment for the past service rendered and it is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice to those who in the heyday of their life ceaselessly toiled for the employer on an assurance that in their old age they would not be left in the lurch,” the judgment added. “I hereby direct the Respondent (JNU) to release the pensionary benefits of the Petitioner, within a period of four weeks from today including the arrears with effect from 31.05.2019. The Petitioner shall also be entitled to interest @ 9% per annum on the arrears of pension,” the court ruled. JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) secretary Moushami Basu welcomed the ruling and hoped similar relief would be provided to the other teachers whose pensions had been put on hold. “We hope the court will take a similar view in all the cases. The university’s actions seek to victimise the faculty members,” she said. This is the second time within a month that the court has made a scathing remark on a decision of the JNU administration and set aside its actions. Last month, it had quashed the advertisement of two faculty posts whose reservation character had been altered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||Odisha cabinet passes resolution for right MSP||The Odisha cabinet on Wednesday resolved to move the Centre for the implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan committee recommendations on minimum support price (MSP) of all crops, which will ensure the doubling of farmers’ income. The state government said it considered MSP as an essential tool for providing income security to farmers and was their basic right. The cabinet passed a resolution to this effect. “Farmers are the soul of our economy, the fundamental strength behind our socio-economic dynamics. The nation and society thrive with the prosperity of farmers. Therefore any overlooking of farmers’ concern is practically suicidal in nature,” the resolution states. The resolution said that the government led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik had prioritised, from the beginning, the issues concerning the farm sector and has taken many initiatives for the welfare of farmers. “The government is working with absolute commitment to double the farmers’ income. Starting from our new Agriculture Policy 2020 SAMRUDHI to various other plans and programmes, we have focused on rapid growth in the agriculture sector. Our objective is to make farming profitable and create massive employment opportunities in this sector,” the resolution said. The resolution talked about a number of game-changing initiatives of the Naveen Patnaik government, including the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, which has enhanced farmers’ income. “In this context, the state government considers MSP an essential tool for providing income security to farmers. The National Agriculture Commission chaired by eminent agriculture scientist Dr M.S. Swaminathan had recommended an MSP 50 per cent higher than the average cost of agricultural production,” the resolution said. “In a country like India, MSP is a basic right of farmers. The farmers brave the fiery sun and the rains to work on the fields so that we can get food. Therefore, if the farmer remains in uncertainty over the value of his produce, then the farmers and farming, including our economy, will come to a crisis. Ignoring the interests of the farmers, it’s impossible to dream big on development.” It said while almost all the sectors were facing a slowdown during the pandemic, it was only the farm sector that had helped the economy survive. “Therefore, farmers’ income must grow proportionate to the growth of income in other sectors. In the agriculture sector, the income enhancement must be considered keeping the cost of production in view. To make farming profitable and protect the farmers from all types of volatility, the MSP must be fixed on realistic basis,” the resolution said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-499
10-12-2020||India||CJI S.A. Bobde's mom duped of Rs 2.5cr  in Nagpur||Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde’s mother was duped of Rs 2.5 crore allegedly by the caretaker of a family property here, a police officer said on Wednesday. The accused, Tapas Ghosh, 49, was arrested on Tuesday night and a special investigation team (SIT) of Nagpur police is looking into the matter under the supervision of DCP Vinita Sahu, he said. The officer said the Bobde family owns Seadon Lawn, the property adjoining their residence near Akashwani Square that is rented out to host various events. The CJI’s nonagenarian mother, Mukta Bobde, is the owner of the property and the family had appointed Ghosh, a resident of Friends Colony here, as its caretaker, he said. Ghosh was managing the property for the last 10 years and looking after its finances, the officer said. Taking advantage of Mukta Bobde’s advanced age and poor health, Ghosh allegedly forged payments receipts of the lawn and duped her of around Rs 2.5 crore, he said, adding the money involved in the case may be more. Ghosh and his wife did not deposit the entire amount they collected by renting out the lawn for various programmes, including marriages, the officer said. When the fraud came to light, the police formed the SIT, which includes officers from the Economic Offences Wing. On Tuesday night, an FIR was registered under relevant provisions of the IPC at Sitabuldi police station, he said. Ghosh, who was questioned by the SIT earlier, was subsequently placed under arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Opposition takes repeal plea to President||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday exhorted agitating farmers not to relent at this critical juncture, warning that they would not be able to stand up ever again if they struck a compromise on the farm laws. Minutes after the farmers’ unions rejected the proposals sent by the Narendra Modi government, the Congress leader said: “The government should not nurture misconceptions. Farmers won’t compromise. They have realised there won’t be any future for them if they compromise now. I want to tell the farmers — if you don’t stand up now, you won’t be able to do that ever again. Don’t be afraid. We all are with you. Nobody can harm you. You are Hindustan.” Rahul was talking to the media outside Rashtrapati Bhavan after he and other Opposition leaders submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind. “The farmers have understood that the purpose of these laws is to hand over the agriculture system to friends of the Prime Minister. They will not step back. The government should not expect them to cave in. Kisan darega nahi, kisan hatega nahi (The farmers won’t be afraid, the farmers won’t relent),” the Congress parliamentarian said. Other Opposition leaders, although they were not as blunt as Rahul, also said the Prime Minister had conspired to hand over agriculture trade to corporate houses. Rahul said on Wednesday: “The manner in which these bills were passed is an insult to the farmers. The farmers have now lost faith in the government. They don’t believe this government is acting in their interest.” The former Congress president, not known to sugarcoat his words, had tweeted earlier: “Under Mr Modi Reform = Theft. That’s why they need to get rid of democracy.” In another tweet in Hindi, Rahul asked Modi to “stop the loot”. NCP chief and former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, who was part of the delegation that met the President along with the CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, the CPI’s D, Raja and the DMK’s T.K.S. Elangovan, said the farming community had to erupt in protest as the laws had been enacted without consultation. Pawar explained: “The bills should have been sent to a select committee of Parliament for wider consultation. Farmers have realised these laws do not serve their interest. There is no mention of MSP (minimum support price) anywhere in the laws.” Yechury, who said more than 20 parties were in support of their stand and only five leaders went to meet the President because of Covid protocol, said: “We asked for repeal of these laws passed in an undemocratic manner. Proper consultation would have prevented this situation.” Raja said: “Whatever discussions are happening now should have happened in Parliament, before the passage of the bills.” Elangovan alleged that farmers were being left to fend for themselves and these laws were a negation of the promise to implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations. The President, who had refused to meet Congress chief ministers over the farm bills, heard out the Opposition delegation without expressing his views. The memorandum submitted to him said: “More than twenty political parties extended their solidarity with the ongoing historic struggle of the Indian peasantry and extended whole-hearted support to their call for Bharat Bandh yesterday, demanding the repeal of retrograde agriculture laws and the electricity amendment bill.” It added: “These laws passed in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the MSP and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multinational agri-business corporates and domestic corporates. We urge upon you as the custodian of the Indian Constitution to persuade your Government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by the anndata (giver of food).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||India’s drug regulatory panel seeks data on vaccines ||India’s drug regulatory panel on Wednesday signalled that it needed more time and data to review the applications for emergency use authorisation of at least two Covid-19 vaccines with risk-versus-benefit assessment as its top priority. The panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has sought additional data and will continue reviewing the applications from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, a top health official told The Telegraph. Three companies — Pfizer, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech — have applied for the emergency use authorisation of their Covid-19 vaccines and company executives were scheduled on Wednesday to make presentations to the panel. The Pune-based Serum Institute has sought approval for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine that the company is manufacturing in India, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat-Biotech has sought approval for a homegrown vaccine jointly developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The CDSCO panel on Wednesday asked the Serum Institute to update its safety data from India, immunogenicity data from India and the UK, and submit the outcome of AstraZeneca’s application for similar approval with the UK regulatory authority. It has asked Bharat Biotech to submit safety and efficacy data from its clinical trial under way in India. Medical experts familiar with the regulatory aspects of clinical trials said they were not surprised that the CDSCO panel had asked for additional data. “I guess this means the (panel) is working well,” Urmila Thatte, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Mumbai, told the newspaper. The emergency use authorisation process, facilitated by enabling provisions in Indian rules, allows the CDSCO to relax certain data requirements to accelerate approval of candidate drugs or vaccines under health emergency circumstances. The vaccines from Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech represent three distinct vaccine design strategies and, experts say, each application for emergency use authorisation under review in India contains gaps in data that make the decision challenging. “These are all good vaccines — but based on only public domain information, it may be early for any to be approved in India,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University in Sonipat (Haryana). Pfizer’s vaccine, based on a novel vaccine design platform that uses genetic material called RNA, has shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, but all of its clinical trials data come from outside India. The vaccine has not been tested for either safety or its capacity to generate an immune response in India. The AstraZeneca vaccine — based on a chimpanzee adenovirus platform — has undergone safety and immunogenicity studies in India and the CDSCO panel would have to rely on its efficacy data entirely from its trials in the UK and Brazil. The Bharat Biotech vaccine is a killed version of the novel coronavirus, what experts describe as a “conventional vaccine platform”. Bharat has already generated its safety and immunogenicity data in India but its efficacy trial on 26,000 volunteers is still under way. The two efficacy values of the AstraZeneca vaccine under two different dosing regimens evaluated during the clinical trials in the UK and Brazil, experts say, complicates the decision in India. The vaccine was shown to have 90 per cent efficacy with a half dose first followed by a full dose a month apart, and 62 per cent efficacy with two full doses. The clinical trial by the Serum Institute in India involved only the 62 per cent efficacy regimen. Thatte and other experts say the CDSCO would ideally thus need to review the AstraZeneca vaccine only for the 62 per cent efficacy regimen and not the 90 per cent regimen. “Pfizer, ideally, would need to do a small bridging study in India,” said Gagandeep Kang, a senior microbiologist and vaccine science expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. A bridging study involves quickly demonstrating safety and immunogenicity in Indian volunteers — what the Serum Institute has done with the AstraZeneca vaccine. But the Serum Institute study, some scientists underline, while involving 1,600 volunteers is looking at immunogenicity in only 400 volunteers. India’s drug regulatory panel has sought more data from both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech on their Covid-19 vaccines, signalling what health officials say is its abundant caution during the accelerated approval process. Some scientists expect that the AstraZeneca vaccine could be the first to be approved in India — but only after the UK regulatory authority has done so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Eco Retreat fest in Odisha||The Odisha tourism department on Wednesday launched the second edition of Eco Retreat Festival at five major tourist places in the state, including Konark, to infuse life into the tourism sector that has suffered badly because of the coronavirus pandemic. The festival, which involves staying in luxurious tented accommodations, will continue till February 28 next year. Inaugurating Odisha Tourism’s flagship programme through videoconferencing, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “The Eco retreats will offer tourists an excellent opportunity to discover Odisha’s diverse tourism offerings in style. It will go a long way in encouraging tourists from across India to explore these beautiful destinations set deep in the hinterlands of Odisha. Last year, Odisha had set a benchmark in luxury glamping with phenomenal success at the Marine Drive Eco Retreat at Konark. This time, we have scaled it upto five unique locations.” The Eco Retreat Festival has started at Ramchandi sea beach in Konark, Satkosia Tiger Reserve, Bhitarkanika National Park, Daringbadi in Kandhamal and Hirakud Water Reserve in Sambalpur district. At all these places, tourists will be offered accommodation facilities and services in luxury tented cottages on a par with three-star and five-star hotels during the festival. Luxury tents with thematic ambience have been put up. The tents with double occupancy are priced between Rs 6,000 and Rs 25,000 for one night and two days. Taking a cue from the annual Rann Utsav at Rann of Kutch where the Gujarat government sets up tented accommodation for the tourists, the Eco Retreat Festival plans to showcase the best of Odisha’s food and culture for high-end tourists. Union minister for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also spoke on the occasion. Patel said the Eco Retreat at Konark and Rann of Kutch are two glamping events in India that have attracted the attention in the country and outside. This year, a total of 145 cottages of different categories have been put up in five locations. The additional features in the current year at Ramchandi near Konark are sea-surfing sessions, parasailing, e-scooter, open-air restaurant and beach shack. Officials said tourists can make bookings by using the integrated portal ecoretreat.odishatourism.gov.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan's tigress Sundari care plea||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has urged his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik to ensure proper care of tigress Sundari, currently lodged in an enclosure at Satkosia Tiger Reserve, till it is relocated to Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha had brought Sundari along with another tiger Mahavir in 2018 from Madhya Pradesh as part of India’s first tiger translocation project. Both were released in the Satkosia reserve forest later. While Mahavir died months after his release in 2018, Sundari turned violent and killed two persons. Odisha forest officials then put Sundari inside an enclosure after tranquillising her in November 2018. However, she has not been keeping well. Odisha has already intimated the Madhya Pradesh government to take the tigress back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Vijayan aide admitted to hospital for third time in a row||A political associate of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who has got himself hospitalised citing Covid-related complications for the third time in a row has put the state government in a bind since he was supposed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate in a gold smuggling case each time he took ill. C.M. Raveendran, an influential CPM leader and Vijayan’s additional private secretary, is receiving treatment at the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram since Tuesday. He got himself admitted soon after the ED served notice on him to appear for questioning in a money-laundering case linked to the gold smuggling racket busted on July 5 at the airport in the Kerala capital. It is the timing of hospitalisation on all three occasions that has cast doubts on Raveendran’s claim and a shadow on the government. Raveendran had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 5, a day before he was asked to appear before the ED. He got hospitalised again on November 26 citing post-Covid health issues just hours after he was served the second notice to appear before the ED the following day. The third notice was served on Tuesday after the ED suspected some “benami” business dealings involving Raveendran. Raveendran’s name is said to have cropped up during the investigations into the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold from Dubai in a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of the consulate-general of the UAE in Thuruvananthapuram. The frequent hospitalisation of Raveendran has put the Left Democratic Front government in the dock although it has accused the central government of misusing its agencies to target those close to chief minister Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
10-12-2020||India||Adani: We don’t procure grain or decide price||The Adani Group has said it neither buys food grains from farmers nor decides their pricing, at a time protesting cultivators and the Opposition have named the company while expressing fears of a corporate takeover of agriculture. The port-to-energy conglomerate said it only developed and operated grain silos for the Food Corporation of India (FCI). “The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as pricing of grain as it is only a service/infrastructure provider for the FCI,” the Adani Group said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. The FCI buys food grains from farmers and stores them in silos built through public-private partnership. While private players are paid a fee for building and storing the grains, the ownership of the commodity as well as its marketing and distribution rights belong to the FCI. The FCI, Adani said, controls the procurement and movement of grains for the public distribution system (PDS). Farmers protesting the government’s new farm laws have alleged that the legislation would allow “Adani-Ambani” to take over the sector. They have not said that the corporate groups at present control food grain procurement or movement. Some farm groups have alleged that the Adanis are building storage facilities to hoard food grains and sell them at a higher price later. “We do not own any food grains procured from farmers, and are in no way connected to the pricing of grains,” the Adani Group said. The company said it had been in the business of developing and operating grain silos for the FCI since 2005. It sets up storage infrastructure after winning competitive and transparent tenders floated by the government, the Adani Group said. Private rail lines that the company has built as part of these tenders are to facilitate the movement of grains from the silos to the distribution centres across India, the statement said. The FCI, the Adani Group said, awards such contracts with a view to modernising the storage and transport infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-500
