11-12-2020||India||Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to quit if no MSP provided for farmers||Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, a key BJP ally, on Friday promised to resign from his post if he is unable to secure the minimum support price (MSP) guarantee for farmers. The remark comes a day after the farmers protesting at the Delhi border rejected the Centre's written assurance that the support price system will not be scrapped and insisted on repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws. "Our party's national president already made it clear that MSP must be ensured to farmers. The written proposals given by the Central government to the protesting farmers include a provision for MSPs. I will work to secure MSP for farmers as long as I am in power. I will resign from my post the day I am unable to fulfil the promise," Chautala told NDTV. Chautala, whose Jannayak Janata Party formed a government in Haryana in partnership with the BJP in 2019, said he is in touch with the Centre to push for the farmers' demands. "Chaudhary Devi Lal (late former Haryana chief minister) used to say the government only listens to farmers till the time they have a partnership in the government. Today, I and my party are constantly putting the farmers' views in front of the Centre. I am in touch with the Union Minister through telephone and putting my views about the possible solutions of farmers' problem," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India|| Result of China’s actions: MEA on LAC standoff||India on Friday claimed that the military standoff between the country and China over that last six months is a result of actions taken by the latter, which sought to bring in a “unilateral change” in the status along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava made the comments while addressing a press conference that sought to seek his stance regarding the Chinese foreign Ministry’s allegations that India was responsible for the standoff. “Our position has been very clear and has been articulated several times in the past. The situation that we have seen since the last six months has been a result of the actions of the Chinese side which has sought to effect a unilateral change in status along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” Srivastava said. “These actions are in violation of the bilateral agreements and protocol on ensuring peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas,” he added. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson on Thursday blamed India again for the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. “We have taken note of the Chinese side’s statement that it observes ‘'strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquillity’ in the border areas. We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions,” Srivastava noted. Since early May, Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a tense border standoff in Eastern Ladakh along the LAC, despite several rounds of diplomatic talks. Srivastava said the two sides have continued to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. “It is our expectation that the further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” the MEA spokesperson highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Vaccine: AstraZeneca to use Sputnik V component for its trial||Pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca has accepted an offer from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to use one of the two components of its Sputnik V vaccine in its clinical trials, the institute said on Friday. On November 20 this year, RDIF and Gamaleya Institute had proposed the pharma giant to use  one of the two components (human adenoviral vectors) of the Sputnik V vaccine in the clinical trial of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, Russia's sovereign wealth fund said in a statement. “AstraZeneca accepted RDIF's proposal and will begin clinical trials of its vaccine in combination with Sputnik V's human adenoviral vector type Ad26 by the end of 2020,” the statement said. “This research will allow AstraZeneca's scientists to study the possibility of boosting their vaccine's efficacy through the application of this combined approach,” the RDIF said. “The decision by AstraZeneca to carry out clinical trials using one of two vectors of Sputnik V in order to increase its own vaccine's efficacy is an important step towards uniting efforts in the fight against the pandemic,” RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said. AstraZeneca had previously come under scrutiny when it accepted a manufacturing error in its vaccine. “These preliminary data indicate that the vaccine is 70.4% effective, with tests on two different dose regimens showing that the vaccine was 90% effective if administered at a half dose and then at a full dose, or 62% effective if administered in two full doses,” the University of Oxford, with which AstraZeneca had partnered, said in a statement. It also faced a slew of questions last month when a Chennai-based volunteer complained of facing neurological and psychological problems after receiving a trial shot of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Bengal headed for showdown with Centre over Nadda convoy attack||The Bengal government on Friday decided not to send its secretary and police chief to New Delhi in compliance with Union Home Ministry's order following an attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy a day earlier. Chief Secretary  Alapan Bandopadhyay wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, saying he has been directed to request the Centre to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in a December 14 meeting, indicating that he was acting under orders of the state government. The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, following Governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s report on the attack on Nadda, allegedly by "goons" of the ruling Trinamul Congress. Dhankhar, who alleged at a press conference in Calcutta that violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the Opposition is quelled, was asked to submit a report after Nadda's convoy was attacked with stones and bricks in Calcutta's Diamond Harbour on Thursday. The governor's report following the violence in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Banerjee's nephew Abhishek, gives a detailed analysis of the law and order situation in Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes, the officials said. In his letter, Bandopadhyay referred to the MHA’s summons to him and the DGP. “Kindly refer to the letter whereby the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police, Government of West Bengal, have been requested to attend a meeting on December 14, 2020, at 12.15 PM in your chamber to discuss the law and order situation in the State of West Bengal, including the incidents regarding certain Z-category protectees,” the chief secretary wrote in his letter. “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials in the meeting, considering that the State Government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness,” the two-page letter read. Bandopadhyay said that the state government, following the Union Home Secretary’s December 10 direction, had arranged for security cover for the convoy on Thursday. “The incidents regarding Z-category protectees are already being examined at our end. The West Bengal Police had provided a bulletproof car and a pilot to Shri J.P. Nadda, which was in addition to the escort (vehicle by State, personnel by CRPF) and PSOs (CRPF) he is entitled as a Z- category protectee,” he said. The DIG (Police) of the range was stationed in the area to supervise the arrangements personally. At the same time, 4 Additional SPS, 8 DySPs, 14 Inspectors, 70 Sls/AS1s, 40 RAF personnel, 259 constables and 350 members of auxiliary forces were deployed on the route and at the venue at Diamond Harbour, the letter read. “While the central protectees had their own central protection arrangements, these arrangements were made over and above the same from the end of the State,” Bandopadhyay said and requested to be excused from attending the meeting. Noting that three cases have been registered in connection with Thursday's violence, including two for vandalism, he said, seven persons have already been arrested. A day earlier in Calcutta, the governor slammed the state government over the deteriorating law and order situation and said the chief minister must desist from repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders. Such statements, he said, would weaken the national fabric. “I have sent my report to the Central government, the contents cannot be shared on account of propriety,” Dhankhar told reporters at the press conference in Raj Bhawan. “The governor will vindicate his oath, come what may,” he asserted. Dhankhar also alleged that the “non-responsive” stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said, "I take very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture, talk the way she did." Banerjee had mockingly distorted Nadda's name at a rally in Kolkata on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act". Cars of several party leaders, including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy, were also damaged in the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Kisan union moves SC against farm laws||Bhartiya Kisan Union Bhanu, a farmers association, has moved the Supreme Court seeking to intervene as a party in a pending plea challenging the constitutional validity of the newly enacted three contentious farm laws. A bench headed by Chief Justice Justice S A Bobde, on October 12, had issued a notice to the Centre by agreeing to test the validity of the laws on the pleas filed by RJD lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha and DMK Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and one by Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress. The application, filed through advocate AP Singh, said, "The Acts were passed hastily without adequate discussion... Inherent weaknesses of the agricultural sector cannot be addressed by way of monetization of farmers."
It added that despite multiple representations sent by various Kisan groups, the government is not ready to consider their problems. The system needs strengthening of APMC system, MSP and financial support, the plea suggested. The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind's assent. Several petitions are already pending before the Supreme Court, which includes ones filed by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, Rakesh Vaishnav of the Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress and Bharatiya Kisan Party, against the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Home ministry summons Bengal chief secretary, police chief after Nadda's convoy attack||The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bengal's chief secretary and police chief on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, a move that follows Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's report on the attack on BJP president J P Nadda's convoy, officials said on Friday. Dhankhar, who alleged at a press conference in Calcutta that violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the opposition is quelled, was asked to submit a report after Nadda's convoy was attacked with stones and bricks in Calcutta's Diamond Harbour on Thursday. Bengal's two top officials, Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and Director General of Police Virendra, are expected to be asked to explain the law and order situation in the state as well as steps taken to prevent political violence and other crimes, officials said. The Home Ministry is yet to receive a report from the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government on the "serious security lapses" during Nadda's visit to the state, they said. The governor's report following the violence in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Banerjee's nephew Abhishek, gives a detailed analysis of the law and order situation in Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes, the officials said. In Calcutta, the governor slammed the state government over the deteriorating law and order situation and said the chief minister must desist from repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders. Such statements, he said, would weaken the national fabric. "I have sent my report to the Central government the contents cannot be shared on account of propriety," Dhankhar told reporters at the press conference in Raj Bhawan. "The governor is not a post office...he will not fiddle around in Raj Bhawan when human rights are being violated," he said. "The governor will vindicate his oath, come what may," he asserted. Dhankhar also alleged that the "non-responsive" stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said, "I take very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture, talk the way she did." Banerjee had mockingly distorted Nadda's name at a rally in Kolkata on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act". Cars of several party leaders, including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy, were also damaged in the attack. Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted that "Bengal has descended into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule... The manner in which political violence has been institutionalised and brought to the extreme in Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying". The ruling TMC in Bengal on Friday hit out at the union home ministry for summoning the state chief secretary and director general of police for the attack on BJP national president J P Nadda's convoy and accused the saffron party of trying to create a situation where the central government can interfere in matters related to the states. Senior TMC MPs Saugata Roy and Kalyan Banerjee alleged that Nadda's convoy had "convicted criminals" and goons who carried weapons with the malafide intention to instigate violence. "What the central government is doing by sending a letter (seeking report) from the state government is unconstitutional. The MHA summoning the chief secretary and DGP is unacceptable. The BJP and the central government is trying to create a situation where they can interfere with the federal structure," Bandopadhyay said at a press conference here. The provocative speeches by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh are leading to a vicious situation, he said and claimed that Nadda was accompanied by "convicted criminal and armed men of BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's presidential memoirs to be launched next month||A new book by late former president Pranab Mukherjee will recount his fascinating journey from growing up under the flicker of a lamp in a remote village of Bengal to walking the rampart of the Rashtrapati Bhavan as the first citizen of India. The memoir, titled "The Presidential Years", will be globally released in January 2021, publisher Rupa Books announced on Friday. The fourth volume of Mukherjee's memoirs recollects the challenges he faced in his years as the President including the difficult decisions he had to make and the tightrope walk he had to undertake to ensure that both constitutional propriety and his opinion were taken into consideration. "A towering figure of Indian politics, Pranab Da would always insist that he would 'melt into the masses without leaving a track behind'. Today, he leaves behind an unmatched legacy, some of which is reflected in the highly anticipated fourth volume of his memoirs. "If he were still alive, he would have been thrilled to note the widespread excitement among readers to read this extremely well-written autobiography. It's so personal in a tone that to me it almost seems like the former President is sitting in his study with a cup of tea (and shingara) and narrating his story," said Kapish G. Mehra, managing director, Rupa Publications India. In the memoir, Mukherjee reveals the relationship he shared with two politically opposed prime ministers during his tenure as the president. "While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary," Mukherjee wrote in the book. He also presents a critical point of view for the Congress party, in which he was a senior leader for over five decades. He candidly refutes the view of leaders of the party, who believed had Mukherjee become the PM in 2004, the party might have averted the 2014 Lok Sabha drubbing. "Though I don't subscribe to this view, I do believe that the party's leadership lost political focus after my elevation as president. While Sonia Gandhi was unable to handle the affairs of the party, Dr Singh's prolonged absence from the House put an end to any personal contact with other MPs," he wrote. Filled with rare photos and handwritten notes, the memoir offers a rare glimpse into the life of one of the most important and admired politicians of contemporary India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Dharmendra 'sad' for farmers, urges govt to act ||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday said he was pained to see farmers suffering and urged the central government to find a solution to their protests over the farm laws. The tweet comes a week after the 84-year-old actor put out a similar post on Twitter. "I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast," Dharmendra wrote. Last week, the actor had urged the government to resolve the protests soon, citing the growing number of coronavirus cases in Delhi. "I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers' problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful," Dharmendra had written in a post. The veteran actor, however, soon deleted the post, without any explanation. When a user posted the screenshot of the tweet, wondering what prompted the actor to delete the tweet, Dharmendra said, "I deleted the tweet because I felt saddened by comments like these. You can abuse me to your heart's content, I am happy that you are happy. "Yes, I am sad for my farmer brothers... The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us," he wrote. Farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks now to demand a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September. On Thursday, farmer unions threatened to block railway tracks across the country and all highways leading to Delhi if their demands are not met. The announcement came a day after farmers' leaders rejected the government's offer to amend the new agri laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of MSP and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
11-12-2020||India||Rahul attacks govt over farm incomes||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the government, alleging that it wants the income of farmers in the country to be as low as that earned by those in Bihar. The former party chief cited a media report that claimed that an agricultural household in Punjab earns the highest in a year, while it was lowest in Bihar. "The farmer wants his income to be as much as that of farmers of Punjab. The Modi government wants the income of all farmers of the country to be as much as that of Bihar farmers," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The survey cited by Gandhi showed that an average Indian agricultural household earns Rs 77,124 in a year, with Punjab farmers earning Rs 2,16,708 annually and that of Bihar only Rs 42,684. Congress has been attacking the government over the new farm laws and has alleged that these will lower farmers' income. The party has also been alleging that the farm laws seek to end the minimum support price regime and abolish the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. The government has claimed otherwise and has said that the legislations will help increase farm income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Top child rights body says no to PUBG relaunch in India||As popular gaming app PUBG eyes its relaunch in the country, India’s top child rights body NCPCR has said it will not be appropriate to do so unless legislations are in place for such online games, according to officials. In September this year, the Centre had banned 118 Chinese mobile apps in India with PUBG being one among them. The government had said these apps “are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. However, the app, which was earlier distributed by China’s Tencent Games in India, has sought permission from the government for its relaunch. In a meeting called to discuss the proposal, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairperson Priyank Kanoongo “strongly recommended” against the relaunch of the mobile app in India until appropriate legislations are in place for such online games, the officials said. He later confirmed that an internal meeting was indeed held to discuss the matter. “It was an internal meeting and prima facie, the NCPCR is not in favour of recommending such games in the country,” Kanoongo told PTI. During the meeting, it was also pointed out that the game led to loss of many lives in the country, a senior official said. No response had been received from PUBG to queries sent by PTI on the matter till the time of filing this report. According to reports, India accounted for a significant portion of PUBG MOBILE's downloads and users. Days after the government ban, PUBG had announced that Chinese company Tencent Games would no longer be authorised to distribute the PUBG MOBILE franchise in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Bengal governor's report  on law and order situation received, confirms Centre||The Centre on Friday received a report from Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal, a day after BJP president J P Nadda's convoy was attacked in the state, officials said. The state government, however, has not sent any report as sought by the Union home ministry on "serious security lapses" during Nadda's two-day visit to Bengal. "The home ministry has received a report from the West Bengal governor on the law and order situation in the state," an official said. Asked about the contents of the report, the official said that it is under examination. It is learnt that the governor gave a detailed analysis of the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal and the state government's response to political violence and other crimes. The report from the governor was sought after Nadda's convoy was attacked on Thursday in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. On December 6, Dhankhar had alleged that the Trinamul Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is distancing itself from the rule of law and the governance in the state is "getting away" from the path of the Constitution. "I am deeply disturbed, concerned, worried and pained that the governance in West Bengal is getting away from the path of the Constitution. It is distancing itself from rule of law," he had said. The governor had also tweeted on Sunday: "High time @MamataOfficial to ensure governance in accordance with the constitution and render police & administration "politically neutral". CS & DGP @WBPolice non-responsive stance ignoring lawful accountability, letter & spirit of the constitution is fraught with serious consequences". Union Home Minister Amit Shah had termed the attack on Nadda's convoy a "sponsored violence", and alleged that the state has "descended into an era of tyranny and anarchy" under Trinamool's rule. Nadda's convoy was pelted with stones when he was travelling to Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district to address a rally there. Cars of several party leaders including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy were damaged in the alleged attack. Another official said that the Union home ministry is yet to receive a report from the West Bengal government on the alleged "serious security lapses" during the BJP president's visit. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had also spoken to the West Bengal chief secretary on Thursday on the allegations of BJP's state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. Ghosh in a letter to Shah had alleged that "during his (Nadda's) different engagements in Kolkata, it was observed that there were serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the state police department". He had also alleged that a "mob" of over 200 people with sticks and bamboos were demonstrating raising black flags in front of the BJP's state unit office in Kolkata. Ghosh claimed that some of the protesters climbed on cars parked outside the party's office and raised slogans. "The police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within a close perimeter of Nadda ji's vehicle," he affirmed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Strong winds, light rain likely to improve Delhi's air quality||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the poor category on Friday and is likely to improve significantly over the next two days due to a predicted increase in the wind speed and light rain. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 271 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 284 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad (AQI 330), Greater Noida (322) and Noida (310) recorded air quality in the very poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality is likely to improve significantly on Saturday and Sunday owning to better ventilation conditions and rainfall. The India Meteorological Department said the national capital and its neighbouring cities are likely to receive light rainfall on Friday and Saturday under the influence a fresh Western Disturbance passing over the Himalayas. The maximum wind speed is predicted to be 15 kmph, favourable for dispersion of pollutants, it said. After the Western Disturbance withdraws, icy cold northwesterly winds blowing from the snow-laden Himalayas will bring temperatures down in the plains, the IMD said. The minimum temperature is expected to drop to 8 degrees Celsius by Monday, according to an IMD forecast. The city recorded a minimum of 10.9 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 29 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Less than 30,000 fresh Covid cases, 414 casualties in a day ||India recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, the second time this month, which pushed its caseload to 97.96 lakh, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.90 lakh, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,96,769 with 29,398 fresh infections, while the death toll rose to 1,42,186 with 414 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had recorded a daily rise of 26,567 cases on December 8. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,90,834 on Friday, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.84 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 3,63,749 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 3.71 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. The 414 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 61 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 27 from Punjab, 26 each from Haryana and Kerala, and 24 from Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,42,186 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,972 from Maharashtra, 11,912 from Karnataka, 11,853 from Tamil Nadu, 9,874 from Delhi, 8,916 from West Bengal, 8,011 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,047 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,007 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||‘Trade’ logic fuels farmers' suspicion||The protesting farmers on Thursday claimed vindication of their stand that the new farm laws were pro-corporate rather than pro-farmer after food minister Piyush Goyal said the bills had been enacted to encourage trade in food. “The government’s agenda is out in the open now. This is the first time the government has admitted that these laws are for trade and commerce,” Bharatiya Kisan Union president Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters at the Singhu border. Goyal’s comment had come at a news conference, held jointly with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, where he tried to answer the charge that the new farm laws intruded on a state subject and were therefore unconstitutional. “On the law itself, some arguments were sought to be made that the law could not have been enacted by the Centre. Very categorically, none of the laws is in the state list,” Goyal said. “They are part of the concurrent list and trade is what is being sought to be encouraged by these laws. Therefore there should be absolutely no doubt in anybody’s mind that the Centre has the power to enact laws under the concurrent list for trade, particularly in foodstuffs, which has been very elaborately defined in the concurrent list.” Goyal added: “And there are several Supreme Court orders which have further elaborated on this subject, and therefore the Centre is very competent to enact these laws.” The farmer union leaders were quick to latch on to Goyal’s statement, having already opened a front against corporate groups who they think would benefit from the three new laws. “This is an admission,” Rajewal said. Another farmer leader, Darshan Pal, said: “We had never asked for privatisation of agriculture.” A third farmer leader, Buta Singh, dismissed as “crocodile tears” the government’s expressions of concern for the farmers protesting amid the pandemic and the cold. “What does the government lose if it repeals these bills when it claims to be worried about our welfare? It’s clear the farmers don’t want these laws,” he said. Farmer leaders described the two ministers’ news conference as a propaganda effort and reaffirmed they would continue with their agitation. The farmers are also upset at the continuing vilification of their agitation by government members and supporters. On Wednesday, Union minister Raosaheb Danve alleged the protests were being fuelled by Pakistan and China. “One of our sons died in Kashmir on the border. His father is here, participating in the protests. Where is the minister?” Rajewal said. Goyal and Tomar, however, were careful not to criticise the farmers or allege that they were being instigated. Their stock reply to the question whether the farmers were being incited was that this was for the media to investigate. The ministers’ news conference seemed mainly an attempt to project the government as being reasonable and open to further negotiations. Tomar urged the farmer leaders to decide on a date for negotiations. However, asked whether the government was open to repealing the new farm laws, he replied: “No law is entirely bad; we are ready to look into their apprehensions with an open mind.” Tomar was similarly evasive when asked whether the farmers’ demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) would be accepted. “These new laws have nothing to do with MSP. The MSP will continue, so there is no cause for worry,” he said. The Supreme Court Bar Association on Thursday condemned the use of “brute force” on the protesting farmers and quoted a statement variously attributed to Edmund Burke, Voltaire and others: “I may completely disagree with what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.” The protesters had faced batons, tear gas and water cannons apart from barbed wire and barricades during their march to Delhi. In a statement, association honorary secretary Rohit Pandey urged the government to uphold and protect the constitutional rights of all citizens to protest peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Prime Minister extols India as the 'mother of democracy'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday cited rising vote percentages as proof of India’s thriving democracy as he laid the foundation for a new Parliament building, days after a Supreme Court rap on his government and a globally condemned crackdown on protesting farmers. “Today is a milestone in India’s democratic history,” Modi said after performing a “bhoomi pujan” (earth worship) guided by priests from the Sringeri Math in Karnataka. The Prime Minister extolled India as the “mother of democracy”. Two days ago, Modi’s acolyte and Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant had said India was “too much of a democracy” that made tough reforms difficult to execute. The new Parliament building, to be built at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, is part of Modi’s pet Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project to redevelop Lutyens Delhi that many activists have described as unnecessary and harmful to the environment. This was the second high-profile bhoomi pujan the Prime Minister has performed recently, the first being that for a Ram temple in Ayodhya that too has attracted charges of symbolising pride and lavish ostentation amid the pandemic distress all around. On Monday, the Supreme Court had censured the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny — seeing in it a lack of “deference” — but allowed Thursday’s ceremony. The court is considering a slew of petitions questioning the project’s legality. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee questioned the need for the project and the expenditure on it. “Stunt-baji, all the time. Thousands of crores on statues, thousands of crores on a new Parliament building,” she said in Calcutta. Mamata added: “Let them, I don’t object. But I think there was no need for a new Parliament building right now. That money could have been given to the farmers of this country, for instance. The existing Parliament building was sufficient for now.” Modi, addressing a select gathering of about 200, insisted that a “New India” needed a new Parliament building. He said the current structure, built during colonial times, had become too old and should be “put to rest”. “The old (Parliament) building gave direction to India after Independence and the new building will be a testament to a self-reliant India,” he said. The Prime Minister claimed India had developed democratic traditions even before the West. He cited historical texts and stone inscriptions as evidence, and said the world would soon accept India as the “mother of democracy”. He said that while democratic procedures were withering in many countries, democracy’s roots were strengthening in India. As evidence, he pointed to a rise in voting percentages, “particularly the increased participation by women and the youth”, but gave no figures. After his paean to democracy, the Prime Minister urged each citizen to pledge to make the “national interest” supreme over the next quarter century so the country reached new heights by 2047 when it celebrated 100 years of independence. The government wants to complete the new Parliament building by 2022, coinciding with 75 years of independence. “Friends, we the people of India should pledge that for us, no interest should be above the national interest. We the people of India should pledge that for us, the country’s concerns should be greater than our own concerns,” Modi said. Against the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation, Modi cited Guru Nanak’s stress on talking and listening. Mindful of the upcoming Bengal polls, he referred to Swami Vivekananda and Rabindranath Tagore, portraying them as advocates of unity and the national interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Forces used to rig polls: J&K alliance||Leaders of the seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status have accused the government of using the armed forces to rig the ongoing District Development Council elections in favour of a particular party. The claim was made on a day police roughed up three journalists after they had interviewed a candidate who was allegedly not being allowed to vote. Three journalists covering the fifth phase of the elections in south Kashmir on Thursday had to face the police’s wrath for interviewing a candidate, Nisar Ahmad Mir, who along with his supporters were allegedly not allowed to vote. Fayaz Ahmad, a stringer with ETV Bharat, said he and two other colleagues, Mudasir Qadri of News18 and Junaid Ahmad of TV-9, were beaten up while covering the DDC elections at Srigufwara village in Anantnag. The journalist said some people had approached them with the request of interviewing Mir, who along with two dozen voters had allegedly been stopped by the police from voting. Their claim could not be independently confirmed. “After recording the byte of the candidate, the SSP came to the polling station and started beating us…. He told them (police) to book us under the charge of instigating people to hurl stones,” Ahmad told reporters. Anantnag SSP Sandeep Choudhary did not respond to calls and a WhatsApp message from this newspaper asking about the allegations. The journalists were detained for hours at Srigufwara police station and when Junaid’s health deteriorated, he was shifted to hospital. The journalists said their equipment was also seized.
Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Everything & anything that involves stating the truth is being criminalised in J&K.” Earlier, Mehbooba had alleged that the security forces had cordoned off Matribugh village in Shopian and were not allowing people to come out to vote “under the pretext of inputs about the presence of militants”. “In a brazen display of power, armed forces are being used to rig this election & favour a particular party,” she said, apparently referring to the BJP. People’s Conference leader Imran Ansari hinted that grenades were being used to deter voters, hours after five civilians were injured in a grenade attack in the Pattan area that went to polls on Thursday. “Today’s grenade attack at Singpora Pattan raises many questions. Listening to SSP BARAMULLA’s news byte in which he says there is no militant presence in his jurisdiction. To me it seems a conspiracy so that voters don’t come out to vote in huge numbers. Impartial enquiry needed,” Ansari, whose party is part of the alliance, tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Trial nod for homegrown RNA vaccine||Two years ago, Sanjay Singh, a biochemist and chief executive officer of a Pune-based biotechnology company producing drugs for cancers and strokes, turned his attention to a new “platform” to design personalised vaccines against breast cancer. Singh, working with his long-term research collaborator in the US, Steve Reed, set out to design vaccines based on the genetic material called mRNA and tailored to stimulate patients’ immune systems into attacking their own breast tumour cells. But when the novel coronavirus emerged earlier this year, Singh at the Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals and Reed, CEO at the Seattle (Washington)-based HDT Bio, redirected their research to design an mRNA vaccine against the infection. Their candidate vaccine is now set to undergo human safety studies in India and the US. India’s drug regulatory panel on Wednesday approved human safety studies on the Gennova-HDT construct, the country’s first homegrown candidate Covid-19 vaccine that uses a similar mRNA platform as the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines but promises to remain stable between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. The panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation gave the approval after examining encouraging results from studies on mice, rabbits and pigtail macaques, suggesting the candidate vaccine is able to generate an immune response against the coronavirus. The human safety trial in India will offer the candidate vaccine to 120 volunteers — 60 in the 18-55 years age group, and 60 in the 56-75 years age group — at two sites: the King Edward Memorial College and Hospital in Pune and the Government Medical College, Aurangabad. If the candidate vaccine is found to be safe in human volunteers, Gennova hopes to conduct an immunogenicity study on 500 volunteers to determine if it is able to generate an immune response against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The US National Institutes of Health had in September this year approved $8.2 million to support pre-clinical and clinical studies of the candidate vaccine. “This looks like a promising mRNA candidate from India,” said Govindrajan Padmanabhan, a senior biochemist formerly at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and co-chair of a panel under India’s biotechnology department overseeing funds for research on Covid-19 vaccine efforts. The biotechnology department, a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, had provided Rs 20 crore to Gennova for laboratory and pre-clinical studies on the candidate vaccine.
“They’ve stabilised their mRNA vaccine between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius — these are standard temperatures for most current vaccines. This would help in easy distribution,” Padmanabhan said. The mRNA vaccine from the US-based Pfizer collaborating with the Germany-based BioNTech has shown 95 per cent efficacy while the mRNA vaccine from the US-based Moderna has shown over 94 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19. The Pfizer vaccine requires long-term storage temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius while Moderna’s vaccine requires temperatures of minus 20 degrees. The Gennova-HDT candidate vaccine can remain stable for up to two months between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, the temperatures in standard refrigerators used in homes and hospitals. “mRNA vaccines have advantages over traditional vaccines,” Singh said. “They can redesigned rapidly — if a virus mutates, we can redesign and get a new vaccine within 45 days.” Scientists say mRNA vaccines can be designed and produced relatively quickly because they are fully synthetic — entirely designed in the laboratory — and do not require host material such as eggs or bacteria for their growth traditionally used to make vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Centre open to doubling JEE Main attempts||Students could be allowed to have more shots at the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main for selection to engineering courses from next year. During a virtual interaction with students, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal promised to consider their demand for an increase in the number of chances from two to four. “Some students suggested an increase in the number of chances at JEE Main. We will examine this with seriousness. If it is possible, we will take a decision. Your suggestions have strength,” Pokhriyal said. A media release issued by the education ministry suggested that JEE Main could be held four times from 2021, once a month from February to May. Now, the entrance exam is held twice — in January and April. The top 2.5 lakh scorers of JEE Main are allowed to take the JEE Advanced, which is conducted by the IITs for selection to BTech courses. The NITs admit students on the basis of the JEE Main score. The media release said the syllabus for JEE Main 2021 would remain the same as the previous year but question options would be increased. In JEE Main, a student is required to answer 75 questions, 25 each from physics, chemistry and mathematics. The number of questions will be enhanced to 90, 30 from each subject, and the students will be asked to answer 75 questions. Students have been demanding a reduction in syllabus in the JEE Main and the medical National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has pruned its syllabus by 30 per cent for Classes IX to XII because of difficulty in conducting classes during the pandemic. The media release said the syllabus for the NEET was being finalised in consultation with the ministry of health and family welfare and the National Medical Commission. During the interaction with Pokhriyal, students iterated the demand that the CBSE board exams be deferred because of the pandemic. The exams are usually held from mid-February to the third week of April. Some students also demanded that the practical exams in the science subjects for the Classes X and XII board exams be scrapped next year as pupils have not been able to attend practical classes in schools. The minister did not give any assurance on these demands. Sanjeev Kumar, a parent and property dealer, said later that the exams should be held as usual. “This year, classes have not been held. Children are depending on private tuition. If the exams are delayed, the tuitions will continue and parents will have to pay till the exams are held. It will be a burden on parents whose income has come down,” Kumar said. The Mann School principal Srinivasan Sriram said opinion was divided among parents about the timing of the board exams. “Have we done justice to the extent that the students can be assessed through board exams? Also, has every student across the country been equally treated? I do not think the assessment through board exams this year will reflect the true potential of the child. In the interest of the students, the exams will have to be deferred. Let us first have a few days of school for students.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-497
11-12-2020||India||Central Vista project: ‘Palace’ on ‘ruins of liberal democracy’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sermon on democracy at Thursday’s groundbreaking ceremony for the new Parliament building prompted the Opposition to accuse him of hypocrisy and mock his Central Vista project as an attempt to build a “palace” for himself. Apart from charging Modi with wanton disregard for democratic culture, Opposition leaders questioned the rationale behind starting the vanity project when the country was grappling with a pandemic, economic recession and social and political crises ranging from joblessness to the farmers’ agitation. Opposition parties have all along denounced the Central Vista project — which envisages new homes for Parliament, government offices, and dignitaries like the Prime Minister and Vice-President — but Thursday’s criticism was sharper because of Modi’s eulogy to India’s democratic traditions. Opposition leaders accused the Prime Minister of hypocrisy, saying his track record suggested he was anti-democratic and dictatorial. “Dear Prime Minister, Parliament is not mortar & stones. It envisions democracy, it imbibes Constitution, it is economic-political-social equality, It is compassion & camaraderie,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. “It is aspirations of 130 crore Indians. What would a building built upon trampling of these values represent?” Surjewala added: “Modi ji, history will record that when lakhs of farmers were fighting on the streets for their rights, you were building a palace for yourself in the garb of Central Vista project. In a democracy, power is not for fulfilling personal whims but a medium of public service and welfare.” Rahul Gandhi too directed a jibe at Modi on the occasion of National Human Rights Day. “Modi government is snatching the fundamental rights of the poor. This is a crime against humanity. We will have to honour the rights of every section of the society for a better future for India,” he tweeted. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy.” CPM leader Sitaram Yechury was blunt: “Mr Modi is giving a moral lecture on the ‘values’ & ‘culture’ of democracy while in practice destroying democracy mercilessly, assaulting all dissent & preventing our youth from even choosing their life partners: diabolic doublespeak.” No Congress leader attended the bhoomi pujan ceremony, and sources said that other Opposition parties too stayed away. The Congress ran a social media campaign questioning the Prime Minister’s decision to go ahead with the project amid widespread opposition and national crises. “This desperate desire to build bigger & scream louder comes from a deep-seated insecurity that one will never live up to great leaders and governments of the past that helped mould the incredible democracy being torn apart today,” the Congress said. “What good is a fancy new Parliament building when all the tenets of a Parliamentary democracy are being destroyed by this govt. Lakhs of Indians have died, thousands are getting sick every day, our health infrastructure is collapsing under the pressure of this pandemic & the Prime Minister is spending thousands of crores to feed his ego.” The party posted a video explaining why the country didn’t need a new Parliament building at this time. “It is believed change is always good. But change without reason and rationale can inflict wounds that will make generations suffer,” it said. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who had likened Modi’s obsession with the Central Vista plan to authoritarian leaders’ craving to leave their own architectural legacy, on Thursday questioned the project’s aesthetics too. “Well, the existing Parliament building built by the Brits bears a remarkable similarity to the Chausath Yogini Temple in Morena in Madhya Pradesh, while the new ‘atmanirbhar’ Parliament building bears an eerie likeness to the Pentagon in Washington DC,” Ramesh said. Manish Tewari wondered whether the similarity with the Pentagon was deliberate. When the decision to go ahead with the project was announced amid the coronavirus threat, Ramesh had tweeted: “It is not just insensitive but obscene to be thinking of the New Central Vista project now. It should be put on hold indefinitely. There are more pressing uses for the thousands of crores of rupees that will be spent to satisfy one man’s ego.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
11-12-2020||India||Odisha BJP leader questions Pari special investigation team||BJP’s Odisha in charge and former Union minister D. Purandeswari on Thursday met the parents of the five-year-old Pari, who was kidnapped and murdered last July, in their vi   llage in Nayagarh district and assured them that her party would fight for them till they get justice. Soon after meeting the parents — Ashok Sahoo and Saudamini Sahoo — Purandesw  ari launched a scathing attack on the Odisha government for its failure to give due justice to the family. Even she questioned the formation of special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Odisha government to probe into the matter. “The SIT and its head have no judicial powers. Without the requisite power, how can they investigate such a sensational murder case? We suspect of the involvement of the organ smuggling racket,” she said. She said: “As minister Arun Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh district has been accused of shielding the accused involved in the case, a CBI probe only can reveal the truth.” Soon after meeting the parents, she joined a sit-in protest launched by the BJP district unit in front of the Nayagarh district collector’s office. Earlier, BJP National spokesperson Sambit Patra had met the bereaved family. Meanwhile, the BJP announced to organise a padayatra across the state from December 15 demanding justice for Pari. Pari went missing on July 14 while playing near her house. Later her skeletal remains were found dumped in the bushes behind the house. As the police failed to initiate any criminal action in the matter Pari’s parents attempted suicide by setting themselves ablaze in front of the Odisha Assembly on November 24. Ever since the issue has been in focus. In a related development, the Orissa High Court on Thursday directed the Nayagarh SP to provide security to local sarpanch Soumya Ranjan Pradhan within seven days and inform the court about the threat perception to Pradhan within 15 days. Pradhan shot into limelight after he publicly claimed that minister Arun Sahoo had given protection to the prime accused involved in the case. Later apprehending threat from the minister, he had approached the High Court seeking security cover for him and his family members. “Every one is aware of the gruesome murder. I will always stand for the truth and not be cowed down,” Pradhan told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-498
