12-12-2020||India||India on track to achieve Paris Agreement targets, will exceed expectations: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India is on track to achieve its Paris Agreement targets and will exceed them beyond expectations, adding that the country has cut down its emission intensity by 21 per cent over 2005 levels. Addressing the virtually held Climate Ambition Summit 2020, he said the conference marks the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement -- the most ambitious step in the fight against climate change. “Today, as we are looking to set our sights even higher, we must also not lose sight of the past. We must not only revise our ambitions, but also review our achievements against targets already set,” Modi said. “Only then can our voices be credible for future generations,” he added. He said that in 2047, India will celebrate 100 years as a modern, independent nation. “To all my fellow residents of this planet, I make a solemn pledge today. Centennial India will not only meet its own targets, but will also exceed your expectations,” the Prime Minister noted. “We have reduced our emission intensity by 21 per cent over 2005 levels,” Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Hours after Modi’s assurance, farmers go for hunger strike||Farmer leaders on Saturday stuck to their demands and announced that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike on December 14. A nation-wide strike has also been called on the same day. The leaders, addressing a press conference in the Singhu border, said that they are ready to hold talks with the government but will discuss about the repealing of the laws first. Thousands of farmers will kick off their “Delhi Chalo” march with tractors from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu told the media. He also said that their mothers, sisters and daughters will also join the movement soon, in a bid to make the agitation even ‘bigger’, and arrangements have already been made for their stay at the protest sites. The move comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, said that the new laws will benefit the farmers and the government is committed to their welfare. During the press conference later in the day, farmer leader Pannu said that farmers from other parts of the country are also on their way to join the protesters at camping at various borders of the national capital. “If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready, but our main demand will remain the scrapping of the three laws. We will move onto our other demands only after that,” he said. The union leaders also said that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike between 8 am and 5 pm on December 14. Pannu alleged that the government tried to weaken their agitation, but that the protesting farmers did not let that happen. The farmer leader vowed to keep the protest peaceful. “The government tried to weaken our agitation by dividing us (various farmer unions). I want to say that the ongoing agitation is fully under control of 32 farmer unions. We will fail every government attempt to divide us,” he added. The government had on Friday asked the protesting farmers to be vigilant against their platform being misused, saying some “antisocial” as well as “Leftist and Maoist” elements were conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the agitation which has been going on for over two weeks now. “We do not know about the presence of anti-social elements in our agitation. The government is trying to distract the farmers. By saying all this, it is trying to malign our movement. And if it thinks there are any such elements in our protests, it should catch them. We have not stopped the government,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told PTI Photographs of some protesters at the Tikri border seen holding posters demanding the release of activists arrested under various charges had gone viral, prompting Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to say that these “antisocial elements” are conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the peasants’ movement under the guise of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Amid farmers’ protest, support emerges for new laws||As thousands of farmers protest against the three central farm laws at the Delhi borders, a delegation of 29 peasants from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday, extending their support to the legislations. They even threatened to carry out agitations if those are rolled back. Bharatiya Kisan Union's (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash led the delegation and submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the three laws passed by the Parliament in September. They demanded that the government should carry on with the legislations. “We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters, following the meeting. He also sought to know why the previous government did not implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission till 2014. “Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” Prakash said. The BKU leader claimed that the ongoing protests are no longer a farmers’ movement. “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws,” he said. This was the second group of farmers from Haryana that met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7. No breakthrough has been achieved during the six rounds of talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers so far, as the farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reassured farmers that the Centre is committed to their welfare and the new farm laws were aimed at boosting their income by giving them alternate markets. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis (wholesale markets), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Minor girl gang-raped in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two men in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, on Saturday, said police. The minor had gone missing for some hours, after which her family began searching for her. She was found in an unconscious state on the roof of a nearby house in the village under Budhana police station limits on Friday evening, they said. She was also bleeding. A case has been registered against the two men under Indian Penal Code Section 376D (gang rape) and the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Circle Officer (CO) Girija Shanker Tripathi told PTI. The two accused were arrested, the CO said. In his police complaint, the minor's father alleged that the accused took her to a nearby house and raped her. He said they left her on the roof of the house in an unconscious state. The family members rushed her to hospital, the girl's father stated. Earlier this week, on December 7, another seven-year-old girl had been gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur area. The accused in this case had lured the minor child with a chocolate towards a tubewell, where he raped the child.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Violence breaks out at iPhone-making plant in Bangalore ||Workers of a Taiwanese technology giant that makes iPhones and other IT products went on a rampage at its Bangalore plant on Saturday over issues related to payment, police said. Large number of workers of the Wistron Corporation hurled stones, broke glass windows, damaged vehicles, furniture, computers and laptops, a police officer said. The Karnataka government strongly condemned the violence at the manufacturing facility in Narasapura Industrial Area in Kolar district, about 50 kilometers from the state capital. The violence, which erupted at around 6 am during the morning shift, resulted in the arrest of 132 people. “The information we received is that the employees had problems related to their salary payment,” Inspector General of Police Seemant Kumar Singh told reporters after visiting the Wistron facility, adding investigations were on. Video footage showed a violent group overturning vehicles, setting them on fire, breaking glass windows in the office leaving a trail of destruction. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said strict action will be taken against the miscreants. “Whether employees are anyone else, whoever is responsible for attack on the factory and damaging its property, they will face stringent action,” he said, calling the incident unfortunate. A detailed investigation would be carried out to identify the reasons for the unrest among the workers, the situation that enraged those in the morning shift and cover aspects related to payment of salary. Narayan said that the employees should have resorted to the Labour Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of the district if they were facing such issues, instead of taking law in their hands. He added that the officials of his department are in contact with Wistron officials. The company has however not commented on the incident as of now. Wistron manufactures iPhone 7 for Apple, IT products for Lenovo and Microsoft among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Amid protests, PM assures farmers of the benefits of new laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reassured farmers that the Centre is committed to their welfare and the new farm laws were aimed at boosting their income by giving them alternate markets. Without directly referring to the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi border over the new legislations, Modi said agricultural reforms as part of government efforts are aimed at removing roadblocks. He added that the new laws will also bring in technology and investment into the farming sector. “Reforms will help draw investment in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers," he said at the annual meeting of industry body FICCI in New Delhi. "The aim of all government reforms is to make farmers prosperous,” the prime minister said. Passed in the previous Parliament session, the new laws will give farmers an opportunity to to sell or buy crops outside their designated mandis, Modi said. “Farmers have now options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties,” he said, adding, “While mandis are being modernised, digital platforms are also available to farmers to buy and sell their produce.” “All these efforts are directed towards improving the farmers' income so that they become prosperous. When farmers prosper, the country will prosper.” Thousands of farmers from states including Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these legislations for 17 days now, demanding their repeal. They fear that these laws will prompt the government to stop making direct crop purchases at minimum state-set prices, called minimum support price (MSP). The government has so far refused to heed to their demand but has promised to continue the MSP-based procurement. “After the implementation of recent reforms, farmers will get new markets and new opportunities and they will get the help of technology. The country's cold storage infrastructure will become modern,” Modi said. “From all these, there will be higher investments in the agriculture sector. The maximum benefit of these reforms would be to small and marginal farmers who earn their living from small plots of land,” he added. Modi opined that the government has taken several steps to reform the agriculture sector. “Today the agriculture sector has become more vibrant than the past,” he said. Listing his government's farmer-friendly measures, Modi said the government has encouraged producing ethanol from sugarcane. “This ethanol is blended in petrol to cut India's oil import dependence and gives farmers remunerative prices for their crops,” the PM said. Modi said farmers will get technology and benefit from access to the market. Expressing dissatisfaction over the limited participation of India Inc in the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister asked industries to show their interest and increase investment in the sector. “Unfortunately, the India Inc has not made adequate investments in agriculture and private players did not explore the sector to its full potential, rather they worked in a limited fashion”, he said. Rural areas offer huge scope for agro-based industries. "Policies of the government are designed to promote rural agriculture based economy," he said. "The government is committed to protect the interests of farmers through its policies and intentions." Modi said the agriculture sector and allied sectors like agri infrastructure, food processing, and cold chain had been working in silos. "These are being removed."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||MEA non-committal about future of India-China border standoff||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said India was being tested in the seven-month-long border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and expressed confidence it will rise to the occasion and meet the national security challenge. In an interactive session at the FICCI's annual general meeting, Jaishankar also said that what has happened in eastern Ladakh was not actually in China's interest as it has significantly impacted public sentiment in India. Calling the "events" along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) very disturbing, the external affairs minister said they have raised some very "basic concerns''. When asked whether it will be a long-haul or a breakthrough is expected soon, Jaishankar said: "I would not go into prediction zone at all whether it is going to be easy or not, and what will be the timelines and so on." "I also believe that what has happened is not actually in the interest of China. Because what it has done is -- it has significantly impacted public sentiment (in India). Professionally, I have seen the evolution of how the Indian public feels about China over the last many decades and I am old enough to remember much more difficult days, especially in my childhood and in my teens," he said. Jaishankar said a lot of work had gone into developing the relationship on both sides. "I do not believe that the events of this year have helped at all. In fact I think the real danger is that the goodwill which was so carefully developed will dissipate." "But I also would say that, yes, we are being tested. I have every confidence that we will rise to the occasion; we will meet that national security challenge. But beyond that, at this time, I would really frankly keep my own counsel," Jaishankar said. The armies of India and China are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. Both sides have held multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks. However, no breakthrough has been achieved yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Leftist, Maoist elements infiltrating farmer agitation: Piyush Goyal||As the farmers' protest against new farm laws entered its 17th day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the agitation no longer remains a farmers' movement as it has been "infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements" demanding the release of those put behind bars for "anti-national activities." This, he said, was clearly to derail agriculture reforms brought by the government. Goyal, however, did not say if the government had or is planning to take any action against any person belonging to banned outfits seen at the protests. "We now realise that the so-called farmer agitation hardly remains a farmers' agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national (and) who have been put behind bars for illegal activities," Goyal, the Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry and Food and Consumers Affairs, said at FICCI's annual meeting. The demands being raised on a farmers' platform to release so-called intellectuals and poets clearly demonstrate that the effort to derail farm law improvements is probably in the hands of certain elements who are not good for India, he said. "I would urge all well-meaning business leaders and all well-meaning intellectuals who are involved with Ficci, who are on this webcast, to talk about the benefits of these farm laws, to understand the law. Should you have any apprehension, please talk to us," Goyal said. The minister assured that these laws are for the benefit of nearly 100 million farmers across the country. He said this is a government that has been committed to farmer welfare, which has almost doubled procurement under minimum support price or MSP, which is "wrongly sought to be portrayed as being under danger." "This is a government that has ensured that farmers get 50 per cent over their cost of production. "This is a government that has increased the agricultural budget nearly six times, never before increased to today nearly USD 20 billion, Rs 1.34 lakh crore invested in the agricultural sector," said the minister. Goyal urged industry leaders to educate the farmers in their sphere of influence. He urged them to "explain the benefits, explain how these laws without...in any way touching the past systems, open up new opportunities to do trade and commerce and business for our farmers so that they can go in for more investment. "Explain to them how these reforms will spur investment in rural India, there will be R&D, more opportunities for value addition and, therefore, farmers can increase their income," Goyal urged industry leaders. Responding to Goyal's comments, Former Ficci president and Vice-Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Rajan Bharti Mittal said, "Clearly, you can see when you do the tough reforms like the farm bills, please don't step back. The industry will back you up." Besides, talking about reducing compliance burdens, Goyal said efforts were on to create the first genuine single-window system in terms of compliances, ease of approval process. "We intend to come up with a much easier process to meet with compliances, while simultaneously working across ministries to see if we can reduce the burden of compliances," he added. Speaking about the proposed Brand India initiative, the minister said it is an idea where the government and the industry will partner with each other and develop both on the Make in India side and overall Brand India side. "We are also looking at branding India. It is time now that India demonstrates to the world its leadership position and commitment of quality," said the minister. He observed that under the Brand India initiative, consumers both in India and internationally will be educated about products which are made in India. "We are pushing all industries to certify the Make in India products," Goyal added. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked tirelessly and inspired the nation with his vision, simplicity and courage to think beyond the past limitations and willingness to embrace change. The minister said the government will identify areas where the country has competitive and comparative advantages, where we can become global players and contribute to global trade in a bigger way. Observing that the tyre and rubber industry can become a great business leader in the years to come, he said the Centre will encourage rubber plantation through the support of private investment and give adequate support to the tyre industry so that it can grow and flourish. "We have identified another 24 sectors on which work is going on by industry leaders who are working together to come up with actionable agenda to add nearly 200 lakh crores worth of manufacturing in India in the next 10 years," Goyal said. Describing start-ups as the backbone of the New India, Goyal said start-ups and their ecosystem are encouraging innovation and promoting young entrepreneurs. He urged the industry to support start-ups by providing them financial support, hand-holding, opportunities and mentorship. Referring to Aatmanirbhar Bharat, he emphasised that "we are not at all suggesting that we are anti-imports", and that it is about India improving its quality and scale of production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Fire accident in Hyderabad factory injures eight ||Eight people were injured in a fire accident in a chemical factory in Hyderabad, on Saturday. The incident took place at Vindhya Organics Pvt Ltd in industrial Development Area, Bollaram of Hyderabad, news agency ANI reported. "Four fire engines were rushed to the spot as thick fumes were seen billowing after the explosion inside the factory," Sangareddy divisional fire officer V Srinivas told reporters, as reported by NDTV.com. The blaze was almost brought under control and efforts to fully douse the fire were on, police said. The injured have been shifted to hospital, they said, adding further details would be known after the fire-fighting operation is over. Television footage showed fire and smoke emanating from the scene soon after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth turns 70, supporters throng his residence||Superstar Rajinikanth turned 70 on Saturday and his fans thronged his residence here to celebrate while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a host of leaders extended their wishes. Many supporters and fans who gathered outside his home, wore T-shirts with a brightly embossed image of the actor and his political catchphrases like 'Ippo Illaina Eppovaum Illai' (Now or never) as they appeared swept by political fervour with their favourite star's recent announcement of party launch. On December 3, Rajinikanth announced the launch of his political party in January 2021 ending years of suspense and speculation on his political entry. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu in April-May next year. The jubilant fans cut a cake shouting 'Thalaiva Vaazhga' (Leader livelong) and they distributed sweets to the people in many places. Several fans, including women who arrived at his home since early morning to wish him personally were disappointed when they were told that Rajinikanth was not available and his absence was confirmed by his public relations team. Many supporters offered prayers at places of worship and some brought 'prasad' from temples to the actor's home. 'Aatchi Matram, Arasiyal Matram Ippo Illaina Eppovum Illai,' (Political/regime change, now or never) and 'Thalaivarum Mudalvarum Neeye' (You are our leader and chief minister) were among the slogans found printed on the shirts of the actor's supporters. The fans stuck wall posters as well hailing him in many parts of the city and in the vicinity of his residence in the upscale Poes Garden area. 'The fearless,' The future of Tamil Nadu' were some of the choicest words picked by Rajinikanth's followers to describe him. On his twitter handle, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the actor. 'Dear @rajinikanth Ji, wishing you a Happy Birthday! May you lead a long and healthy life.' Chief Minister K Palaniswami tweeted wishing the actor a long and healthy life. DMK chief M K Stalin spoke to the actor over phone and wished him. In his Facebook page, the Dravidian party leader extended his best wishes. BJP national general secretary and party in charge of Tamil Nadu, C T Ravi were among others who wished him. '#HappyBirthdayRajinikanth' was the top trending tag on Twitter. His supporters also used a common 'DP' (Display picture) in social media to symbolise his evolution from a noted actor into a much-adored top star, whose political entry was being eagerly awaited by his followers. Born Shivaji Rao Gaekwad on December 12, 1950 he was christened 'Rajinikanth,' by ace Tamil filmmaker K Balachander in whose 1975 flick 'Apporva Raagangal' he debuted, in a supportive role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-494
12-12-2020||India||How many more deaths will it take to repeal the laws, asks Rahul||The Congress on Saturday cited a media report to claim that 11 farmers had died in the last 17 days while protesting against the new agri laws, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi asking how many more sacrifices will farmers have to make to get the legislation repealed. At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws. "How many more sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get the agri laws repealed?" Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a media report which claimed that 11 protesting farmers had lost their lives in the last 17 days due to various reasons such as ill health or a mishap. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that despite the "martyrdom of 11 farmer brothers in the last 17 days, the Modi government is not relenting". "They (government) are still standing with their 'money providers' not with 'annadaatas' (food providers)," he alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "The country wants to know -- 'Is Rajdharma (constitutional responsibility) bigger or Rajhat' (stubbornness)?" Surjewala asked, tagging the media report that Gandhi also cited. Farmers are protesting the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Economy recovering faster than expected, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that recovery is faster than expected and economic indicators are encouraging. Addressing the 93rd Annual Convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry., he said India prioritised saving lives during the Covid-19 pandemic and the government's policies and actions were oriented towards that. The Prime Minister said that when one sector grows, its effect is seen in several other sectors. "But imagine what would happen when unnecessary walls are erected between industries. No industry will grow as fast as it should," PM Modi said. He then pointed specifically towards the controversial farm laws brought in by the central government in September. "Agriculture and its related sectors such as agricultural infrastructure, food processing, storage, cold chains had seen walls between them. Now these walls are being removed. These reforms will give farmers new markets, advantages of technology, and help bring investments. It is my country's farmers who will benefit the most from all this," he said. Amidst protests by farmers over the new farm laws, Modi said the government is committed to protecting the interest of the farming community through its policies and intentions. The government has taken various initiatives to improve the income of people engaged in the farm sector, he said, adding that farmers now have options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties. The government at any cost is committed to protect the interest of farmers through "its policies and intentions", he emphasised. Expressing dissatisfaction over the limited participation of India Inc in the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister asked industries to show their interest and increase investment in the sector. Frankly speaking, he said, "Unfortunately, the India Inc has not made adequate investments in agriculture and private players did not explore the sector to its full potential, rather they worked in limited fashion". Citing an example, he said, "The private sector's participation is not as per the desired level in cold storage and fertiliser manufacturing". The Prime Minister further said that India has been through ups and downs in 2020 but things have improved fast. There is a road map for recovery, he added. Addressing the convention, the Prime Minister said tax terrorism and Inspector Raj are things of the past. India is now among the few nations which have implemented faceless assessment and faceless appeal with regard to tax matters, Modi said. Even the corporate tax in India is very competitive after the moderation affected last year, he added. With regard to foreign capital inflows, he said India has seen record FDI and foreign portfolio investments during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||On birthday, Yuvraj wishes for swift resolution of farmers' issues ||Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh on Saturday turned 39 but instead of celebrating his birthday this year, the 2011 World Cup hero hoped for a "swift resolution" to the ongoing farmers' issues through dialogue. Yuvraj also urged people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus as the country continues its fight against the pandemic. "Birthdays are an opportunity to fulfil a wish or desire and this birthday rather than celebrating I only wish and pray for a swift resolution of the ongoing talks between our farmers and our government," Yuvraj said in a Twitter post. "Undoubtedly, farmers are the lifeblood of the nation and I truly believe that there is no problem which cannot be resolved through peaceful dialogue," he added. The 2011 World Cup-winning star also distanced himself from his father Yograj Singh's unsavoury comments made earlier this week during a protest rally. "As a proud Indian, I am indeed saddened and upset by the statements made by Mr. Yograj Singh. I wish to clarify that his remarks have been made in an individual capacity and my ideologies are not the same in any manner," Yuvraj said. "I also urge everyone to continue taking precautions to fight against Covid-19. The pandemic is not over yet and we need to continue to be careful to defeat the virus completely," he said and ended the post with 'Jai Jawan! Jai Kisan! Jai Hind!' Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are camping at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they claim will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate houses. In a show of solidarity with the farmers, some sportspersons from Punjab and Haryana, including Khel Ratna awardee Vijender Singh, have threatened to return the national sports awards they had won. The agitating farmers' concern is that these laws, aimed at reforming the sector, will eliminate the MSP and mandis that ensure their earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Security beefed up at Delhi borders after farmers' announcement to intensify stir||The Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city's border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre's new agri laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various areas on Delhi's borders for the last 16 days and demanding that the legislation be withdrawn. The police have made adequate arrangements and these include multi-layered barricading and deployment of personnel. Measures have also been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience at places were protest are being staged, a senior police officer said. The Delhi Traffic Police has deployed its personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle. The developments come after farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal to amend the new agri laws and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Yamuna expressway by Saturday. In a tweet, the traffic police on Saturday informed commuters about the closure of the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders. Since these borders are closed, it suggested that motorists take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad,Saboli and Singhu School toll tax borders. "Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. So, commuters have been advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway-44," the traffic police said. Due to the ongoing farmers' protests, it said that both the Chilla and the Ghazipur borders are also closed for traffic from Noida and Ghaziabad. "The Chilla & Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders," it tweeted. "The Tikri and the Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement but the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," the traffic police said in a tweet. Those going towards Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders as they are open, the traffic police said. The government had asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the laws to address their concerns and said it was open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want. Farmers leaders on Thursday also announced they would block railway tracks across the country if their demands were not met by the government and would announce a date for that soon. At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Covid tally crosses 98 lakh mark, recovery rate close to 95 per cent||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.26 lakh with 30,006 new cases in a day, while 93,24,328 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.88 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,26,775 and the death toll climbed to 1,42,628 with the virus claiming 442 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 3,59,819 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.66 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,26,97,399 samples have been tested up to December 11 with 10,65,176 samples being tested on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 442 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 60 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 29 each from Kerala and Punjab, 23 from Haryana, 16 from Karnataka and 14 each from Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,42,628 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,059 from Maharashtra followed by 11,928 from Karnataka, 11,870 from Tamil Nadu, 9,934 from Delhi, 8,966 from West Bengal, 8,025 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,049 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,036 from Punjab and 4,148 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Carbon emission cut during pandemic but not enough to limit climate change||A number of global climate reports released recently have pointed to a “record drop” in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in 2020 because of reduced economic activities caused by the pandemic. The reports, however, have warned that the world is still heading towards a temperature rise in excess of 3°C this century unless the countries become more ambitious and effective with their emission cuts. Carbon dioxide is the main greenhouse gas triggering climate change. The reports have listed India among the countries with the maximum emission cuts due to Covid-induced restrictions. They have also recognised India’s “high” rank in climate performance over the last year. The Global Carbon Project, which is part of the Future Earth research initiative on global sustainability, said in a report on Friday that “global fossil CO2 emissions are expected to decline approximately 2.4 billion tonnes of CO2 in 2020 (-7 per cent), a record drop”. “The decrease in 2020 emissions appears more pronounced in the US (-12 per cent), EU27 (-11 per cent) and India (-9 per cent), with the extensive Covid-19 restrictions enhanced by pre-existing trends, and least pronounced in China (-1.7 per cent),” the report said. However, the report warned that “cuts in global emissions of the order of 1 to 2 billion tonnes of CO2 are needed each year between 2020 and 2030 to limit climate change in line with the Paris Agreement goals”. The Emissions Gap Report 2020, released recently, stated that the “world is still heading for a temperature rise in excess of 3°C this century — far beyond the Paris Agreement goals of limiting global warming to well below 2°C and pursuing 1.5°C”. The report points out that “governments should pull out all the stops to implement a green recovery and strengthen their pledges before the next climate meeting in 2021”. The report has reminded that despite the pandemic, “the year 2020 is on track to be one of the warmest on record, with wildfires, droughts, storms and glacier melt intensifying”. Earlier, the Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI), 2021, released by Germanwatch and New Climate Institute together with the Climate Action Network (CAN International) had also pointed out that the dip in greenhouse gas emissions in 2020, induced by the pandemic, might turn out to be temporary if no structural changes were made. The report has given India a “high” rank — 10th — one place lower compared to last year but above most developed and developing countries in climate performance. It, however, warned that overall none of the countries are on track to achieve the goals finalised in the Paris Agreement. While China, the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, was placed at 33, second biggest emitter US is at the bottom of the list. “The report does not consider the equity and CBDR (common but differentiated responsibilities) factors which are critical in the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change process. If those are considered, India would have performed better,” Ravi Shankar Prasad, additional secretary in the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change, told The Telegraph. “The reports clearly underline the importance of giving high priority to climate change along with Covid recovery…,” said Harjeet Singh, global lead of climate change at ActionAid International. Sanjay Vashisht, director of the Climate Action Network, South Asia (CANSA), said: “While India is doing well on solar, but it’s continuing expansion of fossil fuel could defeat climate solutions and sustainable development gains.” “India’s performance is both by default and design. On one side an extremely low per capita emission value due to high population size helps, but we also should recognise the solar power transition in the last decade,” said Chandra Bhushan, a climate change expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Kerala MP vouches for state healthcare policy||Rabindra Sangeet helped. So did Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. Perhaps the  video clips of Diego Maradona’s matches, too. But the biggest takeaway for M.B. Rajesh, Kerala CPM state committee member and former MP, was how the famed public healthcare system in the southern state lived up to its name when he tested positive for Covid-19 last month. “My experience reaffirmed my belief that a robust public healthcare system and efficient governance are indispensable,” the politician wrote in a Facebook post that detailed his stay at the Palakkad district government hospital in north Kerala. He was discharged on November 30. Critics would say Rajesh, belonging to the ruling Left Democratic Front, is expected to say little else about the state machinery, run by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, that won international acclaim in the initial months of the Covid outbreak in India.  Since then, the number of cases has risen in Kerala and attention has been deflected from the government’s effort by controversies, such as a gold smuggling scandal, on multiple fronts. But Rajesh’s post, which names and thanks many healthcare professionals who took care of him at the state-run hospital, does make a compelling case. “Today morning, a journalist from Delhi had called to discuss the civic elections in Kerala. What she told me during the course of the conversation shocked me. The bill of a patient who was treated for 14 days in a renowned private hospital in Delhi apparently touched Rs 40 lakh. A patient had to spend Rs 8 lakh in Mumbai. Yesterday, a friend sent me a complaint and a bill in a private hospital in Kerala that charged a patient Rs 8.13 lakh for 14 days,” “It is against this backdrop, I stayed 10 days in the district hospital and returned home Covid-free after spending a negligible amount,” wrote Rajesh who resisted attempts by some well-wishers to get him shifted to “better” hospitals in Kochi, the commercial capital of Kerala. “See, what would have happened if I was treated outside Kerala? Or in a private hospital in Kerala? It would have broken the back of even a middle-class person like me, with a reasonable economic background,” the former MP added. In private hospitals, the treatment costs vary according to the condition of patients, and the bills usually are high if admission to the intensive care unit is required. Rajesh, 49, also indirectly reminds citizens of the need to help the government in times of crises. “My father who retired from the armed forces, my wife and sister who are teachers and I had donated a month’s salary to the chief minister’s relief fund. I have received in return service that is far more valuable than what we gave. I was personally witness to that,” he said in the Facebook post. The CPM leader makes no mention of it but a state scheme to defer six days’ salary of government employees each month for five months had ignited controversy. The government eventually withdrew a decision to extend what came to be known as the “salary challenge”. In the Facebook post, Rajesh wrote: “I have given speeches on how the state government was always with the people. Now, my own experience has proved that.” Rajesh shares with Bengalis two of their greatest loves —  Rabindra Sangeet and Maradona. So much so that he turned to Rabindranath Tagore for emotional support during the bleak hospital days. Such musical succour became all the more necessary when the hospital stay was made bleaker by the death of the Argentine genius, whom the communist politician adored as much for his Left leanings as for his football. “I have been a Rabindra Sangeet fan for several years, thanks to a friend who has studied it. I don’t follow Bengali too well but love the genre,” Rajesh, now convalescing at his home in Palakkad, told The Telegraph on Friday. “When it comes to Rabindra Sangeet, I listen to all the singers — I have no favourites.” Rajesh added: “I used to slip into some kind of depression in hospital, especially at nights when I couldn’t sleep. That’s when music came into play.” He said he drew strength also from listening to recordings of classical vocalists Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and Kumar Gandharva and the flautist Hariprasad Chaurasia. A coincidence of sorts had compounded for him the “shock” of Maradona's death, four days after Rajesh had been admitted to hospital on November 21 with suggestions of pneumonia along with Covid-19 and a low oxygen level. “I had been asked by the Mathrubhumi newspaper to write a piece on Maradona's football and politics. While I immediately agreed since I often write on sports, I tested positive the following day (November 17),” Rajesh said. “I didn’t learn about his (November 25) death until I got the morning newspaper the day after from a nurse. I was shell-shocked to see the headline,” Rajesh said. “As a huge fan of Maradona since my teens, I was quite emotional the whole day and kept watching video clips of his matches on my mobile.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Support for farmers grows in spite of vilification campaign||Support for the farmers’ movement has grown so far in spite of a vilification campaign by gimlet-eyed propagandists loyal to the Narendra Modi government. More farmers are heading towards Delhi from other parts of the country. Besides, the participation from Haryana, where the farmers are massed along the Delhi border at various points, is now vying with that from Punjab. The Punjab farmers are keeping the agitation energetic by getting people by rotation. The first batch of farmers who have been here for a fortnight are returning home but a new set is coming in daily to relieve them and keep up the momentum. Haryana, which has a BJP-led coalition government, is getting restive. This was reflected in mass resignations from the panchayati raj institutions in solidarity with the farmers. In Hisar alone, 35 members of the panchayati raj institutions resigned on Thursday amid suggestions that elected representatives from Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind and Kaithal are likely to follow suit. The impact on the ground has been perceptible. Dharmendra, the actor and former BJP parliamentarian whose son Sunny Deol has been fighting shy of taking an unequivocal stand, was compelled to tweet: “I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast.” The Right-wing storm-troopers will find it difficult to pounce on Dharmendra, especially since his wife Hema Malini and Sunny are sitting BJP parliamentarians now. With the government claiming that the farmers’ organisations have walked away from the talks, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said: “Farmers’ organisations are always ready for talks and have responded each time the government has called. It is the government which is adamant on continuing with not repealing the three acts and the Electricity Bill 2020 which is the main demand of the farmers.” Further, the farmers’ union leaders underlined that they had engaged with the government even though members of the ruling establishment, including a Union minister, had cast aspersions on them and called them names. “Who is vitiating the atmosphere? Us or them? We are exercising our democratic right by protesting peacefully, yet we are called Khalistani and what not,” said a farmer leader. The government’s camp followers have latched on to the observance of International Human Rights Day at the Tikri border on Thursday as evidence of the farmers’ agitation being hijacked by “Left extremists”. Farmers’ union leaders have distanced themselves from this event and iterated their call to keep contentious issues out of the movement, which is essentially a broad coalition of organisations from across the spectrum. The International Human Rights Day event was organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) and saw their members hold up posters of people the Right wing describes as “urban Naxals”. Asked about the emergence of posters of civil rights activists like Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha at the protest in Tikri, farmers’ union leader Darshan Pal said some unions had decided to observe International Human Rights Day at the protest site. Conscious of how this would be used against the agitation, the peasants’ leaders are said to have iterated on Friday at their daily meeting the need to keep such issues out of the joint movement against the three new farm laws. “We have been very careful about keeping politicians from using our stage. Though they have visited us to extend solidarity, not one has been allowed to address the gathering,” a union leader said. While several retired bureaucrats and veterans from Punjab have already expressed solidarity with the farmers, on Friday they had Constitutional Conduct — a collective of former civil servants — pick up the cudgels for them. In a statement, Constitutional Conduct said: “The protests have spread across many states and are being supported by several other groups even though a largely complicit media refuses to report their true magnitude and reach. “In our capacity as former civil servants who stand up for constitutional freedoms, we would like to emphasise our support for the democratic and constitutional right of peaceful protest being exercised by farmers and others. It is time that the ruling dispensation listens carefully to the demands being made and demonstrates its respect for democratic traditions, procedures and practices by engaging in dialogue inside and outside Parliament.” Referring to the haste in which the farm laws were enacted, the retired bureaucrats noted: “Time was not given to debate the bills and they were railroaded through Parliament; the demand for a division in the Rajya Sabha was not accepted and a voice vote was held amid tumult and confusion, leading to suspicions about the procedure employed….” About the vilification of those who dare to differ with the government, they said: “The facile option of labelling all those who disagree with one or other of the actions of the government as ‘anti-national’, ‘pro-Pakistani’, ‘award-wapasi gang’, ‘urban Naxals’ and ‘Khan Market gang’ is chosen to avoid substantive discussion and debate, the very heart of the democratic process, and to vilify and criminalise dissent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Karnataka considers Covid cap at IAF show||The Karnataka government has recommended a cap on allowing general public at Aero India 2021 in view of a second wave of Covid-19 forecast for early next year. With the showcase aerospace exhibition slated for February 3-7, the state health department has written to the defence ministry about limiting the presence of visitors by providing a “virtual” alternative. The health ministry has in the letter to the director of the defence exhibition organisation recommended that people who usually flock to the exhibition in thousands could be restricted by allowing some to attend physically and others to view the events online. The decision to restrict the number of people at the event held every year at the IAF base in Yelahanka in north Bangalore was based on the health ministry’s technical advisory committee report that warned of a second wave of Covid-19 in January-February. A defence ministry official, who cannot be named, told The Telegraph on Friday that a final decision on limiting the entry of general public would be taken by the ministry. “We have two more months to go for the event. So the decision will come closer to the event itself,” the official said. “At the moment, we (in Bangalore) are going ahead with full-scale preparations for the event. Since it is a very dynamic situation, we are ready to make any changes in plans in keeping with the Covid guidelines,” the source said. While the initial days of the event are restricted to delegates and participants, thousands of people turn up on the last two days, especially to watch the aerobatic displays. A health ministry official said the Covid guidelines at that time would dictate the number of people who could be allowed to enter the venue. “We can only hope against a second wave of the pandemic. Since the situation is very fluid, we will be monitoring the daily Covid cases before recommending the number of people that can enter the venue,” said the official. The daily Covid numbers have steadily climbed down from over 10,000 in early October to over a 1,000 in the last few days. “We can relax the suggested restrictions if this downward trend continues and a second wave does not happen,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Third survey to look for Covid antibodies||India’s health research agency has planned a third nationwide survey during January to determine the proportions of people infected by the novel coronavirus amid speculation whether the infections themselves have slowed down the epidemic. The survey under discussion between Indian Council of Medical Research officials and epidemiology specialists is likely to adopt the same methodology as the earlier surveys and look for antibodies to the coronavirus in 400 households each from across 70 districts. The fresh exercise will for the first time specifically look for antibodies that could indicate possible protection from future infections from SARS-CoV-2, the microbe that causes the coronavirus disease, researchers familiar with the discussions have told The Telegraph. Health officials and researchers guiding India’s Covid-19 vaccination strategies have suggested earlier that people who are already protected through antibodies might not need to be vaccinated although this is an idea still under discussion. The earlier surveys had suggested that the number of people unknowingly infected by the coronavirus had increased over 10-fold within three months from around 6.4 million in early May to around 74.3 million in early August. Scientists said these were closer to the true burden of infections and not the lab-confirmed cases — less than 50,000 in early May and less than 2.5 million in early August. But India’s epidemic has shrunk since mid-September with a near-steady fall in the number of daily new cases in many states and a steady reduction in the number of active cases from over a million in mid-September to around 363,000 on Friday. “More than four months have elapsed since the last snapshot — we again want to find out what proportions of Indians have already been infected ,” D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist and member of the ICMR’s Covid-19 epidemiology and surveillance group, told this newspaper. The decline in the new infections has prompted some experts to suggest that the epidemic is slowing down because so many people have already been infected that they themselves serve as barriers to the spread of the virus. Some researchers have cited epidemiological calculations to suggest that when the proportion of infected people crosses 60 per cent, a phenomenon called herd immunity protection sets in, and the epidemic itself stops, giving way to a smaller trickle of infections. “We currently see uneven patterns of infections in different states — through this new survey, we’ll try determine whether there is, as predicted, a correlation between high infection prevalence rates and fewer infections,” Reddy said. An independent single-city survey in Pune — examining different areas of the city — had last month turned up evidence of such a correlation. Areas with infection prevalence levels of over 60 per cent had significantly fewer new infections than areas with lower infection prevalence levels. The scientists have also proposed that the third survey should also look for antibodies specific to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein that the virus uses to enter human cells. The presence of these spike protein antibodies is indicative of protection from future infections. The second survey in August had revealed prevalence differences across urban and rural areas — 15.6 per cent in urban slum areas, 8.2 per cent in urban non-slum areas, and 4.4 per cent in rural areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-495
12-12-2020||India||Kashmir sessions judge accuses HC judge of bail obstruction||A principal sessions judge in Srinagar has passed an order complaining that a high court judge obstructed him from granting bail to an individual, kicking up a controversy over the judiciary’s functioning in post-370 Kashmir. In the order, judge Abdul Rashid Malik recused himself from hearing a plea for anticipatory bail from Srinagar resident Sheikh Salman, saying Justice Javid Iqbal Wani had directed him, through a phone call by his secretary, not to grant bail to Sheikh. Sheikh faces several charges including attempt to murder. Several lawyers in Srinagar told The Telegraph that Malik’s order was unprecedented and appeared to support allegations about senior judges and the executive increasingly interfering in the functioning of the lower courts. However, they cautioned that there was more to the matter than met the eye. A lawyer underlined that Sheikh’s detention was related to a “normal crime” rather than to the events of August 2019 when Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status and hundreds were arrested under the stringent Public Safety Act. “He (Sheikh) had assaulted a young man and brazenly posted a detailed account of his bravado on social media, which earned him an FIR,” the lawyer said. When the case came up before Malik on December 7, he passed an order saying: “At 9.51am, the undersigned received a call from Mr Tariq Ahmad Mota, secretary to Hon’ble Mr Justice Javid Iqbal Wani. “The following were the contents of his mobile call: ‘I have been directed by Hon’ble Mr Justice Javid Iqbal Wani to convey you to make sure that no bail is granted to Sheikh Salman. If there is any anticipatory bail pending, the direction is the same’.” Malik wrote that “for the aforesaid reasons, the undersigned expresses the inability to hear the matter”. “This application is submitted to the learned registrar judicial, High Court of Jammu and Kashmir, with a request that the same may be placed before the chief justice as the matter involves the liberty of the person,” the order said. It directed the petitioner’s counsel to appear before the high court registrar judicial. Sources said the application was forwarded to Chief Justice Geeta Mittal on December 9, the day she retired. She referred the case back to the district court, where another judge granted bail to Sheikh. Justice Wani has not reacted to the claim. Mota said he had “no comments” to offer. A Srinagar lawyer, who requested anonymity, said there was nothing unusual in the matter except for a judge choosing to put a private conversation on record. “These things happen in Jammu and Kashmir as much as they happen in any other part of the country. It’s not clear what is transpiring behind the curtains, particularly since it happened in the last week of the chief justice’s tenure,” he said. “But the judiciary has been in crisis in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of (Article 370 provisions).” High Court Bar Association spokesperson Ghulam Nabi Shaheen parried questions about the incident but said judges had stopped acting independently since the August 2019 clampdown. “They (the judges function) at the dictation of unseen forces. Out of hundreds of habeas corpus petitions, the judges have taken up only a few,” Shaheen said. “In the past two to three months, you cannot point out a single habeas corpus case that has been heard by any judge. The Supreme Court has been clear that habeas corpus petitions should be disposed of in a week’s time. But that is being violated.” Shaheen said the courts claim that 167 such petitions had been disposed of, but most of them had become fractious as the detention periods had expired by then. Justice Wani is the son-in-law of former High Court Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom, a separatist ideologue who was among the thousands arrested in connection with the events of August 2019. Wani is the lone Kashmiri Muslim to have been elevated from the Bar to the bench during the six years of the Narendra Modi government. As additional advocate-general last year, Wani had opposed the release of his father-in-law, a Public Safety Act (PSA) detainee. Lawyers said hundreds of habeas corpus petitions, mostly challenging PSA detentions, were pending with the courts. “The cases are listed after inordinate delays and when they come up for hearing, they are adjourned. Many cases have not even been heard. There are outside, unseen forces (behind) it,” Shaheen said. The registrar judicial, Masrat Shaheen, refused to comment on Malik’s order but denied that habeas corpus petitions were not being heard. “I don’t think so. Lots of cases have been disposed of,” Masrat told this newspaper. She said she “won’t comment” when asked whether those cases alone had been disposed of where the detention period had already expired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Panel rejects govt's request for dropping reservation assurance||A parliamentary panel has yet again rejected the government’s request for dropping an assurance given in the Lok Sabha for introducing reservation in admissions to private higher educational institutions. The Lok Sabha Committee on Government Assurances (2019-20), headed by BJP MP Rajendra Agrawal, has in its ninth report submitted in Parliament on September 20 rejected the request of the department of higher education under the education ministry to remove the quota assurance. In its request, the government had cited a pending case in the Supreme Court. “The ministry has requested the committee to drop the assurances on the ground that the matter is sub judice. The committee feels that the matter of reservation in private unaided educational institutions is a social justice and empowerment measure and is needed to be brought to its logical conclusion. The ministry is required to apprise the committee of the final outcome of the matter along with the directions of the Supreme Court in this regard,” the committee said in its remarks to the government’s request. A similar committee of the Rajya Sabha had in 2016 accepted the government’s request to drop the assurance. The then HRD ministry had made the request to both the committees in 2015 and kept renewing the plea before the Lok Sabha panel. The Lok Sabha panel had earlier rejected the pleas in 2016 and 2018. If the assurance is dropped, the government would be free from the parliamentary obligation of explaining the delay in introducing the promised quota. The assurance had been made in 2006, 2011 and 2013 in response to questions by parliamentarians who had enquired about the implementation of the 93rd constitutional amendment of 2005 that had created the scope for quota in admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes in private educational institutions. The assurances had been made by then junior HRD minister D. Purandeswari in 2006 and 2011 and again by junior HRD minister Shashi Tharoor in 2013. Through the 93rd constitutional amendment, Article 15(5) was inserted into the Constitution that said nothing shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for SCs and STs in admission to educational institutions, including the private ones. The UPA government had in 2006 enacted the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act providing for reservation in admissions to centrally funded institutions. The NDA government brought a bill in 2019 for another amendment to the Constitution to introduce a 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in admissions to government and private educational institutions. Earlier in 2011, Allahabad High Court had held reservation in private institutions as unconstitutional. The Centre has challenged the judgment in the Supreme Court. The matter has been heard thrice. Anil Wagde, an Ambedkarite scholar and member of the Global IIM Alumni Network that is working for reservation in faculty posts in the premier B-schools, said the government was not interested in reservation in private institutions. “The request for dropping the assurance clearly shows the government is not interested in introducing reservation in the private sector. Had the government been sincere, it should have asked for speedy hearing in the pending case in the Supreme Court,” Wagde said. He said students coming from socially backward sections bring with them diverse experiences and deeper understanding of societal problems. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry on the Lok Sabha panel’s rejection of the plea did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Cry against  namaz arrest of Amity activist||Several human rights activists have condemned the continued incarceration of Faisal Khan, the national convener of the Khudai Khidmatgar, for offering namaz at a temple. Khan was arrested from Delhi on November 2, four days after he had offered namaz on Mathura’s Nandbaba temple premises. While initially the temple priest, Kanha Goswami, had said he was impressed with Khan’s knowledge of the Hindu religion and allowed him to offer namaz on the verandah of the shine, later he had filed a police complaint allegedly under the influence of Hindutva groups. The rights activists held an online media conference on the occasion of International Human Rights Day on Thursday evening. Sunita Viswanath of Hindus for Human Rights said: “Khan is a Muslim Gandhian peace activist. He was arrested because he offered namaz, which means Muslim prayer, in the courtyard of a Hindu temple. “The truth is that the priest had invited him to pray there, but four days later the same priest filed a police complaint against him.” Colin Gonsalves, Khan’s legal counsel, said his client had said he would go outside to offer namaz but the priest had insisted that he pray on the temple premises. “Khan’s background establishes his credibility and the improbability that he would do anything to encourage divisions between communities... He has been visiting temples and has been received warmly,” Gonsalves said. Documentary-maker Anand Patwardhan said: “We are in a very peculiar situation, an unprecedented one. So we can’t completely be sure that having a strong case means that we will win.” A pre-recorded speech of Rajmohan Gandhi, biographer and grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, was played at the media conference. He spoke about the history of the Khudai Khidmatgar, an organisation that works for social harmony and was founded by freedom fighter Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, and said: “Most Hindus would like their Muslim brothers and sisters to enjoy dignity and equality. I urge them to speak out and demand justice for Faisal Khan, and for all who are being denied their rights.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) urges SC to quash the new farm laws||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the organisations spearheading the farmers’ protest, on Friday urged the Supreme Court to quash the new farm laws and the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, saying these would “corporatise” farming and lead to “cartelisation” that would ruin cultivators across the country. In its petition, the BKU said it had earlier made representations to all states and Union Territories, too, to urge the Centre to withdraw the legislation but it had not got any response despite the protests since November 26 at Delhi’s borders. The petition filed through advocate A.P. Singh has assailed the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, as being arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional, and hence liable to be struck down. “…These acts are illegal and arbitrary because they would pave the way for cartelisation and commercialisation of agriculture produce,” the petition complained. The petition comes against the backdrop of DMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva filing a petition in the Supreme Court challenging the new farm legislation. Besides Siva, advocate G.S. Mani and certain other individuals have also filed petitions challenging the new laws. The petitions are likely to be tagged together and taken up for hearing anytime next week. The BKU petition said: “The implementation of the acts in its current form will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough place for exploitation of the Indian farmers… “Without agriculture produce market committees acting as a protective shield around the farmers, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies who are more ‘profit-oriented’ and have no care for the condition of the poverty-stricken farmers….” According to the petitioner, the new laws seek to corporatise agriculture and usher in an unregulated and exploitative regime because Indian farmers are mostly illiterate and would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best possible terms with a private company. This, the petition said, would lead to unequal bargaining positions in negotiating farm agreements with corporate houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders criticise Union minister's 'anti-national forces' statement||Farmer leaders on Friday criticised Union minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi’s statement that anti-national forces are behind the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Sarangi, the Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, had said earlier on Friday: “No one, neither the farmers nor their leaders, is above the law. The farmers have been instigated to organise the agitation. There is no ground for agitation. Anti-national forces are behind the agitation. These reforms are for the good of farmers.” Soon after Sarangi made the statement at the BJP party office, state convener of the All India Kishan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Suresh Panigrahi, termed Sarangi, who hails from Odisha, as anti-farmer. “Farmers are agitating for their rights. Lakhs of farmers, including those from Odisha, are camping in Delhi to get their rights. At this point one has no right to make such a statement. The Modi government is run by corporates and the farm bills have been brought at the behest of corporates,” said Panigrahi. “We will not budge an inch from our demand. The Centre has to repeal the laws. We will intensify our agitation across the state on this issue,” he added. Nimai Ray, a 56-year-old farmer, told The Telegraph: “When Anna Hazare was leading the anti-corruption movement in New Delhi, the then central government had maintained that the agitation was backed by the anti-national forces. At that time, the BJP was backing Anna Hazare’s movement. Now they have to explain whether they were with the anti-national forces at that time.” He added: “A big conspiracy has been hatched to bring the corporates into the farm sector. Now the farmers are struggling hard to expose that conspiracy. The corporates have made the government their shield to enter into the farming sector.” Earlier, Sarangi also said: “The farmers have got independence because of the farm bills. The dalal (middleman) forced them to sell their produce at a lower price. They are creating all sorts of troubles for the farmers in the mandis. The farmer leaders who are spearheading the agitation had never launched an agitation to free farmers from the clutches of dalals. They are forcing the farmers to continue the agitation so that they never get independence.” He further said; “A farmer can sell his produce in any part of the country through an e-marketing system. Farmers should get the right to sell their produce at a profitable price. This is a revolutionary law. The farmers have got all the independence. Those who are doing dalali (brokerage) they would only face losses. Others will be benefited.” Targeting the agitation, Sarangi said: “All the farmers of the country are not in Delhi for the agitation. They are not representatives of all the farmers. Many farmers’ organisations have already welcomed the move (passing of new laws).” “In democracy, there is a right to agitation. People have turned democracy into anarchy. There is a difference between anarchy and democracy,” he said, adding that the agitation is politically motivated. The Union minister also maintained that the central government has clarified that there is no possibility of changing the ownership of land. “The law is clear on this issue. On contract farming, no one can force a farmer to accept it,” he said. On the issue of farmers spending nights under the open sky in the chilly winter of Delhi, the minister said “even people in Shaheen Bagh had slept in the open at night... later it came to be known whose money was spent for it”. Reacting to Sarangi’s statement, 30-year old farmer from Jajpur, Partap Nayak, said: “The minister is making the statement to remain in the good books of the Modi government. He has to make such statements and he has no concern for the farmers. The minister is wrong to say that all farmers are not in Delhi. Even our farmer leaders, including Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan (a farmers’ body) president Akshay Kumar, are camping in Delhi demanding the scrapping of the farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Muslim bride and Hindu groom? It’s love, not jihad ||When a Muslim woman eloped with a Hindu man in Bareilly last week, the police saw no love jihad or yuddh, deciding that as consenting adults they had the right to live together. But in several recent instances where the men were Muslim and the women Hindu, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested the men or their relatives under a new state ordinance that criminalises religious conversion for marriage and became law on November 27. While the ordinance is not religion-specific in its phrasing, BJP leaders have made it clear that it’s aimed at checking “love jihad” – an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to marry, convert and radicalise Hindu women. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had been among the first to allege such a conspiracy. The father of a Muslim woman had registered a case at Prem Nagar police station, Bareilly, on December 5 alleging a young Hindu, Aman Kumar, had lured and kidnapped his daughter. “I registered the case under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. But the police were sceptical from the beginning,” the father told reporters in Bareilly on Thursday. “The police rescued my daughter, who was under the influence of the man with whom she had eloped, on December 6 and produced her in court, where she said she had gone with the man willingly.” The father said Aman was trying to convert his daughter to Hinduism. “But the police let her go with him. They didn’t let us meet her — we wanted to convince her that her future was not safe with the man.” Bareilly city superintendent of police Ravindra Kumar dismissed the father’s contentions. “It’s a case of love between adults. There’s no angle of religious conversion in the case; so they were allowed to go wherever they wanted,” he said. When a similar case was registered against a Muslim man on December 7 in the Kanth area of Moradabad, however, the police arrested the accused and his brother. They sent his “Hindu” wife to a remand home despite her being an adult and five months pregnant. The 22-year-old woman said she had undergone a court marriage with Mohammad Rashid six months ago in Uttarakhand and converted to Islam at the time, and that the ordinance was incorrectly being applied retrospectively under prodding from the Bajrang Dal. She said Bajrang Dal members had accosted the couple on Sunday and alleged that Rashid was pressuring her to convert to Islam. “We arrested Rashid and his elder brother Mohammad Saleem under the provisions of the new ordinance and sent the woman to a remand home when she refused to go to her parents,” Kanth circle officer Balram Katheria said. But before being sent to the remand home, the woman told reporters in Moradabad the case was based on falsehoods. “I’m from (adjoining) Bijnore district. While working at a beauty parlour in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, I met a barber and we had a court marriage there. I changed my religion soon after the marriage,” she said. “But the Bajrang Dal somehow contacted my mother in Bijnore and persuaded her to submit a false police complaint (in Moradabad) saying I was being forced to convert after the new ordinance was issued.” On December 5, the police had arrested seven family members of a Muslim youth from the Tambor area of Sitapur district for allegedly helping him “lure and kidnap” a Hindu girl on November 23. “A relative of the girl lodged a police complaint on November 27 under the new ordinance. Mohammad Jubrail, the main accused, is absconding. We are trying to find the girl too,” Sitapur additional superintendent of police Rajiv Dixit said. Police sources and the families confirmed that the woman was an adult. The Adityanath cabinet issued the ordinance on November 24, and governor Anandiben Patel cleared it on November 27. It criminalises religious conversion for the sake of marriage, and invalidates such marriages. It says inter-faith lovers must apply to their district magistrate two months in advance for permission to marry (without conversion). It prescribes 1 to 10 years’ jail or a fine ranging from Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000, or both for violations. Days before the Bareilly police let off Aman Kumar, they had arrested Owais Ahmad on December 3 on a complaint from a Hindu man from the Devraniya area of the district accusing the youth of pressuring his daughter to elope and convert. “A case was registered under the new ordinance on November 28 and the accused was arrested after five days,” deputy inspector-general (Bareilly zone) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said. He said Owais had been harassing the woman for the past three years and that she had confirmed this. He added that Owais had been booked under sexual offence sections, too. According to the woman’s father, she had married another man in June but Owais was threatening him to bring her back and hand her over to him. Owais’s father Mohammad Rafiq told reporters the woman had levelled the harassment charge under pressure from her family. “She is an adult and lived with Owais willingly for a few days. Later, she returned home and was married off elsewhere,” he said. “The girl’s father met me recently and said he bore us no ill will. I don’t know why he and his daughter registered the case against Owais after that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses ‘Utopian’ plea ||The Supreme Court on Friday said it cannot provide “panacea” for all evils or evolve a “Utopian” state and refused to entertain a PIL seeking a probe by the CBI, ED, IB and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) into the alleged criminal nexus between politicians and officials, as recommended by the N.N. Vohra committee in 1993. “Look at the prayers (of the petitioner). ‘I hope the country will be at the top. I hope the world is a beautiful place. I hope every man will live happily.’ These are the prayers. Write a book on it, not petitions. One can understand giving a nudge to the central government, but I cannot encourage petitions like these. These are all Utopian prayers. The petition must serve a purpose and one should understand what directions can be given,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed, making the petitioner withdraw his plea. The court noted that more than 23 years had passed after the Supreme Court directed the government in 1997 to consider the recommendations but no action had been taken so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
12-12-2020||India||Protesting BHU students hit by private security guards ||Banaras Hindu University students on a dharna outside the vice-chancellor’s residence demanding reopening of hostels and libraries alleged that they were assaulted with sticks by private security guards in the dead of the night, and that disabled students were also not spared. The students have been organising the dharna since December 5 evening. “It was a peaceful protest and the university administration resorted to violence. Proctors, security guards and private bouncers attacked us around 2.30am on Friday when we were sleeping at the dharna site. They hit us with sticks and removed many of us from the area. However, we have returned to the place where we have been sitting. It has become clear that the VC wouldn’t listen to us, but we have decided to continue the dharna,” said Sushil Kumar, a student. While initially the protest had started with 250 students, the numbers grew to 600 after the alleged lathicharge. Santosh Kumar, a disabled protester, said: “There are at least 20 disabled protesters, of whom 10 are blind. They were also beaten up by the security guards with lathis. The attack was so sudden that we didn’t get time to protect ourselves by running away.” Santosh Tripathi, a protesting student, said: “It has become clear that the VC is against our demand. He should have the courage to come to us and say this. Instead, he is sending security guards to beat us.” The BHU hostels closed in early April in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Most inmates vacated their rooms and many of them shifted to rented accommodations after the university suspended physical classes in March. The hostels are yet to reopen. However, some students had stayed back, cooking meals inside their hostel rooms and scaling the boundary walls to buy essentials. Some girls too had stayed back in their hostel, where a small gate was kept open.Over 60 women students are part of the protest on the lawns of the quarters of VC Rakesh Bhatnagar. The university denied having resorted to a lathicharge. “We were trying to convince the students to withdraw their dharna as the administration is reviewing their demand. No force was used last night,” chief proctor O.P. Rai said. He said the hostels were open and many students were living there. The gates had been locked as part of Covid protocol and to prevent outsiders from entering the hostels, Rai added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-496
