13-12-2020||India||Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rajasthan's Alwar||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws blocked the Jaipur-Delhi national highway in Shahjahanpur of Rajasthan's Alwar district on Sunday as police stopped them along the state's border with Haryana while they were marching towards Delhi. Several farmers' organisations marched through Behror, Shajahapur and Kotputli regions of the state to reach Jaisinghpur-Khera border. Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, social activists Aruna Roy and Medha Patkar, and CPI (M) leader Amra Ram also reached Shajahapur along with farmers. However, police did not allow them to proceed forward. “We are squatting on the highway in support of farmers. We are ready to vacate the road if we are allowed to march towards Delhi,” Yadav told reporters while apologising to the people for the inconvenience caused to them. Kisan Panchayat president Rampal Chaudhary is also continuing with his protest along with the farmers on the Haryana-Rajasthan border highway as police did not allow them to move forward. “Farmers affiliated to different farmer organisations are reaching Shahjahapur border. We want the government to repeal the new farm laws and for this, we want to march towards Delhi,” said Chaudhary. While CPI (M) leader Amra Ram said the Centre should withdraw the three “anti-farmer” laws. “We do not have any intention to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway. Police have stopped us from marching towards Delhi, which has led to jam. We want the Centre to withdraw the anti-farmer laws,” Amra Ram said. Due to blockade, vehicular traffic on the Jaipur-Delhi national highway had to be diverted through Bansur and other routes of Alwar, police said. One-way traffic from Delhi to Jaipur was later opened for traffic but Jaipur-Delhi highway is blocked due to the agitation, they said. Police administration is keeping a vigil on the border areas in view of the agitation. "The police department is all prepared to maintain the law and order and have made all arrangements in view of the farmers' agitation," Bhiwadi SP Ram Murti Joshi said. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislation would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||BJP President JP Nadda tests positive for coronavirus||Bharatiya Janata Party president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday announced that he had tested positive for coronavirus, and had, therefore, isolated himself at home. Nadda tweeted, “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive.” “My health is fine, following all the guidelines in home isolation on the advice of doctors,” he further wrote in the tweet, in Hindi. The leader also asked everyone who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get tested for the virus. Several people wished the 60-year-old a speedy recovery. “Wishing you a very speedy recovery Mananeeya Adhyaksh JP Nadda ji. Get well soon! Maharashtra awaits to welcome you soon,” former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted. Union Minister Smriti Irani said, “Get well soon sir.” Nadda, who was recently in Bengal, is now at the centre of a Centre-state tussle over an attack on his convoy at Shirakol in South 24-Parganas on December 10. The BJP has alleged the ruling TMC was responsible for the act, while the TMC has alleged that the attack was "staged". Nadda is one of several prominent political leaders to have tested positive for the coronavirus. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 in September and had been admitted to hospital. Recently, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, who had taken a trial shot of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, had also contracted the virus. Other leaders who suffered from Covid-19 include Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, among others. India on Sunday recorded 30,284 Covid-19 cases as the tally reached 98,57,029, while death toll climbed to 1,43,019 with the virus claiming 391 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Rajasthan farmers march to Delhi to protest farm laws||After a three-hour shutdown on Sunday, the Delhi-Jaipur highway opened up partially as farmers began their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur on tractors, NDTV reported. The farmers’ march began in the morning, with a group of 800-900 of them being led by Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, according to a report by NDTV. While on their way to the national capital, the farmers faced a blockade at the Delhi-Jaipur highway, which was sealed from both sides by police. Protesters were seen carrying placards and shouting slogans as they slowly made their way to the national capital. Tractors, trailers, and cars carrying banners were also seen as they carried on to their destination. The police had, in the morning, beefed up security in the national capital's border with Haryana as farmers had announced on Saturday that they would block the Jaipur National Highway-8, which passes through Gurgaon, as part of their protest against the Centre's new agri laws. According to a senior police official, several measures had been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience. Delhi Traffic Police had deployed its personnel on Sunday across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and had been constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle. Meanwhile, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Parkash met Home Minister Amit Shah during the day amid the protests. The ministers were accompanied by BJP leaders from Punjab. Tomar and Parkash met the home minister, an official said. It was not immediately known what transpired in the meeting. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced in a press conference that he will hold one-day fast on Monday in response to the farmers’ hunger strike call. He also asked the Centre to shun its “arrogance” and meet the protesters’ demands. Farmer leaders on Saturday had stuck to their demands and announced that their representatives will sit on a hunger strike on December 14. A nation-wide strike has also been called on the same day. The leaders, addressing a press conference in the Singhu border,had said that they were ready to hold talks with the government but would discuss repealing the laws first. They had also announced Sunday's march in the press conference. The move came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, had said that the new laws would benefit the farmers and the government is committed to their welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan asks Modi to explain rationale behind new Parliament building||MNM chief Kamal Haasan on Sunday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked him to explain the need of building a new Parliament for about Rs 1,000 crores, “when half of India is hungry due to coronavirus pandemic triggered loss of livelihoods”. Likening the proposed construction of the structure to that of the centuries-old Great Wall of China, Haasan claimed that “thousands of people perished” while it was being built. But the rulers of the country said the wall would ‘guard’ the people of China. “To protect whom is a new Parliament building being constructed at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore when half of India is hungry due to the coronavirus pandemic triggered loss of livelihoods,” the Makkal Needhi Maiam chief asked on Twitter. “Answer honourable elected Prime Minister,” Hassan demanded, hours before starting off with his campaign for the Assembly polls from Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu. The Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament building on December 10. He also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the structure, which is expected to be completed by 2022. Speaking to reporters before leaving for the temple town, Haasan alleged that the authorities had at the last minute not granted permission for MNM to campaign within urban areas, though they had got the nod to go ahead in “many places”. The leader, on being asked about the focus of MNM’s campaign, said his party would be bringing in a complete transformation in Tamil Nadu. “There is no doubt about degeneration in the state...people know that well and there is no point lamenting..MNM will talk about what needs to be done now,” Haasan said in an apparent attack to DMK and AIADMK, who have ruled the state since 1967.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Police arrest Republic TV CEO in fake TRP case||The Mumbai Police on Sunday morning arrested Republic Media Network Chief Executive Officer Vikas Khanchandani in connection with the alleged fake TRP (Television Rating Points) scam, a police official said. Khanchandani was arrested from his residence in Mumbai by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the police, the official said. He will be produced before a court for further remand, he added. The police began a probe into the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about rigging of TRP by some channels. Khanchandani’s arrest comes less than a week after the Supreme Court dismissed a plea of the ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, the owner of the Republic Media Network, seeking protection of its employees. The top court had said that the petition was ‘ambitious’ in nature, and therefore the company should withdraw it. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. The BARC engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households. It was alleged earlier that some families are being paid to tune into certain channels to gain more TRP. In a charge sheet filed recently, the police alleged that an official of Hansa paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV. The Republic TV had denied all accusations. Police have arrested 13 people in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Coast Guard begins ‘Operation Oliva’ to protect Odisha turtles||The Indian Coast Guard has engaged an aircraft in service for ‘Operation Oliva’, the coastal monitoring as part of its annual mission to ensure the safe mid-sea sojourn of breeding Odisha’s Olive Ridley sea turtles. The turtle protection programme is in full swing, in a joint venture with the forest department, to keep vigil on illegal fishing around the turtle concentration zone, a Coast Guard official said. A proactive plan has been prepared to ensure the conversation of the marine animals. “With round-the-clock vigil, the coast guard has been able to provide adequate protection to the endangered species,” an official said. “The CG aircraft will keep a tab on illegal fishing in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary, Dhamra, Devi and Rushikulya river mouths,” he added. It has also organised interactive sessions with fishermen communities to make them aware of the pros and cons of the legal embargo on fishing during olive ridleys' nesting season. “The patrol exercise for surveillance on trespassing sea-worthy trawlers is on as turtles perish in large numbers after getting hit on trawl propellers. Besides breeding animals get entangled in fishing nets and are asphyxiated to death,” the official said. “The coast guard is always on alert to check trespassing of vessels. The patrol vessels engaged by the forest and fisheries department often seek CG ship assistance in the event of emergencies. The operation to save turtles is being carried on in a coordinated manner,” he said. “We are always ready to help the forest and fisheries department for the safety of these delicate marine species,” the CG official added. He informed that this operation will stay in force until the turtles lay eggs on nesting beaches. There is an increase in the awareness level among the fishermen communities. As a result, unlawful sea fishing activity has dropped down considerably this time since the enforcement of prohibition on sea fishing from November 1 within the 20 km radius of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary and river mouths of Odisha. Since November 1 when the turtle protection patrolling was undertaken, the forest department has arrested more than 70 sea-going fishermen and eight sea-worthy trawlers were seized on the charge of infringement of provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1982, said forest officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Covid: India records over 30,000 cases in 24 hours||India’s Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.57 lakh with 30,284 new cases in a day, while 93,57,464 people have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.93 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,57,029 and the death toll climbed to 1,43,019 with the virus claiming 391 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. There are 3,56,546 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.62 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,37,11,833 samples have been tested up to December 12 with 10,14,434 samples being tested on Saturday. The active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Vilification by government deepens trust deficit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rooted for more private investments in farming, only to confirm the protesting farmers’ worst fears and expose the deep fault lines caused by the government’s unseemly rush to push through the controversial laws. The mistrust with which the call was greeted also showed how, unwittingly or otherwise, the Modi government had transformed “private investments” — considered essential for building support systems such as cold chains and logistics systems — and “corporatisation” into dirty expressions. “In the fields of supply chain, cold storage and areas like fertilisers, etc, both interest and investments of the private sector are needed. There is a huge scope in rural agro-based industries and a friendly policy regime is in place for that,” Modi told the annual meeting of industry chamber Ficci on Saturday. “We have seen walls between the agriculture sector and other areas associated with it — be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. The country’s cold storage infrastructure will be modern. By doing this, there will be more investments in agriculture that will benefit farmers,” the Prime Minister added. The words are certain to be music to the ears of some pro-reform commentators but the farmers who till the land and are now being forced to spend their nights on highways heard otherwise. The farmer unions, tired of being made to run around in circles in the name of talks and enraged by a vilification campaign by the government ecosystem, read in the Prime Minister’s statement a vindication of their stand that the farm laws were tailored primarily to aid crony capitalists. The government’s agenda is clear and it wants to pave the way for corporate houses to enter the farm sector, farmer leader Kamal Preet Singh Pannu told reporters at the Singhu border near Delhi after the Prime Minister’s Ficci speech. The depth of the trust deficit was on display on a day farmers spread the reach of the Punjab strategy of freeing up toll plazas for a day across the country. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said 165 of the 450 toll plazas in the country were picketed through the day and people were allowed to cross them free of charge. The Prime Minister may have sought to showcase his “pro-reform” face but his colleagues are deploying the other half of the classic “good-cop-bad-cop” tactic. In spite of taking part in talks with the farmers, food minister Piyush Goyal has been suggesting the farmers’ agitation has been hijacked by “ultra-Left” elements. The farmers are reading the statements of Modi and Goyal together, smelling in them a ploy to let crony capitalists seize control of the food chain. Slamming the government for its continuous efforts to defame the movement, the working group of the AIKSCC said the government was resorting to such tactics because it did not want to address the issue at hand. “First, the central government claimed that the entire movement of farmers is sponsored by political parties. Then it said it was being sponsored by foreign forces. Then it said it was a Punjab-specific movement that involved pro-Khalistani forces. Then they said farmer unions had walked away from the talks, even though the unions participated in each round of the talks....” At the Singhu border, farmer leader Pannu said: “The government wants to drag this on in the hope of weakening our struggle. But people are coming regularly from the villages even though the police are putting up barricades to stop them. We will defeat all efforts by the government to break this struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
13-12-2020||India||Delhi asks Bengal to release 3 IPS officers||The Union home ministry on Saturday summoned three IPS officers in Bengal for central deputation amid suggestions that the decision was taken to “punish” the trio in connection with the attack on the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday. The Bengal government has informed the Union ministry that it would be unable to release the three officers. The three officers are Rajeev Mishra, additional director-general of South Bengal; Praveen Kumar Tripathi, deputy inspector-general of the Presidency range covering the districts of South 24-Parganas, Howrah and North 24-Parganas; and Bhola Nath Pandey, superintendent of police, Diamond Harbour police district. An official in Calcutta said the Union home ministry had sent a letter on Friday seeking the release of the three officers. “The Union home ministry’s letter said the three officers had been attached to the ministry. Although it was not mentioned in the letter, it is clear they are being punished for the alleged security breach involving Nadda’s convoy on Thursday,” the official said. A retired IPS officer said the Centre’s decision was a clear attempt to scare IPS officers ahead of the Assembly polls next year. “The BJP-led Centre is trying to scare the officers to buy their loyalty ahead of the polls.… This is nothing but a political move,” he said. An official in Bengal said: “The chief secretary wrote to the Union home secretary expressing the government’s inability to release the officers. The state government has not cited any reason for its inability to release the officers as the Centre did not show any reason why it wanted to place these officers in central deputation.” Sources said the Centre had asked the state to send the release orders by December 15. “The Centre has written that if the state does not get back within the given time period, it would be considered that the officers have been released. This is the reason the state informed the Centre of its inability to release the officers,” an official said. Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee, too, wrote to the Union home secretary, saying the Centre was trying to exert pressure on the officers as they had been deployed near the “place of occurrence”. Several senior officials expressed surprise at the Centre’s move, saying such decisions were usually taken only after consulting the state government. An official said the Union home ministry normally sent the states a list of police officers empanelled for central deputation for that particular year. “The states are then left to decide and reply with the names of those that can be spared. As the Union home secretary is the cadre-controlling authority, the Union home ministry draws up the list of officers after going through their annual confidential reports and empanels them against different vacancies. But for the process to be completed, a no-objection certificate from the state is a must,” the official explained. Another official said the attachment of the officers because of the security breach involving Nadda’s convoy appeared arbitrary. “It’s clear that they are being punished, but they should have been given an opportunity to defend themselves. Besides, the state should have been asked to conduct an inquiry into the officers’ roles,” the bureaucrat said. Bengal police are continuing with the probe. After arresting seven people on Thursday, the police arrested eight from Usthi and Falta on Saturday for their alleged involvement in the stoning of some of the vehicles in Nadda’s convoy while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Sex ratio at birth worsens in Kerala||Kerala is among eight states where the sex ratio at birth, a measure of prenatal sex determination, has worsened over the past five years, the latest National Family Health Survey findings released on Saturday have suggested. The sex ratio at birth — the number of girls per 1,000 boys — has fallen in Kerala to 951 during the NFHS 2019-20 from 1,047 during NFHS 2015-16. The nationwide surveys are intended to help provide snapshot views and trends in multiple household parameters linked to health and wellbeing. Health researchers say a fall in the sex ratio at birth points to possible selective abortion of female foetuses through prenatal sex disclosure outlawed in India but believed to be still practiced. The first phase of NFHS 2019-20 covering 22 states has also recorded reduced ratios in Bihar (934 to 908), Goa (966 to 838), Himachal Pradesh (937 to 875), Maharashtra (924 to 913), Meghalaya (1,009 to 989), Nagaland (953 to 945) and Daman and Diu (983 to 817). But the survey has recorded improvements in the total fertility rate with three of the 22 states in 2019-20 compared with eight states five years ago showing TFRs above what population scientists consider a “desirable” number of 2.1. In Bengal, the TFR decreased from 1.8 to 1.6 and sex ratio slightly improved from 960 to 973. “Only Bihar and Meghalaya are some distance from the desirable TFR of 2.1,” said Shri Kant Singh, a professor at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai, who coordinated the survey. In Bihar the TFR fell from 3.4 to 3.0, in Meghalaya 3.0 to 2.9 and Manipur 2.6 to 2.2. Kerala has shown a slight increase in TFR from 1.8 in 2015-16 to 1.6 in 2019-20. But, Singh said, this change is “not worrisome” because the TFR is below 2.1. “A TFR significantly lower than 2.1 is not desirable because it would mean there aren’t enough children being born within that subpopulation and we would see a steady increase in elderly  people,” Singh said. But even with this near-uniform decline in TFR, “in some states, we’re seeing signs of prenatal sex determination”, Singh said. Health researchers say the low sex ratios at birth underline the country’s failure to stop the selective abortions of female foetuses even despite a ban on prenatal sex disclosure enacted in 1994. A report from Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, had two years ago also found that sex ratios at birth had worsened in 17 of 21 states between 2012-14 and 2012-15. A study by researchers in Austria, France and Saudi Arabia had earlier this year predicted that India could lose on average more than 1,200 female foetuses daily over the next decade through prenatal sex disclosure practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Farmer protest: Dushyant meets Rajnath, Tomar||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday prodded the Centre to resolve the deadlock with the agitating farmers, under intense pressure from his support base and party MLAs. Jannayak Janata Party leader Dushyant first met defence minister Rajnath Singh and then agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi and said a “conclusive result” would emerge in the next 24 to 48 hours. “I discussed the matter with the Union ministers. I am hopeful that with mutual consent, a way will be found and the standoff resolved,” Dushyant, deputy chief minister in the BJP-led government in Haryana, said. “I am hopeful that in the next 24 to 48 hours, the final round of talks would be held between the government and the farm leaders and it will lead to a conclusive result,” he added. Sources said Dushyant had communicated to Rajnath that he, like the Shiromani Akali Dal of Punjab, could be compelled to snap ties with the BJP if the deadlock with the farmers was not resolved. The pressure from the Haryana ally came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi iterated that the new farm laws were beneficial for the farmers, indicating that the government remained firm on not scrapping them as demanded by the farmers. The BJP government in Haryana is dependent on Dushyant’s  support. Many MLAs of the Dushyant-led JJP want their party to sever ties with the BJP if the government doesn’t agree to the farmers’ demands. The JJP draws its strength from the landowning Jat community and is under intense pressure from supporters. Talking to reporters, Dushyant stressed it was his duty to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and disagreed with the charge levelled by sections in the BJP that “Khalistani” elements from Punjab were leading the agitation. “ Those who have come from Punjab have a positive conduct and hope it remains the same,” he said. The government has been desperately trying to divide and isolate the protesters, aiming to paint the picture that only farmers from Punjab are opposing the “positive reforms”. A sustained social media campaign has also been launched to portray many of the farm leaders as having links with “Khalistani” and “Maoist” outfits. But another ally of the BJP, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party chief and MP Hanuman Beniwal from Rajasthan, is firm on his demand for scrapping the new farm laws. “If I were in the Lok Sabha when the bills were passed, I would have opposed them like the Akali Dal and torn the bills into pieces,” he said. Like Dushyant, Beniwal too draws his strength from the agrarian Jat community in Rajasthan. If he too, despite being the only MP of his party in the Lok Sabha, is taking a firm stand, it means there is strong pressure from the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Lead role for Pawar in sync with Rahul||Veteran Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar looks destined to play a bigger role in national politics in the coming years, bearing the primary responsibility of bringing the Opposition parties together to jointly fight the Narendra Modi government. Pawar, who turned 80 on Saturday, is still active in politics, unlike 74-year-old Congress president Sonia Gandhi who is reluctant to carry on. Although both the NCP and Pawar himself have refuted reports suggesting a plan to make him UPA chairperson in place of Sonia, leaders cutting across party lines concede he is going to become the pivot on which Opposition politics would rest in the coming years. Although a section of Congress leaders fiercely oppose the idea, many in the party believe it is wrong to presume that the responsibility of uniting the Opposition being given to Pawar meant a conflict with Rahul Gandhi on the leadership question. These leaders insist that Rahul and Pawar have developed a mutual understanding and could make a great team with a perfect blend of experience and youth. “Both will have different roles to play,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, arguing that Ahmed Patel’s death had necessitated such an experiment. Pawar not only has strong personal rapport with regional leaders, but his capability of garnering resources and creating an axis with the corporate world can also never be overstated. While Sonia is still heading the UPA, her engagement with active politics has been restricted and may further shrink after the Congress elects a new president over the next few months. Rahul, who is expected to return as Congress president, may like to spend his energies on strengthening the party and on public outreach rather than on behind-the-scenes political management. The Shiv Sena, now an ally, is already been pushing for Pawar’s leadership. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, who supported the idea of Pawar becoming the UPA chairperson a few days ago, again said on Saturday: “We’ll be happy if Pawar sir becomes UPA chairman. But I’ve heard that he has personally refused it. We will support him if such a proposal comes to the fore officially. The Congress is weak now, so the Opposition needs to come together and strengthen the UPA.” An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday hailed Pawar’s credentials and subtly criticised the Congress for not giving him his due so far. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said in Mumbai on Saturday: “Pawar saheb had last week said that he wanted the Opposition parties to come together. It is not important who will lead the front. That can be decided later. But, the Opposition needs to come together.” Pawar had recently objected to former US President Barack Obama’s negative views about Rahul but publicly conceded that the Congress leader was inconsistent. But Rahul met Pawar after that and went to the President with him and other Opposition leaders to submit a memorandum on the farmers’ agitation, indicating that he didn’t take the “inconsistency” jibe as a personal attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Why two of the three farm laws are bad in law||Two of the new farm laws that farmers are protesting against are liable to be deemed unconstitutional in a legal challenge because they confer judicial authority on bureaucrats, a measure contrary to several Supreme Court judgments. These are the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. Farmers are agitating for the repeal of these two acts as well as the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, all of which were bulldozed through Parliament in September. Petitions challenging all three have been moved in the Supreme Court by farmers’ bodies, NGOs, lawyers and even an MP, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK. While the protesters and the petitioners have argued the three laws would end the minimum support price regime and leave farmers at the mercy of big companies, the judge-like powers that two of the acts grant to non-judicial officials have largely passed unnoticed. Unlike any other law in the country, these two acts vest sub-collectors, deputy collectors and district collectors with powers on a par with civil courts in settling disputes arising from these laws’ application. This runs counter to several Constitution bench judgments on the legislative powers of Parliament or state legislatures. Also, these two laws bar civil courts from entertaining any appeal from aggrieved parties but do not provide for, as an alternative, tribunals headed by judges, which too is contrary to apex court judgments. Adding further controversy, the twin acts, notified in the official gazette on September 27, have been given retrospective application from June 5 this year. Section 13(1), Chapter III, in the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act says that every farming agreement must explicitly provide for a conciliation process and a conciliation board made up of representatives of the parties to the agreement. Section 14(1) says: “Where the farming agreement does not provide for conciliation process… (and) parties to the farming agreement fail to settle their dispute… within a period of 30 days, then any such party may approach the concerned sub-divisional magistrate who shall be the sub-divisional authority for deciding the disputes under farming agreements.” Sub-section 3 says: “Every order passed by the sub-divisional authority under this section shall have same force as a decree of a civil court and be enforceable in the same manner as that of a decree under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, unless an appeal is preferred under sub-section (4).” Sub-section 4 says: “Any party aggrieved by the order of the sub-divisional authority may prefer an appeal to the appellate authority, which shall be presided over by the collector or additional collector nominated by the collector, within 30 days from the date of such order.” Sub-section 6: “Every order passed by the appellant authority under this section shall have same force as a decree of a civil court and be enforceable in the same manner as that of a decree under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.” Sub-section 8: “The sub-divisional authority or the appellate authority shall, while deciding disputes under this section, have all the powers of a civil court for the purposes of taking evidence on oath, enforcing the attendance of witnesses, compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects and for such other purposes as may be prescribed by the central government.” Section 19: “No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of any dispute which a sub-divisional authority or the appellate authority is empowered by or under this Act to decide and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act or any rules made there under.” The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act has identical provisions relating to the conferment of judicial powers on non-judicial officers. Various other laws like the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016; Representation of the People Act, 1951; Consumer Protection Act, 2019; Companies Act, 2013; and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, have provisions keeping civil courts out of the dispute settlement system. However, unlike the new farm laws, all of them provide for appellate tribunals headed by sitting or retired Supreme Court and high court judges as an alternative. The Supreme Court has repeatedly insisted that these tribunals must be headed by judges or former judges, making it clear that non-judicial officials cannot carry out the function of courts or tribunals. It has also ruled that the heads of the tribunals must be appointed by the judiciary. The apex court has several times quashed rules relating to the appointment of chairpersons or presidents of these tribunals on the ground that their selection cannot be left to the government but only to a panel that includes the Chief Justice of India or a nominee of the CJI who must be a Supreme Court judge. In the Union of India vs R. Gandhi (Madras Bar Association president), a five-judge Constitution bench had in 2010 struck down the appointment of non-judicial officers as presiding officers of the company law tribunal and appellate tribunal. “What is a matter of concern is the gradual erosion of the independence of the judiciary, and shrinking of the space occupied by the judiciary and gradual increase in the number of persons belonging to the civil service discharging functions and exercising jurisdiction which was previously exercised by the high court,” the bench had observed. “There is also a gradual dilution of the standards and qualification prescribed for persons to decide cases which were earlier being decided by the high courts. Higher administrative experience does not necessarily result in better adjudication and... there had been a gradual encroachment on the independence of the judiciary....” A similar point was made by a seven-judge constitution bench in L. Chandrakumar vs UoI, 1997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Jagannath Temple to reopen from December 23||Puri Shree Jagannath Temple will be opened for devotees from December 23 in a phased manner. In the first phase, only people from Puri will be allowed to have a “darshan” of the deities. Devotees from other parts of the state will be able to enter the shrine only from January 3. Devotees visiting the 12th Century shrine from outside Puri town will have to produce a Covid negative report to be able to enter the temple. The temple, which is synonymous with Odia culture, has been closed for the past nine months because of the corna pandemic. The decision to reopen it was taken on Saturday at a meeting of the Confederation of the Chhattisha Niyoga, the highest body of servitors. According to the decision, in the first phase the temple will be opened for the people of Puri till December 31. “The darshan of the devotees will remain closed on January 1 and January 2,” said chief administrator of Shree Jagannath Temple Krishan Kumar adding that the shrine will reopen on January 3 and welcome all devotees. “But only about 5,000 devotees per day will be allowed for a week. Queue arrangements will be made both outside and inside temple,” he said. Gradually more and more devotees will be allowed to enter the shrine. “Strict Covid-19 protocol will be implemented. Wearing of mask, use of hand sanitiser and social distancing will be insisted upon,” officials said. Puri Shree Jagannath Temple PRO Laxmidhar Pujapanda told The Telegraph: “The devotees from outside Puri wanting to visit the temple will have to produce Covid negative certificates issued following tests done 48 hours before the temple visit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Spurt in crime forces Nitish to review law and order ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar called yet another high-level law and order review meeting on Saturday, unnerved by the spiralling crime graph in Bihar. This is the third one since the formation of the new government after the November elections. Previously, such meetings were held just once or twice a year. Nitish holds the important home department, which includes the police. While the Opposition is already going hammer and tongs over the situation, the main cause of concern for him is that ally BJP has also started raising its voice over the deteriorating law and order in the state. BJP state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal and Darbhanga MLA Sanjay Saraogi had recently expressed concern over the increase in crime in the state and the erosion of the fear of police among the criminals. Nitish’s meeting came at a time when the spurt in cases of crimes like murder, rape, loot, robbery and kidnapping have been hogging the limelight on a daily basis. Sources in Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) said that the chief minister is worried about a concerted effort to compromise the law and order situation in the state to discredit him. “Law and order, good roads and development of all sections of the society have been USPs of Nitish’s governance. Among these, any deterioration in law and order has immediate repercussions on public perception and sentiments. It is possible that vested interests are behind in increase in crime so that he could be discredited. The sudden spurt after the elections points towards this,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The same leader said that Nitish was also worried about the deterioration in the law and order situation leading to a demand by the senior ruling partner BJP to relinquish the home department. “Some senior BJP leaders are already commenting about the poor law and order situation. It is a well-known fact that their party would like to have the home department in its hands. Thus Nitish is in a bind; on the one hand the Opposition is baying for his blood, while on the other the allies are also expressing their displeasure. It’s a tough situation,” the JDU leader added.      Apart from senior officials, all district magistrates and superintendents of police also attended the meeting via video conferencing. Sources present at the meeting said that the chief minister expressed displeasure over the unchecked crime and issued several instructions to address the situation. “Maintaining law and order is the foremost responsibility of the state government. Crime should be strongly controlled and there should be no irresponsibility in it. Regular police patrolling apart from night patrolling needs to be ensured. Special focus should be on the security of women and strict action should be taken against the people involved in crime against them,” Nitish directed the officials. “The people of the state would get real benefits of development only with proper crime control and strict law and order,” Nitish added. Asking for utmost sincerity towards crime control, the chief minister also told the officials to strictly enforce prohibition and take action against those involved in illicit liquor trade. Nitish pointed out that as per the state government’s assessment, land disputes are behind 60 per cent of fights and crimes. He directed the officials from police station and circle levels to the district level to hold regular meetings to resolve such disputes in their jurisdiction. The village chowkidars (guards) have been asked to inform issues related to their villages to the police stations in their vicinity every Saturday, so that the circle officers and station house officers could address them swiftly. A senior official who attended the meeting chaired by the chief minister said that the instructions given by him to curb crime were “of basic nature, but showed that the policing at the ground level has broken down. Round-the-clock patrolling by the police remains a distant dream in the state despite the recruitment of around 20,000 constables over the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA  booked for job fraud||An expelled Biju Janata Dal MLA and his would-be son-in-law have been booked for cheating people by falsely assuring them jobs. The Odisha crime branch said that Akash Pathak, the would-be son-in-law of expelled Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi, had posed as a managing director of Tata Motors, and he and the politician had collected money by falsely promising jobs to youths. Akash, son of IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak who is in jail in a disproportionate assets case, has been taken into five days’ custody. Panigrahi is also in jail. According to police, Akash had used a fake logo and stamp of Tata Motors to impersonate as the MD of Tata Motors, passenger division, Pune. Panigrahi’s followers had allegedly supported Akash’s claims of offering jobs at an industrial park Tata Motors is developing at Gopalpur in Ganjam district. Addressing a media conference, additional director-general of police (crime branch), Soumendra Priyadarshi said: “A case was registered with the crime branch on September 23 following complaints by the deputy general manager, ethics, Tata Motors, Trilochan Mohanty. The case was registered under IPC Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (document or electronic records forged), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine documents) and under the Information Technology Act’s Section 66C and 66B (computer-related offices) against Akash Pathak.” Priyadarshi said: “During the investigation by the cyber police, it has been found that Akash had used a fake logo, stamp and visiting card of Tata Motors to impersonate as an MD of the company. He had also created a fake email ID.” Explaining the modus operandi, Priyadarshi said: “Akash had issued fake job letters to job aspirants after collecting money from them through the Gopalpur MLA (Panigrahi). In order to create a sense of confidence among job aspirants, he even imparted online training to them.” The ADG added: “It has come to light during the investigation that six people had given huge amounts of money to the Gopalpur MLA and his associates to get jobs at the Tata company.  “As Akash Pathak is the would-be son-in-law of Panigrahi and identifies himself as the MD of Tata Motors, people believed him. Panigrahi and his associates collected money from the job seekers. Of the six who have lodged complaints, two said they had transferred the money to Panigrahi’s accounts and four job seekers had given money to Panigrahi and his associates.” “Those selected by him for jobs were given online training,” Priyadarshi said. He said the state vigilance had registered a case against IFS officer Abhay Kanta Pathak for amassing properties disproportionate to his known sources of income. Arrested a few weeks ago, he is in judicial custody. “We have taken Akash Pathak into 5 days’ remand and his interrogation is on. Those who have been cheated and have not so far reported the matter to the police should immediately report it. We will initiate action as per the law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Plea in Allahabad High Court  against ‘love jihad’ law||An appeal has been filed in Allahabad High Court challenging the Uttar Pradesh ordinance against “love jihad”, calling the government move “morally and constitutionally repugnant”. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, passed by the Yogi Adityanath government on November 27, entails imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. Police have registered many cases against Muslim men married to Hindu women and arrested several persons even though they were married much before the ordinance was brought into force. Several BJP-ruled states have introduced laws against what they call “love jihad”, or an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to marry, convert and radicalise Hindu women. Saurav Kumar, an advocate in Allahabad, has in his public interest litigation filed on Friday said the Uttar Pradesh ordinance was “morally and constitutionally repugnant” and should be repealed to prevent atrocities against people. The petitioner has also pointed out that chief minister Adityanath had said in a public speech on October 31 that his government would bring a law against “love jihad”. The chief minister had referred to a single-bench order of the high court that had ruled that religious conversion for marriage was invalid. However, later a two-judge bench of the high court had overruled the order of the single bench and observed that the “right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of the religion professed by them is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
13-12-2020||India||Rampage for pay at iPhone contract unit ||Hundreds of workers went on the rampage on Saturday morning at the production facility of a Taiwanese firm that manufactures iPhones near Bangalore over arbitrary salary cuts and long work hours without compensation. Police detained 132 workers for vandalism at Wistron, a contract manufacturer of iPhones, at the Narsapura industrial area in Kolar district, some 75km from Bangalore. A police source said they would also look into the workers’ allegations. Deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said: “Strict action will be taken against those who indulged in this mindless vandalism that damaged property on the premises.” He added: “The investigation will probe complaints about alleged salary deductions. If the workers have any such issue, they should first go to the labour commissioner or the district commissioner.”  Wistron did not issue a statement, and the company’s India managing director Sudipto Gupta did not respond to calls from this newspaper. According to a worker who spoke to The Telegraph, employees had not been paid their full wages over the past three months and their pleas allegedly fell on deaf ears. “We were hired as contract workers with a monthly salary of about Rs 16,000. But I was paid only Rs 11,000 last month. They always cite vague reasons like wrong punching (attendance) to cut our salaries,” said the 20-year-old from Kolar, who was at home when the violence erupted at 6.30am. Video clips showed workers using whatever they could lay their hands on to smash glass cabins, window panes, security cameras in the foyer and what appeared to be a locker room. They also toppled parked vehicles  and made bonfires of broken furniture. They left after the arrival of police who swung batons to disperse them. “I joined the company eight months ago. As per the contract we were to work in eight-hours shifts. But they switched to 12-hours shifts three months ago, leaving us with no choice,” said a worker who feared retribution if he were to be identified. “We have been made to work even on our festivals with the promise of overtime allowances. But once the work is done, our managers refuse to pay for the overtime and ask us to take a compensatory off,” said the worker, also from Kolar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-493
