14-12-2020||India||Supreme Court agrees to examine proclamation of 1975||Emergency is something which should not have happened, the Supreme Court on Monday said as it agreed to hear a plea of a 94-year-old woman seeking to declare as wholly unconstitutional the proclamation made in 1975 during the tenure of the then Indira Gandhi led Congress government. The top court, which issued notice to the Centre said that it would also examine whether it is feasible or desirable to make a simpliciter declaration of the proclamation after a lapse of 45 years. We are having difficulty. The emergency is something that should not have happened, a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed while pondering over what relief it can grant after the passage of such a long time. The bench also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said that the court would be disinclined to open all such aspects as there may be some wrongs done to persons, but with the passage of almost 45 years, it would not be appropriate to reopen all such issues. It asked the petitioner to amend her petition by December 18 concerning the prayer of the declaration of the Emergency as unconstitutional. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for petitioner Veera Sarin, said that the Emergency was a fraud and the greatest assault on the Constitution as rights were suspended for months. The Emergency was proclaimed minutes before midnight of June 25, 1975, by then President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed at the recommendation of the then government led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The proclamation was revoked in March 1977. Salve said that it's an important matter of considerable importance and if the principles of abuse of constitutional power can apply to the removal of state governments, presidential proclamations, then the principle should also cover the issues of rights of citizens. He said that they have relied on the Shah Commission report to prima facie say that the declaration of emergency was an abuse of power and if a situation like this ever arises, then a court can and will look into it. Centre had appointed a commission of inquiry headed by former Chief Justice of India J C Shah in 1977 to inquire into all the excesses committed during the emergency. Justice Kaul asked Salve can the court go into all the issues after the passage of so much time and will it be appropriate. Salve said the petitioner had suffered during the emergency and the court should see how she was treated during that period. In the world, war crimes are being punished, gender crimes are being punished and you can see people of 80-90 years being hauled up for their deeds. History cannot be allowed to repeat, he said, adding, for months, rights were suspended. It was a fraud on the Constitution. This was the greatest assault on our Constitution. This is a matter which people of our generation will have to look into. This needs to be decided by the Supreme Court. This is not a political debate. We all know what happened in jails. Maybe we are too late for relief but someone must be told that what was done was wrong, Salve told the bench. He said that certain things in history need to be revisited and see if correct things were done and this is one such issue. He said that the matter is of considerable importance as the country had seen sheer abuse of power during the emergency. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench asked, “Can the court look into the matter which has happened 45 years earlier. What relief can be granted?” We cannot keep digging into the matter. The persona is no more today, the bench observed. Salve said that after the SR Bommai judgment in 1994, which dealt with issues pertaining to Article 356 of the Constitution which relates to provisions in case of failure of constitutional machinery in the state, a principle has been developed which can be applied for government formation or in violation of rights. Court has passed the orders after 45 years. Abuse of power can be looked into and what relief can be granted is of another aspect, he said, adding the petitioner is seeking that the emergency be declared unconstitutional. The bench asked Salve whether he is confining himself to the prayer for declaration of the emergency as unconstitutional. The senior lawyer said that he feels very strongly on this issue and “if your lordships recall we were students at the time of the proclamation of emergency in 1975. This is why I am appearing in this matter.” He said the petitioner is 94-year-old and she is happy but she wants that proclamation to be declared unconstitutional. The plea has also sought compensation of Rs 25 crore from the authorities who had actively participated in the unconstitutional acts. The petitioner has claimed in her plea that she and her husband were victims of the atrocities inflicted by the then government authorities and others during the period of emergency. Sarin said that she and her husband, who had a flourishing business of Gold Arts in Delhi at that time, were compelled to leave the country during the emergency for fear of being thrown into jail for no justifiable reason, on the whims and wishes of the government authority, in a state where civil rights and liberties stood curbed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||2000 women to join farmers protest||Over 2,000 women from the families of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws at Singhu Border here will join the ongoing agitation in the coming days, as peasants are set to intensify their protest further to press their demands. Farmer leaders said they are making arrangements to host the women members coming from various parts of Punjab ‑ tents are being put up, a separate langar is being planned, and extra temporary toilets are being arranged. The aim is to give them a safe and comfortable environment to stay at the protest site, they said. Farmer leader Harendir Singh Lakhowal said that a Delhi-based organisation donated around 2,00 tents on Sunday which are now being put up at Singhu as well as Tikri borders, especially for women. Shiv Kumar Kakka, one of the 33 farmers who observed hunger strike at the Singhu border on Monday, said, “It is not an agitation of Punjab farmers alone, but of farmers from across the nation.” “Several women have already been a part of the agitation at the borders here, but more have expressed their willingness to join the cause,” he said. “We are expecting over 2,000 women from across various parts of Punjab to join the agitation. We have multiple langars open here for everyone, but we are also thinking to start a separate one for the women. “We are also making arrangements for water tankers to facilitate their drinking and bathing purposes,” said Kakka, who is associated with the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. “Our main purpose is to give women a safe and comfortable environment to stay. After all they are daughters of farmers, they can live anywhere here,” he said. Lakhowal said that with more farmers, especially women, planning to join in the agitation, they are looking for vacant or incomplete buildings as a temporary accommodation for the protesting women. Some good samaritans have also approached them, with the proposal of donating temporary toilets and have even offered their flats for temporary accommodation, the farmer leaders maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Google services restored after global outage||Gmail and a host of other Google services faced disruptions on Monday evening and the tech major is in the process of fully restoring the services. The company, which faced a similar outage in August this year, is yet to specify a reason for the outage. In an update on the Google Workspace Status Dashboard at 18:17 hours, Google said Gmail service has already been restored for some users, and "we expect a resolution for all users in the near future. Please note this time frame is an estimate and may change". At around 17:25 hours, Google had said it was "aware of a problem with Gmail affecting a majority of users" and that the affected users are unable to access Gmail. As per the dashboard, other Google services like Google Calendar, Google Drive, Google Docs and Google Meet have also been affected. Down Detector, which detects outages and interruptions on networks, also showed that services like YouTube (Google's video platform) and Gmail were facing disruption. Netizens turned to Twitter to express their emotions ranging from frustration to being amused, and '#Google' became a trending topic with over 1.29 million tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Samajwadi Party workers clash with police amid farmers' peaceful protest in UP||With farmers observing a day-long hunger strike on Monday amid their largely peaceful protests against the central farm laws, the Samajwadi Party workers held demonstrations backing their demands and clashed with police at various places in Uttar Pradesh. Following clashes with police, several Samajwadi Party leaders and workers were taken in custody in various districts of Uttar Pradesh. In Lucknow, the SP workers clashed with police in the Kaisarbagh area on being stopped from proceeding to the district collectorate. Several SP workers, including women, were also taken into custody. In Agra too, television footage showed police using mild force to disperse protesting Samajwadi Party workers. SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap claimed from Sandila in Hardoi district that he has been arrested and many other party leaders have been put under house arrest for siding with farmers. "Samajwadi Party supports farmers' demands. Its sympathy lies with farmers. The kisan yatra' was started by the SP on December 7. The party workers are holding dharna at all the district headquarters in the state today. I have been arrested in Sandila and many party leaders are under house arrest," Kashyap told PTI. In Gorakhpur too, police detained several SP leaders and workers including district president proceeding to participate in a sit-in at Nagar Nigam office campus. Police began detaining SP workers since morning and arrested party's Gorakhpur district president Ram Nagina Sahini and former president Ziaul Islam when he was undertaking morning exercise in a school campus. Some SP workers were arrested near the Townhall crossing and some were arrested from Zila Parishad road. "The police and government are snatching our constitutional right to demonstrate peacefully. They are registering fake cases against us and not letting us protest," Sahini said. Gorakhpur's Senior Superintendent of Police Jogendra Kumar justified arrests on grounds of Covid-19 restrictions. "Section 144 is already imposed in the district. It is not safe to gather at a place without social distancing during a pandemic. They should have first take taken permission for holding demonstrations from the district magistrate," SSP Kumar said. Senior Samajwadi Party Peader and former UP minister Arvind Singh Gope told PTI from Barabanki that houses of all local SP leaders have been turned into police fortresses. "When we wanted to move out, we were not allowed," Gope said. In a democracy, when people hit roads, dictators have to flee, he added, exuding confidence that protesting farmers would bring his party back to power in 2022 UP assembly elections and throw out the dictatorial regime". In Kanpur, hundreds of Samajwadi Party workers sat on a dharna on Bada Chauraha in support of farmers' agitation. "We were heading to the district collectorate to submit a memorandum addressed to the President on farmers' issue when we were stopped by a large police posse at Bada Chauraha," said party's city president, Dr Imran. On being stopped, party leaders, including MLAs Amitabh Bajpayee and Irfan Solanki, decided to sit on dharna at Bada Chauraha, he added. Kanpur's City Magistrate Himanshu Gupta said the protestors were stopped at Bada Chauraha where they sat on dharna. Samajwadi Party workers from Ballia claimed their party leaders along with those of the Congress and other opposition parties were kept under house arrest. In Muzaffarnagar too, several SP and RLD leaders were taken into custody ahead of their proposed protest in support of farmers. Reports of SP workers protests came in from Bahraich and Siddhartha Nagar also. Samajwadi Partry leader Amit Yadav told PTI from Mahoba that at least 30 party workers were taken into custody by the police. Hamirpur's Additional Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said 48 Samajwadi Party workers were detained in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Covid-19: over 100 test positive, campus under lockdown||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras here has been hit by the coronavirus outbreak with over 100 people, a majority of them students, testing positive for the contagion, a top health official said on Monday. A total of 104 students and others have contracted the disease and all were doing well in a hospital, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said, allaying fears of further spread. Of the 444 samples lifted till date, 104 have tested positive for Covid-19, he said, adding from December 1 to 12, samples from the institute turning positive steadily increased from a few to 33 specimens today. "All of them are being treated at the Kings Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research as per the directive of Chief Minister K Palaniswami and they are all doing well," he told reporters here. A spokesperson for the institute said all departments and labs have been shut and as of now only about 700 students, mostly research scholars were accommodated in nine hostels. "Classes are being held online," she said. Radhakrishnan said though the results showed a 20 per cent positivity rate, there was no need for concern as measures including aggressive contact testing are in place as per the protocol. Later, the top official told PTI he was now visiting the IIT-M campus for inspection and those being treated at the hospital. Health officials have also inspected the campus, he said. "As soon as we started getting cases, we went in for aggressive testing and contact tracing. A majority of them are students and some canteen workers." On the source of infection, he said, "It is said that it could be from the mess," but there was nothing to panic about further spread since all measures were in place to combat it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Discussions on with farmers to decide next date of meeting, says agriculture minister||The government is engaging with farmer leaders to decide on the next date of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, as unions intensified their agitation against the Centre's three farm laws and observed a day-long fast on Monday. "The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers," Tomar told PTI. The government is ready for discussion anytime. The farmer leaders have to "decide and convey" when they are ready for the next meeting, he added. Tomar is leading the negotiations with 40 farmer unions, along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Som Parkash. Previous five rounds of talks between the Centre and 40 farmer unions' leaders have remained inconclusive. The government has sent a draft proposal along with the written assurance of continuing the minimum support price (MSP) system to them for consideration, but farmer unions have rejected it and demanded the repeal of the laws. Earlier in the day, Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed the way forward to end the deadlock. Later, the agriculture minister also met a delegation of farmers led by the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) which extended support to the farm laws. This is the fourth group of farmers who have extended support to the laws in the last two weeks. Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Earlier on Monday, farmer leaders  said protests would be held at all district headquarters, as more people joined the ongoing agitation at Delhi border points. As part of the nationwide protest, dharnas were staged at all district headquarters across the country on Monday. In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police has enhanced security at city border points. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the protest site at the Singhu border. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of the Rapid Action Force along with paramilitary forces. Then crossing through the toll plaza, as one reaches the main barricades, heavy police presence is witnessed. The traffic police have issued an advisory to commuters to take alternative routes in view of the farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Sensex jumps 154 points to fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed 154 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Monday, tracking gains in ICICI Bank, L&T and Kotak Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows and a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its record intra-day peak of 46,373.34 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 154.45 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 46,253.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 44.30 points or 0.33 per cent to close at a record 13,558.15. It hit a lifetime high of 13,597.50 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by L&T, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech, Titan and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained firm and witnessed fresh record highs mainly supported by a continued rebound in PSU banks, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring auto, most of the sectoral indices traded in the positive range, he said, adding that volatility index shot up sharply, indicating unease about current valuations of the market. "PSU stocks remained in flavour as valuations comfort, favourable dividend yields and emerging clarity over efficient capital employment continued to attract investors," he stated. Further, positive data flow along with persistent foreign fund flows have been quite supportive for the markets. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,195.43 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1 per cent to USD 50.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Indian army's gallantry against PLA  lauded by Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India's armed forces stood up to aggression along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and fought the Chinese military with "utmost bravery", forcing it to go back. In an address at the annual general meeting of industry chamber FICCI, Singh said the "unprovoked aggression" on India's Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing and how existing agreements are being challenged. "They fought the PLA (Peoples Liberation Army) with utmost bravery and forced them to go back. The coming generations of this nation will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year," the defence minister said. Without elaborating, Singh said Indian armed forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude in dealing with the challenge. "The unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in the Himalayas but across the Indo-Pacific," Singh said. "And how uncertain the future of the region and world could be in this backdrop. As you are aware, there is a big build-up of armed forces at the LAC in Ladakh," he said. In an indirect reference to the farmers' agitation, Singh said, "There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever." "The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India's farmers in mind. We are, however, always willing to listen to our farmer brothers, allay their misgivings and provide them with assurances we can provide," Singh said. Calling agriculture the mother sector, he said the government is always open to discussion and dialogue to resolve issues. "Agriculture has been one sector which has been able to avoid the adverse effects of the pandemic and, in fact, come out the best. Our produce and procurement have been plentiful and our warehouses are full. There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Farmers start day-long fast, vows to intensify protest||Farmer leaders on Monday started their day-long hunger strike against the Centre's new farm laws and said protests will be held at all district headquarters later in the day, even as more people are expected to join the ongoing agitation at Delhi border points. Farmer leader Baldev Singh said, "Representatives of farmer unions have started their hunger strike at Singhu Border." Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to fast wherever they are in support of protesting farmers and asserted that farmers will win in the end. Kejriwal is observing day-long fast in support of the farmers' protest on Monday. The chief minister also urged his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers and supporters as well as the people of the country to join the farmers' agitation. "Fasting is sacred. Wherever you are, fast for our farmer brothers. Pray to God for the success of their struggle. In the end, farmers will definitely win," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said he is observing the fast at the party office with other party members. "The 'anndaata' farmer of the country is on hunger strike demanding the withdrawal of the three laws of the central government for the sake of saving his daily bread. In support of the demand of farmers, today I am also on a fast with all my colleagues in the Aam Aadmi Party office," Sisodia tweeted. Apart from Sisodia, AAP ministers and MLAs, including Gopal Rai, Satyendar Jain, Atishi and Raghav Chadha, also observed fast at the party office here in support of farmers. A large group of farmers on Sunday blocked the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway when it was stopped by police on Haryana-Rajasthan border. As part of the nationwide protest, dharnas will be staged at all district headquarters across the country on Monday. In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police has enhanced security at city border points. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the protest site at the Singhu border. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of the Rapid Action Force along with paramilitary forces. Then crossing through the toll plaza, as one reaches the main barricades, heavy police presence is witnessed. The traffic police have issued an advisory to commuters to take alternative routes in view of the farmers' protests. "Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road, NH-44. "Gazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara & Bhopra borders," Delhi traffic police said in a series of tweets. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Fast in support of protesting farmers, appeals Kejriwal ||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to fast wherever they are in support of protesting farmers, and asserted that farmers will win in the end. Kejriwal is holding a one-day fast in support of the farmers' protest on Monday. Farmer leaders are observing a day-long hunger strike as part of their protest against the three new farm laws. The chief minister also urged his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers, supporters, as well as the people of the country to join the farmers' agitation. "Fasting is sacred. Wherever you are, fast for our farmer brothers. Pray to God for the success of their struggle. In the end, farmers will definitely win," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said he is observing the fast at the party office with other party members. "The Anndaata farmer of the country is on hunger strike demanding the withdrawal of the three laws of the central government for the sake of saving his daily bread. In support of the demand of farmers, today I am also on a fast with all my colleagues in the Aam Aadmi Party office," Sisodia tweeted. Apart from Sisodia, AAP ministers and MLAs including Gopal Rai, Satyendar Jain, Atishi and Raghav Chadha also observed fast at the party office here in support of farmers. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Less than 30,000 Covid cases in a day for third time this month||The daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 30,000 for the third time this month taking India's virus caseload to 98.84 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93.88 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,84,100 with 27,071 infections being reported in a day. The death toll rose to 1,43,355 with 336 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93,88,159 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.98 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 3,52,586 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 15,45,66,990 samples have been tested up to December 12 with 8,55,157 samples being tested on Sunday. The 336 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 47 from West Bengal, 33 from Delhi, 29 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab. A total of 1,43,355 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,209 from Maharashtra followed by 11,944 from Karnataka, 11,895 from Tamil Nadu, 1,014 from Delhi, 9,057 from West Bengal, 8,072 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,057 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,077 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Farmers stare government down over its attempts to divide and rule||The government has stepped up efforts over the weekend to stop the farmers from approaching Delhi but the protesters are staying the course, undaunted by physical obstacles, verbal insinuations and the “conspiracy to project divisions in the movement”. The latest label added to the growing list of aspersions on the protesting farmers is that of the “tukde tukde gang”, this time by Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. Launching the BJP’s Kisan Chaupal Sammelan in Patna, Prasad said strong action would be taken against the “tukde tukde gang” for trying to take advantage of the farmers’ agitation against the three new farm laws. Over the past couple of days, Prasad’s cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal has alleged that Left-wing extremists have hijacked the movement. Government supporters have also raised the Khalistani bogey, routinely assailing the farmers by citing the participation of some pro-Khalistani people in demonstrations held abroad in support of Indian farmers’ right to protest. The farmers’ leaders have remained outwardly unfazed by the smear campaign, asserting they are only giving voice to the groundswell of opinion within the farming community. Likewise, they have been staring the government down over its attempts to divide and rule, describing the various shows of support for the new farm laws, held under the government’s aegis, as a conspiracy to project differences within the movement. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) was dismissive when asked about the BKU (Bhanu) ending its blockade of the Noida-Delhi link road via Chilla on Saturday evening. “Bhanu Pratap has never been a member of our committee and he never joined the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (the banner under which all the farmers’ collectives are agitating). He never had a big role in the movement. It was a conspiracy to weaken our movement,” Gurnam said. The BKU (Bhanu) had petitioned the Supreme Court last week against the new farm laws. After lifting its blockade on Saturday, its Uttar Pradesh unit began an indefinite hunger strike, demanding repeal of the three laws, at the Chilla border on Sunday but did not block the road. Rakesh Tikait, who heads his own BKU faction in western Uttar Pradesh, said it was clear from the developments that Bhanu Pratap had sat at the border as part of the government’s agenda. “Can a border be closed with 50 people? He was asked to sit there and when our movement was at its peak, he was told to end the siege. This was their agenda,” he said. Jasbir Singh Virk, leader of the farmers from Uttarakhand, was equally dismissive about a meeting some farmers from the hill state had had with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. “Two busloads of people were brought, of whom at least 90 had nothing to do with farming,” he said. Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh said: “No one has left the SKM (Sanyukta Kisan Morcha); we take decisions not by majority but unanimously.” He said the government was trying to stop the farmers from proceeding towards Delhi but insisted that there was no question of giving up the struggle in the face of the obstacles being raised. Farmers blocked certain stretches of the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Sunday. Some farmers from Rajasthan are moving with their cattle in front of them, apparently as a safety net against police action. In Haryana, the police are back to placing boulders on the highways to stop farmers from approaching Delhi, but this seems not to be deterring the protesters. On the farmers’ plans to close more borders in Delhi, Tikait said this was a work in progress and added that the farmers were not stopping the movement of milk and vegetables. “Those who produce milk and vegetables too are farmers. If we stop them, the companies will benefit. Nor do we want to inconvenience the consumer or make the consumer pay more. Our aim is not to trouble people,” he said. “We have nothing against the people, who are helping us. So we are just sitting at the borders peacefully. Other access routes are open; we are not sealing the borders.” On Monday, all the farmer union leaders will observe a day’s hunger strike while farmers will gherao district collectors’ offices and submit memorandums expressing their demands and addressed to the Prime Minister. The idea is to have representations from every district of the country reach the PMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||RSS wing echoes farmers on MSP but not on repeal ||The economic wing of the RSS on Sunday highlighted flaws in the three new farm laws and sought a legally guaranteed minimum support price, a demand at the core of the farmers’ agitation. However, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which agreed that the new laws would allow big companies to “exploit” farmers, refrained from seeking their repeal and advocated amendments. In a resolution, it said the “government’s intention” behind the new laws was “good” and that certain amendments would be enough to plug the “drawbacks” and allay the “fears and doubts”. The protesting farmers are insisting on repeal, rejecting amendments as mere cosmetic. “The Swadeshi Jagran Manch feels... big procurement companies may exploit the farmers,” said the resolution, passed at the organisation's national convention. It explained that the new laws would cause the agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) to lose significance, forcing the farmers to sell outside the old mandi system and making them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate bodies. The APMC Act ensures that farmers get a minimum support price (MSP) at the mandis (wholesale markets). The agitating farmers have expressed the same fears as the Manch about the new laws’ implication for the mandi system, and demanded a law that guarantees an MSP. “In such a situation, it would be appropriate that when laws are being made and purchases are being allowed outside the APMC markets, minimum support price is guaranteed to the farmers and purchase(s) below the MSP are declared illegal,” the Manch resolution said. After talks with farmers’ bodies, the government has agreed to give a written guarantee on the MSP but has not offered to make it legally binding by incorporating it in the law. The farmers fear that the big companies would be able to violate a mere executive guarantee with impunity. While praising the government’s intention of providing farmers with more selling options, the Manch resolution underlined that this could lead to their exploitation “in reality”. “Though it’s good for the farmers to have more options to sell their produce, however, in reality, if one large company or a few companies dominate, the bargaining power of the poor farmers will be badly affected,” the resolution said. More mandis The Manch stressed the need to establish more “mandis” as a shield against domination by big companies, indirectly underscoring the importance of the mandi system. “The government had earlier said that 22,000 agriculture mandis would be established. This task should be completed on fast-track basis,” the resolution said. Dodgy definition The Manch highlighted another flaw that it feared could be misused to exploit the farmers: “The definition of the farmer in the new law was such that companies will also be included in the definition of the farmer.” According to the resolution, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, defines a “farmer” as a person “who engages in the production of farmers’ produce by himself or by a hired labour”. “(This) will not be appropriate. Swadeshi Jagran Manch firmly believes that the definition of farmer should include only the farmer who engages himself in farming, not companies,” it said. Dispute settlement Another shortcoming that the resolution highlighted was that the new laws vested non-judicial government officials with the sole power to settle disputes arising out of these laws’ application, bypassing the civil courts. While legal experts have suggested the provision runs counter to several Supreme Court judgments and is liable to be deemed unconstitutional in a legal challenge, the Manch resolution said the clause made things “very complex for the farmers”. It said the sub-divisional magistrates, who have a key role in settling disputes, were already overburdened and therefore the farmers would find it difficult to secure justice. As an amendment, the Manch has demanded the establishment of “farmers’ courts on the lines of consumer courts”. The Manch had raised some of these issues, including the need for a legally guaranteed MSP, earlier too — soon after the farmers’ protest began. Now, when the protests have snowballed, the Manch has put its misgivings and demands down in writing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||‘Hindu Raj’ in the land of Swami Vivekananda ||The real intention is out in the open, if anyone needed any confirmation. Pragya Singh Thakur, who had described Nathuram Godse as a patriot and survived unscathed the purported inability of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to forgive her, has forecast a “Hinduon ka shasan (rule of Hindus)” in Bengal soon. The predicted character of the government strikes at the very root of the cosmopolitan culture of Bengal, the cradle to a legion of social reformers, educators and scientists. The description — nothing but a toxic and ill-concealed attempt at driving polarisation to a new low — also threatens to alienate over 3 crore Bengalis who belong to the minority communities and account for over 30 per cent of the state’s population. Pragya, the terror-accused MP representing Bhopal, added that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had “gone mad” on realising that the “people of India, the Hindus” had risen to safeguard the country. After participating in an event in Sehore, Madhya Pradesh, on Saturday, the MP was responding to a question on the attack on a few cars from BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy in Bengal on Thursday. Reached over the phone, the MP acknowledged she had spoken about Bengal in Sehore on Saturday but refused to comment any further. “Mukhyamantri Mamata Banerjee pagal ho gayi hai, tilmila gayi hai, baukhla gayi hai (Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has gone mad, got agitated and angry),” Pragya was heard saying in a video. “Useh ye samajh me aa gaya hai, ye Bharat hai Pakistan nahi jis par woh shasan kar rahi hai (She has understood that the region she rules over is India and not Pakistan),” the MP added. Pragya said: “Yeh Bharat hai aur Bharat ki raksha karne ke liye Bharat ke log taiyaar ho chuke hain, Hindu taiyaar ho chuka hai aur woh muhtod jawab dega (This is India and the people of India have readied themselves, Hindus have readied themselves to protect India and they will give a fitting reply).” Pragya added: “Bangal me Bhajpa ka shasan aayega, Hinduon ka shasan aayega (BJP rule will come in Bengal, Hindus’ rule will come).” She said: “Call a Kshatriya, a Kshatriya, he doesn’t feel bad. Call a Brahmin, a Brahmin, he doesn’t feel bad...Call a Shudra, a Shudra, he doesn't like it. Why? Because of ignorance, because he doesn't understand.” The BJP refrained from reacting to her comments. The party’s newly appointed minder for Madhya Pradesh, P. Murlidhar Rao, didn’t respond to calls and a text message. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results, Pragya had called Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse a “patriot”. Prime Minister Modi had then said he would “never forgive” her for the statement and Amit Shah had promised disciplinary action against her. No action, however, was taken. Party leaders claimed she had been let off after a written apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Tribal chief fights century-old legacy of eviction||When tribal leader V.K. Geetha saw a WhatsApp message a few weeks ago, her worst suspicions were aroused. It seemed that the family and tribe legacy she had inherited — getting displaced again and again in the name of development – had reared its head afresh. But what her forefathers could not do in the face of the might of the colonial rulers and later a democratic government, Kerala’s first woman tribal chieftain, now in her early 30s, is determined to. Resist. Geetha belongs to the forest-dwelling Kadar community that enjoyed an undisturbed existence till the beginning of the 20th century in the interiors of what is now the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve. It was in 1905 that her ancestors were forced to leave the area after the British Presidency of Madras began building a tramway linking the forest region to Chalakudy railway station in central Kerala. The objective was to transport teak and valuable timber artefacts to Kochi harbour to be shipped to Great Britain, where even the royal family had a weakness for furniture made out of Parambikulam timber. Geetha’s forefathers moved to a forested locality called Peringalkuthu, where they lived until the government began building a hydel project shortly after Independence. With their settlement demolished by authorities, the Kadars were forced to shift to the Sholayar region of the same stretch of forest. The 1970s brought another hydel power project — this time to Sholayar — and another eviction. Now, Geetha lives at a place called Vazhachal, a few kilometres from Sholayar and near the Anakkayam forest. Ninety per cent of Kerala’s 1,848 Kadars live in nine settlements in and around the Anakkayam region. Now, with a new hydel project looming, and threatening displacement and loss of livelihood, Geetha is categorical that the community would not take this any more. The WhatsApp message that caused her to smell a rat had been circulated by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). It had sought contractors to fell and remove trees from the Anakkayam forest. The message said the board wanted to cut down 2,000 trees across 20 acres of forestland for the construction of a small hydroelectric project. When Geetha contacted forest department officials at Vazhachal and nearby Athirapally, they initially feigned ignorance about such a project. They said no such project could be carried out without the consent of the nine Kadar settlements. These settlements had already won community forest rights (CFR) on the entire stretch of forest from Malakkappara on the Tamil Nadu border to Athirappally, near Chalakudy town, under the forest rights act. However, KSEB officials later told Geetha they planned to implement the project, based on a consent given by the state forest department eight years ago, and the work would begin soon. V. Ajitha, secretary of the community forest rights coordination committee of all the nine Kadar settlements, said the KSEB move had shocked all the tribal people in the  region. Ajitha has filed a case with Kerala High Court accusing the electricity board of violating CFR and the forest rights act. S.P. Ravi of the NGO Chalakudy River Protection Forum said the hydel project would have an installed capacity of 7.5MW at the Anakkayam falls in the Chalakudy river basin. The KSEB is planning to blast a 5km tunnel at Anakkayam through the rocky forest terrain to channel the tail-race discharge from the existing Sholayar power plant. The hydel project will have an underground power plant that will use the spill from the Sholayar dam and the seasonal rainfall. Eco threat The project site comes under the ecological buffer zone of the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve, and most of the trees to be axed are evergreen. Anakkayam and Vazhachal are major elephant habitats. With the Chalakudy — which flows through Anakkayam, Vazhachal and Athirapally —  already hosting half-a-dozen hydel projects, wildlife movement has already been affected on a large scale. The new project will further disturb the fauna, environmentalists say. Anakkayam suffered a big landslide during the 2018 Kerala floods. It destroyed the huts of the tribal people who lived close to the proposed project site, forcing them to move. The tribal communities and environmentalists say the tunnelling for the project, involving rock blasting, will increase the risk of landslides. The Chalakudy’s banks were the worst-hit during the 2018 floods, with one of the reasons cited being the half-dozen power projects on the river. Collecting minor forest produce in Anakkayam forms the livelihood of Kadars in all the nine settlements. The produce include honey, spices, tubers and mushrooms. Once the Kadars used to hunt animals but the enforcement of new laws has stopped all hunting, poaching and timber smuggling since the 1970s. Formerly, the Kadars had a nomadic lifestyle and practised shifting cultivation apart from growing rice and millets. Harish Vasudevan, environmentalist and Kerala High Court lawyer, said the Kadars help protect the forest ecology, safeguarding four varieties of hornbills in the Athirapally-Vazhachal region under a project piloted by the state forest department. The Kadars also face a threat from the proposed 163MW Athirapally hydel power project, which involves a huge dam blocking flow into the majestic Athirappilly waterfalls. The project, which was in the cold storage for a long time, was revived in June this year but the KSEB had to shelve it again in the face of stiff public opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Make-do infrastructure at Singhu border symbol of farmers’ resolve||The protest site at the Singhu border is a city on a road, extending more than 12km from Dakha Singhu in Delhi through Kundli in Haryana. In between the long lines of tractor trailers, the agitating farmers and their supporters have set up more than 200 large langars or community kitchens, makeshift bathing and toilet facilities, laundries, stages for events, even gyms. Devoid of frills, the make-do infrastructure set up on these stretches of highways has become a symbol of the farmers’ resolve and the solidarity they have won. Amid the bustle, a soldier from Ambala, Haryana, walks around with a bagful of pinnis — Punjabi laddoos made of wheat flour, ghee, jaggery and dry fruits. A pinni with a tumbler of warm milk a day is believed to keep the chill out of one’s body in winter. “I was coming here with some clothes for a cousin, who is protesting. Several families in our village made pinnis to be given to the protesters here. That is what the Guru (Nanak) has taught us,” the soldier told The Telegraph. The langars set up at the main protest sites in Singhu, Tikri Kalan and Ghazipur reflect the same fierce self-reliance that prompted the farmer leaders to refuse the food offered by the government during the talks at Vigyan Bhawan. Many peasants have brought to these community kitchens supplies that will last a few months. The vegetables and milk come from farmers in neighbouring Haryana villages. Several vendors at the wholesale vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, on the Haryana side of the Tikri border, have been giving the protesters free vegetables. Mukesh Kumar from Sonipat, Haryana, and his comrades from the Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Zindabad run langars at all the three sites along with medical camps. They have also set up portable toilets. “It’s hard to calculate the cost. Everyday people walk in and contribute vegetables for us,” Mukesh said. “People who eat do seva (service): they serve food, wash the dishes, clean the eating area and roll the aata dough into pedas, which we put on the roti machines (that run on a diesel generator).” Mukesh and his friends serve 2,500-3,000 plates each of lunch and dinner at Singhu. The menu is rice, rotis and two sabzis, with dessert on alternate days. “The langars are very cooperative. I can walk into any langar and say I have run out of this or that, and they’ll give it to me free. No questions asked,” Mukesh said. “On the days we don’t make dessert, other langars or individuals come and donate some dessert.” The group plans to open a fourth langar at the blockade that has begun in Shahjahanpur, Rajasthan, on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The vegetarian menus are not bereft of variety. The langar run by Muslim farmers from Malerkotla in Punjab serves zarda or sweetened rice. On Thursday morning, a man came to distribute macaroni from the back of his car, and by evening a group of young farmers had set up an oven on a road divider to serve pizzas. In for the long haul despite the falling mercury, the stoves at the langars are unlikely to cool soon. Khalsa Aid, an international charity, has set up a range of facilities, including bathrooms with hot water, and even a foot massage parlour to soothe the aching feet of the farmers who stand in protest all day. A library and several small gyms too have come up in Singhu. None of these charge any money. Prince Sandhu, a landlord from Ludhiana, runs one of several free laundry services. “I brought along the washing machine we use at home, and I also bought a new one for more than Rs 12,000,” he said. “With these two nine-litre machines, I wash almost 500 clothes a day. Those who come wait till the wash finishes and collect their clothes from the dryer. It seems like a big task, but when you do seva you don’t feel the burden.” Although water supply is a problem locally, Sandhu gets his water through a pipe from a home on the Haryana side of the border. “The gentleman who lives here has been giving water to a langar too,” he said. Initially after the protest began on November 27, garbage was piling up faster than the municipal bodies in Delhi and Haryana were able to collect, and the portable toilets had got choked. After Khalsa Aid and other professionals got involved, and local farmers began helping with garbage disposal, the conditions became more liveable. But a shortage of toilets means they are still becoming unusable soon after being cleaned. Navkiran Natt, an All India Students Association cadre, attends the protests at all the sites. Her parents, both of them CPIML Liberation activists from Mansa, Punjab, are camping at the Tikri border. “The public toilets are too few, but many petrol bunks near Singhu allow people to use their toilets free of charge,” Natt said. “In Tikri (where the protest is smaller), a property dealer near the blockade has opened bathrooms in his office for the women.” Many travel up to 10km to malls, hotels, the homes of well-wishers, even paid toilets. The situation becomes more challenging for the women protesters during periods. The medical camps here offer free sanitary napkins. At least 10 protesters are said to have died of heart attacks and one from the cold — the minimum temperatures at some of the protest sites have fallen below 7°C. Harjit Bhatti, a doctor who volunteers at the sites, said that most of the complaints he received were cold-related. “Most people come with common cold, body ache and sleep disorders. They are living on a highway, and the older people find it more difficult to cope,” Bhatti, who leads an activist group called Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, said. “People with chronic ailments like diabetes or hypertension too come to us for medicines if they have run out of them, or if their blood pressure or sugar levels  have gone up because they haven’t taken their medicines regularly.” Although many do not wear masks, or wear them below their nose at the crowded protest sites, Bhatti feels lucky that he has had to refer only one among the 5,000-odd people his team has examined for a Covid-19 test. The patient had difficulty breathing. “The two cases of fever I have examined in the tractor trailers were weather-related. There is stagnant water here and mosquitoes. When you talk to them about Covid-19, they tell you their livelihood is more important than their lives,” Bhatti said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Rs 1 lakh-cr investments amid pandemic: Naveen Patnaik||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday claimed that Odisha has been able to attract new investments of over Rs 1 lakh crore across multiple sectors despite the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing a special session on “Aspiring Odisha for Inspired India” at the 93rd annual general meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), he said, “Odisha is set to achieve its cherished goal of becoming a world-class industrial destination.” “Odisha has been recognised as an investment destination of choice over the years. Odisha was ranked no. 1 in terms of attracting investments during April-September 2019, and is poised to continue this leadership position,” he added. Projecting Odisha as the fast-emerging “manufacturing hub of eastern India”, Naveen said, “The state has also developed a dedicated land bank with over 1 lakh acres available on a GIS-based platform for easy site selection by industries.” Assuring that industrialists would be given all sorts of help, Naveen said, “We have developed end-to-end online systems for over 30 government-to-business services to reduce regulatory burden on industries. Timelines for the services have also been included under the state’s Right to Public Services Act for prompt service delivery.” “The state is currently working on value addition in major industrial regions such as Angul and Jharsuguda for aluminium and Kalinganagar for steel downstream industries. Further, Paradeep is being developed as the hub for chemicals and petrochemical industries,” Naveen said. Ficci president and managing director, Apollo Hospitals, Sangita Reddy, also spoke about the investor-friendly industrial climate of Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
14-12-2020||India||Odisha bars sealed for flouting Covid norms||The police commissionerate sealed four bars here on Saturday night for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Police said 10 bars were raided out of which four were found violating Covid norms by openly serving liquor. “They were found allowing gathering of customers in violation of the guidelines. We also collected fines from the bars,” police said. The police also fined 72 people and collected Rs 28,000 from them. Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 3,23,029 on Friday as 387 more people tested positive for the infection, while four fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,798, a health department official said, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
