15-12-2020||India||Tablighi: Delhi court acquits 36 foreigners of all charges||A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted 36 foreigners, who were charge-sheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here by allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines issued in wake of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg acquitted the foreigners from 14 countries of all charges. The court had on August 24 framed charges against the foreigners under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Act, 1897. The charges were also framed under section 51 (obstruction) Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, they were discharged for the offences under section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of Foreigners Act, sections 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC. The court had also discharged eight foreign nationals from six countries of all charges under which they were charge-sheeted in the absence of any record or any credible material against them. The foreigners were charge-sheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here at Nizamuddin area allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Delhi airport all set for safe flight operations during fog||The Delhi international airport is geared up to ensure safe flight operations amid increasing fog in the city, operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Limited) said on Tuesday. The airport utilises an Airport Collaborative Decision Making (ACDM) cell – which has representatives of domestic airlines, air traffic control and the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) – for better coordination when visibility reduces due to fog, it mentioned. The airport has three runways, and they are equipped with a landing system that allows CAT-III B operations, the DIAL stated. "A CAT III B compliant infrastructure allows aircraft to land with a minimum visibility of 50 metres. At IGI (Indira Gandhi International) airport, an aircraft can take off with a visibility of 125 metres," it said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, at present, Terminal 3 is handling 18 flights an hour, and Terminal 2 is handling nine flights per hour, the DIAL said. "This in conjunction with other safety measures in place already would provide a safe environment to the flyers," it added. The Civil Aviation Ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. This limit has been gradually increased by the ministry, and the airlines are currently permitted to operate up to a maximum of 80 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. The DIAL will also continue to assist flyers 24x7, especially through social media, to ensure minimal inconvenience to them, a statement said. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Opposition misleading farmers over new laws: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reiterated that the Centre was addressing concerns of farmers over the new legislations, but blamed Opposition parties of misguiding them. Speaking yet again on the farmers’ agitation over the three new agri-marketing laws, Modi said, “Farmers gathered near Delhi are being misled as part of a conspiracy. Farmers are told that their land will be grabbed by others if new farm reforms get implemented. I want to ask you, did the dairy owner take your cattle because you are selling milk to him.” The Prime Minister was speaking at an event following after laying the foundation stone of a desalination plant, a hybrid renewable energy park and a fully automated milk processing and packing plant at Gujarat. “Opposition parties, when they were in power, were in favour of these farm sector reforms, but did not take any decision back then. Now when the country has decided to embrace these reforms, these people are spreading falsehood and misleading farmers. I want to reiterate that my government is ready 24 hours to resolve all your doubts,” he added. Last week, the BJP had accused the Congress of instigating the farmers and opposing the farm laws. The Prime Minister also interacted with farmers from the Kutch district of his native state, including those who have settled there from Punjab, as well as members of a local self-help group. The PM met delegations of farmers from Punjab settled in Kutch district as well as local cultivators and heard their issues with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani accompanying him. The PM also interacted with a group of local women from a self-help group at the venue. Sikh farmers cultivate land in areas near the Indo-Pak border. As per a rough estimate, around 5,000 Sikh families reside in and around Lakhpat taluka of Kutch district. Sikhs started settling in Lakhpat after the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri urged citizens to settle in this barren patch of land after the 1965 India-Pakistan war. The separate interactions took place on the sidelines of Modi’s event, where he laid foundation stones for the world's largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a milk processing plant. The meeting during Modi’s day-long visit at Gujarat comes at a time when thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, are protesting against the three farm laws demanding their repeal. It took place at the tent city of Dhordo in Kutch district, where Modi laid the foundation stones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Deputy pulled down from chairman's seat at Karnataka council proceedings||Pandemonium broke out at the Karnataka Legislative Council on Tuesday, as Deputy Chairman S L Dharme Gowda was literally pulled down from the Chairman's seat and the House was adjourned sine die without taking up any business. After it was adjourned sine die originally on December 10, the council was convened for a day by the government, accusing the Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty of "abruptly" adjourning the session, for today. Though the no-confidence motion against Shetty moved by the BJP members did not find mention in today's agenda, as the Chairman had rejected it citing procedural lapses, the ruling party members have been insisting that it should be taken up. As the House met for the day, Gowda occupied the Chairman's seat, which angered the Congress MLCs who rushed to the chair demanding that he vacate it, following which BJP and JD(S) members came to Shetty's protection. Separately, few Congress members were seen forcefully opening the door through which the Chairman enters the house, accusing the ruling side of shutting it with an intention not to allow Shetty to enter the House. Congress members accused the government of trying to start the proceedings even before the Chairman could come, with the help of Gowda with an intention to take up the no-confidence motion against Shetty, which has been rejected by him. Some Congress members including M Narayanaswamy was seen forcefully pulling down the Deputy Chairman from the chair. Several members and marshals of the council were also allegedly manhandled in the melee, even as the Congress managed to make one of its members occupy the chair. Several BJP and JD(S) MLCs objected to this and questioned whether the person occupying the Chair was among the panel members who could sit on it. After some time Chairman Pratapachandra Shetty entered the House and went up to the chair even as Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan tried to obstruct him from occupying it. Shetty then announced that the house was adjourned sine die. Leader of opposition in the Council S R Patil alleged that the Deputy Chairman occupied the chair against the rules and procedures and it was against the constitution. Revenue Minister R Ashoka, accusing the Congress of unruly behaviour in the House, said the government will soon announce its next course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||NCB summons Arjun Rampal in drugs case for second time||The Narcotics Control Bureau has summoned actor Arjun Rampal for questioning at its Mumbai office on Wednesday, an official of the agency said on Tuesday. The actor has been asked to be present before the NCB team, which is conducting an investigation into the alleged drug-use in Bollywood following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year, the official said. This is the second time that the anti-drugs bureau will question the model-turned actor in the case. On November 13, Rampal was questioned by the agency for seven hours. Rampal was summoned on Wednesday after the NCB obtained some information during interrogation of some of the persons arrested in the drugs case, the official said The agency had conducted searches at Rampal’s residence last month following which it seized electronic gadgets and some medicines under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The actor’s partner Gabriella Demtriades was also questioned by the NCB for two days in November. Gabriella's brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the bureau in the case in October and it was found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, the official said. Rampal's friend Paul Bartel was also earlier arrested by the NCB in the drugs case. Based on some WhatsApp chats involving drugs, the NCB launched a probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of Rajput in June this year. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother, and some other accused were later granted bail. Agisilaos Demetriades and two others get bail A special NDPS court in Mumbai on Tuesday granted bail to Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of actor Arjun Rampal's partner Gabriella, and two others in a drug-related case. Demetriades was arrested in October after Narcotics Control Bureau raided a resort in Lonavala where he was celebrating his birthday and allegedly found 0.8 grams of a sticky brown substance. He was granted bail by Special Judge GB Gurao, said his lawyer Kushal Mor. Demetriades was granted bail in October but he remained in jail at the time since the NCB had filed an FIR in another drug-related matter. Mor told the court no person could be vexed twice for the same cause and that there was no new evidence to support the allegations against him. The only new piece of evidence were statements of co-accused, which, in view of a recent Supreme Court ruling related to statements made before NCB officers, were not admissible, Mor said. Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former Dharmatic Entertainment executive producer, who was arrested on September 26 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, was also given bail. Nigerian national Uka Emeka was also given bail by the special NDPS court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Boris Johnson set to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day Parade||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be the chief guest at India’s Republic Day Parade on January 26, UK Foreign Secretary said on Tuesday after his meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Addressing a joint press conference after the talks, Jaishankar said the four-hour long discussion focussed on the process of taking India and the UK’s bilateral ties to the next level. “In recent years as you know, there have been very big changes in global politics and we both believe that our interests are better served by working together more effectively,” he said. The situation in Afghanistan as also developments in the Gulf and evolution of the Indo-Pacific region were among the important issues that were further discussed in the meeting. “Prime Minister Boris Johnson has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to join the UK-hosted G7 summit next year. The UK Prime Minister has also accepted the very generous invitation to attend India's Republic Day celebrations (as chief guest) in January which is a great honour,” Raab said. On his part, Jaishankar said Johnson accepting the invitation for the Republic Day was, in a way, symbolic of a new era in Indo-UK ties. Raab's three-day visit to India from December 14-17 comes at a time the UK is holding complex negotiations with the European Union on reaching a post Brexit trade deal. In the wake of Brexit, the UK has been looking at ramping up trade with leading economies like India. There have been apprehensions that its separation from the European Union without a trade deal could severely cripple its financial markets and may have long-term implications for its economy. The British foreign secretary is scheduled to meet Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Raab will also travel to Bengaluru where he will meet Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on December 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||AAP will contest UP assembly elections in 2022: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2022. Kejriwal, who is AAP's national convener, slammed the political parties in Uttar Pradesh, accusing them of stabbing the people in the back. Questioning why people from UP should have to look at Delhi for health services and education, he said Mohalla clinics, free electricity, water, good education and health facilities can also be provided in the state. Kejriwal said UP has been held back from progress and development because of "dirty politics" and "corrupt" politicians in the state. He asserted that the AAP would instil honest intentions, and prove that governance is not restricted by resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||No winter session of Parliament due to Covid-19 pandemic||The government has said the winter session of Parliament will not be held this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and that it will be appropriate to convene the budget session in January next year. In a letter to the leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of the recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon." The minister said he had informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and "they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session". "Government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic," Joshi wrote. Talking about the monsoon session which was delayed due to the pandemic, he appreciated cooperation from all political parties for a productive session held under extraordinary circumstances by making special logistical arrangements. The winter session of Parliament normally starts from last week of November or first week of December. The Constitution broadly stipulates one major rule that there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of Parliament. However, it has been a convention to hold three sessions of Parliament – budget, monsoon and winter – in a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi; minimum temperature dips lowest this season at 4.1 degrees||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Tuesday as icy winds blowing from the snow-covered western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than the normal for two consecutive days. "However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. At 4.1 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, was five notches below normal on Tuesday morning. At Jafarpur, the mercury dipped to 3.6 degrees Celsius. The Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations recorded a minimum of 4 degrees Celsius and 4.2 degrees Celsius respectively, the IMD said. On Monday, the maximum temperature in the national capital had dropped to 19.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal and the lowest so far this month, as cold winds swept the city. The air quality has also improved to the "moderate" category due to the strong winds. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 190 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 160 on Monday, 305 on Sunday and 356 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir set to intensify as over 2,000 women likely to join protests||The agitation of farmers against the three new agri-marketing laws seems set to intensify further as more of them are likely to travel to Delhi’s borders to press their demands. Adding to this, over 2,000 women are also expected to join their families at the Singhu border and demonstrate alongside them. Farmer leaders said they are making arrangements for the women coming from Punjab to support them. Tents are being put up, a separate langar is being planned, and extra temporary toilets are being arranged, they added. Several roads leading to Delhi have been closed in the wake of the farmers camping at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points for nearly three weeks now. Commuters have been advised to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience. Police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders were closed, and commuters have been advised to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders while traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the Singhu border protest site. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of Rapid Action Force along with personnel from the paramilitary forces. Water cannons, trucks, containers and iron barricades have also been deployed. On Monday, leaders of around 32 farmer unions observed a day-long hunger strike at the Singhu border as part of the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||India promises to help fight Covid-19 crisis at global level||India on Monday said its vaccine production and delivery extent will be used to help everyone fighting the Covid-19 crisis, something which has brought forward gaps in global cooperation. It also highlighted the need for the international community to address the pandemic with cooperation and not confusion. Addressing the UN General Assembly special session on Covid-19, Secretary (West) in India's Ministry of External Affairs Vikas Swarup said that the pandemic “laid bare” the miscommunications that exist in global cooperation and governance structures of multilateral organisations. “It is important that we make reformed multilateralism our guiding principle. It is imperative that we must join hands to show leadership, solidarity and collaboration to deal with the pandemic. We can respond best by collaboration, not confusion; preparation, not panic and coming together, not growing apart,” he said. “As a responsible member of the international community, I want to reiterate that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capabilities for the delivery of vaccines,” he added. “World leaders, top UN leadership and vaccine developers addressed the high-level special session early this month on Covid-19 and discussed the impact of the pandemic, as well as the multifaceted, coordinated response required to address the crisis,” Swarup said in his address at the resumed session. He told the UN that India has several vaccines to combat the pandemic, which are under different stages of development. “Indian vaccine candidates COVAXIN and ZyCoV-D are under phase three and phase two trials, while Indian vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India is already conducting final testing of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca COVISHIELD vaccine,” he said. “India is recognised as a world leader in vaccines, as we produce 60 per cent of vaccines globally and have a record of supplying high quality, affordable vaccines to the developing world,” Swarup added. “During the unprecedented crisis faced by the world, India emerged as a net provider of health security and successfully shouldered its responsibility as the pharmacy of the world, sending consignments of medicines and medical supplies to almost 150 partner countries,” he said. Swarup noted that while it is encouraging that the efforts to curb the crisis had yielded positive results, a long road still lays ahead of us. “No one is safe till everyone is safe. This should be our mantra. In this context, the role of the United Nations becomes important towards coordinated and concerted efforts to deal with the multi-dimensional impacts of the pandemic,” he said. Highlighting India's timely and proactive response to the pandemic, Swarup said calculated measures by the country were designed not just to protect its huge population from the pandemic but also to ensure that minimal damage is caused to the economy. He said the initial phases of the lockdown gave India the critically needed time to ramp up its healthcare system and equip it with sufficient hospital beds, isolation facilities, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), testing kits and other medical devices as well as with trained medical staff across the country.  “Within two months of the pandemic, India expanded its diagnostic facilities from just one major facility for pan-India testing to more than 2,000 today. From having almost no domestic manufacturing of PPE kits, India today has become the second largest manufacturer of PPEs,” Swarup added. “More than 17,000 dedicated Covid-19 facilities were set up with 1.6 million isolation beds and digital tools such as the Aarogya Setu app were developed and are being effectively used for extensive contact tracing,” he said. “The Narendra Modi government announced a massive USD 266 billion stimulus package, amounting to almost 10 per cent of India's GDP directed at helping low income groups, marginal farmers, small businesses, migrants and those in the informal sector,” Swarup added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Covid: India's single-day spike at five-month low||In a first in over five months, India’s daily Covid-19 case count fell below 23,000, as the national recovery rate stood at 95 per cent, data updated by the Health Ministry showed on Tuesday. The Covid-19 caseload surged to 99,06,165 with 22,065 infections being reported over the past 24 hours, as 354 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,43,709, data updated at 8 am said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 94,22,636 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.12 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below four lakh for the eighth consecutive day on Tuesday, with 3,39,820 active cases comprising 3.43 per cent of the total caseload. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16; 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,55,60,655 samples have been tested up to December 14, of which 9,93,665 were conducted on Monday. The 354 new fatalities include 60 each from Delhi and Maharashtra, 43 from Bengal, 24 from Kerala and 21 from Punjab. Total 1,43,709 deaths reported so far in the country include 48,269 from Maharashtra, 11,954 from Karnataka, 11,909 from Tamil Nadu, 10,074 from Delhi, 9,100 from West Bengal, 8,083 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,059 from Andhra Pradesh, and 5,098 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Jio alleges Airtel and Vodafone using farm protests to draw out subscribers||The farmers’ agitation appears to be hitting Reliance where it hurts most. Reliance Jio, Mukesh Ambani’s telecom leader, has alleged that industry peers Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea are running a “vicious and divisive campaign” and making the preposterous claim that migrating Jio mobile numbers to their networks would be an act of support for the farmers’ protests. Jio said it had received a large number of port-out requests, with the customers citing campaign messages of Airtel and Vodafone Idea. Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have termed the complaint “baseless”. The brawl, linked directly to an ongoing agitation, comes at a time farmers have been insisting that the contentious farm laws were pushed through to favour the Ambanis and the Adanis. Reliance Jio, in a letter to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), has sought strict action against the two companies. Jio said that earlier, too, it had written to Trai about an “unethical and anti-competitive mobile number portability campaign” by Airtel and Vodafone Idea to capitalise on the farmers’ protests. “We submit that Airtel and VIL (Vodafone Idea Ltd) remain unabated in pursuing this vicious and divisive campaign through its employees, agents and retailers. They are inciting the public by making preposterous claims that migrating Jio mobile subscribers to their networks would be an act of support to the farmers’ protests,” Jio said in its latest letter. Bharti Airtel said in a letter to Trai: “We wish to emphatically deny this baseless charge.… Despite being provoked by some competitors who we know will go to any length to make baseless allegations, adopt bullying tactics and use intimidatory behaviour, we have always conducted our business with character and transparency something that we are deeply proud of and known for.” A Vodafone Idea spokesperson said the company believed in doing business with ethics. “These are baseless allegations against us to malign our reputation. We strongly refute such irresponsible comments on us,” the VIL spokesperson said. Bharti Airtel had pipped Reliance Jio in new mobile subscriber addition in September after a gap of four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India|| Rajnath Singh dodges talk on China status quo||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday spoke of China’s “unprovoked aggression” in eastern Ladakh and how Indian soldiers had “forced them to go back” but did not say where the two sides stood on disengagement amid reports of Chinese inflexibility on the subject. Several military veterans questioned Rajnath’s silence on the Indian demand for status quo ante and on reports — in the media and security establishment corridors -– that the Chinese army had told its Indian counterpart to accept the new status quo on the ground. “The defence minister’s statement is contrary to the ground situation. He must explain what he meant when he said the Indian troops had forced the Chinese to go back, and clarify which friction points he meant,” a retired lieutenant general said. “During the ongoing military talks, the Chinese are said to have indicated that India should accept the new status quo.” Chinese troops had breached the unmarked Line of Actual Control at several points — including the Depsang Plains, Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — and are estimated to be occupying close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. A defence ministry official said that when Rajnath spoke of the Indian soldiers’ bravery and the Chinese being forced back, he was alluding to the June 15 Galwan Valley clash during which 20 Indian soldiers died while China suffered unspecified casualties. Rajnath, who was speaking at the annual general meeting of industry chamber Ficci, did not mention any particular friction point. “The unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in the Himalayas but across the Indo-Pacific,” he said. “As you are aware, there is a big build-up of armed forces on the LAC in Ladakh. In these testing times, our forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude. They fought the PLA with utmost bravery and forced them to go back.” Rajnath added: “The coming generations of this nation will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year. Whenever there is a situation at the LAC, the most obvious outcome is a comparison between India’s and China’s military strength.” A retired colonel asked: “Why is the defence minister no longer talking about restoration of the pre-April status quo?” Another veteran said: “The Chinese have refused to pull back;  they want India to accept the new normal at the LAC in Ladakh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Govt steps up divide & defuse drive against agitating farmers||As the protesting farmers on Monday said they were preparing for the long haul while seeking repeal of the three new farm laws, an umbrella organisation that is older than the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee that had given the “Dilli Chalo” call came out in support of the new regime and demanded the laws should not be withdrawn. Simultaneously, the BJP’s Haryana unit raked up the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL), purportedly in the hope of disrupting the newfound bonhomie between the farmers of the state and Punjab that is firing up the protests now spreading to other parts of the country. Haryana agriculture minister and BJP leader Jai Prakash Dalal had last week goaded the state’s farmers, protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three new farm laws, to secure the Centre’s intervention for the completion of the canal so that the state received its share of the waters from Punjab. On Monday, all the BJP MPs and MLAs of the state met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Tomar to raise the issue at the national level. Although this is a longstanding issue between the two states, the decision by the government’s ecosystem to raise it at this juncture is being widely perceived by farmers as an attempt to sow dissension within their ranks, since neither persuasion nor vilification has weakened their resolve so far. The All India Kisan Coordination Committee met Tomar and extended support for the three new laws, urging the government not to repeal them. This umbrella organisation claims to have the support of 7,000 NGOs and said their members would rise up to support the farm reforms. After the meeting, Tomar said farmers from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Bihar had met him and welcomed the farm reform bills. Tomar reaffirmed that the government was willing to talk to the agitating farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet representatives of the farming community, including Sikh cultivators, in Gujarat during a visit to Kutch on Tuesday. However, the farmers loyal to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), who had moved towards Delhi with rations for a couple of months, have begun cultivating seasonal crops in the areas they are picketing. According to the AIKSCC – which organised dharnas and gheraos across the country on Monday -- the farmers are sowing coriander, radishes, carrots and other crops on the highway dividers to protect “food sovereignty of the nation”. A fresh strategy for the days ahead is likely to be announced on Tuesday after the various collectives under the AIKSCC meet to chalk out a course of action in the face of multiple efforts by the government to isolate the protesters. The protesting farmers took over the Jaipur-Delhi highway after issuing an apology for the inconvenience caused. In a pamphlet issued by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – the umbrella organisation under which 500 farmers’ collectives are agitating –- titled “Mein ek kisan (I am a farmer)”, the farmers have apologised with folded hands. They have repeated their request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take back the three farm laws. Referring to Modi’s claim that the new laws are a historic gift to the farmers, the SKM said: “This is not a gift but a punishment. Please keep this gift with yourself. If you want to give us a gift, please enact a law that guarantees minimum support price for our crops.” Stating “we do not want charity but proper price for our crops”, the farmers said the government was only putting on a show of talking to them. “The government is not listening to us. It is not our goal to block roads or trouble the common people. We have no option but to sit here in protest,” the pamphlet said. With the protesting farmers digging their heels in and drawing fresh support, the government is working at various levels to create a parallel narrative. Apart from the ongoing propaganda about the new laws being a silver bullet for the farmers, the BJP’s Delhi unit is planning a four-day campaign to urge the farmers to give up their protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena says new farm laws carefully designed to benefit big industrialists||The Shiv Sena has accused the Narendra Modi government of employing a “trick of the trade” in the garb of laws to facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture, warning this will destroy farmers across the country. “These (new farm) laws have been carefully designed to benefit big industrialists. This is a trick of the trade, presented in the garb of laws,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson, Sanjay Raut, has written in party mouthpiece Saamana. “This will destroy both the existence and self-esteem of farmers. A false propaganda has been launched that only farmers of Punjab and Haryana will be affected. These laws, brought by Modi as an agricultural reform, will mean the kabr-gah (burial ground) for farmers.” Government supporters have been claiming the new farm laws would hurt only a small section of rich farmers from Punjab and Haryana while triggering a windfall for most farmers across the country. Raju Shetti, farmer leader from Maharashtra who is part of the all-India coordination committee overseeing the ongoing movement, too contested the claim on Monday. “If it is a movement only of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, what am I doing here?” Shetti told The Telegraph on Monday over the phone from the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers have gathered in protest for the past several days. “There are hundreds of people from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and many other states. These laws are an attack on agriculture as a whole, the objective being to allow the corporate sector to capture farming.” Shetti went on: “It is not surprising that BJP leaders and Modi bhakts are trying to conceal the truth about the black laws and our movement, and are spreading rumours and misconceptions.” He asked how the Bharat Bandh could have been so successful, with demonstrations and shutdowns at more than 10,000 places in the country, if this was a Punjab-centric agitation. “We understand the Modi government’s conspiracy. They want to create rifts. When farmers from Maharashtra want to join the protest at Delhi’s borders, the police in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh block them,” he said. “The usual trains are not running and the special trains have no general compartments. How will the farmers reach Delhi? Farmers from as far as Karnataka and Tamil Nadu wanted to join the protest but the BJP governments stopped them.” Raut wrote: “Maharashtra should understand the darker aspects of these (new farm) laws. Ordinary people will have difficulty understanding the complexities hidden in the details. “The stock limit has been removed to allow hoarding. The government doesn’t want any limit on the stocking of food grain. What is the purpose? Why have Punjab’s farmers risen in protest? Because they have seen the gigantic silos built by the Adani group in Punjab. These are not like our godowns, these are a hundred times bigger. “When farmers bring their new crop to the market, these corporate houses will artificially kill the demand by releasing their stored stuff and bring down prices. The farmers will have no option but to sell cheap. After that, prices will be jacked up at will.” Raut added: “The farmers of Punjab know the reality of contract farming, too. They know… potato farmers were fleeced after some time, in violation of contracts…. They (companies) used the pretext of quality to whittle down prices. “Then there is a provision that you can’t go to (civil) court. Farmers have to appeal to the SDM (sub-divisional magistrate). Then they can go to the DM. The DM’s peon will turn them away. Farmers will become helpless, (left at) the mercy of the big players.” Raut went on to explain the problems that could arise if the Agricultural Produce Marketing Act was abolished, which many farmers fear it would be. “Initially, private mandis (wholesale markets) will offer better prices and facilities. Gift vouchers of Reliance will be given along with higher prices. The farmers will sell their stuff there and the government mandis will vanish slowly,” he wrote. “Once the government mandis are gone, the real game will begin.... One kilogram of maize flour is being sold at Rs 150 while maize is bought for Rs 7 a kilogram. These laws will render the farmers bankrupt. If the farmers lose this battle, the whole social system will collapse. Ministers will come and go but the country will be ruined if agriculture is destroyed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Faces in mirror held up by farmers’ protest ||The decisive Battle of Plassey that gave the East India Company its foothold in India and established its rule was lost not for lack of battlefield valour but because of the treachery of a military general. An African saying warns: “An army of sheep led by a lion can defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.” The truth behind this saying is wider, and covers not only battlefields but many modern governments and democratic leaders. A wrong leader, a toxic ideology, foolish ambition or a false sense of grandeur can play havoc, cause unimaginable damage in a very short time. And then the country would take a long time to recover, if at all. Examples abound in history. Hitler and Mussolini are still not too distant in memory. The irony of Stalin’s rule was that the Red Army defeated the Nazis but, at the same time, his policy of purges left the independent communist parties of Eastern Europe crippled, from which they never quite recovered. It is now well documented that toxic policies promoted by the International Monetary Fund and embraced by its market-fundamentalist leaders sent Argentina, a country of vast natural resources, begging before the world. Delusion combined with a toxic ideology is a recipe for disaster in any country. A negative rate of growth, an unprecedented recession and massive unemployment coexisting with a soaring stock market combined with such ideological priorities as banning cow slaughter and building a Central Vista to show the historic importance of a leader have been foretelling such a disaster. But we woke up to the fact that the monster was at the door only when the farmers of the country showed us the mirror. If you have not already deposited all your intelligence to the expert discussions and images of the mainstream media, you might ask, like in the fairy tale: “Mirror, mirror on the wall, show me who is behind it all”. And, the mirror would show not the obvious faces of the two most powerful politicians (both from Gujarat) of the ruling party in power, but two other faces, the two richest businessmen (again, both from Gujarat) of the country. No prize for guessing who they are. Both have been long time cronies of the current leader from his days as the chief minister of Gujarat. However, it’s not merely “crony capitalism” that we are talking about. The three farm laws recently passed hastily in a moribund Parliament are no exception to the trend already set in a way. The government has done it repeatedly but the trend started earlier with blitzkrieg attacks that gave the public no time to react. It started with the guerrilla attack of demonetisation and then the strategically bad implementation of the GST to weaken petty and small businesses and the states in our federal financial structure. This was followed by the violent uprooting of the lives and livelihoods of migrant workers with the imposition of a most severe lockdown at four hours’ notice. There was disquiet, discomfort and distress, but the public response was still not one of outrage. The illusion of the government fighting against black money (forget the promise of Rs 15 lakh in every Indian’s bank account) and valiantly imposing a lockdown against the looming pandemic still had some credibility with the trusting public. But soon we all could not but see how the pandemic was being used as a cover to hollow out from within the essence of parliamentary democracy. A series of anti-labour and pro-corporate labour laws were passed, virtually without any prior notice or discussion. Now the government has adopted the calculated move of bringing the three farm laws into effect, fearing little resistance inside or outside Parliament, again under the cover of a pandemic in a demoralised economy with negative growth and crushing unemployment where most are gasping for oxygen. Briefly, the three laws are meant to dismantle the mandi (wholesale market) system and the minimum support price of agricultural commodities. And — this is the point of general interest, often underemphasised by mainstream media — they are meant to do away with virtually all normal legal processes in case of disputes through the grant of unilateral power to the government. These laws transfer the power of settling disputes to the executive itself, with no role for the judiciary. The alleged culprit will judge the nature of the guilt, violating all notions of possible conflicts of interest in law. Such a law was passed by our democratic Parliament hurriedly, demolishing not only farmers’ rights but threatening the rights of all Indian citizens. The farmers rose against it. They rose to defend their rights and this has now become linked with the wider constitutional rights of all Indian citizens. India’s demoralised, impoverished majority has suddenly become aware of the serious danger that stares them in the face. The corporatisation of agriculture is a prelude to the corporatisation of the Indian democracy, of our constitutional rights. Economists of the establishment are known not for their expert knowledge but for their irrelevant half-truths, couched in jargon. The cornerstone of their argument, made famous by Milton Friedman, is that a free democracy requires a free market. The farm laws have brought up the question: Is it a democracy where the executor is also the judge? Is that the new definition of a free democracy? And then, how free is a market where a small or marginal farmer faces Mr Ambani or Mr Adani in a bargain over price? It is a badly kept secret of standard economic theory that the price mechanism does not work unless all buyers and sellers are price takers in the market. This means nobody has the market power to make prices. The high-powered general equilibrium theory had to invent a disinterested outside “auctioneer” like Voltaire’s God who would set and revise prices to get at the market clearing prices. With all its imperfections and corruptions, the minimum support price is the closest we have to a price set by an “auctioneer”. The farmers want it enshrined as a law; the government is unwilling because it wants the corporations to set the prices, sooner rather than later, when the mandi system becomes dysfunctional under the new laws, with or without amendments. This is the free market mechanism celebrated by mainstream economists, debated by so-called experts in the mainstream media, and financed by the big corporations. And in the meantime, Mr Ambani’s Reliance has its fingers on the retail market of agricultural produce and Jio will control all corporate online bulk purchases, while Mr Adani is busy extending his network of corporate transport and silos for storing agricultural commodities. The government is understandably enthusiastic about the future of digital capitalism with 5G, which will be controlled by Jio in India. Is there any respite, any alternative route possible? The farmers are showing how wrong we all were in our pessimism. Things change, but not always in the way a few plutocrats and their minions want, if ordinary people unite with all their usual frailties and force Opposition political parties to unite at least on this issue. (Otherwise, the Opposition parties want to have neither a clear pro-poor road map of development nor the courage to call the bluff of mechanised corporate agriculture as the El Dorado of the future.) The farmers’ determined resistance has created the necessary circumstances. It is for us all to join boldly. It reminds one of the wisdom of a well known observation. Paraphrasing Marx, we might say: “Men (and women) create history, but not under circumstances of their own making, but already created.” The circumstances have indeed been created by the valiant resistance of the farmers. The lion of the African proverb can still lead an army of sheep to defeat what looked once like an invincible enemy. ⚫ Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January this year, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar launches multiple crop scheme||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar launched an “agriculture according to the climate” programme on Monday in which multiple crops would be cultivated simultaneously throughout the year in a bid to increase the income of the farmers. Bihar has become the first state implement such a scheme. It has been prepared after consultation with scientists from various institutions like the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Borlaug Institute for South Asia, Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University, Bihar Agriculture University and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The new format of agriculture to factor in the impact of climate change on crops and farming as well as the ways to deal with it comes after a successful pilot project in eight of Bihar’s 38 districts that was started last year. “Around 76 per cent population of Bihar is dependent on agriculture for livelihood, but floods and droughts are a constant fixture in the state. Farmers will benefit much if they adopt ‘agriculture according to the climate’ because it will cut down the cost and increase the profit,” Nitish said after launching the programme in Patna. Nitish said that agriculture scientists will adopt five villages in every district to showcase the programme and educate the farmers. Crop residue management is an integral part of the scheme. Nitish said that he had discussed its concept with CIMMYT director general Martin Kropff at a meeting in 2018 after seeing that three crops were being simultaneously grown at a farm at the Borlaug Institute for South Asia at Pusa and fresh crops were being sown immediately after harvesting. “We intend to take the ‘agriculture according to climate’ programme to every farmer in the state,” Nitish said. Expressing worry over the fast-catching trend of burning the crop residue in agricultural fields by the farmers, the chief minister pointed out that it “started from Punjab, entered Bihar through Rohtas and Kaimur districts and has now spread all over the state”. Nitish directed chief secretary Deepak Kumar to get an aerial survey done with the help of agriculture department officials and make the farmers aware about the pernicious effects of burning crop residue in the fields. He also asked the officials to ensure that information about various machines that do not leave crop residue in the fields is disseminated among the farmers along with the schemes under which the government is providing 75 to 80 per cent subsidy for buying them. The agriculture department has already started blacklisting the farmers who are caught burning “parali” or crop residue in their fields. Such people will not be able to get benefits of various grants and subsidies provided by the state government from time to time for various purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Kerala journalist wife fears tricks to block bail||Imprisoned journalist Siddique Kappan’s wife Raihanath fears the Enforcement Directorate is cooking up charges against her husband to try and block his bail. Raihanath on Monday asked how the agency had concluded that a leader of the Popular Front of India had funded Siddique’s trip to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, during which he was arrested on October 5. She feared Siddique might be entangled in a money-laundering case, too. “This ED allegation has come just when we were hoping the court would grant him bail. Now I don’t know what will happen next,” she told The Telegraph. On Saturday, the ED had arrested K.A. Rauf Sherif, a leader of PFI student wing Campus Front of India, from Thiruvananthapuram airport and told a Kochi court he had funded the Hathras trip by Siddique and his three companions. The agency has accused Sherif of money-laundering, among other offences. “I just saw news reports that the ED is now trying to involve Siddique in some money-laundering case. Why don’t they check his bank account to see if he had ever received any money from such groups?” Raihanath said. “They are assuming things with the sole purpose of denying him bail.” Uttar Pradesh police had arrested Siddique and three PFI activists accompanying him on their way to Hathras, where a Dalit girl had been fatally brutalised. The state government claims Siddique was travelling under the “cover” of being a journalist, held a post in the PFI, and planned to disturb peace in Hathras. The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of violence but has not been banned. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has told the Supreme Court that Siddique, booked under sedition and anti-terror laws, is a Delhi-based journalist with the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com and is not connected with the PFI. Sherif was arrested while trying to catch a flight to Oman. The ED has told the principal sessions court in Kochi that Sherif had received Rs 2.5 crore in foreign remittances during the lockdown period and had funded the Hathras trip by transferring some money to Ateequr Rahman, one of the PFI activists arrested with Siddique. Raihanath said: “The only amount that gets credited to his (Siddique’s) bank account is his monthly remuneration (from azhimukam.com). He then transfers some money to my bank account for our household expenses.” Siddique, 41, had told his office he was heading to Hathras to write a report on the brutal gang rape and murder. Raihanath has impleaded herself in a habeas corpus petition filed in the Supreme Court by the KUWJ since Siddique’s whereabouts were not known after his arrest. Siddique had to wait 43 days to talk even to his lawyer. The habeas corpus plea has brought some relief, with Siddique being allowed to call home. “He has been allowed to call a few times. At least, I now know he is alive,” Raihanath said. Asked how Siddique was being treated in jail, she said: “I hope and pray he is not being beaten and is getting his medicines regularly. He has very high sugar levels.” Siddique’s lawyer had quoted him as saying the police had beaten him with a baton, slapped him in the face and deprived him of sleep. A native of Malappuram in Kerala, Siddique has been based in Delhi for several years, writing for several publications. He is the secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||BJD in a bind on farm laws||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha, which follows an avowed policy of maintaining equidistance from the Congress and the BJP, is being pushed into a corner on the issue of farmers’ agitation. Due to the BJD’s growing closeness with the BJP, the party led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik is not in a position to directly oppose the Centre on the farmers’ issue, according to farmer leaders. Though the BJD claims to be extending moral support to the farmers’ cause, it has so far refrained from hitting the streets along with them. Even though the BJD had demanded in Parliament in September that the farm bills be sent to the Select Committee, it preferred not to hit the streets during the Bharat Bandh on December 8. Nor did it come out openly on Monday and joined the farmers during the 9-hour strike call at all the district headquarters. Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan president Akshay Kumar said: “It (BJD) has so far done only lip service to our cause by sending a letter to the Centre urging it to implement the M.S. Swaminathan Committee’s report on the MSP. It’s nothing new. Though the Assembly had unanimously adopted a resolution twice, in 2017 and 2018, for enhancing the MSP as per the committee’s recommendation, it hardly took up the issue with the Centre and the Prime Minister. The farm laws should be repealed.” He said the BJD’s role on the farmers’ issue was confined to press statements and sending letters to the Centre. Damburu Soren, a 50-year-old tribal labourer told The Telegraph: “Today, I joined the strike called by the farmers. All the political parties except the BJD and the BJP supported us and joined the movement near the additional district magistrate’s office. The BJD and the BJP did not turn up to show their solidarity. In fact, the BJD is tacitly supporting the BJP but is not in a position to express it openly.” Soren came to the capital city 30 years ago from the mineral-rich belt of Keonjhar in search of work. BJD spokesperson, senior MLA and former finance minister Sashi Bhusan Behera said: “We are always with the farmers. We have extended our moral support to the farmers. In order to ensure improvement in the livelihood of the farmers, the state government has taken up a number of welfare schemes. We are one of the first states to introduce an exclusive agriculture budget. We have passed a unanimous resolution in the Assembly for the implementation of the Swaminathan committee’s report on recommendation on implementation of the MSP and urged the Centre to implement it.” On the issue of not joining the agitation, Behera said: “We are supporting the farmers’ cause in our own way. No one can compel us to join the agitation. We do have our own action plan.” “The state government has to move cautiously. Why should we earn the wrath of the Centre? Because of our good equation with the Centre, we have so far received a good amount of assistance either be it help during the time of Cyclone Amphan or during the Covid situation. The state cannot take that risk,” said another senior BJD leader. State convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Suresh Panigrahi, said, “The BJD may be giving moral support to the farmers. But it should announce that Odisha will not implement the farm laws. They should demand repeal of the laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Rape after husband wagers wife in Bihar||A woman was allegedly gang-raped in Bihar after her husband put her at stake while gambling with his friends and lost. Later, he allegedly poured acid on his wife for resisting the atrocities while in captivity and threatening to complain to the police. Although the victim’s ordeal had started on November 2, it came to light on Sunday after she escaped from captivity and reached her parents’ place, where her relatives took her to police. An FIR was registered against her husband and five unknown persons, supposed to be his friends. The husband has been arrested, while raids are going on to arrest the other accused. “The victim approached us on Sunday after which immediate action was taken. Her husband has been arrested. We are investigating the case and trying to gather other evidence. Her medical examination has also been conducted. We will file the chargesheet quickly and request speedy trial in the case,” Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police Ashish Bharti told The Telegraph. The victim’s statement was recorded before a magistrate under Section 164 of the IPC on Monday. “I got married around 10 years ago, but was continuously tortured by my husband and in-laws for not having a baby. My husband is a habitual drinker and a gambler. He put me at stake while gambling with his friends at home on November 2 and lost. I was next blindfolded and raped by them,” the woman told reporters. The situation worsened after she threatened to complain to the police. “My husband tried to force me to drink acid. When he didn’t succeed, he poured it on my body. I was later taken to a hospital for treatment, but was asked by him to remain silent. I was treated for burn injuries and had to tell the doctors that I accidentally fell on an acid bottle,” the victim said. However, the woman got a chance to flee from the house in Hasanganj locality under Mojahidpur police station in Bhagalpur city and managed to reach her parents’ house at Lodipur Jichcho in Bhagalpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Supreme Court takes up plea against Emergency||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine “whether a simpliciter declaration that the Emergency of 1975 was unconstitutional would be feasible or desirable after a passage of 45 years” after a 94-year-old woman said she and her entire family suffered untold hardships, including the death of her husband, during the dark days. Initially reluctant to entertain the petition, a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued a notice to the Centre on the petition filed by Veera Sarin through advocate Neela Gokhale. The bench includes Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the woman, told the bench that the issue raised in the petition was a “matter of considerable importance” and contended that when the principles of abuse of constitutional power can apply to the removal of state governments and presidential proclamations, the same yardstick should also cover the issues of rights of citizens. “We rely on the Shah Commission report prima facie to say that the declaration of the Emergency was an abuse of power…. It’s important to look into this that if a situation like this ever arises, then a court can and will can look at it,” Salve submitted. Justice Kaul asked the senior counsel: “But after 45 years, is it proper to go into this issue...?” Salve said: “There are certain things in history which we have to revisit and see if correct thing was done. This is one such issue.” The bench said: “…We are finding it difficult to go into this. The Emergency was an abuse and something happened which ought not to have happened….” The senior counsel said the petitioner wanted a declaration that the Emergency was unconstitutional. “We can’t keep digging on these issues. Persons are gone today…,” Justice Kaul said. However, Salve contended that today, war crime complaints are considered and 90-year-olds hauled up for crimes. The bench asked what purpose it would serve, to which Salve said it is a matter of constitutional debate, and principles must be laid down. The court then dictated the following order: “We have heard learned senior counsel Shri Harish Salve on the subject matter with some trepidation, more so arising due to passage of time. It is his submission that the wrongs of history must be set right. “We would be disinclined to open all such aspects as there may have been wrongs done to persons but with the passage of almost 45 years, it would not be appropriate to re-open those issues. We would, however, be not disinclined to see whether a simpliciter declaration, something which is feasible or desirable after a passage of time and issue, restricted to that aspect….” The bench then adjourned the matter. In her petition, Sarin said her family had a flourishing business in gold artefacts and gems at Karol Bagh as well as at KG Marg in New Delhi.  During the Emergency, their immovable property was seized. Movable property of artefacts, gems, carpets, paintings, tusks, statues, and ivory worth crores of rupees were also seized and there has been no restitution till date. She and her husband were forced to leave the country for fear of being thrown into jail “in pursuance of unjustifiable and arbitrary detention orders issued against the petitioner’s husband”. His business was shut down and the assets were seized. Her husband succumbed to the pressure and died, the petition said. In 2014, it said, Delhi High Court had quashed the proceedings against her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Year after, Jamia student struggles to cross road ||Mohammad Minhajuddin struggles to cross the road as he heads to the civil court where he practises. Rush-hour in Samastipur, Bihar, is nowhere close to even Sunday traffic in Delhi. But Minhajuddin’s field of vision is half what it was when he was a student in the capital. The 27-year-old also struggles to estimate the speed of an approaching car. His right eye tears up if he goes through legal documents on his laptop or mobile screen for too long. Minhajuddin says a police baton claimed his left eye on December 15 last year when Delhi’s law-keepers went on the rampage at Jamia Millia Islamia university, where he studied. Ostensibly, the cops were looking for violent protesters against the new citizenship regime who had allegedly torched vehicles. The boots and canes left a trail of destruction through the varsity libraries and even a place of worship, causing Rs 2.66 crore worth of damage. Minhajuddin, then doing his master’s in law, is among the students and security guards the police thrashed. He says a CRPF man hit him with a fibreglass baton as he was fleeing a reading room that stick-wielding cops had barged into, shortly after the building had been shelled with tear smoke. “Every day is a struggle. I need help to cross a road. I collide into people when I try to move fast through the crowded court premises,” he told The Telegraph. “Delhi High Court has clubbed several petitions for compensation, including mine, and is still hearing the case. We were refused even interim compensation despite a recommendation from the National Human Rights Commission (that the Delhi government compensate the injured students).” The assault has forced Minhajuddin to drop his plans to earn a PhD and practise in Delhi’s courts. The only compensation he has received so far is a cheque for Rs 5 lakh from the Delhi Wakf Board. Doctors were able to save his right eye but have ruled out an eye transplant on the left side because of nerve damage. Minhajuddin has already spent Rs 1 lakh on treatment and needs to regularly consult an ophthalmologist. “Initially, several people and NGOs promised help. Their enthusiasm lasted only a short while. Ultimately nothing came (apart from the wakf board’s assistance),” he said. “I have learnt to be patient and not depend on politicians, to be self-reliant.” Chandan Kumar, 22, who earned a BA in mass media from Jamia this year, was taken to hospital in the same ambulance with Minhajuddin. Kumar received five stitches on his head for injuries from alleged caning by policemen who had found him in the library toilet. He had hid there after the tear-smoke shelling. “This whole year has been a nightmare that never ends. I have recurring dreams of the police attacking us,” he said. Kumar, set to begin an MA course in linguistics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said he wanted punishment for the errant cops rather than compensation for himself. “Fascism came alive from a concept I had read in books to something that we as students had to endure because we were studying in a minority institution,” he said. “In my court petition, I did not seek compensation. For me, justice will be served only if the officers guilty of attacking us are punished. I’m yet to see (signs of) that happening in court so far.” Kumar, an activist of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, was named in an FIR on the Jamia violence but has not been named in the chargesheets. Two of his mobile phones have been seized, one after the other, during the four sessions of interrogation. The police have questioned him over the Jamia violence and the protests against the new citizenship regime that the force blames for the February riots that killed 53 people. The women-led agitation at Shaheen Bagh began as a reaction to the Jamia brutality. Asif Iqbal Tanha of the Students Islamic Organisation — another Jamia student-activist named in the FIR with Kumar — is in jail, waiting to be tried for his alleged role in inciting the February violence through his participation in the citizenship protests. “The result of our protest, and others that followed, is that finally, today, the government which never listened to anyone has been compelled to talk to the farmers,” Kumar said. “The protests by students, doctors and farmers have helped sustain at least a nominal democracy. Despite (the government’s supporters) calling the farmers Khalistanis who eat foreign-funded pizzas, the farmers cannot be delegitimised like we students were.” A photograph of women students shielding a man from the police’s batons at the protest march that preceded the rampage became a symbol of the resilience of the students, who continued to participate in the anti-citizenship-act protests. Aysha Renna N, an MA (modern history) student, was one of the women in the photo. “I was trolled online. Details of my family, my social media posts and my studies were made public,” she told this newspaper. “I was also criticised so much for the politics I spoke about, for asserting my identity, for praising Allah before my speeches, or wearing a scarf, that it made me more stern in my politics.” Her Facebook profile was blocked, and she moved to Twitter. “Every time I recall that incident (of the protest march in which she was hit by the police), it is traumatic and painful. But it also became an inspiration for a pan-India anti-CAA movement… and to speak out against the anti-national activities of the BJP government,” she said. Jamia has not claimed damages from the Centre, to which the Delhi police report. The university had to move court after the police refused to register an FIR on its complaint of a rampage. “We have not received anything from the court,” vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar told this newspaper. “Whatever comes your way, you have to find a way out and we have successfully done it.” In June news came that Jamia had made it to the top ten in a national-level ranking of universities. Besides, 14 of its teachers figure on an internationally peer-reviewed list of top scientists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
