16-12-2020||India||Govt making all efforts for COVID-19 vaccine; cold chain logistics to be strengthened||The Indian government is making all efforts to support and promote the development of Covid-19 vaccine, however, there is a need to strengthen cold chain logistics and remove vaccine hesitancy, experts said on Wednesday. Currently in India, there are more than 30 groups both from academia and industry, which are actively involved in developing COVID-19 vaccines. There are six vaccine candidates in various stages of clinical trials, out of which four are developed indigenously, said Asha Sharma, scientist and adviser of Department of Biotechnology. “The government is facilitating capacity enhancement to strengthen the ecosystem across the country to promote and support vaccine development,” she said while participating in the discussion on ‘Economics and Logistics of a Vaccine Response’ at the CII Partnership Summit 2020. In order to strengthen the ecosystem, 11 good clinical practices compliant clinical trial sights have also been established across the country, Sharma said. The government is making purposeful and integrated efforts to support and promote vaccine development for COVID-19, she added. IHH Healthcare Berhad Group Head of Operations and Integration Ashok Bajpai said India has a very good existing infrastructure of administration of mass doses but cold chain logistics requires to be strengthened. “I am not worried about the physical process of distribution and administration. I actually worry about the cold chain logistics and loss of efficacy of the vaccine as we distribute it into the heartland of the country, where we have relatively poor infrastructure,” he added. Sanofi Pasteur, India Country Head Annapurna Das emphasised on the need for information, education and communication especially in these times. She however highlighted that India has a good blueprint in terms of cold chain and healthcare workers capacity and that the entire framework is quite digitally enabled. There is a need for community education information programme to remove the vaccine hesitancy, as it is a reality and also minimising vaccine wastage, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Bombay HC stays order to construct Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed an order for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed system, in a blow to the Uddhav Thackarey government. The October 1 order was passed by Mumbai suburban district collector, allotting 102 acre of salt pan land in Mumbai's Kanjurmarg area for the purpose. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also held the authorities from executing any kind of construction work on the plot. The Centre and the Shiv Sena-ruled government of Maharashtra are locked in a tussle over the ownership of the land allotted by the state for construction of the car shed. The plot was earlier earmarked at the Aarey Colony of Mumbai, a green belt of the city. The Union government has filed a petition in the high court challenging the October 1, 2020 order passed by the collector allotting the land for construction of the car shed, and said the land belongs to its (Centre's) salt department. “We cannot allow the collector's order of October 1, 2020 to continue. The order has to go. We are admitting the petition and granting relief as sought by the petitioner (Union government) in prayer clauses ‘h’ and ‘I’,” the bench said. As per prayer clause 'h', the Union government had sought the court to stay operation of the collectors order of October 1, transferring possession of 102 acres of land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for construction of an integrated car shed for a Metro line. In the prayer clause 'I', the Centre had sought an order from the court restraining the MMRDA from carrying out any construction work on the said land. The court on Monday had suggested the Maharashtra government to withdraw the October 1 order. On Wednesday, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state government, told the HC that the state was ready to withdraw the order and give a fresh hearing to the Union government, but the construction work would continue at the land. Kumbhakoni told the court that presently soil testing work was on at the site. The high court, however, noted that when it was of the prima facie view that the collector's order transferring possession cannot continue, then how can it allow construction work to go on at the said land. The court on Wednesday granted stay and admitted the petition for final hearing in February. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had opposed the plea and said the land that has been allotted to the MMRDA for the Metro car shed is owned by the state government. The Union government in its plea claimed the entire salt pan land in the area, including the 102 acres allotted to the MMRDA, belongs to the Centre's salt department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||NHRC issues SOP on collection, processing of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) on collection and processing of forensic evidence to ensure effective prosecution leading to conviction in cases of sexual assault on women, officials said on Wednesday. The SOP, which was prepared in consultation with medical experts has been sent to various states and union territories so that instructions can be issued to all officers concerned for its implementation, they said. "The National Human Rights Commission, in order to ensure effective prosecution leading to conviction in cases of sexual assault on women, has prepared a 'Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Collection & Processing of scientific/forensic evidences'," the NHRC said in a statement. The SOP has been broken down into seven sections of key operating procedures. These sections are victim care, promptness and examination, collection of samples, collection of blood and urine samples, genital and anal evidence, handing over samples to FSL, and general guidelines, it said. "The commission has come out with this SOP after it observed that in many cases of alleged rape and sexual assault, there is substantial delay in medical examination, collection and processing of scientific and forensic evidences of the victim," the statement said. The exhibits are forwarded to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) after much delay and by that time, the samples deteriorate or autolyse and become unsuitable for examination, the rights panel said. "This delay adversely affects the investigation for effective prosecution leading to conviction," it added. The NHRC hopes that this SOP, if implemented in letter and spirit by the authorities, will definitely help improve the system of medico-legal investigation in cases of sexual assault on women in the country, the official said. The SOP can be accessed through the NHRC website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Republic Media Network CEO granted bail by Mumbai court||Republic Media Network CEO Vikas Khanchandani, who was arrested in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam on Sunday, received bail from a Mumbai court on Wednesday. The Mumbai Police’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) had arrested Khanchandani on December 13 from his residence. His lawyer Nitish pradhan revealed that a metropolitan court had granted him bail on a cash surety of Rs 50,000. The police began a probe into the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about rigging of TRP by some channels. Khanchandani’s arrest came less than a week after the Supreme Court dismissed a plea of the ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, the owner of the Republic Media Network, seeking protection of its employees. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. The BARC engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households. It was alleged earlier that some families are being paid to tune into certain channels to gain more TRP. In a charge sheet filed recently, the police alleged that an official of Hansa paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV. The Republic TV had denied all accusations. Police have arrested 13 people in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||SC talks of countrywide panels to resolve agri issues||The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a panel having representatives of the Centre as well as the farmers’ unions, as both the parties remain in a deadlock over the three new farm laws, which the peasants want to repeal. A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde, and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian proposed the formation of this committee across the country to ensure the end to this impasse between the farmers and the government. The top court was hearing a bunch of pleas seeking removal of the protesting farmers from the borders of Delhi as it poses inconvenience to commuters and may cause spread in Covid-19 infections. In the hearing conducted via video conferencing, the bench directed the petitioners to make protesting farmer unions parties to the pleas and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. It also issued a notice to the Centre and others regarding the petitions. “Your negotiations with protesting farmers have not worked apparently till now,” the bench told the Centre. “This will soon become a national issue and will have to be solved through negotiations,” Bobde was quoted as saying by NDTV. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench in reply that the government will not do anything against the interest of farmers. “Different ministers talked to them. But they turned their chairs back and did not talk to them,” Mehta said. In one of the pleas filed earlier this month, petitioner Rishabh Sharma, a Delhi University law student, also cited the hardships the border siege was inflicting on the public. “Lives of lakhs of people protesting at Delhi’s borders (are) at immediate threat since the virus is very contagious and if by chance this coronavirus disease takes the shape of community spread, it will cause havoc in the country,” the petition said. It sought the court’s “immediate intervention” and “appropriate direction for restricting mass gathering of people at any place”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees, very cold day likely||Dense fog blanketed parts of the national capital that recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. The India Meteorological Department has predicted both "cold day" and "cold wave" in parts of Delhi on Thursday and Friday. The visibility dropped to 100 metres in the Palam area in the morning, it said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is dense, 201 and 500 moderate, and 501 and 1,000 shallow. The minimum temperature was three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 19 degrees Celsius, it said, predicting 'cold day' conditions at a few places. The IMD had declared a cold wave in Delhi on Tuesday as icy winds blowing from snow-covered western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far. The maximum temperature had also dipped to 18.5 degrees Celsius, more than four notches below normal. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature is likely to remain around five degrees Celsius till Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said the Western Himalayas recorded widespread snowfall due to strong Western Disturbances and now frosty winds have been blowing towards the plains, bringing the mercury down. He said both "cold wave" and "cold day" conditions are likely in Delhi on Thursday and Friday. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria are fulfilled even for a day, Srivastava said. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is 4.4 degrees Celsius below normal. The air quality was recorded in the "poor" category. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 278 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 230 on Tuesday. It was 160 on Monday, 305 on Sunday and 356 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ unions ask Centre to stop ‘defaming’ their movement||An umbrella group of 40 farmers unions agitating against the government’s new agri-marketing laws wrote to the Centre on Wednesday and asked it to stop holding “parallel talks” with other farmers’ organisations over the contentious legislations. The letter, written by ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ representing farmer unions mostly from Punjab, comes in the backdrop of the government holding talks with multiple agricultural organisations from different states  who the Centre claimed have extended their support to the new agriculture laws. In the letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said the Centre should not defame the ongoing demonstrations being held at different borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three laws. “We want the government to stop defaming farmers' agitation and holding parallel talks with other farmers' organisations,” Darshan Pal, a member of the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said in his letter written in Hindi. Pal also recorded in writing the unions’ decision to reject the Centre’s proposal of amending the laws recently. “We had already made our stand clear in previous talks (with the government) that's why we did not send a written reply earlier,” he wrote in the letter. Representatives of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum with suggestions on the laws and the Minimum Support Price. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan), which was protesting at the district levels in Uttar Pradesh, has also decided to end it for now. They have not been part of the 40 farmers' groups that have been protesting on various borders of the national capital, and they had also attended the recent rounds of talks with the Centre without any breakthrough. According to an agriculture ministry statement Tuesday, Tomar thanked the BKU (Kisan) leaders for coming out in support of the laws and said these legislations have been welcomed in various states across the country. Earlier this week, a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had also met Tomar. On Tuesday, the leaders of agitating farmers asserted they will make the Centre repeal the three new agri laws in a hardening of their stand. Security arrangements on Wednesday were tightened at the Chilla border connecting Delhi and Noida as farmer union leaders warned of completely blocking the key area to press their demands of repealing the three central farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Police stand guard at Chilla border as farmers vow to make govt repeal laws||Security arrangements on Wednesday were tightened at the Chilla border connecting Delhi and Noida as farmer union leaders warned of completely blocking the key area to press their demands of repealing the three central farm laws. A senior police official said elaborate security arrangements were already in place at the Delhi-Noida border. Multi-layered barricades, jersey barriers and additional security personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order. He informed that just a small group of protesters were demonstrating at Chilla, and the situation was largely normal. Farmer leaders had on Tuesday said they would “make” the government repeal the new legislations, and asserted that their fight has reached a stage where they are “determined” to win no matter what. “The farmer unions are not running away from negotiations, but the government has to pay heed to their demands and come forward with concrete proposals,” the leaders had said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met farmers on Tuesday, not in Delhi where tens of thousands are sitting on dharna for the past 19 days to demand the repeal of the new farm laws his government has brought, but in Gujarat where he declared that the laws have the support of “almost the entire country”. According to the police, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders are closed. Commuters have been advised to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders, while traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. The Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44 should be avoided, they said. Meanwhile, Gazipur border also remains closed for traffic coming from Gaziabad to Delhi due to the protests. Commuters have been advised to take other routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara and Bhopra borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Modi commemorates 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday marked the beginning of the 50-year anniversary of India’s 1971 victory over Pakistan by lighting up the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in New Delhi. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh  the chief of defence staff and tri-service chiefs joined Modi as he laid wreath and paid tributes to the soldiers who were martyred during the war and made the supreme sacrifice for the country. Four victory mashaals (flaming torches) will be carried to various parts of India, including to the villages of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra awardees of the 1971 war, the defence ministry has said. “Soil from the villages of these awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the National War Memorial (NWM),” the ministry said. India celebrates December 16 as Vijay Diwas to commemorate its victory over Pakistan during the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. As December 16 marks the anniversary of the military victory, the nation will celebrate 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' (golden victory year) through several events across the country, and it will continue for a year. Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war veterans will be felicitated, the statement said, adding that band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclaves and adventure activities will also be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload surges to 99.32 lakh||India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 99.32 lakh as the country reported 26,382 cases over the past 24 hours, while the number of recoveries mounted to 94.56 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. The total coronavirus caseload rose to 99,32,547, while the death toll increased to 1,44,096 with 387 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 94,56,449, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.21 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. Wednesday also marked the 10th consecutive day, when the active Covid-19 cases remained below four lakh. There are 3,32,002 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitute 3.34 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,66,46,280 samples have been tested up to December 15, of which 10,85,625 were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi meets farmers, not in Delhi but in Gujrat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met farmers on Tuesday, not in Delhi where tens of thousands are sitting on dharna for the past 18 days to demand the repeal of the new farm laws his government has brought, but in Gujarat where he declared that the laws have the support of “almost the entire country”. “Aaj kal, Dilli ke aas-paas kisano ko bhramit karne ki saazish chal rahi hai (These days, in Delhi’s vicinity, there is a conspiracy under way to mislead the farmers),” Modi said. After claiming that farmers taking part in the largest such protest in recent memory were “misled”, Modi said his government was willing to hear them out. “I tell my farmer brothers once again, again and again, that the government is ready to solve each of their concerns,” he said. The Prime Minister did not, however, offer to meet the protesting farmers who have already held several rounds of talks with his government. More than 30 unions from Punjab alone and five national collectives, representing hundreds of farmers’ organisations from across the country, are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws forced through Parliament in September. Among the farmers invited to meet Modi in Gujarat on Tuesday were a group of Sikhs settled in Kutch. A news release issued by the Gujarat government’s information department before the visit specified that Sikh farmers had been invited. It was not clear why the invitation was extended and highlighted. Several Sikh farmers, who started settling in barren land in Kutch after the 1965 war on the invitation of the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, had faced eviction when Modi was chief minister of Gujarat. After Gujarat High Court ruled in favour of the farmers, the state government had gone to the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, the Centre released an e-book on “PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs”. Punjab’s farmers have been at the vanguard of the protests against the three laws. “I believe, our government’s honest intentions, honest efforts, which have the blessings of almost the entire country (kareeb kareeb poore desh), the blessings of farmers from every corner of the country… the strength of the blessings” would defeat those trying to “mislead” and do “politics”, Modi said. The Prime Minister was speaking at a programme to lay the foundation for a renewable energy park in Kutch, Gujarat. Modi broached the topic of the farmers’ protest at the fag end of his speech. “They are being made to feel scared by being told that after the reforms, farmers’ land would be taken over by others,” Modi said. He asked the crowd: “Do dairy companies take your cows and buffaloes when you enter into an agreement with them to sell milk?” Modi said the demand for the farm reform brought by his government was being made for long and that even the Opposition, when it was in government, had tried to bring it but couldn’t. “But today, the same people are engaged in misleading the farmers,” he said. Many farmers’ organisations have been demanding that they should have the freedom to sell their produce to anyone, he said. Senior BJP leader and transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, too, urged the protesters to discuss each clause of the new laws, claiming that the government was ready to address all their concerns. Sticking to the tactic of vilifying the protesting farmers, Gadkari claimed he had seen pictures of Naxalites participating in the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Industry chambers call for early end to deadlock over farm laws||Apex industry chambers on Tuesday called for an early end to the deadlock over the new farm laws, stating that the protests are disrupting supply chains and affecting the post-Covid economic recovery. Attention is being drawn to the wider economic impact at a time the Prime Minister has been trying to project the farmers’ grievances and agitation as an isolated (“Dilli ke aas-paas”) phenomena. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) estimated that around two-thirds of the consignments in transit are taking 50 per cent extra time to reach destinations in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and the Delhi-National Capital Region. In addition, freight carriers are forced to travel up to 50 per cent longer to reach Delhi from the warehouses in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “This may push logistics cost by up to 8 to 10 per cent. Many companies in the industrial belt surrounding Delhi are facing labour shortages as people struggle to reach production facilities from neighbouring towns,” the chamber said. Nikhil Sawhney, chairman of the CII’s northern region, said in a statement: “The ongoing farm agitation requires an immediate amicable solution as it is impacting not only the economic growth but also putting a huge dent to the supply chain which is affecting the large and small industries alike.” Niranjan Hiranandani, the president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India (Assocham), said in a separate statement: “With the ongoing farmers’ agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt. Industries such as textiles, auto components, bicycles, sports goods which cater significantly to the export markets would not be able to fulfil their orders ahead of Christmas, harming our goodwill amongst the global buyers.” Assocham’s estimates have pegged the daily loss because of the disruption in the value chain and transport between Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 3,500 crore. Indicating that the protests have hit where it hurts (the farmers believe the three laws are aimed at benefiting the corporate sector and not the farming community), the two industry bodies said the agitation was impacting the post-Covid economic recovery. Assocham also sought to convince the farmers that the industry has a big stake in their welfare and that they can rest assured that any economic proposition from the farm sector would have a bias only in favour of farmers. The farmers are upset at the constant vilification and infantilisation of the protests through government statements that they are being misled, iterated on Tuesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The farmer leaders likened the amendments offered by the government to removing two grams of poison each from three tablets of 10 grams poison. “The poison will still kill us,” said farmer leader Inderjit Singh from Haryana. Responding to Modi’s address in Kutch, Yudhvir Singh of one of the Uttar Pradesh-based factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said: “The Prime Minister on one hand says this is for farmers but at the Ficci meeting last weekend, he tells industry that ‘I have opened the farming sector for you’.” Stating that the Prime Minister never found time for farmers in six years — except for two “staged” meetings — Yudhvir Singh said the more the government delays addressing the demands of farmers, the more support the movement will get. “This is a kisan yagya, and more farmers are joining in. They may not be able to reach here because they are being stopped on the way, but the support is increasing. We are ready to die for the repeal of these laws,” he said, adding that farmers have realised their mistake in voting for Modi. Yudhvir Singh was equally sharp in responding to allegations of foreign funding that is being levelled against the movement. “Modi got funding from Gujaratis abroad and used it for elections to reach where he is. That is OK. But if our children who are abroad contribute for this, it is wrong. Did we get it from Namaste Trump?’’ The farmers have decided to block the Chilla border on the Delhi-Noida link road again from Wednesday. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha has urged all farmers to organise memorial meetings in villages across the country on Sunday as a mark of respect to those who have died in the protest. Until Tuesday, 13 farmers have died participating in the protests. Earlier in the day, addressing a separate news conference, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah — who has been attending the meetings with the government as a member of the umbrella organisation, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee — said: “This government is only interested in selling everything. Now, only land is left; they want to sell that too in the long run through these laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||NRI Pandit claims Srinagar fire arson act by Islamists||“Normality” in Kashmir means something as commonplace as a fire can ignite conspiracy theories, fodder for propaganda and a riddle about a temple. On Sunday, a fire broke out at Rainawari in Srinagar’s old city locality, apparently reducing a factory and two adjacent houses to ashes. Soon, the ripples of what was a civic issue threatened to spread far beyond the Union Territory. Some Kashmiri Pandits, including a BJP leader, claimed that a temple was set ablaze in the area, triggering an unlikely spat between officers in the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and the Pandits. Vimarsh Raina, who claims to be a doctor working abroad, posted purported images and videos of the fire on Twitter and said “one of the oldest Arya Samaj Hindu temples” at Motiyar in Rainawari had been burnt. “This is how Hindus are being persecuted by radical Islamists in my homeland in Kashmir,” Raina posted on Facebook. Jammu and Kashmir police lodged an FIR against Raina, following which his Facebook account has been deactivated. The police action came after tensions flared up on social media as several Pandits, including BJP leader Ashwini Chrungoo and journalist Aditya Raj Kaul, waded into the controversy. So much so that the police were compelled to issue a counter-claim. “Some unknown anti-social miscreant has posted with criminal intention... a baseless post regarding alleged act of arson at the Arya Samaj Temple, Motiyar, Rainawari, when the said mandir is safe and intact. No act of arson has occurred at the said temple,” a police spokesperson said on Monday. The deliberate act of malice would have wounded feelings of Hindus within the district and elsewhere in the country and world, the police added. “The said rumour/tweet bears potential to create feelings of enmity and hatred between religious groups,” the police said and released multiple pictures of the temple to show it was intact. The Srinagar district administration said the fire broke out some “200 metres away from the Shri Vaital Bhairav temple”. Many Pandits, however, were adamant and said the officers were lying. BJP leader Chrungoo said the Srinagar administration was “misguided in this regard”. Chrungoo posted on Facebook: “It was the Yagyashalla of the Arya Samaj Mandir under the control of Arya Samaj Committee, Rainawari. I have many a time visited this complex near a small bridge in Motiyar. In fact, it was a donated property and was usurped post 1990s by the Akhoons.” Chrungoo was referring to former National Conference MLA Syed Akhoon. Rainawari is his ancestral home. Rainawari was a mixed neighbourhood where many Kashmiri Pandits lived before militancy. Many of them have sold their property. Kaul, a Kashmiri Pandit journalist based in Delhi, said the police FIR was aimed at intimidating exiled Kashmiri Pandits further and asked the lieutenant governor to take the police “to task”. “Shame on Srinagar Police, Kashmir. It shows there is no damage to Arya Samaj Temple by showing photos of another — Vital Bhairav Temple in Motiyar Rainawari. Officer who wrote this juvenile press release without probe or reaching out to exiled Kashmiri Pandits should be fired,” Kaul tweeted. The tweet claims there are two temples in Motiyar locality and it was the Arya Samaj temple that was torched. Akhoon, the National Conference leader, said there was no Arya Samaj temple in Motiyar while the Vital Bhairav temple was safe. He said the fire destroyed his cousin Rafiq Ahmad Akhoon’s factory. “It is not my property. I had a home in Rainawari which was torched thrice (during militancy) and I have never gone to the area since,” NC leader Akhoon told The Telegraph. Cousin Rafiq said the fire had destroyed his factory and two adjacent houses. “I had purchased a house from a Kashmiri Pandit in 2004 which I converted into a glass factory. The police came yesterday to enquire about the fire and I produced all the documents to prove I had legally purchased the property,” he said. Rafiq said the Vital Bhairav temple was more than 100 metres away from his factory and there was no Arya Samaj temple in the locality. “It (the Vital Bhairav temple) is perfectly all right,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Nationwide vaccine effect surveillance||India’s Covid-19 vaccination guidelines have proposed a nationwide surveillance network to detect and respond to possible adverse events after immunisation (AEFI) that experts say would be critical for evaluation of vaccines approved under emergency use authorisation. The guidelines prepared by the Union health ministry would require every vaccination session site across the country to be linked to an AEFI management centre located at a primary health centre, a community health centre, a district hospital or a private hospital. The AEFI surveillance would also require doctors to “ask and record” a history of Covid-19 vaccination in patients during out-patient or emergency consultations and report any symptoms that have occurred after immunisation telephonically to designated local health officials. Health officials and experts say the planned Covid-19 mass vaccination campaigns would require heightened levels of AEFI surveillance than currently available to monitor AEFIs after immunisation with infancy and childhood vaccines with proven efficacy and used for years. “The (Covid-19) vaccines are new and multiple platforms — and that brings in complexity. Also if emergency authorisation is given, it is emergency authorisation,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination. India’s drug regulatory agency is currently evaluating applications for emergency use authorisation of three vaccines — the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. A national expert panel has recommended that the vaccines — if approved by the regulatory agency — should be initially offered to healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with underlying health disorders. Paul and other experts have also underlined that mass vaccination campaigns in adults over a short period of time could lead to increased reports of AEFI, particularly among the elderly or those who have certain underlying health disorders. While the AEFI surveillance is intended to track and record every AEFI, experts point out that certain recipients of vaccines such as the elderly and those with underlying health disorders are also likely to experience higher mortality and illness rates than younger healthy individuals. “Many of the deaths and hospitalisations after Covid-19 vaccinations in these high-risk groups may be coincidental,” the guidelines say. “However, it is important that all deaths, hospitalisations, and any event occurring in clusters following Covid-19 vaccination should be investigated immediately.” The proposed AEFI surveillance network would require all AEFIs — minor, severe, and serious — to be reported digitally into a web-based application. Co-WIN health authorities will use for the Covid-19 vaccination process, including AEFI reporting. The surveillance network would seek to estimate serious AEFIs in the population and compare them with local and global data, identify signals of unexpected adverse events that might need validation and planned studies, and document AEFI rates, if any, for specific vaccines. “The emergency use authorisation provision falls short of a full-fledged approval based on a positive risk-benefit analysis,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Calcutta. “Those who receive vaccines under emergency use authorisation should be viewed as participants in a very large clinical trial. It is important to have a robust safety and efficacy evaluation in place. Data generated through such surveillance could guide decisions on the full approval of vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Boris Johnson to be Republic Day chief guest||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has accepted his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi’s invitation to be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade on January 26, Downing Street said here on Tuesday. The visit will mark Johnson’s first major bilateral visit since taking office last year and the first since Britain’s exit from the European Union. Describing India as a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, Johnson said on Tuesday that his visit would mark the start of an “exciting year” for Global Britain and deliver a “quantum leap” in the bilateral ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||BJP decimates its senior and secular leadership in Bihar||The BJP has in one stroke decimated its senior and secular leadership in Bihar. It has appointed several of its seasoned leaders as chairpersons of various Assembly committees, effectively removing them from the race for ministerial berths in chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet. The choices indicate that the BJP is shedding its secular faces and planning to go the whole hog on the hardline path, but has also led to murmurs about factionalism and injustice in the rank and file of the party. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha announced the chairpersons of the different committees on Monday. Senior BJP leaders Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar, who have been elected to the House for the seventh and the eighth time, respectively, figured on the list. Both had been part of the NDA government in Bihar since the beginning. Nand Kishore will now head the estimates committee while Prem will chair the petition committee. Other veteran leaders Vinod Narayan Jha, Ram Narayan Mandal and Krishna Kumar Rishi will also head different Assembly committees. They too had served as ministers in the previous NDA governments. Traditionally, the chairpersons of the House committees are not made ministers and vice-versa. The move by the BJP to herd these veteran leaders into the House committees came at a time when they were being seen as the top contenders for ministerial berths. It also completed the chain that began with the sidelining of former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and shifting him out of the state’s political scene by sending him to the Rajya Sabha. “Be it Sushil, Nand Kishore, Prem, Vinod or others, they all have given their life to the party and the organisation. They were the ones who took the party to every nook and corner of the state. Now they all have been sidelined. None of them are too old to work. This shows that there is not much value for work, seniority, experience and loyalty here,” a BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. Incidentally, all the sidelined senior leaders have been the secular faces of the BJP in Bihar. They had stayed away from the communal agenda and were never considered hardliners. Sushil’s wife is a Christian tracing her roots to Goa, while Nand Kishore had always revelled in reciting Urdu poetry during his speeches in the Assembly. While sources in the BJP said that the leaders’ good relations with chief minister and Janata Dal United president Nitish did them in, they also pointed towards factionalism in the Bihar BJP. “Different factions and lobbies are active in the party in Bihar. They are headed by Nityanand Rai (Union minister of state for home affairs), state unit chief Sanjay Jaiswal, and Union minister Ravishankar Prasad. Some of them are even contenders for the chief minister’s post. Whatever is happening in the party is due to the pulls and pressures of these groups despite the fact that they have the stamp of approval of our top leadership. But this will not be good for us in the long run,” a BJP source told The Telegraph. Asked about the internal wrangle in the party and sidelining of several senior leaders, BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel denied any such development and said that the seniormost members of the Assembly had been made chairpersons of the House committees. “Expansion and change keep happening in the party. New people keep coming in. Our central and state leaderships assign work and roles to our party leaders. When the time comes for cabinet expansion, our leadership will decide who will become ministers,” Prem Ranjan told this newspaper. With the cabinet expansion due in Bihar and the “khar mas”, or the 30 days time considered inauspicious for new ventures setting in, Nitish has put the ball in the BJP’s court by highlighting that the delay has been due to the ally. “There has been no talk of cabinet expansion so far. We will take a decision on it after the BJP sends a proposal,” Nitish told reporters on Tuesday. The BJP with 74 seats is the biggest partner in the NDA government in Bihar while Nitish’s JDU has 43 seats. The Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and the Vikassheel Insan Party have four seats each. The BJP held a two-day internal meeting at Vaishaligarh in Vaishali district to deliberate on the party’s course in 2021. It was chaired by its Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh and ended on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Bihar farmer destroys ready-to-harvest crop ||Omprakash Yadav of Muktapur village in Bihar’s Samastipur district was happy with the cauliflower crop he had sown three months ago on his 5-acre land. Each of the vegetables had grown to weigh around 2.5 to 3kg and was ready to be harvested. But his joy evaporated when he tried to sell the produce in the mandi (wholesale market). Cauliflowers were fetching just Re 1 per kg, or Rs 100 per quintal, in the wholesale market. This would not cover even the Rs 150 per quintal required just to harvest the crop and take it to the market. A heartbroken Omprakash, 36, returned to his village and ploughed the field with a tractor to destroy the ready-to-harvest crop. “I have ploughed around 3.5 acres so far over the past two days. Around 1.5 acres still remain. I will plough it tomorrow (Wednesday). I had never expected to see such a day, but I now know the place of farmers in our country,” Omprakash told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The usual price for cauliflower ranges between Rs 700 and Rs 1,500 per quintal, he said. But there is a glut in the market this season and also a fall in demand allegedly because of the pandemic-induced economic strain. Omprakash’s act came at a time when farmers from different parts of the country are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against three new farm laws. The farmers are also demanding a legally guaranteed MSP (minimum support price) for all crops. At present, MSP is offered only for wheat and paddy. Bihar’s farmers like Omprakash take their produce to a private mandi held at the same bazar samiti or government mandi premises that the Nitish Kumar government had done away with when it scrapped the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in 2006. In the absence of government mandis, private merchants from nearby districts and Nepal decide the prices of agricultural produce. Omprakash said he spent Rs 150 to harvest every quintal of cauliflower, under various heads such as the payment of labourers who cut and pack them, sacks, thread to sew the sacks, transportation and hiring a coolie in the wholesale market. “I have taken the land on lease for Rs 25,000 per acre and spent over Rs 1 lakh per acre on cultivating cauliflower. Its seeds come at Rs 40,000 per kg. We have to spend on fertiliser, pesticide, labourers and irrigation. If nature is benevolent, the crop is good, and the market is fine, we can make as much as around Rs 5 lakh per acre. If not, the earnings come down. But it had never been so bad as this year,” he added. Omprakash, who lives in a joint family of nine members with his elder brother, had taken Rs 3 lakh as crop loan from a nationalised bank to cultivate the crop, and now is worried about how to repay it. “I have no idea why the prices are so low in the wholesale market. I don’t even know what the government has done to protect farmers like us. I have an entire family to take care of and I may have to spend the next few months begging everybody to give some more loan or to grant some reprieve,” Omprakash said. The family owns around 3.5 acres of land on which they are now cultivating wheat, potato, maize and beetroot. Omprakash had taken another 5 acres on lease to cultivate cauliflower to augment the family’s income and provide better education to the brothers’ five children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Rahul alleges Modi of defaming society except 'his capitalist friends'||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the Narendra Modi government had defamed every section of society except his capitalist friends as the Congress expressed shock at the establishment’s apathy towards the agitating farmers in this biting cold. Rahul tweeted: “For Modi Government: Dissenting students are anti-nationals. Concerned citizens are urban Naxals. Migrant labourers are Covid carriers. Rape victims are nobody. Protesting farmers are Khalistani. And crony capitalists are best friends.” Rahul has been attacking the Prime Minister for pursuing a “pro-rich policy” and repeatedly asserted that the new farm laws are designed to facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. Party leaders on Tuesday held a massive demonstration at the BJP’s headquarters in Delhi to protest against the new farm laws. The Punjab Congress had on Monday protested against the Union ministers maligning the farmers by alleging Khalistani and Maoist links with the movement. The Congress tweeted: “The food-giver is being called traitor and terrorist. The dictatorial sultanate has crossed all the limits of arrogance to insult the farmers.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted, recalling how the farmers of Bardoli had fought against British threats and coercion under the leadership of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. She said: “On Patel’s death anniversary, the Modi government should be reminded that farmers are not frightened by false propaganda and threats.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also took strong objection to the attempts to discredit the peaceful movement and asked the central government to accept the demands of the farmers. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “It is shocking that after 20 days of farmers’ protests in the bitter winter of Delhi, the government continues to stick to the ‘no repeal’ stand. “It is obvious that any agreement between farmers and government will necessarily require a new bill to be passed in Parliament. The simple way forward is to repeal the present laws and re-enact a new law based on the agreement. Repeal and re-enactment is a well-known legislative tool. The government should climb down from its high horse and reach an agreement with the farmers quickly.” The government has already announced that there would be no winter session of Parliament, demonstrating its intent to stick to the laws no matter how big the farmers’ protest become. Temperatures also dipped in Delhi on Tuesday, making staying in the open extremely difficult, but farmers said that thousands were on way to join them. The Congress, which demanded an immediate calling of a Parliament session, described the move to skip winter session as another blow to democracy. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Modi ji, decimation of ‘parliamentary democracy’ is complete. NEET/JEE exams can be held during Covid. Schools can be opened, universities can hold exams. Rallies can be held in Bihar-Bengal. But winter session of Parliament can’t be held. Any semblance of democracy left?” The Congress ran a campaign on Twitter under the tagline — The year it should have been — recalling how the Prime Minister mishandled the pandemic, the economy, the lockdown, the Chinese intrusions and women’s safety throughout the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Homeopathy can’t be sold as Covid cure: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that homeopathic, ayurvedic and unani practitioners can prescribe their respective alternative medicines only as preventive doses and immune system boosters but not as a cure for Covid-19. The court said no medical system, including allopathy, had claimed to have found a cure for the disease. The apex court noted that according to the guidelines issued by the Ayush ministry on March 6, homeopaths are permitted only to prescribe certain homeopathic medicines as “…preventive, prophylactic, symptom management of Covid-19-like illnesses and add-on interventions to the conventional care”, but not as a cure. “The high court, however, is right in its observation that no medical practitioner can claim that it can cure Covid-19. There is no such claim in other therapy including allopathy. The high court is right in observing that no claim for cure can be made in homeopathy. Homeopathy is contemplated to be used in preventing and mitigating Covid-19 as is reflected by the advisory and guidelines issued by the ministry of Ayush…,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said in a judgment. The Supreme Court passed the ruling while disposing of an appeal filed by the Kerala-based Dr AKB Sadbhavana Mission School of Homeo Pharmacy that was aggrieved by Kerala High Court’s direction on August 21 for action against homeopaths who claim cure in homeopathy for Covid-19 patients. Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, noted that the Ayush ministry guidelines clearly refer to certain homeopathy medicines as preventive, prophalytic and add-on interventions to the conventional therapy. “The above guidelines refer to homeopathy medicines as medicines for prophylaxis, amelioration and mitigation. The guidelines, however, specifically provide that ‘the prescription has to be given only by institutionally qualified practitioners’,” the bench said. According to the court, homeopathic practitioners are bound by rules from prescribing medicines as cure for Covid-19. “When statutory regulations themselves prohibit advertisement, there is no occasion for homeopathic medical practitioners to advertise that they are competent to cure Covid-19 disease. When the scientists of the entire world are engaged in research to find out proper medicine/vaccine for Covid-19, there is no occasion for making any observation as contained in paragraph with regard to homeopathic medical practitioners,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Why Niti Aayog CEO’s statement is a warning to the people||Placing India’s secular-democratic constitution in the background, while the six priests from Sringeri Math in Karnataka were chanting mantras from the Vedas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed “bhoomi pujan” for the new Parliament building on Thursday. In his usual style, he even quoted from Guru Nanak: “Jab tak sansar rahe, tab tak samvad rahe (So long as the world exists, dialogue too must exist).” Emphasising the point, the Prime Minister said that democracy was the soul of India. Anyone who applies their mind to these words would naturally think about the happenings at the borders of the national capital, where the “annadatas (providers)” of the country have realised the meaning of “dialogue” in the Modi era. Democracy is the political framework for dialogue that provides space for debate and dissent. People would in this context naturally remember the position taken by the CEO of the Niti Aayog on democracy itself. It was not for nothing that the Modi government dismantled the Planning Commission. For this government, everything connected with Jawaharlal Nehru is anathema. The Niti Aayog was invented by the RSS-controlled BJP as an alternative to the concept of planning. They think that the word “planning” is a stepping stone towards socialism. The Niti Ayog presents a glittering profile: “National Institute for Transforming India”. This establishment has within no time become a mirror for the thoughts and deeds of the Modi government. Many a time the Niti Ayog has proven to be a harbinger of the policy orientations of the Modi government. What its moots today as an idea can become the guiding principle of the government tomorrow. That is why the country has noted with anxiety the recent statement by the CEO of the Niti Ayog (Amitabh Kant). He was addressing a webinar, “The Road to Atmanirbhar Bharat”, organised by the Swarajya magazine. He said India was “too much of a democracy”, which made tough reforms difficult to execute. It was the revelation of a philosophy that locates democracy as a counter-current on the path to a self-reliant India, or atmanirbhar Bharat. While the whole nation stands united behind the farmers who are fighting against so-called reforms in agriculture, the Niti Ayog chief laments that tough reforms are difficult in India. He minced no words in praising his government, which had “shown the will to bring hard-headed reforms across sectors like mining, coal, labour, agriculture...”. Everyone in India knows what is happening in the country in the name of reforms. In every walk of life FDI has become the salvation mantra for the government. The government’s concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat itself is mortgaged to foreign capital. Almost all the reforms it has railroaded were blows to the foundations of democracy. Economic, social and political democracy in India is constantly under attack from the initiators of these hard-headed reforms. The basic rights to organise, differ and protest are brutally suppressed. The annadatas of the country, knocking at the borders of the national capital, are denied entry to the citadel of democracy where the elected government of the people sits. The concrete barricades, wire fences, water cannons and tear gas shells, together with the thousands of paramilitary forces deployed, speak volumes about the functioning of democracy in India. The Prime Minister must be aware of the way the provisions of Article 370 were abrogated, the CAA and NRC reforms were enacted, and labour law reforms and farm laws were imposed on the country. He must also have a basic understanding of the rights enshrined in Articles 14 (equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. The farmers, workers, students, Dalits and other deprived sections of society do have the right to question those “hard-headed reforms”. These reforms affect their inalienable right to lead a dignified life in a democratic country. The Prime Minister should understand the brewing discontent among the masses. The reason behind it is not the abundance of democracy but the growing disparity of wealth and living conditions. The stimulus packages announced during the pandemic did no justice to the poor. Migrant labourers, domestic workers and sanitary labourers were forgotten. The paltry benefits offered to them did not reach the majority of them. The crisis in the economy has arisen not because of “an act of God” or too much democracy. The policies evolved by the Niti Aayog and implemented by the government are the reason. The ruling circles intend to resolve it by providing concessions to wilful defaulters and foreign capital. The question is: people or profit? Here the government is coming out with dangerous propositions with far-reaching impacts, like using the (anti-terror law) UAPA to curtail democracy. This is to strangle the people’s right to differ so that the flow of capital for super profits remains unhindered. That is why the Niti Aayog CEO in his speech urged “huge amounts of political determination”. This was a call to the government to arm itself further with more and more oppressive laws. That was a caution to the nation and a warning to its people. The Prime Minister’s intention at the foundation stone ceremony was to hide the undemocratic path the government wants to pursue. This “swadeshi” government is keen to do it under the cover of a $5-trillion dollar economy, where only FDI will define the parameters of democracy. (Modi has said he hopes India will have a $5-trillion economy by 2024.) Binoy Viswam is secretary, CPI National Council, and leader of the party in Parliament||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Panel to manage Lingaraj temple ||The Odisha cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance to constitute a committee for managing the affairs of the 11th century Shree Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar and its properties, including those on its premises, other temples, sacred places and maths, for better administration and governance. The management will be on the lines of the procedure followed in the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on December 2 had visited the Lingaraj temple and assured the servitors that the state government will take steps for its better governance. The state government said in a release, “The detailed provision have been made in the proposed Ordinance covering all relevant aspects, such as constitution of managing committee, its composition, responsibilities and powers, administrator’s responsibilities and powers, maintenance and management of moveable and immovable properties of the temple, role and responsibilities of the servitors, constitution of the temple fund and its management.” “This apart, the government has recently proposed to undertake several developmental works for all-round development of Lingaraj temple which are required to be done on priority basis. Since the Odisha Assembly is not in session, the new law is proposed to be enacted through this ordinance,” the release said. Under the existing laws, all the maths and temples, except the Jagannath temple, are governed by the Endowment Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Odisha tableau plans for Republic Day parade rejected||Odisha will not be able to showcase its heritage and culture during the Republic Day parade this year after its tableau proposals were rejected by the selection committee. The Republic Day parade in New Delhi offers an opportunity to the states to put their art and culture on display through tableaus. The information and public relations department had invited proposals from artists for preparing tableaus for the state to be showcased during the Republic Day parade. “Initially eight proposals had been short-listed. After screening, we sent four proposals to Delhi. Later two proposals were sent to the Republic Day screening committee — one based on Jagannath culture (Nagarjuna Vesha — when the deities are dressed like warriors) and another on Buddhist culture. But they failed to impress the committee and Odisha lost the opportunity,” said a senior state government official. The proposals sent by the state were selected by a committee comprising experts from BK College of Arts and Crafts, secretary of Odisha Lalit Kala Akademi, state archaeology department, director, culture, and officials from the information and public relations department. Information and public relations director Krupasindhu Mishra said: “This time there are a number of restrictions due to Covid-19. The artists have put up their best effort. Perhaps they failed to give a good presentation before the selection committee. Many things such as colour combination and themes were taken into consideration by the selection committee during the presentation of the subject. There were times earlier when Odisha had failed to participate in the Republic Day parade. Next time we will certainly do better.” Gajendra Prasad Sahoo, one the artists with an expertise in making tableaus, told The Telegraph: “This time we have involved a new generation of artists while preparing the proposals. We wanted to give them an exposure. Perhaps, they failed to rise to the expectation. Only through failures one can learn. Odisha will certainly do well next time.” Last year, Odisha had showcased the Rukuna Rath Yatra of Lord Lingaraj during the parade. The tableau had replicated in miniature the art and architecture of the Lingaraj temple and Rukuna Rath. It had been adjudged the second best tableau and the accompanying cultural troupe had received the first prize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh vigilance department to probe IPS duo  ||The Uttar Pradesh vigilance department has started a probe into the assets of two suspended IPS officers — one accused of extorting and abetting the suicide of a businessman and the other of facilitating transfers and promotions in exchange for money. The vigilance investigation is in addition to the departmental inquiry for corruption against Manilal Patidar, the former superintendent of police of Mahoba district and now absconding, and Abhishek Dixit, senior superintendent of police of Allahabad. Uttar Pradesh police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anybody providing information leading to the arrest of Patidar, who is absconding ever since businessman Indrakant Tripathi died of a bullet injury on September 13. Tripathi had allegedly shot himself in his car at Kabrai on September 8. A day earlier, he had sent a video message to his contacts alleging that Patidar was demanding Rs 6 lakh every month from him and threatening to implicate him in a false case or kill him in an encounter. An inquiry conducted by a special investigation concluded that Tripathi had been under mental pressure and had committed suicide by shooting himself with his revolver. The report found Patidar guilty of abetting the suicide. Dixit, who was the senior superintendent of police of Allahabad, was suspended on September 9 on multiple complaints of corruption in transfers and postings in the department. The police on Monday announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for the arrest of Arvind Sen, a suspended deputy inspector-general, for his involvement in a corruption case in the veterinary department in 2018. Sen had allegedly accepted bribes while probing a tender scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||DU initiates process of changing curriculum for the third time in seven years||Delhi University (DU) has initiated the process of changing its curriculum for the third time in seven years, prompting academics to fear that frequent revisions with little funding could convert varsities into “experimental labs” without achieving the desired results. An expert committee headed by Prof. Vivek Suneja is examining possible changes to the existing curriculum in order to implement the government’s National Education Policy. The committee appointed by vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi held a meeting last week where it discussed, among other things, integrating skill-based courses with undergraduate programmes in science, humanities and commerce. According to the proposed structure being discussed by the committee, each programme will include courses in vocational skills. General BA, BSc and BCom courses at DU now do not have any skill component. In 2013, DU had introduced a Four-Year Undergraduate Programme (FYUP) that had skill-training programmes. In 2015, the Centre told DU to discontinue the FYUP, saying it did not have the approval of the visitor, the President of India. In 2015, DU had implemented the University Grants Commission (UGC)’s directive to varsities to introduce a Choice-Based Credit System (CBCS), allowing students of a particular stream to study up to 30 per cent of the syllabus of another discipline. But in 2019, the UGC modified the CBCS and asked universities to introduce a Learning Outcome-Based Framework (LOCF) with focus on skill enhancement. The universities are yet to implement them. Now, the government wants all public universities to implement the FYUP under the National Education Policy (NEP). The policy prescribes enhancing the duration of undergraduate courses from three years to four years with multiple exit options. Those completing four years will get a bachelors with research degree. The DU committee is also considering the integration of subjects on Indian languages with foundation courses in natural environment and ethics, two members said. Abha Dev Habib, a faculty member of Miranda House College and former executive council member of DU, said continuous changes in the curriculum were not an academically sound measure. “We have been witnessing continuous changes in curriculum since 2010. Any change in the academic curriculum takes time to show results. But changing the curriculum every two years is not an academically sound measure. We should not convert universities into experimental labs,” she said. Habib said the plan to integrate skill courses should be backed by understanding of the system. “There is hardly any space in colleges to add labs for skill courses, nor is there any promise of grants. The colleges have implemented the quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS) without expansion in infrastructure and faculty strength,” Habib said After Class XII, students have the option of joining professional courses such as engineering or medicine, or skill courses at the polytechnics or general courses such as BA, BCom and BSc. “Integration of skill courses with general courses will dilute the quality of skill training and also the general BA, BCom and BSc courses. Ultimately, the quality of degrees awarded by public universities will be diluted. It will help private universities to prosper,” Habib said. DU executive council member J.L. Gupta questioned the procedure of setting up the Suneja committee. “The Academic Council, comprising deans, heads of departments and teachers, is the appropriate body to decide academic matters. If they wanted, they could have set up a committee. But the vice-chancellor has set up a committee without going to the Academic Council. This is wrong,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
