18-12-2020||India||Punjab CM ridicules Kejriwal as a ‘big fraud’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ridiculed his counterpart Arvind Kejriwal on Friday over his alleged double standards over the farm laws, a day after the Delhi Assembly passed a resolution against the legislations and the AAP leader tore up its copies. Singh described Kejriwal's act as "theatrics" as the Delhi government had given approval to the "black farm laws" by notifying one of them last month, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party leader was indulging in "petty politics" now. "This shows Kejriwal and the AAP have a different face for the people, with totally contrarian intentions hidden inside," the Congress leader said, calling the Delhi chief minister a "big fraud". Singh termed both the AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal a "bunch of hypocrites whose double standards on the farm laws had exposed their lack of commitment to the farmers". "The AAP and Akali Dal MLAs never say what they mean, and vice versa," Singh said in an informal interaction with the media in Mohali after the launch of the second phase of 'Punjab Smart Connect Scheme', where smartphones were distributed to another 80,000 Class 12 students of government schools. According to Singh, the AAP and the Akali Dal legislators extended support when the state government passed bills in the Assembly to negate the Centre's farm laws, but both the parties changed their tune to "suit" their political interests. "And now, in a bid to exploit the farmers' agitation, they have again done a U-turn on the issue and are projecting themselves as the messiahs of the farmers, whose interests both parties had been instrumental in pawning off to the BJP," he said. "While SAD was party to the introduction of the farm ordinances in the first place, the AAP government in Delhi had been quick to implement one of the draconian laws," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||India, China resume talks on border situation at eastern Ladakh||India and China on Friday resumed their diplomatic talks over the standoff at easten Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and agreed to continue working towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points. At a meeting held virtually, both sides agreed that the next round of talks should be done soon so that troops can be disengaged completely in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) said. The talks were held under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. “The two sides agreed that based on the guidance provided by senior leaders and the agreements reached between the two Foreign Ministers and Special Representatives, they would continue to work towards ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector at the earliest,” it said in a statement. “The two sides noted that the seventh and eighth rounds of senior commanders meetings held on October 12 and November 6 respectively had in-depth discussions in this regard and that these discussions had also contributed to ensuring stability on the ground,” the MEA said. It said India and China agreed to maintain close consultations at the diplomatic and military level. “They agreed that the next round of senior commanders meeting should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity,” it said. The meeting comes a day after India on Thursday hoped to hold a discussion with China to agree on a mutually acceptable solution for the complete disengagement of their troops. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few months to resolve the standoff. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said the two sides continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels and these discussions have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other's positions. “It is our expectation that the further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” he said. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Rajnath points at changing nature of war ||Apparently referring to the impact of social media in conflicts between nations, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said the reach of the mobile phone now was bigger than that of a missile. Addressing the annual Military Literature Festival here, Singh warned that different kinds of security threats may emerge in the future This event is important from another point of view, he said through video conference. "As times change, the nature of threats and wars is also changing. In the future, other security-related issues may come before us. He added that conflicts are gradually becoming comprehensive in the manner never imagined earlier. Possibly alluding to the power of social media and mobile apps, he said, Today the range (marak Kshamta) of mobile has crossed even the reach of a missile, he said. He added that the enemy can now reach people even without crossing any borders and urged everyone to play the role of a soldier. We should remain alive to these dangers and save ourselves from wrong and misleading information and save others too, and festivals like this can play a key role in this, he said, urging literary figures to make use of their talent to the full for this. The defence minister did not specifically refer to China. But in recent months, since the standoff between the two sides began at the Line of Actual Control, India has banned several Chinese mobile apps, citing concerns related to national security and privacy. These included popular TikTok and WeChat apps. Singh said this year's edition of the festival was special as the country is observing the 50th year of 1971 India-Pakistan War. He also said there are many veterans around who fought that war and urged the youth to learn from them. The defence minister said war games played on mobile phones were no match to their real-life experiences. Singh said he was scheduled to participate in last year's edition of MLF but could not come to Chandigarh due to a Parliament session. But he had kept himself regularly updated on the festival events, including book releases and panel discussions, the minister said. All these events give a close insight to the people, especially the youth, into military life, he said. He said the festival also gave common people a better understanding of the functioning of the armed forces and instilled patriotic spirit in the youth. Punjab for decades has been the land of the brave and it is only natural that such festivals started from here. The festival is also a tribute to those warriors who gave up everything for the nation's sake, he said. Earlier, Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore and former Jammu and Kashmir Governor N N Vohra also spoke. The annual event is a joint initiative of the Punjab Government and the armed forces. It is ending on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Farm laws were long overdue, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the new agricultural laws brought by his government have not come overnight, but were long overdue and insisted that the existing regime of support price for farm produce will continue. Political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers demanded such agri reforms for long, he said and attacked the Opposition for misleading cultivators on the issue of MSP (minimum support price) and APMCs. Opposition parties, when in power, sat over the Swaminathan committee report for years, but the BJP-led government implemented its recommendations in the interest of farmers, said the PM as the ongoing protests by cultivators outside Delhi entered the 23rd day. The new agriculture laws have not come overnight but political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers have demanded them for a long time, Modi said in a virtual address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh. "The new agriculture laws have not come overnight but political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers have demanded it for a long time. "In the last 20-22 years, the Center and the state governments have deliberated on these agriculture reforms in detail. Farmer bodies, agriculture scientists and farmers too were continuously demanding them," he said. "In fact, farmers should seek answers from those opposing them now as to why they advocated these farm laws in their manifestos for getting their votes, but never fulfilled the promise. It was not their priority," Modi said. "Their problem is how Modi has done it. Why Modi should get credit for it. Give credit to your manifesto and not to me. I just want the progress of farmers, but stop misleading them on the issue," he added. "If you see their manifestos, you will find that today's reforms are not different from what they had promised," the prime minister said. "You are using farmers' shoulders to fire at the government," he said, hitting out at the opposition. "We are asking them again and again to point out problems in the new farm laws, but they don't have any answer. Those who have lost their political space in the country are misleading farmers that they will lose their lands," he said. "I wish to expose these political parties now. The report of the Swaminathan committee is an example. When the report came, they sat on it for eight years. "Farmers were agitating for it, but they were not bothered. As they didn't want to pay farmers more, they sat on the report," Modi alleged. "Our government treated farmers as "annadata" (one who provides food) and implemented the Swaminathan committee report. We have given 1.5 times more MSP than the cost of production," the prime minister added. "Two years ago it was promised that loans will be waived, but farmers of Madhya Pradesh know better than me how many farmers got benefit in reality. In Rajasthan, farmers are still waiting for the loan waiver," he said, attacking the Congress which rules in Rajasthan and was in power in MP until March this year. As to the fear that MSP for crops will be done away with, the prime minister said, "Our government is so serious about MSP that it announces it for crops even before sowing. "Over six months have passed since the implementation of the new agriculture laws, and crops were purchased at MSP even during the coronavirus pandemic and in the same mandis (APMC markets) where farmers used to sell (earlier). "No sane person will accept that MSP will be scrapped." "Nothing will be a bigger lie and conspiracy than this," Modi said, assuring that MSP for crops will continue. "Those opposing the farm laws were also spreading lies about Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs)," the prime minister said. Under the new law farmers are free to sell the produce in the existing APMC mandis if they get more price, he said. "Not a single mandi was closed in the last six months. In fact, the government is spending Rs 500 crore on their modernization," the prime minister said. Referring to the new law on contracts between private entities and farmers, he said such agreements existed earlier too. The new law makes such agreements more binding on private entities, and they can not run away from their commitment to the farmer even if they suffer a loss, Modi said. He will address the farmers again on December 25 on the issue, the PM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||CBI files charge sheet against all four accused in Hathras case||The Central Bureau of Investigation filed a charge sheet on Friday against all four accused in the alleged gang rape and murder case of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, officials said. The top investigation agency invoked charges of gang rape and murder against accused Sandeep, Luvkush, Ravi and Ramu, their lawyer told reporters outside the local court in Hathras. The court has taken cognisance of the matter, he added. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped by the four accused from an “upper caste” community in Hathras on September 14. She later died on September 29 while undergoing treatment at the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. The matter came to national attention all the way more when the police handling the case cremated her body in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out :as per the wishes of the family”. According to officials, the CBI looked into the role of the four accused men who are in judicial custody. They were also put through different forensic tests at the Forensic Science Laboratory in Gandhinagar, they said. The CBI investigators had also met doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, where the victim was treated after the alleged gangrape on September 14, they said. The Yogi Adityanath Government had faced a lot of flak for the case which was later transferred to the CBI. The CBI had constituted a team to probe the incident and handed over the probe to its Ghaziabad unit. The team has already recorded statements of family members of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||SC grants interim protection to Bengal BJP leaders facing criminal charges||The Supreme Court on Friday approved interim protection to five Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including Mukul Roy and MPs Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arjun Singh, in criminal cases lodged against them in Bengal. The top court directed the state police not to take any coercive action against them. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought response from the Bengal government pertaining to five separate pleas filed by the BJP leaders, alleging that the election-bound state had imposed criminal cases to defer them from political activities. It said that the interim protection from coercive action will continue till the next date of hearing. The top court posted the batch of pleas for further hearing in the second week of January. Besides Roy, Vijayvargiya and Singh, two other BJP leaders Sourav Singh and Pawan Kumar Singh have moved the apex court for protection in cases lodged against them in the state. While granting protection to these five leaders, the bench directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to submit in a sealed cover a report regarding alleged scuffle between TMC workers and security staff of Bengal BJP leader Kabir Shankar Bose, who has filed a separate plea in the apex court. During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for petitioner Arjun Singh said that 64 criminal cases have been filed against the BJP leader in 2019 after he had joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaving Trinmul Congress. “I am an MP and these cases have been filed after I left TMC”, Rohatgi said, adding, “The first case against Arjun Singh was registered on March 24, 2019 after he left the TMC .” Vijayvargiya's counsel told the bench that the BJP leader is an MP from Madhya Pradesh and false cases have been lodged against him in Bengal. “I am an MP from Madhya Pradesh and just because I am going to Bengal due to some party works, false cases have been filed against me,” Vijayvargiya's counsel said. The BJP leaders have also sought investigation by an independent agency into the cases registered against them in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Twitter to relaunch verification policy from January 20||Twitter on Friday said it will relaunch its account verification process from January 20, whereby active and authentic user accounts can sport the "blue verified badge". The enforcement of the new process will also see the microblogging platform removing the verified badge from inactive and incomplete accounts. In November, Twitter had announced that it will relaunch its account verification process in early 2021 and had asked the public to share feedback between November 24 and December 8 on a draft of its new verification policy. The company had paused its public verification programme three years ago, after getting feedback that it felt arbitrary and confusing to many people. "In the two weeks during our public feedback period, we received more than 22,000 survey responses and learned so much about how we can improve our policy... We'll begin enforcing this policy on January 20, 2021, which is also when we'll begin automatically removing the verified badge from inactive and incomplete accounts," Twitter said in a blogpost. It added that this new policy will lay the foundation for future improvements by defining what verification means, who is eligible for verification and why some accounts might lose verification "to ensure the program is more equitable". Twitter said based on the feedback, it has updated some areas of its verification policy. The social media platform has updated its definition to no longer require a profile bio or header image, updated its references to Wikipedia to better align with the encyclopedias' published standards for notability and article quality, and clarified the titles of the 'News' category to include 'News and Journalists' and the 'Sports' category to include 'Sports and esports' to be more inclusive. Twitter has also added a reference in its 'Entertainment' category to more clearly include digital content creators. "We heard feedback that measuring the minimum follower count requirement on a per-country basis wasn't always the right approach, so we've updated this to be on a per-region basis to make our follower count requirements less susceptible to spam and more equitable across geographies," it said. Users will be able to access the self-serve application process through the Account Settings page on the web and in-app. The process will include asking applicants to select a category for their verified status and confirming their identity via links and other supporting materials. "We plan to use both automated and human review processes to ensure that we are reviewing applications thoughtfully and in a timely manner. We also plan to give people the option to share demographic information after completing the new verification application so that we can better measure and improve the equity of our verification process," it added. Twitter said it has started rolling out profile labels for political candidates, government accounts and state-affiliated media. "In addition to the changes we're making as we re-introduce verification, we're also working on new ways to designate different account types, starting with automated accounts and memorial accounts," it said. Twitter noted that many people had suggested it add categories for verification including academics, scientists and religious leaders and that it plans to explore adding dedicated categories for these to the policy sometime next year. On removal of the badge from inactive and incomplete accounts, Twitter said it defines a complete account as one that has either a verified email address or phone number, a profile image, and a display name. "If your account is at risk of losing its verified badge, you'll receive an automated email and an in-app notification informing you of what changes need to avoid automatic removal of your blue verified badge. As long as you make those changes before January 20, 2021, your account will not lose its badge," it said. Twitter added that it is not planning to automatically remove the verified badge from inactive accounts of people who are no longer living, and is working on building a way to memorialise these accounts in 2021. "Under our policy, we may also remove verification from accounts that are found to be in severe or repeated violation of the Twitter Rules. We will continue to evaluate such accounts on a case-by-case basis, and will make improvements in 2021 on the relationship between enforcement of our rules and verification," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India|| Covid vaccination to be voluntary, confirms health ministry||Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary, the Union Health Ministry has said while underlining that the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries. The ministry further stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of the past history of infection with Covid-19 as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. It also said that a protective level of antibodies generally develops two weeks after receiving the second dose. The ministry listed a series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday night and responded to questions like if taking a vaccine was mandatory, how long does it take for the antibodies to develop and if it was necessary for a Covid recovered person to take the vaccine. "Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers," the ministry said in response to a question on if it is mandatory to take the shot. The ministry said that vaccine trials are under different stages of finalisation. The government is geared to launch a vaccine for Covid-19 soon, it said. Six vaccines- one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, second one developed by Zydus Cadila, the third one by Gennova, Oxford vaccine, the trial of which is conducted by Serum Institute of India, Sputnik V vaccine which is being manufactured by Dr Reddy's Lab, Hyderabad, in collaboration with Russia's Gamaleya National Centre and the sixth one manufactured by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, in collaboration with MIT, USA are undergoing clinical trials in India. On whether a vaccine will be safe as it is being tested and introduced in a short span of time and what can be the possible side-effects, the ministry said vaccines will be introduced in the country only after the regulatory bodies clear it based on its safety and efficacy. "Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced only when the safety is proven. As is true for other vaccines, the common side effects in some individuals could be a mild fever, pain, etc., at the site of injection," the ministry said in the FAQs. It said states have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery. Two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken by an individual to complete the vaccination schedule, it stated. The ministry said anyone taking medicines for illnesses like cancer, diabetes, hypertension etc., can take the Covid-19 vaccine as persons with one or more of these comorbid conditions are considered high-risk category and they need to get the vaccination. In response to a question on whether the vaccine will be given to everyone simultaneously, the ministry said that based on the potential availability of vaccines, the government has selected priority groups to be vaccinated as they are at higher risk. In the initial phase, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to the priority group- health care and front-line workers. The 50 plus age group may also begin early based on vaccine availability. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number regarding the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries, the ministry said in the FAQs. On why healthcare providers and frontline workers are being chosen for receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said the government has prioritised the most at-risk/high risk groups which will get the vaccine first. Healthcare providers have led the battle against Covid-19 from the front. The government wants them to be able to continue your work, without the fear of risk associated with the virus. "Therefore, healthcare and frontline workers are among the first group of people to be vaccinated," it said. The ministry said registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination for Covid-19. Only after registration the information on the session site to visit and time will be shared. Following online registration, the beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number on the due date, place and time of vaccination. ID with Photo such as driving license, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, PAN Card, passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, passport Pension Document, service identity card issued to employees by Central/ State Govt./ Public Limited Companies and voter ID may be produced at the time of registration. On getting a due dose of vaccine, the beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number. After all doses of vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary, the ministry said. On preventive measures and precautions, the ministry said, "We request you to rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. "Inform the nearest health authorities/ANM/ASHA in case you feel any discomfort or uneasiness subsequently. Remember to continue following key Covid Appropriate Behaviours like wearing of mask, maintaining hand sanitization and physical distance," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Fire safety audit must for all dedicated Covid hospitals, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed all the states to carry out a fire safety audit of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the country to prevent fire incidents in medical institutions. The apex court also directed dedicated COVID-19 hospitals to take a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department within four weeks and said that failure to do so will invite punitive action. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that those hospitals, whose fire NOC has expired, will have to get it renewed within four weeks. The bench, also comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said that issue of political rallies and observance of COVID-19 guidelines will be looked into by the Election Commission. The apex court had earlier taken cognisance of a fire incident in a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot in which several patients had died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||SC issues show-cause notice to comedian Kunal Kamra, comic artist Rachita Taneja ||The Supreme Court issued show-cause notices to stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja on Friday for their alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah sought response from both in six weeks on the notices issued in two separate cases. It, however, exempted them from personal appearances in the cases. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was a time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The attorney general had also given consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against Taneja, stating that the caricatures posted by her on social media were intended to denigrate the Supreme Court and lower its authority in the eyes of the public. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. The top court had reserved its order on Thursday on a batch of pleas seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra and Taneja. During the hearing on Thursday, advocate Nishant R Katneshwarkar, who appeared for one of the petitioners, claimed that Kamra had posted several tweets scandalous to the judiciary. In the plea against Taneja, senior advocate P S Narasimha and advocate Namit Saxena appeared for law student Aditya Kashyap seeking contempt action against the cartoonist. Kashyap had said the petition highlighted three particularly outrageous and contemptuous posts that were crafted, posted and shared by Taneja through her social media handles (@sanitarypanels) on various platforms with the malicious intent of scandalising and lowering the authority of the apex court and to prejudice and interfere with the due course of judicial proceedings. The plea has sought a direction that Taneja is restrained from publishing contemptuous posts on social media that scandalise and undermine the authority of the top court. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. They have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea has alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally on the verge of touching one crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 99.79 lakh with 22,890 new infections being reported in a day, while total recoveries crossed the 95 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Friday. With 338 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,44,789, while the total COVID-19 cases mounted to 99,79,447, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95,20,827, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.40 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below four lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 3,13,831 active cases in the country which comprise 3.14 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,89,18,646 samples have been tested so far with 11,13,406 samples being tested on Thursday. The 338 new fatalities include 65 from Maharashtra, 44 from West Bengal, 35 from Delhi and 27 from Kerala. Total 1,44,789 deaths reported so far in the country include 48,499 from Maharashtra followed by 11,981 from Karnataka, 11,942 from Tamil Nadu, 10,182 from Delhi, 9,235 from West Bengal, 8,136 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,069 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,150 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Centre encroaching on rights of states, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday accused the Centre of blatantly interfering in the Bengal administration, saying its move to transfer police officers in the state was an "assault" on federalism. The TMC government in Bengal led by Mamata Banerjee is strongly opposing the Centre's move to send three IPS officers, who were involved in the security of BJP chief J P Nadda during his recent visit to Bengal, on central deputation. "I condemn the Centre's blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilize," Kejriwal tweeted. The three IPS officers were responsible for the security of Nadda whose convoy was attacked during his recent visit to the state scheduled for Assembly polls in 2021. The Centre wants them shifted on account of alleged dereliction of duty that led to the attack on Nadda's convoy in Diamond Harbour constituency of TMC MP and Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. The Bengal Chief Minister has slammed the Centre saying the move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's "unconstitutional" and completely unacceptable, she has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Unjust laws will face massive protests: Chidambaram||When a massive number of people think that a law is unjust, there will be massive protests, P. Chidambaram told the Supreme Court on Thursday. “Remember what happened in the US against the Vietnam war, in Paris.... Farmers have not blocked the roads. The farmers only wanted to march to Delhi in a peaceful manner. We must see who has stopped them. It is the police who have blocked them,” said Chidambaram, appearing for the Punjab government in the farmers’ case. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said: “The question whether a mob should be allowed into the city or not is a question best left to the police and not the court. We don’t have the infrastructure.” Chidambaram interjected to say: “This is not a mob but farmers.” The CJI clarified: “I didn’t use the word ‘mob’ in the Chicago sense.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Centre to Supreme Court: No assurance on farm laws||The Centre on Thursday refused to assure the Supreme Court that it would not implement the three new farm laws till the bench had heard all the parties, setting up an exchange on who was being adamant. Any such assurance would encourage the “adamant” farmers to avoid talking to the government, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal said. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde retorted: “They (farmers) may say you (the government) are adamant.” The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, made it clear it would not “interfere with the protest” and that “at this stage the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment”. It, however, stressed that while the entire country sympathised with the farmers, the protests should be non-violent and not cause any inconvenience to the public. When senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Delhi resident Janeshwar who wants the farmers evicted, kept harping on the city’s roads being blocked, Justice Bobde asked him sharply whether the protesters had blocked, or threatened to block, “the entire city”. The court said that although it would go into recess from the weekend and reopen only on January 4, the parties would be free to approach any vacation bench in between. In particular, it said, the various farmers’ unions could present their views on the composition of the committee the court wants to appoint to resolve the issue. The court clarified that it would not at the moment decide the validity of the new farm laws but focus on resolving the dispute through the proposed committee. “We won’t decide on the validity of the law…. We will first decide on the right of citizens to freely move across India,” the bench said. The court is considering two petitions demanding eviction of the farmers from Delhi’s borders on the ground of their blockade causing hardship to residents, and a third seeking repeal of the farm laws. “Mr Attorney-general, will you assure the court that you will not implement the law, till we hear all…. We are not staying the law but you can just say that no action will be taken,” Justice Bobde said. “No, that is not possible because then the farmers will not come for discussion,” Venugopal said. The Chief Justice said: “It (the assurance) is to enable the discussion.... We don’t think they (farmers) will accept your (government’s) conclusions. Let the committee decide. We have observed that you have not been successful in negotiations.” Last week, the apex court had rapped the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny, saying: “Some deference should be shown to the court.” A give and take on the issue of the right to protest versus citizens’ right to life took place between the bench and Salve, who was appearing also for the states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, whose borders with Delhi have been besieged by the farmers. Salve insisted that the blockade was affecting “our right to life” and had raised the prices of fruits and vegetables, and that the farmers’ arrival in “droves” had increased the risk of Covid-19 infection. “We are making it clear, we recognise the fundamental right to protest against law, but it shouldn’t result in damage to anyone else’s life,” the Chief Justice said. “We will not interfere in it (the protest) but the manner of protest is something we will look into. We will ask the Centre in what way the manner of protest can be altered.” Salve conjured up gory possibilities, saying the agitators must in writing own responsibility for anything untoward, such as the burning of a taxpayer’s car or destruction of public or private property. But Justice Bobde recalled that a fine Bombay High Court had imposed on the Shiv Sena after an unruly protest had not yet been recovered. “We cannot make them give deposits with the government before the protest,” he said. As Salve held forth on Delhi’s roads being blocked, the CJI asked: “Is the entire city, and entry routes blocked? Don’t gloss over this point, have they said they’ll block all roads to Delhi?” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and Venugopal intervened to say the farmers had blocked all the entry points to Delhi. Advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government, denied any blockade in the capital. He alleged the Centre was making “mischievous submissions” without affidavits. The Centre had made BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Haryana respondents in the case but not the Delhi or Punjab governments. The court order later underlined that according to the farmers, “the roads are blocked by the police in order to prevent the entries of the protesters/farmers to the city of Delhi”. Justice Bobde said the court wanted the committee to include independent experts like journalist P. Sainath, who has written on rural matters, poverty and inequality, apart from farmer leaders and government representatives. Appearing for Congress-ruled Punjab, former Union minister and senior advocate P. Chidambaram said the state had “no objection to a committee of eminent people having a dialogue between farmers and the Centre”. The court’s written order said: “We clarify that this court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law. “We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police. “The writ petitions challenging the said laws have been filed before this court and will be decided in due course. In order to bring about an effective solution to the present stalemate between the protesters and the Government of India, we consider it appropriate in the interests of justice to constitute a committee comprising of independent and impartial persons including experts in the field of agriculture for the purpose. This may not be possible without hearing all the necessary parties. “The pendency of these matters will not prevent the parties from resolving the issue amicably.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi writes to Lok Sabha Speaker seeking intervention||Rahul Gandhi has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla about the functioning of parliamentary standing committees, seeking his intervention to ensure that agendas are fixed according to these panels’ roles and objectives. Sources said Rahul had decided to write the letter after Wednesday’s experience at a meeting of the standing committee on defence, where the army brass were made to discuss the colours and designs of uniforms instead of critical concerns relating to national security and strategic affairs. Rahul is said to have expressed dismay at time being wasted on matters that could have been decided by the defence forces themselves. Sources said Rahul’s letter urged the Speaker to ensure that the discussions and presentations held in the committee “are in consonance with the role and objective of the institution”. Regretting that committee chairman and BJP member Jual Oram had not allowed him to speak, the Congress MP entreated the Speaker to protect the right of elected members to express their views at the panel meetings. A member of the committee on defence said that at Wednesday’s meeting, Rahul had said: “Our job is to discuss critical national security matters of a strategic nature.” He had contended that the topic and the nature of the presentation did not do justice to the category and level of discussion expected in the committee. Rahul is said to have raised these points in the letter to the Speaker as well, expressing “dismay” at the content of the discussion and the way the meeting was conducted. Proceedings of the department-related standing committees and other parliamentary panels are kept confidential so that the members do not feel compelled to blindly follow the party line at the discussions. Although the members are not expected to speak to the media about the proceedings at the meetings, it is not exceptional for information, particularly relating to conflicts along party lines, to be leaked. Wednesday’s incident was widely reported although Rahul did not speak to the media about it. A source said Rahul had underlined in his letter that the standing committee on defence, being the premier interface between the defence forces and elected representatives, is meant to provide legislative oversight for the policies and decisions of the defence ministry. He has told the Speaker he feels disturbed that the panel chairman got the Chief of the Defence Staff and the leaderships of the army, navy and air force, who have important matters to deal with, to spend an entire afternoon explaining the colours and types of uniforms and insignia worn by the various ranks. Congress sources said the committee chairman had asked the members before the meeting to suggest matters they thought were important enough for discussion. Since Rahul was in his constituency, Wayanad, on the date of the last meeting, he had written to the chairman suggesting these issues for discussion: “1. Our strategy against China’s aggressive posture on our northern border in coordination with Pakistan. 2. Our response to China’s reusable autonomous armed drones and unmanned systems strategy, its approach to information warfare and its rocket, strategic force and space capabilities. 3. The inter-governmental agreement on the purchase of Rafale warplanes.” While the government’s reluctance to discuss details of the Chinese intrusion with Opposition members has been obvious, accepting Rahul’s demand to reopen the Rafale debate too would be out of the question for the ruling dispensation. The committee chairman fixed military uniforms as the agenda for Wednesday’s discussion. Congress members, who thought the border situation was too serious to be ignored, were further outraged when they realised the presentation would not be on the logistics or procurement of uniforms but on their colour and design. Rahul has reaffirmed his concern in the letter to the Speaker, stating: “You are aware that we are currently facing a serious national security challenge on our borders and that China has forcibly occupied our territory and martyred 20 of our soldiers. There are many critical matters to discuss at a time like this.” A panel member recalled what Rahul had said at the meeting: “The officers in the room are the best strategic minds the country has and it is disrespectful to their tremendous skills and experience to make them do a presentation to us on the types of uniforms and badges our forces wear.” Rahul insisted that it was not the committee’s place to tell the armed forces what to wear. “India’s defence forces are independent institutions and what they wear is their decision to make, in accordance with their history, traditions and practice,” he had said. Rahul has now explained to the Speaker how Oram disallowed him from speaking despite support for him from other members. He has written that he had to quietly leave the room when he was not allowed to speak despite several requests. The chairman had firmly said: “Aap nahin bolenge (You will not speak).” On Thursday, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar accused Rahul of having no respect for constitutional procedures, claiming he had attended only two of the 14 meetings of the standing committee on defence. “Rahul Gandhi should know that Parliament’s standing committee is not a place to protest. We strongly condemn his move to walk out,” Javadekar said. “In the last one-and-a-half years, Rahul Gandhi has attended only two of its 14 meetings,” Javadekar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Direct khap participation to swell farmer ranks||The heads of all the 15 khaps or traditional sub-caste councils in western Uttar Pradesh set off for Delhi’s Ghazipur border on Thursday afternoon with about 100 supporters each to join the farmers’ dharna against the three new farm laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the khaps had been sending food, cots and other essentials for the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, but he had now asked them to join in directly. “Their direct participation means a lot to us. Each khap leader has a following of over 10 lakh people. Let the government imagine what will happen if they and all their followers descend on Delhi’s borders,” Tikait said. Each khap represents a gotra (clan or patriline) within the farmer-dominated Jat community. The khaps command immense clout in the villages and, despite lacking legal authority, continue to discharge their traditional responsibility of settling disputes or issuing diktats on community matters. Some among the 84 khaps in western Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana have earned notoriety as kangaroo courts by ordering murders of inter-caste or intra-gotra couples or banning western clothes and mobile phones for women. The 15 khap leaders of western Uttar Pradesh, all aged above 60, arrived at Baraut in Baghpat district on Thursday morning and held a meeting till afternoon, chalking out their strategy. Among them were Naresh Tikait who heads the Baliyan khap, Chaudhary Virendra Singh (Latiyan khap), Baba Surajmal (Battisa khap) and Surendra Singh (Desh khap). They then set off on the 150km journey to the Ghazipur border along the Meerut-Delhi highway in separate convoys of tractors, tractor trailers and cars. They expect to reach the Ghazipur border, near Noida, on Friday, Virendra Singh said. “Lakhs of people want to join us. We’ll halt in several villages on our way to ask them to wait for the next round of instructions,” he said. “Currently, there are only 100 people with each khap leader. The others eager to travel to Delhi’s borders will do so when the government uses force against us.” He added: “We request the government to repeal the new farm laws instead of irritating us.” Sources said the khap members and others accompanying the khap chiefs were from 150 villages. Ravindra Dauraliya, BKU divisional (Meerut) president, said: “We are arranging food, blankets and everything else the khap leaders and their followers need for a comfortable stay at the dharna site. They (khap leaders) are highly respected in their areas and need special attention.” He said the police had put up barricades at several places to disrupt the khap leaders’ journey but added that they would make it to the Ghazipur border “at any cost”. The khap panchayats have also decided to block all the highways connecting Uttar Pradesh with Uttarakhand and Delhi on December 19 to mount pressure on the government to repeal the new farm laws. Rakesh Tikait, who is on dharna at the Ghazipur border, said: “The way the Centre is trying to divide the farmers by sending its people to infiltrate our protest and create confusion is a clear indication that our demand will not be accepted easily. That’s why we requested the khap leaders to join the movement directly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Farm bills: Govt replays hardsell and suspicions||The government, which has hit a stone wall of resistance from the farmers’ unions, on Thursday switched to a direct appeal to the peasantry with an eight-page open letter from agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The letter repeated all the official claims about the benefits of the three contentious farm laws and the conspiracy theories about the ongoing protest that is gathering steam. The open letter, released after a meeting of the BJP leadership and senior ministers at the party headquarters on Thursday afternoon, appears to be an attempt to ensure that more farmers do not join the protest by telling them that the union leaders are being misled by political parties and also disruptive forces who are not interested in the welfare of the country. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court had decided to form a committee to resolve the farmers’ agitation, saying the government’s negotiations would “again fail” and the dispute would “soon become a national issue” if allowed to fester. Tomar sought to play the nationalism card by reminding farmers that the protests were happening at a time when soldiers were dealing with heightened tensions on the Leh-Ladakh border. He said that because of the protests, supplies were being forced to be ferried to the forces by air. However, the fact is that because snow blocks mountain passes to Ladakh for at least four months every winter, the military had already moved over thousands of tonnes of supplies to the area by September itself. A Reuters report of September 16 had quoted the chief of staff of the army’s 14 Corps, Maj. Gen. Arvind Kapoor as stating: “All the supplies that we need have already been pushed to wherever they are required.” While alleging that certain farmers’ organisations have been misled by a web of lies woven by Opposition parties, Tomar also said that the government was constantly talking to the unions to address their concerns. Though both sides have been open to talks, there has been no official contact between them for a week now. Without referring to any specific corporate house or product, Tomar has also commented on the farmers’ call to boycott telecom provider Jio, alleging that there was a hidden agenda in the protest action at a time when the nation was working for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” and being “vocal for local”. Hours later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted Tomar’s letter and urged all farmers to read it. Soon, further evidence emerged that the government has gone into a messaging overdrive. Its publicity arm, the Press Information Bureau, sent out bulk emails of two booklets — one on the special relationship the Modi government has with Sikhs and another on “Putting Farmers First” — to journalists. Both the booklets have been in circulation for over a week now. Ten economists who work on agricultural policy have written a letter to Tomar, echoing the demand for repeal of the three farm laws. “We do believe that improvements and changes are required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, but the reforms brought by these Acts do not serve that purpose. They are based on wrong assumptions and claims about why farmers are unable to get remunerative prices, about farmers not having freedom to sell wherever they like under the previously existing laws, and about regulated markets not being in the farmers’ interests,” the letter said. Detailing their reasons, the economists said amending a few clauses of the three laws would not be sufficient to address the concerns of the farmers, calling for a repeal followed by wider discussions with all stakeholders on the measures needed for equitable and sustainable growth of the sector. The protesting farmers are sticking to their guns despite the bitter cold, demoralising deaths of protesters and the efforts being made by the government to stop further mobilisation.  In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the call for the “Dilli Chalo” protest action, said: “The central government is coming up with new spins every day to discredit and denigrate the very people who have elected it and given it the right to govern. “This is unacceptable in democratic India. The grammar of democratic governance must be articulated by the government and constitutional institutions like courts exist for checks and balances, not as replacement of the obligations to be performed by the political executive,” the statement said. The farmers’ unions refused to comment on the Supreme Court’s observations in the case, maintaining that they would speak only after consulting their lawyers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: Castro keeps company, so does Gorky||Protesting farmers, who have been holding fort at the Singhu border for over 20 days, are keeping monotony and boredom at bay by adding new books to their reading list — day after day.  For many, it is a newfound love. Thirty-two-year-old Harbans Singh, who has been camping for the past one week, said he can’t recall the last time he had picked up a book for reading. His reasons for doing it now: “to keep tempers down” and “to get inspired by the greats”. “There are many like me who have started reading books during the protest only. Currently, I am reading Punjab Tera ki Banu by novelist Jaswant Singh Kanwal. I look forward to finishing this one and reading another soon,” said Singh, who hails from Barnala district in Punjab and has come with his friends to protest. “Someone suggested a book on Fidel Castro. Kehnde hai bahut bada krantikari si woh (They say he was a great revolutionary),” he said. Several books are seen at the protest site, including biographies of revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh, Che Guevara and Vladimir Lenin in English, Hindi and Punjabi as well. There are also books on farmers’ distress, Punjab’s rich history and on the teachings of Sikh Gurus who stood for national integration, peace, brotherhood and communal harmony.  Cashing on these new tribe of readers, some small-time book stalls have also sprung up at the protest site. Gargi, a Delhi-based publication house, is happily surprised to find some business for its books in a venue like this. “They all are curious and have too many questions in their mind. Some of these books try to give them answers, others provide food for thought for more questions,” said Kamal Joshi, a volunteer working at Gargi Publications. “The fact they are at throwaway prices, and available in Hindi and Punjabi languages as well are also some of the reasons why protesters are keen on buying these books,” he added. Their books include a Hindi quarterly magazine Kisaan, Hindi translation of Russian writer Maxim Gorky’s novel The Mother — which is a story about revolutionary factory workers — and a 24-page booklet on the three contentious farm laws costing only Rs 5. Gurmeet Sandhu, 55, a farmer from Karnal district of Haryana, said he has read the booklet on farm laws and plans to send “50 copies” of the booklet to his village and spread the word. “This book explains the laws in detail. I am now 100 per cent sure that these laws are not at all in favour of farmers. I want more people to read it and will distribute it to more and more people,” said Sandhu, who has been part of the protest since November 28. A makeshift library at the border, run by PhD students from Punjab, welcomes visitors with a telling banner reading: “Udhta Nahi, Padhta Punjab”. With over 900 books already issued from their total stock of 1,300, the organisers are overwhelmed by the response and plan to replenish the stocks soon. “Our purpose to have this library here is to educate farmers about the issues. They can come here, get the book and form an opinion about what is right and what is wrong themselves. This way they would protest peacefully and not fall for any wrong information,” said Kiran Preet Singh from Jangi Library. Books finding major tractions in the library are: Pehla Adhyapak, the Hindi translation of Russian author Chingiz Aitmatov’s story about a teacher who took on the responsibility to educate the children from poor families in his community, Sikh Rajneeti and Shaheed Jaswant Singh Khalra: Soch, Sangharsh te Shahadat by author Ajmer Singh. Just adjacent to the library is an ongoing poster exhibition by student organisation Bhagat Singh Chatra Ekta Manch. The exhibition, which also provides stationery required to make posters, is becoming another go-to place for protesting farmers to try their hand at poster-making.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Kunal Kamra contempt decision on Friday||The Supreme Court will on Friday pronounce its verdict on a batch of petitions seeking contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja for alleged contemptuous remarks against the top court and the Chief Justice of India. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah on Thursday, after briefly hearing arguments on behalf of the petitioners, reserved its verdict and said it would pronounce orders on Friday as to whether Kamra and Taneja can be prosecuted for contempt or not. In the case of Kamra, the plea for contempt has been initiated by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar, who appeared for the law student, told the court that far from being remorseful, Kamra had chosen to launch personal attacks on the CJI. He did not read out Kamra’s tweets against the CJI and said it would not be proper to do so in open court. “Even after someone pointed out that he would be liable for contempt, he (Kamra) says, ‘You mean contempt of joke?’ He’s comparing the Supreme Court to a joke,” the counsel told the court. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the principal law officer of the government, had earlier granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra over his various tweets on the Supreme Court in November after the top court granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, Venugopal had said in response to a request for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. The impugned tweets by Kamra had said, “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. He had also tweeted a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a BJP flag having replaced the Tricolour. While refusing to withdraw the tweets, Kamra had made an objectionable hand gesture while referring to the CJI. The bench also heard senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, appearing for another law student who has sought contempt proceedings against cartoonist Taneja for three of her art works allegedly implying that the Supreme Court was hand-in-glove with the BJP. One of the cartoons related to Republic TV’s Goswami, the other alluding a link between the Supreme Court and the Sangh parivar and the other on the Ayodhya dispute.  Narasimha said: “…The tweets… (are) intended to scandalise the court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Prison plot whiff in Babar Qadri's murder||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested three men in connection with the murder of lawyer Babar Qadri, the investigations revealing that the conspiracy to kill him might have been hatched in Srinagar central jail. Police sources said two prisoners lodged at the jail were being questioned following a tip-off by three Srinagar youths arrested recently in connection with Qadri’s killing. The September killing of Qadri, 40, a frequent participant in TV debates, had kicked up a storm, more so because pro-India and pro-azaadi voices used to dub him an agent of the other side. He was a strong advocate of azaadi but faced criticism from the camp for fiercely opposing Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani and former High Court Bar Association president Mian Qayoom, a separatist ideologue. A special investigation team is probing the lawyer’s killing. The police have said he was killed by militants, but Qadri’s father has questioned the claim. The Srinagar police chief  said the probe was still underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Modi reaches out to Sharif||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote a letter to PML-N supremo Nawaz Sharif last month, extending “heartfelt condolences” to Pakistan’s former premier over his mother’s death on November 22, a Pakistani media report said on Thursday. The letter was forwarded to Sharif’s daughter and Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice-president Maryam Nawaz by the Indian High Commission in Islamabad last week with a request to be conveyed to her father, who has been residing in London since last year, Dawn newspaper reported. In the letter dated November 27, Prime Minister Modi conveyed his “heartfelt condolences” to Sharif over his mother’s death. “Dear Mian Sahib, I am deeply saddened to learn about the demise of your mother Begum Shamim Akhtar on November 22 in London. My heartfelt condolences are with you in this hour of intense grief,” Modi wrote in the letter, which was also released by the PML-N on Thursday. Modi recalled his interaction with Sharif’s mother during his brief surprise visit to Lahore in 2015, saying: “Her simplicity and warmth was indeed very touching.” “In this moment of profound grief, I pray to the Almighty to bestow strength upon you and your family to bear this irreparable loss,” he added. In a separate letter sent to Maryam on December 11 at her Lahore residence, Indian Charge d’Affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia requested her to convey the condolence message to Nawaz in London, the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Bihar man lynched on suspicion of cattle theft||A young man belonging to the minority community was bludgeoned to death on the outskirts of Patna on the charge of cattle theft, bringing back the spectre of mob lynching that had stopped in the run-up to the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. Seven suspects have been arrested. The incident happened at Phulwarisharif, a satellite town of Patna, during the small hours of Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Muhammad Alamgir, 32. Alamgir, who had been living in a slum, was allegedly caught untying a buffalo from the cattle shed of Srikant Rai around 3am. An accomplice of Alamgir managed to escape. “Srikant heard some noise in his cattle shed and saw two men trying to untie one of his 12 buffaloes. He raised the alarm and several people surrounded the place,” a resident said. Alamgir was thrashed for several hours till someone informed the police, who took him to hospital. He died there in the afternoon. “The police told us that he was beaten to death while trying to steal cattle. I don’t believe this,” Alamgir’s mother Noorjahan Khatoon said. The police said Alamgir had previously gone to jail on the allegation of cattle theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Yoga drive with eye on Olympics||Five years after introducing International Yoga Day, India wants to gift the world championships in yogasanas — a mix of traditional and choreographed yoga movements — promising medals and titles and career and revenue opportunities. The Centre on Thursday announced its plans to promote yogasana championships through “formal recognition”, structured sports events and scoring rules with the long-term goal of introducing such championships in the Olympic Games. The Union ministries for sports and ayurveda, yoga, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) said they planned to organise the first national individual championship event for traditional yogasanas to be conducted in the virtual mode in February 2021. District-level, state, national and world championship events are also proposed during 2021, Ayush ministry secretary Rajesh Kotecha said. The plans also envisage telecasting the championships through leagues, shows and competitions to “generate revenue for self-financing”, he said. He said the Ayush ministry had already prepared documentation for rules, regulations and syllabus for yogasana competitions and proposed automated scoring rules to introduce objectivity and processes for the certification of coaches, referees and judges. The proposed championships would cover traditional, artistic, individual, group and rhythmic yogasanas across multiple categories and be open for men and women competing for 51 medals, Kotecha said. Yogasana leagues would help create fresh career opportunities for performers and practitioners, he said. A national yoga sports federation has helped formulate the list of compulsory and optional yogasanas for inclusion in the championships. “We’ve included traditional yogasanas as well as various artistic forms of yogasanas that have evolved on their own,” said Ishwar Basavaraddi, director of the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi, and president of the national federation. “Practitioners may combine multiple asanas into choreographed performances with music,” said Basavaraddi whose institute has developed several such artistic and group yogasanas some of which combine yoga movements with ballet and other dance forms. Sports minister Kiren Rijiju announced plans to include yogasana events in university games and the national games. “The aim and objective of any sport is to be included in the Olympics — this is a beginning of a long journey,” Rijiju said. “We will have to make it a very proper, authentic and well-accepted form of sport. That is why the technicalities are to be given a very professional touch.” The United Nations accepted a proposal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 to mark an annual International Yoga Day, the first of which was observed on June 21, 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Teesta hint after Modi-Hasina virtual summit||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Thursday stressed the need for an early resolution on sharing of Teesta waters — pending since 2011 because of opposition from Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee — during her virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fact that Hasina broached the issue during the dialogue, a Bangladeshi source said, indicated Dhaka’s growing restlessness with the delay in sealing the deal on water sharing, an emotive subject in the neighbouring country. The source added that the joint statement after the summit dialogue bore hints that the wait would be over soon. “Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina highlighted the need for early signing of an interim agreement for sharing of the Teesta waters, as agreed upon by both the governments in 2011. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated India’s sincere commitment and continued efforts of the Government of India in that regard,” said the joint statement. It added that the two leaders also underscored the need for an early conclusion of the framework of an interim agreement on sharing waters of six rivers that flow through both countries — the Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dharla and the Dudhkumar. Modi’s commitment about sharing of Teesta waters — and that of the other rivers — assumes significance as Mamata had been resisting the agreement citing the problem of water shortage in parts of north Bengal. The Bengal chief minister had often argued that she was opposed to water sharing to protect the farmers of north Bengal. “Bengal is heading for polls in six months and north Bengal is the key focus of the BJP…. The fact that the Prime Minister still reiterated his commitment makes it clear that Delhi is determined to seal the deal without bothering much about how Mamata reacts to it,” said an observer. While domestic politics is important for the BJP, which has trained its eyes on Bengal, there is little doubt that Delhi is also keen on keeping Dhaka in good humour as Hasina has been one of the trusted friends of India in the sub-continent. Not just did Modi make the right noises about the Teesta, he also tried to win the hearts of Bangladeshis with his comments on another issue on which Dhaka has repeatedly sought greater cooperation from India. During the virtual summit, Hasina said her country expected to see India, a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, assist in the repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar. The Hasina government is taking care of over 1.1 million Rohingya refugees for over three years, but it is keen on repatriating them to neighbouring Myanmar from where they were forced to flee due to religious persecution. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the generosity of Bangladesh in sheltering and providing humanitarian assistance to the 1.1 million forcibly displaced persons from the Rakhine State of Myanmar. Both Prime Ministers reiterated the importance of their safe, speedy and sustainable return,” said the joint statement issued by the Indian external affairs ministry after the summit. Modi’s comments on the two issues, sources in Delhi and Dhaka said, would further boost the India-Bangladesh relations. Modi greeted Hasina in Bengali on the occasion of Bijoy Dibos or Victory Day before going on to describe Bangladesh as an important pillar of India’s “neighbourhood first” policy. Modi also accepted Hasina’s invitation to visit Dhaka in March 2021 to take part in centenary celebrations of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. “Next year, India and Bangladesh will jointly commemorate Mujib Borsho and 50 years of establishment of our diplomatic ties. I look forward to visiting Dhaka for paying my homage to the life and ideals of Bangabandhu,” Modi tweeted after the meeting. During the virtual summit, Modi expressed satisfaction at bilateral cooperation amid the Covid-19 pandemic and assured Hasina that vaccines would be made available to Bangladesh besides offering a partnership in vaccine production. The two countries signed seven agreements on Thursday for cooperation in the hydrocarbons sector, agriculture and textiles, high impact community development projects to be carried out by India, trans-border elephant conservation, supply of equipment for improving garbage disposal in Barishal, and creation of a forum of CEOs. In a major boost to connectivity between the two counties, Modi and Hasina relaunched a trans-border rail route between Chilahati and Bengal’s Haldibari, which has been inoperative for almost 55 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Allahabad High Court order to free Kafeel good: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with the Allahabad High Court verdict quashing the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) and ordered his immediate release, saying it was “a good judgement”. “We will not interfere in the judgment. However, the observation will not impact any other proceedings,” said the bench comprising Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. The bench was hearing the Uttar Pradesh government’s plea challenging the high court’s September 1 verdict. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, told the bench that the observation made by the high court exonerates Khan in the criminal proceedings. “Criminal cases will be decided on their own merits,” the bench observed. Khan had hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several children died because of the lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later. A state government probe cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the state. Khan had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children. In its September 1 verdict, the high court had quashed Khan’s detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests didn’t promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The high court had said the Aligarh district magistrate, who had passed the order for Khan’s detention, did a “selective reading” of his speech, “ignoring its true intent”. The high court had allowed the petition filed by Khan’s mother, Nuzhat Parveen, and said the detention order by the district magistrate was illegal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to begin interactions with senior Congress leaders||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will begin her interactions with senior leaders from December 19 to finalise the future course of action ahead of the much-awaited organisational elections, including the appointment of the new party president. Sources said senior leaders, including some from the so-called group of 23, will be called for discussion on the measures needed to be taken for resolving the leadership issue. Sonia had stopped personal interactions because of Covid-19 and even the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting was held through videoconference. Her meeting with party veteran Kamal Nath a few days ago was the first in this exercise of resolving the leadership question. While there has been no indication so far of Rahul Gandhi’s willingness to return as the party president, leaders close to him insist that is a certainty not open to dispute. But this understanding is not reflected in informal discussions with other senior leaders who are still in dark about the future leadership. A clearer picture will emerge only after Sonia completes her discussions with senior leaders. While there is a demand for election to the CWC as per the party constitution, the revival of Parliament Board — the key decision-making body — has also been suggested by many. Asked if they had been invited for talks, one of the Group-23 leaders told The Telegraph, “We haven’t received any call. But why our meeting Soniaji should generate so much curiosity? She is our leader and we have strong personal and political bonding. There is no rift whatsoever at the personal level even if we have some differences over political issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Modi to be chief guest at AMU centenary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations on December 22 of Aligarh Muslim University, where police had brutalised students protesting against the Centre’s new citizenship regime last year. The programme, where education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will also be present, will be held online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tariq Mansoor, the vice-chancellor of AMU, told reporters: “The Prime Minister has accepted our request to address the opening function on December 22. Minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal will also attend the event. It will send a good message to the members of AMU living across the world.” “We hope to develop the university so that its students keep growing in their endeavours. Every person should rise above party politics and attend the programme,” he added. “The outreach of the university during this historical year will also immensely help in its growth and development, and in the placement of our students in private and public sectors,” Prof. Mansoor said. He appealed to the university community to put in all efforts to make the event a success and requested staff members, students, alumni and AMU well-wishers for their active participation.  Earlier this month, the university had announced that President Ram Nath Kovind was expected to be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations. The change of chief guest appears to be a last-minute move, AMU sources said. The students are yet to officially react to the choice of chief guest. A former union leader said on condition of anonymity that they did not agree in principle to inviting Modi to the event. AMU students have been opposed to several of the Modi government’s decisions, including the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The university had also witnessed protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. In December last year, police and paramilitary forces had barged into the campus and assaulted protesting students, including inside the library. Many students had suffered injuries. The security forces had also been accused of firing tear gas, rubber bullets and stun grenades. Students had organised a dharna for many days against the VC for allowing the police to enter the campus. Shafey Kidwai, the chairman of the mass communication department of AMU, told The Telegraph over the phone on Thursday that the Prime Minister would also launch a postal stamp to commemorate the beginning of the centenary year. “The PM has given his consent to attend the programme. It would be a year-long celebration in which the President will participate sometime in March next year,” Kidwai said. Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College became Aligarh Muslim University on December 1, 1920, following a gazette notification. AMU was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 that year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
