19-12-2020||India||Khattar hopeful about next round of talks as farmers to decide course of action||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said there can be a way out for the next round of talks between the government and the farmers, while union leaders said they will decide their course of action within the next two to three days. Khattar’s comments came after he met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for the second time this month, the first one being on December 8. “In a day or two, there can be a way out for talks. The government is ready for discussion if farmer union leaders come forward beyond yes or no,” the Haryana government quoted him as saying. The chief minister said he discussed the ongoing protests with Tomar and added, “Effort is to find solutions through dialogue.” “The government can think of changes to the farm laws more than what it has done,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers’ union leaders said discussions are on to decide their next strategy. Their comments came days after the Supreme Court said it was thinking of setting up an “impartial and independent” panel of agriculture experts and peasants' unions to resolve the deadlock. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said they are seeking legal opinions on the issue. “Our meetings are being held for the next course of action. We are hopeful that in the next two-three days, we will have clarity on whether we should be part of a committee as suggested by the court,” Kakka told PTI. Balbir Singh, another union leader, said that the farmers would carry out their protests till their demands are met. “We are ready for a long haul. We are here for our rights. We are in the process to decide our stand following the court's order,” he said. Meanwhile, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Saturday claimed that 33 farmers participating in the ongoing protests have so far died since November 26 due to accidents, illness and cold weather conditions. According to AIKS, ‘Homage Day’ will be observed in different parts of the country on Sunday to pay tributes to those farmers who lost their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Delhi court takes cognisance against Sharjeel for sedition||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the offence of sedition against JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to the violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year, which resulted in damage to public property and injuries to police near Jamia Millia Islamia. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat took cognisance of the offences under sections 124 A (sedition), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), and 505 (public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Imam. The court had earlier taken cognisance of the offence under section 13 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Imam, but deferred taking cognisance of offences under IPC sections 124 A, 153 A, 153 B, 505 as the requisite sanctions were awaited. The court took cognisance of the offences after the Delhi Police filed a supplementary charge sheet mentioning the requisite sanctions granted by the authorities concerned. “The requisite sanction...has been filed. I have perused the supplementary charge sheet. In view of the same, I take cognisance for commission of offence under Section 124A/153A/153B/505 IPC,” the judge said in his order. The Delhi Police had filed another supplementary charge sheet against Imam in the case in July this year. The police had alleged in the charge sheet that Imam gave inflammatory speeches at several places, including Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University during anti-CAA protests. The charge sheet said that Imam allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt and disaffection towards the Centre and instigated the people which led to the violence in December last year.  “The present case has emerged from a deep seated conspiracy which was hatched under the garb of opposing the Citizenship Amendment Bill. Earlier even before the Presidential assent, the present accused (Imam) along with his associates were involved in circulating falsehood by canvassing in the Muslim dominated areas about this Bill that the Government of India intended to take away the citizenship of Muslims and also that the Muslims will be put in detention camp,” it alleged. The charge sheet further alleged that “falsehood and rumours” were being continuously spread with mischievous intent that the Citizenship Amendment Bill, coupled with National Register of Citizens (NRC), intended to take away citizenship of Indian Muslims. False messages were shared over social media, pamphlets were distributed among masses, individual, members of societies/NGO’s were roped in to give speeches which made innocent teens believe that CAB would indeed take away the citizenship of the Indian Muslim community. Protests against the CAB and later on Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were started deliberately to create a sense of insecurity amongst the Indian Muslim population, it alleged. Imam was arrested for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. “In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life. Also, in the name of opposing CAA he also openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the chargesheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||ED seizes Rs 12-crore worth assets of Farooq Abdullah in JKCA case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 11.86 crores of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference president Farrooq Abdullahin connection with its money laundering probe, sources said on Saturday. The financial crime investigating agency is probing into a money laundering case linked to alleged financial irregularities in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association and has pressed similar charges against a few others as well. The sources said the agency has issued a provisional attachment order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and the attached properties are located in Jammu and Srinagar. “Two immovable assets are residential, one is a commercial property while three other plots of land have also been attached by the Enforcement Directorate,” they said. “While the book value of these attached properties is Rs 11.86 crore, their market value is about Rs 60-70 crore,” the sources added. In October this year, the ED had last questioned the NC leader in connection to the case, kicking up a political storm as parties called it a vendetta against the formation of an alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370. “We knew it was coming,” the NC had said in a statement back then.“The ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity that Dr (Farooq) Sahib has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in J&K,” the statement said. “This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how BJP has been employing coercive and intimidative measures through various departments to target Opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is a case in point,” it added. The ED filed a chargesheet in July last year against Abdullah and three others for allegedly misappropriating Rs 43 crore, amid unprecedented uncertainty ahead of the August 5 abrogation of Article 370. Abdullah then claimed he had done no wrong and was open to investigations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Congress leaders discuss ways to strengthen party||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday held a five-hour meeting with party leaders, including some  who had written to her seeking complete organisational revamp, and decided ways to strengthen the party at all levels. It was also decided that they will hold conclaves similar to those of Panchmarhi and Shimla to chalk out plans to move forward. The meeting, which also included some of Gandhi’s close associates, assumed significance as it was the first of its kind for a rapprochement with the ‘letter-writers’ who had questioned the party leadership. Sonia Gandhi loyalist Pawan Basant asserted that there was no conflict in the party, and the meeting had ended on a positive note with all the Congress leaders suggesting their views on ways to strengthen the party. “Discussions were held on a positive note at the meeting where leaders talked about how to strengthen the party at all levels. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said we all are one big family and we all should work to strengthen the party. Rahul Gandhi also talked about strengthening the party,” he told reporters after the meeting. This was the first time Gandhi met Congress leaders in person since the outbreak of Covid-19. “There is no dissidence in the Congress party and all are committed to working unitedly to energise the party and fight all those forces which are trying to put upend the idea of India, as enshrined in the Constitution and as articulated by the founding fathers of India's Constitution,” Bansal said. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also attended the meeting. Former Maharashtra chief minister and party leader Prithviraj Chavan said this was the first time such a meeting was held and more of them will be conducted moving forward. He said ‘Chintan Shivir’ like those held in the past in Shimla and Panchmarhi would be organised. The Congress had organised both the Pachmarhi and Shimla ‘Chintan Shivirs’ when the party was in the opposition. While the Pachmarhi Shivir was organised in September 1998 when Gandhi had just taken over the party's reins, the Shimla Shivir was held later in July 2003. Another Congress leader Harish Rawat said that every leader spoke about unitedly working towards strengthening the party. ‘Letter-writers’ including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of the party in the upper House Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan, and MPs Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha and Shashi Tharoor were present in the meeting. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and senior leader P Chidambaram were also part of the meeting, the sources said. Among Sonia loyalists were A.K. Antony, Ambika Soni, Ashok Gehlot, Harish Rawat, Ajay Maken, Pawan Bansal and Bhakt Charan Das. Sources said a number of issues were discussed at the meeting, where the 'letter-writers' expressed the view that they were neither ‘dissenters’ nor ‘rebels’. They said they had only raised issues in the party's interest to strengthen it, the sources said. The Congress has already decided to hold elections for the post of Congress president and that process is underway. This followed a stormy Congress Working Committee meeting in August after the letter's contents became public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Amit Shah visits Swami Vivekananda's birthplace, says his ideals more relevant today||Home Minister Amit Shah visited the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda in north Kolkata on Saturday morning and said that the ideals of the 19th-century icon are more relevant in the present-day world. Shah, who is on a two-day visit to West Bengal, paid tribute to Swami Vivekananda, hailing him for taking Indian's culture and ethos to the world. "Swami Vivekananda took India's culture, vision and ethos to the world. He bridged the gap between spirituality and modernity. After visiting his birthplace, I feel his ideals are still relevant in the present-day world. Rather, his ideals are more needed in the present times," he told reporters. The path shown by Vivekananda will not only lead India but the entire world on the road to prosperity, Shah said. He said Vivekananda gave a call for worshipping the nation as 'Bharatmata' in his Chicago address. "Eventually the country got freedom," Shah said, describing Vivekananda as one of the most dynamic spiritual leaders of the country who familiarised the world with the philosophy of India. Amid beats of the dhaak, Shah arrived at Vivekananda's ancestral home in Simla Street that has been turned into a museum. Members of the BJP women's wing, in traditional white saree with red borders, welcomed him by showering flower petals. After garlanding the statue of Swami Vivekananda outside the complex, Shah was shown the articles used by him. The BJP leader also interacted with the monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Unplanned lockdown destroyed lives, says Rahul||As India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the one crore-mark, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the unplanned lockdown did not manage to "win the battle in 21 days as the PM claimed", but it "destroyed" millions of lives in the country. India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the sombre one-crore mark on Saturday, adding 10 lakh cases in nearly a month, while the total number of recoveries surged to 95.50 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. Taking a dig at the prime minister's remarks in March that the Mahabharata war was won in 18 days and the war against coronavirus will take 21 days, Gandhi tweeted, "1 crore Covid infections with almost 1.5 lakh deaths! The unplanned lockdown did not manage to win the battle in 21 days' as the PM claimed, but it surely destroyed millions of lives in the country." The country's Covid-19 case tally had surpassed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. The health ministry's data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed that the total number of cases mounted to 1,00,04,599 and the death toll reached 1,45,136 with the virus claiming 347 more lives in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Sonia meets party leaders months after they wrote to her seeking party overhaul||Congress president Sonia Gandhi Saturday met a group of party leaders who had written to her a few months ago seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation. This is the first time that Gandhi is meeting Congress leaders in person since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi is also attending the meeting. The meeting also includes some of Sonia Gandhi's close associates and is the first effort by the Congress leadership for a reproachment with those who raised questions over the leadership. Those attending the meeting from among the letter-writers are Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of the party in the upper House Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan, and MPs Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha and Shashi Tharoor. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and senior leader P Chidambaram are also part of the meeting, the sources said. Among Sonia loyalists at the discussion that will include a range of issues, primarily organisational elections, are A K Antony, Ambika Soni, Ashok Gehlot and Harish Rawat, besides Pawan Bansal. Sources said a number of organisational issues is likely to be discussed at the meeting. The Congress has already decided to hold elections for the post of Congress president and that process is underway. Sonia Gandhi will be meeting a host of other leaders in the coming days, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Modi urges people to read e-booklet on agro-reforms||Amid the deadlock between the Centre and the protesting farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday urged people to read and share widely an e-booklet issued by the government highlighting how the recent agro-reforms help farmers. The government has issued an e-booklet in English and Hindi highlighting the success stories of farmers who have benefited from the reforms enacted in September. "There is a lot of content, including graphics and booklets that elaborate on how the recent Agro-reforms help our farmers. It can be found on the NaMo App Volunteer Module's Your Voice and Downloads sections. Read and share widely," the prime minister tweeted sharing snapshots of pages from the Hindi version of the booklet. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. At least five rounds of formal talks have been held between the three Union Ministers and 40 farmer unions to break the deadlock. The unions, however, are demanding a complete rollback of the Central laws. Last week, the Centre had sent a proposal to these unions, stating that it would give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) system will remain and also redress their other key concerns, but it failed to break the stalemate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Any harm to India's self-respect won't be tolerated: Rajnath Singh on Indo-China border row||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the Indo-China border standoff showed the country was not weak and could give a befitting reply to any kind of transgression, aggression or unilateral acts. With the two countries having held several rounds of talks to resolve the issue, Singh said India wants peaceful resolution of disputes but asserted no harm to its self-respect will be tolerated. In his address at the combined graduation parade at Dundigul Air Force station here, the Defence Minister also said China's "attitude reflected that country's intentions" during these COVID-19 times. "But we have shown that India is not weak. This is new India that will give a befitting reply to any kind of transgression, aggression or any unilateral acts," he said. India has found the support of many countries, even as it has received accolades, he added. Pointing out that rounds of talks have been held at the diplomatic and military levels to solve the issue, the Defence Minister said, "let me reiterate, we don't want conflict but peace." "But we will not tolerate any harm to the country's self-respect," the Defence minister asserted. The country was prepared to face any situation, he added. Referring to the western sector, Singh said Pakistan was indulging in skirmishes on the borders and charged the neighbour with indulging in a "proxy war" using terrorism, despite being defeated by India in four wars. The armed forces and police were effectively dealing with terrorism, he said. The country was not only handling terrorism effectively within the country but even taking action beyond the borders, he said referring to the airstrikes at terror camps in Balakot in Pakistan. This demonstrated to the world India's military strength and the country's firm intentions against terrorism, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Joblessness among urban youths was over 19 per cent pre-Covid||Joblessness among urban youths was over 19 per cent or nearly three times the 2012 level even before Covid-19 hit India, official survey reports have shown. The findings buttress the view that the Narendra Modi government’s economic decisions, including the 2016 demonetisation, had led to widespread unemployment. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the situation would be much worse now, after the lockdown. He warned that the job scene would further deteriorate for educated youths in the next 10 years because of poor employment creation in a stressed economy where the entry of new job seekers was accelerating. According to a paper published last year by Mehrotra and researcher Jajati Parida, titled “India’s Employment Crisis: Rising Education Levels and Falling non-Agricultural Job Growth”, the unemployment rate among youths (aged 15 to 29) was 6.1 per cent in 2012. The paper had drawn its data from a National Statistical Office (NSO) survey. Now the NSO, which conducts the quarterly Periodic Labour Force Survey, has uploaded the bulletins for the July-to-September and October-to-December quarters of 2019. These and previous bulletins show that the overall urban youth unemployment rate was 19.2 per cent between October and December of 2019, down from 23.1 per cent in July-September 2018. Mehrotra told The Telegraph the unemployment rate among urban youths is usually about half a per cent higher than the overall national average, implying joblessness among this group at the end of last year would have been nearly three times the 2012 figure. “The unemployment figure for urban areas is always a bit higher compared with rural areas. The 2019 data show that the unemployment rate has almost tripled between 2012 and 2019,” he said. “Most of the worsening (of the jobless rate has been) concentrated in the recent past, when the economy began slowing from its 8 per cent annual growth rate between 2003-04 and 2013-14. “The employment situation has further deteriorated after the lockdown because of a contraction in the economy and the continuous and accelerating entry of fresh pass-outs from secondary schools, universities, technical institutions and training organisations.” Mehrotra said this acceleration of new entrants into the labour force would continue till 2030. In contrast, the economy will take at least two years to return to the pre-Covid level, he said. “The more important thing is to get back to the pre-Covid per capita income. That will take time. So, the unemployment situation will further deteriorate for the educated youths in the next few years,” he said. The Mehrotra-Parida paper had said the unemployment rate in 2012 was 1.7 per cent among illiterate youths, 3 per cent among youths with primary education, 4.5 per cent (middle education), 5.9 per cent (secondary education), 10.8 per cent (higher secondary), 19.2 per cent (graduates) and 21.3 per cent (postgraduates). Mehrotra explained that uneducated youths, who are usually poor, somehow manage to find some sort of physical labour while many educated urban youths choose to wait for skilled or quality jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||JDU to contest 75 seats in the 2021 Bengal polls||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United will contest 75 seats in the 2021 Bengal polls. JDU leader and Bengal in-charge Ghulam Rasool Balyawi announced the decision on Thursday but did not make it clear whether there would be an alliance with the BJP just like in Bihar. Bengal has a sizeable population of people having roots in Bihar and the BJP is eyeing their votes. The JDU’s entry could queer the pitch for these votes if there is no alliance between them in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||National parties forget promises: Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday said that only regional parties can fulfil the people’s aspirations at a time when the BJP is trying to make inroads in the eastern state and other places. “Only a regional party will do justice to the aspirations of the youth of Odisha,” Naveen, also the ruling Biju Janata Dal president, said. He added that Odia is much more important than Hindi. He also reminded both the BJP and the Congress that how they had forgotten the promise made in their election manifestoes of according special category status to Odisha in an oblique reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged Opposition parties to check their earlier manifestoes while talking about farmers’ issues. Addressing the BJD youth wing executive committee meeting, Naveen said: “Both the national parties — the BJP and the Congress — had made the special category status their number one manifesto point. After the elections, they conveniently forgot about the promise. The BJD will continue to fight for the special category status and keep reminding national parties about their step-motherly treatment of Odisha.” Reminding the people that the very purpose of forming a separate state is to preserve and protect its unique identity, Naveen said: “It is only a regional party, whose survival and growth is in sync with the development of Odisha, that can stand and fight for its people. The BJD as a regional party is synonymous with the aspirations and ideals for which the state of Odisha was formed.” Maintaining that only a regional party can preserve Odisha’s unique identity, he said: “The mainstream national parties will make you a small drop in their vast ocean.” Targeting the national parties, Naveen said history has shown that they always have a mainstream agenda. “It is only through mainstreaming that they can get maximum votes and form a government at the Centre. For this, their strategy revolves around a uniform language — Hindi, uniform culture and uniform policies which will appeal to the large populous states and then they try toimpose the same across the country ignoring the unique identity of certain populations,” Naveen said. Maintaining that national parties are bound to compromise on the distinctive requirements of a state for gain in the larger national context, the chief minister said: “For us, our language Odia is more important than Hindi. For us our Mahanadi is more sacred than any other river. For us Odissi music is a classical art form.” Naveen also reminded that the diversity and richness of tribal culture is Odisha’s strength. “Odisha has a unique and distinct identity. It is for this identity our forefathers sacrificed themselves and fought for a separate state,” he said. Clarifying his stand on the issue, Naveen said: “For a national party or their branches in the states, these do not matter. The state leaders of national parties neither have the voice to insist on protecting our unique heritage nor do they have the intent to do so in a hierarchical centralised national party structure.” The chief minister also reminded the people how the Congress governments in the state were remote controlled from Delhi. “The BJP governments in other states also follow the directions of the national leadership,” Naveen said. “We don’t have any bosses in Delhi. Four-and-a-half crore Odias are our boss,” he added. Naveen also pointed out how the state was fighting for the water of Mahandi, fighting to declare Odissi music as a classical form and for inclusion of Kosali and Ho languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Farmers fact check Modi's claims on MSP||The protesting farmers on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched an open attack on the country’s farming community by linking their agitation to the Opposition parties. As Modi addressed a virtual convention of farmers in Madhya Pradesh, some of the protesting farmer unions began fact-checking him in real time — particularly on his claims on MSP — knowing that most media outlets would not do so. Modi in his speech accused the Opposition of engineering the farmers’ protest through falsehoods and claimed his government had raised the minimum support price at a higher rate than the UPA and adopted the Swaminathan Commission formula for fixing the MSP. The Prime Minister defended the three new farm laws the agitators want withdrawn, and issued a “folded-hands” appeal saying the government was ready to discuss all the farmers’ concerns. Having studiously kept all political parties at arm’s length, the farmer leaders felt upset at the repeated insinuation — this time by the Prime Minister himself — that the protesters were dancing to the Opposition parties’ tune. “In place of addressing the issue of repeal of the three farm acts which erode farmers’ hold on land and farming and establish the MNCs and big business to grow in agriculture, he (Modi) has reduced himself to a party leader undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems,” the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement. The farmers, facing daily vilification from Union ministers, view the allegation that the Opposition is behind their protest as an affront to the farming community. “Since it is politically suicidal to attack farmers directly, the Prime Minister and his minions have adopted this indirect route to malign our agitation by linking it to Opposition politics,” a farmer leader said. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s open letter to the farmers too was full of references to the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Akali Dal and to issues irrelevant to the farmers’ protest, the AIKSCC said. “He has made fictitious claims (such as) that the farmers will not lose their land, which is contradicted by the Contract Act 2020 which provides for farmer land to be mortgaged under Section 9 and for recovery of dues from the farmer under Section 4.7 as arrears of land revenue for advances taken from the company under Section 14.2 of the act,” the AIKS said. While the Prime Minister was still speaking, the Bharatiya Kisan Union of Rakesh Tikait began fact-checking him. The protesting farmers at the Singhu border have brought out their own newsletter — Trolley Times — and launched a social media platform to counter propaganda and fake news. Tikait, whose organisation is somewhat aligned to BJP politics in western Uttar Pradesh and has been a late entrant into the agitation, said data did not support Modi’s claim about his government increasing the MSP at a higher rate than the UPA. According to the BKU, the data show that the rate of increase in the MSP during the UPA years averaged between 8 and 12 per cent depending on the crop, while under the NDA the figure has ranged between 1 and 5 per cent. R. Ramkumar, one of the 10 economists who wrote to Tomar on Thursday seeking withdrawal of the three laws and a restart of negotiations for more equitable reforms in agriculture, posted a series of tweets contesting Modi’s claims about MSP increase and adoption of the Swaminathan formula. “Between 2010-11 & 2013-14, the MSPs for paddy, wheat & cotton grew at an average annual rate of 9.5%, 7.8% & 14.4% respectively. Between 2014-15 and 2020-21, the MSPs for paddy, wheat and cotton grew at an average annual rate of 5.2%, 5% and 6.2% respectively,” the tweets said. “The Swaminathan panel suggested fixing MSP at 50% over the C2 cost of production. The government fixed it at 50% over the lower A2+FL cost of production. Due to this, farmers lose about Rs 300-500/Q in MSP.” (The A2 cost covers all paid-out expenses, cash or kind, incurred by the farmers on seeds, fertilisers, chemicals, hired labour, fuel and irrigation, among others. FL is the imputed value of family labour. C2 cost covers the paid-out costs, imputed value of family labour, interest on the value of owned capital assets, rent paid on leased land and the rental value of owned land.) All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah described the Prime Minister’s speech as “tiring repetition”, echoing Ramkumar and Tikait on Modi’s claims about the MSP and the Swaminathan formula. Support for the agitation has been growing despite the hardships, the cold and the hurdles put up by the government, and the protest at the Tikri border now has a sizeable presence of women. March from Nashik The All India Kisan Sabha has announced in Nashik, Maharashtra, that it will join the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, PTI reported. “The farmers’ rally will start from Nashik on December 21.... There will be a public rally in Dhule on December 22. The farmers will travel 1,266km to Delhi and join the protest on December 24,” AIKS leader Ashok Dhawale said. “Thousands of farmers are expected to join us. We will be carrying provisions so that we can stay there for a long period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Congress dissenting leaders set for ‘frank discussion’ with Sonia||The meeting of senior Congress leaders with Sonia Gandhi on Saturday is critical as the dissenting group has decided to stand firm on the issues they had raised, arguing that business as usual cannot be allowed after two successive defeats in parliamentary elections and the irreversible decline in Assembly and local polls across the country. Sources in the so-called “Group of 23” that had written a controversial letter to Sonia on the drift in the party aver that their concerns should not be demeaned by describing it as a quarrel over leadership as their sole motive was revival of the Congress, an objective every party worker is concerned about. “The issues we raised were fundamental, linked to the future of the party, and we stand vindicated by the pathetic performance in Bihar and the civic elections in Rajasthan and Hyderabad,” one of them told The Telegraph. Conceding that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Kamal Nath and Ashok Gehlot had played a key role in arranging the meeting amidst the vacuum created by Ahmed Patel’s demise, these leaders argued that nothing could be gained by brushing the problems under the carpet and that a “candid assessment of the ground reality and our own infirmities” were the need of the hour. They said they planned to go for a “frank discussion” at Saturday’s meeting as the Congress must be revived to give direction to the country in the wake of the “disastrous governance” of Narendra Modi. Sources disclosed that it had been “specifically” suggested to Sonia that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka must be present at the meeting to avoid a communication gap and to ensure final agreement on the proposals and effective execution of the plan. They also wanted the group not to be extended to include “cheerleaders” that vitiates the atmosphere and prevents constructive discussions. One leader said: “We are not going there to fight but to find a solution to the problems. Don’t forget that we had excellent rapport with the Gandhi-Nehru family and nobody should doubt our loyalty.” The list of invitees include almost all the important leaders: Sonia, Rahul, Manmohan Singh, P. Chidambaram, Kamal Nath, Ashok Gehlot, A.K. Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha, K.C. Venugopal, Prithviraj Chavan, Pawan Bansal and Priyanka. While this group does not have general secretaries and younger Rahul loyalists, the presence of Manmohan, Antony, Chidambaram, Kamal Nath and Gehlot will ensure no side dominates and an objective assessment is made of the reasons for the crisis and the plan for the future. Sources say Chidambaram, Kamal Nath and Gehlot have a broad understanding of the problems and, unlike leaders like Antony, are not blindly dismissive of the questions raised by the “Group of 23”. While the demand for a collective leadership mechanism and unity of purpose, instead of purge and elimination, is bound to dominate the discussions, Rahul’s role will also come under scrutiny. Without clarity on whether he is willing to return as party president or not, drawing up a future course of action will be impossible. There is a possibility that some blunt talk on his choice of people will be done at the meeting. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala contested the perception that it would be a meeting of “rebels or dissenters”, asserting that every party colleague was valuable and their demand had already been conceded by announcing elections to the post of Congress president. He added that “99.5 per cent Congress workers” wanted Rahul, who fought the Narendra Modi regime fearlessly, to return as party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Gang rape charge on Hathras 4 after 2 months||The CBI on Friday filed a chargesheet accusing four men of gang-raping and murdering a Dalit teen in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district, officials said. After nearly two months of probe, the agency concluded in its final report that the accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Luv Kush and Ramu — had allegedly gang-raped and murdered the 19-year-old when she had gone to the field to collect fodder on September 14 in her village, the officials said. In its findings submitted before the competent court in Hathras, the agency has slapped Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to rape, murder and gang rape, apart from those under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, against the four accused men, they said. The charges attract a maximum sentence of capital punishment. The agency has based its findings on the dying statement of the woman in which she is understood to have named the accused, besides scientific and forensic evidence collected by the CBI and statements of witnesses and the victim’s family members recorded by it. The findings submitted by the CBI have left red-faced top officials of Uttar Pradesh police who had claimed that no evidence of rape had been found in the forensic tests. Uttar Pradesh additional director-general (law and order) Prashant Kumar had said: “The report of the FSL has come. It says clearly that samples did not contain semen. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang rape.” The ADG had also claimed that the woman in her statement to the police “did not mention rape but talked about ‘maar-peet (beating)’ only”. The Uttar Pradesh government had handed over the case to the CBI after the incident triggered massive public outrage and a political slugfest. Allahabad High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the victim’s late-night cremation by the state police, allegedly against the consent of her family, and made some terse remarks on senior officials, warning them against character assassination of the victim and urging restraint by the officials, political parties and the media. The CBI took over the investigation on October 11 and formed a special team under the Ghaziabad unit to probe the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||SC issues directions to curb Covid protocol violations||The Supreme Court on Friday issued directions to states and Union Territories to curb Covid protocol violations, expressing concern over people flouting standard operating procedures issued by the Union health ministry. The following are the directions: A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions while taking suo motu cognisance of a series of fire mishaps at dedicated Covid hospitals in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||SC sends showcause notice to Kunal Kamra for contempt proceedings||The Supreme Court on Friday issued separate notices to stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja asking them to show cause as to why they should not be prosecuted for contempt over their remarks against the top court and the Chief Justice of India. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, while hearing a batch of petitions seeking contempt proceedings against the two, posted the matter for further hearing after six weeks. However, the bench exempted Kamra and Taneja from personally appearing before it. Under the Contempt of Court Act, it is mandatory for the alleged contemnor to be present in court during the hearing unless granted an exemption. In the case of Kamra, the plea for contempt was initiated by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the principal law officer of the government, had earlier granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra over his tweets on the Supreme Court in November after the top court granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, Venugopal had said in response to a request for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. The impugned tweets by Kamra had said, “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. He had also tweeted a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a BJP flag having replaced the Tricolour. While refusing to withdraw the tweets, Kamra had made an objectionable hand gesture while referring to the CJI. Another law student had sought contempt proceedings against cartoonist Taneja for three art works allegedly implying that the Supreme Court was acting hand-in-glove with the BJP. One of the cartoons related to Republic TV’s Goswami, another alluding a link between the Supreme Court and the Sangh parivar and the other on the Ayodhya dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Congress accuses Modi's farmers outreach event of ‘deceit’||The Congress on Friday dismissed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach as “unfortunate and deceitful”, alleging that he chose to talk to “BJP workers” posing as farmers sitting hundreds of miles away instead of the engaging with the anguished peasants protesting at Delhi’s borders. “Why this cruelty? Why this insensitivity Mr Prime Minister?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala asked, adding: “Why not directly talk to the thousands of real farmers who are sitting on the road in this near-zero-degree temperature? This apathy of your government has already resulted in the death of 24 farmers.” Surjewala said: “The Rajiv Gandhi government had 402 MPs but allowed around one lakh farmers to come to Rajpath in Delhi to protest. The Manmohan Singh government allowed Anna Hazare to protest at the Ramlila grounds…. The government engaged with the protesters and conceded their demands.” Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “As per his habit, Modi ji again did asatyagraha today. Pay heed to the farmers’ demands and withdraw the three black laws.” Surjewala said: “On June 12, 2014, the Modi government wrote to states to stop bonus above minimum support price (MSP). In December 2014, it brought an ordinance to kill the Land Acquisition Act. In February 2015, they submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying giving 50 per cent profit above input cost was impossible. In 2016, they introduced a crop insurance scheme that helped the corporates. In 2017, they rejected the demand for farm loan-waiver while providing relief worth Rs 3.75 lakh crore to corporates.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
19-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi addresses farmers, in Madhya Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday defended the new farm laws, castigated the Opposition and made a “folded-hands” appeal to the protesting farmers, saying the government was ready to discuss all their concerns. “If anyone has any apprehensions even after these efforts by the government, we are ready with our heads bowed and hands folded, and with the utmost humility, to talk about every concern of the country’s farmers,” Modi said, addressing a virtual convention of farmers in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh. Organised by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the convention was part of the BJP’s counter-offensive to the ongoing farmers’ protest, aimed at showing that the new laws had widespread support. The party has been organising similar conventions in other states too. Modi accused the Opposition of “misleading” the farmers and “spreading lies”. He took recourse to Hindu religious symbolism and almost repeated what he had said in Varanasi last month, claiming his government was “pavitra” (pure) as “Gangajal” and “Ma Narmada ka paani” (the waters of the Ganga and the Narmada). Modi sought to portray the new farm laws as measures aimed at modernising agriculture and introducing India’s farmers to global practices and standards. He claimed there had been “vyapak charcha” (extensive discussions) with all stakeholders before the laws were passed. The Opposition accuses the government of railroading the bills through Parliament in September without the required discussions. The farmers, too, have said they were not consulted. Modi said Opposition leaders were jealous and were asking themselves “why they had failed to implement the reforms (and) how Modi had done it and why Modi was getting the credit”. “I want to tell all the political parties with folded hands, ‘Keep all the credit with you’,” he said. “I’m giving the credit to all your old manifestos; I don’t want any credit.” Modi sought to claim that the protests were politically motivated, saying the new laws had been in force for six to seven months but the agitation had started only now. The farm laws had been introduced in the form of ordinances during the coronavirus lockdown in the summer. The ongoing protests began after the corresponding bills were passed in September. Modi said the government had repeatedly been asking which among the clauses in the laws were of concern but there had been “no concrete reply”. The farmer leaders have given to the government in writing their objections to the laws. Modi said that the Opposition parties, when they were in power, had for eight years suppressed the Swaminathan Commission report on farm reforms and that it was his government that had implemented it. He next sought to target the Congress without naming the party, alleging farm loan waivers had been promised in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan ahead of state elections but were never implemented. Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan voted the Congress to power in December 2018. But in Madhya Pradesh, the government was toppled by defections in March 2020 and the BJP is now in power. Modi said the Opposition’s “biggest lie” was that the system of minimum support price (MSP) would end. He said the new laws had been implemented six to seven months ago but the government had continued with the MSP. “I want to assure our farmers that the MSP will continue,” the Prime Minister said. The farmers want a legal guarantee on MSP, which the Modi government has so far been reluctant to give.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
