20-12-2020||India||Health Ministry calls urgent meeting on Monday to discuss new coronavirus strain in UK||The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there. A surge in the infection rate caused by a new variant of coronavirus has led to millions entering a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK from Sunday, with non-essential shops and businesses now closed. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the new rules at a briefing from 10 Downing Street on Saturday evening, which means a planned five-day Christmas bubble of relaxed rules has been cancelled in favour of a new Tier 4 level to the current three-tier lockdown system to try and control the surge in infections being caused by the new mutation of the deadly virus. "It seems that the spread is now being driven by the new variant of the virus”, Johnson said. “We have alerted the World Health Organisation and are continuing to analyse the available data to improve our understanding, said Professor Chris Whitty, the Chief Medical Officer for England. There is no current evidence to suggest the new strain causes a higher mortality rate or that it affects vaccines and treatments although urgent work is underway to confirm this”, he said. Under the new Tier 4, people would be banned from mixing with anyone outside of their household, including on Christmas Day, and for the other tiers, Christmas rules allowing up to three households will now be limited to Christmas Day of December 25 only, rather than five days. The changes will last for two weeks with the first review now due on December 30. Several EU nations ban flights from the UK The German government said on Sunday it was planning to restrict travel to and from Britain because of the new coronavirus variant. A government spokesman said Germany is working on a regulation to restrict travel between Germany and Britain to protect the country from the new coronavirus variant. The government said it was in contact with its European partners about the travel restrictions too. It wasn't immediately clear when or for how long the restrictions would be. One by one, several European Union nations banned flights from the UK on Sunday, all in hopes of blocking a new strain of coronavirus sweeping across southern England from establishing a strong foothold on the continent. The Netherlands banned flights from the UK for at least the rest of the year while Belgium issued a flight ban for 24 hours starting at midnight and also halted train links to Britain, including the Eurostar. Austria and Italy said they would halt flights from the U.K. but did not say exactly when that would take place. Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio said on Twitter that the government was preparing the ban "to protect Italians" from the new coronavirus variant. About two dozen flights were scheduled to arrive in Italy on Sunday, most in the northern region of Lombardy but also to Venice and Rome. The Czech Republic imposed stricter quarantine measures from people arriving from Britain. An EU official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were still ongoing, said Sunday afternoon that the EU Commission was in touch with member states on the rapidly developing situation. Just days before Christmas, high-speed train operator Eurostar cancelled its trains between London, Brussels and Amsterdam beginning Monday, but kept trains operating on the London-to-Paris route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Pak allegations Indian troops attack on UN vehicle found false in probe: India||India on Sunday said Pakistan's allegations that Indian troops deliberately targeted a vehicle of the United Nations along the Line of Control were investigated in detail and found to be factually "incorrect and false". Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan should responsibly investigate its "lapses" instead of repeating "baseless and fabricated" allegations against India to cover up its own "failure" in ensuring the safety and security of UN personnel in territory under its control. Pakistan on Friday alleged that Indian troops targeted a vehicle of United Nations Military Observers (UNMO) in the Chirikot sector along the LoC. Indian government sources rejected the allegations that day itself. In response to media queries on allegations by Pakistan, Srivastava also said that India has conveyed its findings and views on "these misrepresentations" to the Pakistani side. "Allegations by Pakistan regarding Indian forces deliberately targeting a UN vehicle on 18 Dec have been investigated in detail and found to be factually incorrect and false. Our forward troops were aware of the visit of UN Military Observers in the area and did not conduct any firing as alleged," he said. "Instead of repeating baseless and fabricated allegations against India to cover up its own failure in ensuring the safety and security of UN personnel in territory under its control, Pakistan should responsibly investigate its lapses," the MEA spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Farmers to observe day-long hunger strike on Monday against new laws||Agricultural union leaders on Sunday announced that they will observe a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at every site of protest as part of their ongoing agitation against the three new farm laws of the Centre. Farmers will also halt toll collection on Haryana highways from December 25 to 27, the leaders said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the laws for the last over four weeks at various border points of Delhi and demanding that the legislations be rolled back. “Farmers will begin a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at all sites of protest against the new agri laws. It will be started by a team of 11 members at protests sites here,” Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said during a press conference on Sunday at the Singhu border. He also appealed to the people demonstrating against the laws across the nation to observe a day-long hunger strike against the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws. Announcing the next move, farmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dalewala said farmers will halt toll collection on highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27. Bharatiya Kisan union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who was also part of the press conference, said that farmers protesting the new agri laws will celebrate Kisan Diwas on December 23. “We request people to not cook lunch for a day,” he said. This is not the first time the farmers have decided to observe a fast. Last Monday, farmer leaders had opted for a day-long hunger strike, a movement where Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took part in. On Sunday, Punjab and Haryana farmers observed “Shadhanjali Divas” to pay homage to their associates who have died while protesting. Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh, who is also the grandson of pre-independent India's tallest farm leader Sir Chhotu Ram, participated in a prayer meeting organised at NH-18 in Palwal. Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a two-day visit to Bengal, said at a press conference that Agricultural Minister Narendra Singh Tomar may talk to the farmers in a day or two. “I am not exactly aware of the timing but Tomar is likely to meet the representatives of farmers tomorrow or the day after to discuss their demands,” he told reporters at Bengal’s Bolpur. Several rounds of talks with farmers' representatives have failed to break the deadlock between them and the Centre. While the farmers want a complete repeal of the three laws, The government on Thursday refused to assure the Supreme Court that it would not implement the three new farm laws till the bench had heard all the parties, setting up an exchange on who was being adamant. A bench, headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made it clear it would not “interfere with the protest” and that “at this stage the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment”. It, however, stressed that while the entire country sympathised with the farmers, the protests should be non-violent and not cause any inconvenience to the public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Farmers observe ‘Shradhanjali Divas’ in memory of those who died amid stir||Punjab and Haryana farmers on Sunday observed “Shadhanjali Divas” to pay homage to their associates who have died while protesting against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws. Farmers’ unions have claimed that more than 30 people participating in the agitation have lost their lives due to several reasons including heart attack and road accidents. The protesting farmers performed ‘adras’ (prayers) in memory of those who have departed, at different villages of the two states on Sunday. Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh, who is also the grandson of pre-independent India's tallest farm leader Sir Chhotu Ram, participated in a prayer meeting organised at NH-18 in Palwal. “At several places in Punjab, tributes were paid to farmers who died during this agitation,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Union leaders asserted that they will not let this ‘sacrifice’ of their brethren against the “black laws” go in vain. At some places in Punjab, farmers owing allegiance to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) also took out protest marches against the BJP-led government at the Centre for not acceding to their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said people at various places in the state held prayer meetings in memory of the farmers who passed away during the stir. Meanwhile, the traffic movement on the Jaipur-Delhi highway remained partially affected for the eighth consecutive day on Sunday due to the protests by the farmers. Braving intense cold, the farmers have been sitting on a carriageway of the highway in Shahjahanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border. The carriageway has been blocked for traffic and Delhi-bound vehicles are being diverted through other routes, a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Muscle-flexing roadshow marks Shah's Santiniketan visit||In a show of might ahead of 2021 assembly polls, Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday held a roadshow in Bolpur area of Birbhum district. The roadshow, which began around 3.10 pm from Dakbunglow grounds here, is set to culminate at Bolpur Chowrasta More. Shah, standing on top of a decked-up lorry along with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, was seen waving to the crowd, as saffron party supporters raised 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' and 'Amit Shah Zindabad' slogans. Hundreds of people, standing on both sides of the road, cheered the home minister as he made his way through the crowd. Amit Shah arrived at Santiniketan this morning and proceeded to pay homage to Rabindranath Tagore during a visit to the Vishva-Bharati, crediting the Nobel laureate for turning Shantiniketan into a centre for cultural exchanges. He said, "As the Vishva-Bharati nears its centenary year, Tagore's teachings should spread across the world, helping Indian knowledge and culture achieve international acclaim through his works." "Tagore has not only enriched the philosophy and literature of India but also made Shantiniketan a base for connecting Indian culture with that of many other countries," Shah told reporters at the end of his two-hour-long visit to the central university. He said the bard's teachings point to the fact that the purpose of education is to overcome narrowness and know the truth. He then visited the residence of a 'Baul' singer (sufi genre folk music of Bengal) here to have a typical Bengali lunch. Shah listened with rapt attention as Basudeb Das Baul and his family sang a popular folk song 'Tomay Hrid Majhare Rakhbo' (will keep you at the bottom of our hearts) with 'ektara' (one-stringed musical instrument) after the BJP heavyweight arrived at the baul's modest residence, 'Manohardham Kutir', in Ratanpally area of Santiniketan in Birbhum district. Shah, accompanied by senior leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy, Dilip Ghosh, Rahul Sinha, Anupam Hazra, had lunch at Baul's residence, sitting on the floor of the house. Shah savoured the delicacies - 'palong saak', 'alu posto', 'begun bhaja', 'nolen gurer payes' and 'nalen gurer rosogolla' - along with other BJP leaders. Shah also offered puja at the family Shiva temple. Das said, "we are privileged that such an important person visited our residence. We are overjoyed". Tight security arrangements were made and members of the media and other party leaders were kept outside the house, and Shah's security personnel checked the premises repeatedly. On Saturday, the BJP leader had lunch at the house of a farmer in Paschim Medinipur district as part of his exercise to strengthen relations with the common people ahead of the assembly elections in the state, due in April-May next year. During his November visit to the state, he had lunch at the residence of a tribal BJP worker in Bankura and the house of a Matua community member in North 24 Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||DGCA issues fresh guidelines for Covid-positive flight crew||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Friday said crew members of a flight who test positive for Covid-19 but are asymptomatic need to isolate themselves at home for 10 days, and can be declared fit for flying again by their medical supervisor. If Covid-positive crew members have ‘mild symptoms’, they will “continue home isolation and will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days”, DGCA said in a circular, adding there is no need for “testing after the home isolation period is over”. “However, if the isolation period for mildly symptomatic crew members is more than 14 days, they have to be examined by DGCA empanelled Class-1 examiner and crew is fit to fly if the examiner declares so,” said the circular. The circular, dated December 18, said that Covid-19 positive crew members with moderate and severe symptoms have to undergo special medical examination following their complete clinical recovery, at one of the Indian Air Force boarding centres to obtain their “cure certificate”. “Once declared ‘fit for flying’ at the IAF boarding centre, the air crew can commence flying only after DGCA medical assessment is issued,” the circular stated. The regulator said the December 18 circular supersedes the June 22 circular which mentioned that only those cabin crew members who come in direct contact with a Covid-positive person onboard a flight will be sent for mandatory 14-day home quarantine. The June 22 circular superseded a March 23 circular of the DGCA that had made it mandatory for the airlines to put the entire crew of a flight under home quarantine for 14 days in case anyone aboard was found to be Covid-positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi's brother Nehal charged with 2.6 million dollar fraud in New York||Nehal Modi, the younger brother of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, has been indicted here for fraudulently obtaining diamonds worth over USD 2.6 million from one of the world's biggest diamond companies in Manhattan. Nehal, 41, is charged in a New York Supreme Court indictment with Grand Larceny in the First Degree, Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance, Jr. said. "While diamonds may be forever, this flawed scheme was not, and now Modi will face the clarity of a New York Supreme Court indictment. My Office will not allow individuals who have the privilege of soliciting business in Manhattan's iconic diamond industry to defraud our businesses or consumers," Vance said in a statement on Friday. According to the indictment, court filings, and statements made on the record in court, between March 2015 and August 2015, Nehal, a former member of Noble Titan Holdings, made false representations to obtain over USD 2.6 million worth of diamonds from LLD Diamonds USA on favourable credit terms and consignment, and then liquidated the diamonds for his own ends. The statement said that Nehal, "who comes from a well-known family in the diamond industry", was initially introduced to the president of LLD Diamonds through industry associates. In March 2015, he approached LLD, claimed that he was pursuing a relationship with Costco Wholesale Corporation and asked the New York-based diamond company to provide several diamonds, worth nearly USD 800,000, to present to Costco for a potential sale. After LLD provided the diamonds, Nehal falsely informed the company that Costco had agreed to purchase them. Subsequently, LLD allowed him to purchase the diamonds on credit, with full payment required within 90 days. He then pawned the diamonds at Modell Collateral Loans to secure a short-term loan, the Manhattan District Attorney's office said. Between April and May 2015, Nehal returned to LLD three additional times and took more than USD 1 million worth of diamonds for purported sales to Costco. He made a series of payments to LLD, but used the majority of the proceeds for personal use and other business expenses. To cover his fraud, Nehal falsely claimed that he was encountering payment issues due to a "Costco fulfillment error" and made repeated promises to satisfy the balance, the statement noted. In August 2015, Nehal returned to LLD again and falsely claimed that Costco wanted to purchase additional diamonds. This time, LLD permitted him to take the additional diamonds on consignment, with terms explicitly stating that he did not have the authority to sell the diamonds without authorisation by LLD. LLD also required a partial payment upfront in the event of a sale, as Nehal's outstanding balance was nearly USD 1 million at that time. Nehal had already contacted Modell to arrange an additional loan. After picking up the diamonds from LLD, he pawned the majority of the diamonds at Modell to secure two separate loans and sold the remainder of the diamonds to various retailers at a steep discount from the listed consignment price. LLD ultimately uncovered the fraud and demanded that he immediately pay his outstanding balance or return the diamonds. However, he had already sold or pawned all of the diamonds and spent most of those proceeds. LLD subsequently reported the fraud to the Manhattan DA's Office. Nehal's brother Nirav, 49, is wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. He remains at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. The Interpol has issued a Red Corner Notice (RCN) against Nehal on charges of alleged money laundering that is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate. Nehal was born in Antwerp, Belgium in 1979, and he knows languages such as English, Gujarati and Hindi, according to the RCN issued by Interpol. The New York Post quoted Nehal's defence lawyer Roger Bernstein as saying: "This is a commercial dispute" and that "Nehal is not guilty." A video on The Post website shows Nehal walking with Bernstein, who said "we are not discussing anything about the case" when asked about the Interpol notice. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Poonawalla bats for vaccine makers, demands indemnifier against lawsuits||Vaccine manufacturers need to have protection against all lawsuits for their vaccines especially during a pandemic, Serum Institute of India (SII) Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla has said. He also said that the vaccine makers are going to propose this to the government, while speaking at a virtual panel on the challenges of developing a Covid-19 vaccine at the Carnegie India's Global Technology Summit on Friday. "We need to have the government indemnify manufacturers, especially vaccine manufacturers, against all lawsuits. In fact, COVAX and other countries have already started talking about that," Poonawalla said. It is because when frivolous claims come up, and something is blown out of proportion in the media, scepticism sets in that definitely something can happen due to the vaccine and to dispel that, the government needs to step in to spread the right information, he added. "..the government can act, the US, for example, has in fact invoked a law, to say that during a pandemic, and this is especially important only during a pandemic, to indemnify vaccine manufacturers against lawsuits for severe adverse effects or any other frivolous claims which may come about because that adds to the fear and also will bankrupt vaccine manufacturers or distract them if they have to just all day fight lawsuits and explain to the media what is happening," Poonawalla said. These are a few things that the government can do and that is what the vaccine manufacturers are going to propose, he added. Last month, Serum had rejected charges that a 40-year-old man who took part in the 'Covishield' vaccine trial in Chennai had levelled against the company, alleging serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions. He had also sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to Serum and others, besides seeking a halt on the trial. Refuting the charges, Serum had said, "It is evident that the intention behind spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive. The Serum Institute of India will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||India reports more than 26,000 cases, 341 deaths in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,31,223 with 26,624 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95.80 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 95.51 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,45,477 with 341 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95,80,402 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.51 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 3,05,344 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,11,98,195 samples have been tested up to December 19 with 11,07,681 samples being tested on Saturday. The 341 new fatalities include 74 from Maharashtra, 43 from West Bengal, 32 from Delhi, 29 from Kerala and 23 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,45,477 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,648 from Maharashtra followed by 12,004 from Karnataka, 11,968 from Tamil Nadu, 10,251 from Delhi, 9,320 from West Bengal, 8,177 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,074 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,189 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi, minimum temperature dips to 3.4 degree Celsius||A cold wave swept Delhi on Sunday as it recorded the coldest morning of the season so far at 3.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. On Saturday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had settled at 3.9 degrees Celsius. "The observatory recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal, on Sunday morning. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 22 degrees Celsius," an IMD official said. The mercury dipped to 3.3 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road, as icy winds from snow-laden Western Himalayas barrelled through the city, the IMD said. On Friday, the minimum temperature had plunged to 2.7 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur. The city had recorded a "severe" cold day on Thursday as the maximum temperature dropped to 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal and the lowest this season so far. However, it rose to 19.8 degrees Celsius on Friday and 21.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday. According to the IMD, a "cold day" is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.4 degrees Celsius below the normal. A "severe" cold day is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below the normal. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than the normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, officials said. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 5 degrees Celsius in the next five to six days, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Modi acknowledges farmers' agitation spread ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted an appeal to farmers in various languages to read agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s letter to them on the new farm laws, a clear acknowledgement that the protests were gaining traction outside the Punjab-Haryana belt. Till now, the government’s messaging has largely been in Hindi and Punjabi. Even the written offer of amendments to the three laws, sent to the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha last week, was in Hindi and Punjabi. Saturday’s tweets went out in all the southern languages too, apart from Bengali, Gujarati and Odia, reflecting the growing footprints of the agitation that has already witnessed participation from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the siege of Delhi’s borders. While the government continues with its attempts at persuasion, it seems to also have begun wielding the stick, with 14 big arhtiyas or commission agents in Punjab being raided since Friday. The protesting farmers see the income-tax raids as an attempt to intimidate them into submission. The raids have drawn stinging criticism from Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. The commission agents, whom the government calls middlemen, help farmers sell their produce to buyers — private, government or exporter — besides providing services like unloading the grain, cleaning it, filling it into bags, and weighing, sealing and loading it on trucks for final despatch. They also provide easy loans to the farmers, and have been participating in the protests out of concern that the new laws would run them out of business. Late on Saturday evening, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) responded to Tomar’s letter, which defends the new farm laws, point by point. It also sought to counter the government’s slander campaign against the agitation. The AIKSCC said it was most upsetting that the authorities were fuelling suspicion about a movement that had been going on peacefully for six months. Before besieging Delhi’s borders from November 26 on the AIKSCC’s call, the farmers had been agitating in their own states, with Punjab’s farmers carrying out the most sustained campaign. On the government’s persistent charge that the farmers were being misled by the Opposition, the AIKSCC underlined that it was the farmers’ movement, instead, that had forced several political parties to change their position on the new farm laws. On BJP leaders’ accusation that the farmers’ protest was not in the national interest, the AIKSCC said: “Our country is still largely an agrarian one. Are you saying that the welfare of farmers is not in national interest, and their voice should not be heard? Or is it your case that only the development of big corporate and foreign companies is in national interest.” On Saturday, Hanuman Beniwal, Rajasthan MP and leader of BJP ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, announced he would lead a march to Delhi on December 26 in support of the farmers’ agitation. His decision comes at a time farmers of Maharashtra are gearing to march from Nashik to Delhi under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sabha, reviving memories of the Kisan Long March from the same district to Mumbai in March 2018. “It seems the central government is in the mood to quell the farmers’ protest,” Beniwal said after resigning his memberships of three parliamentary committees in solidarity with the farmers. “Hence, our party has decided to lead a march of two lakh farmers and youths towards Delhi from Rajasthan on December 26,” the MP for Nagaur, who has not announced a departure from the NDA, added. Senior BJP leader from Haryana and a former union minister Birender Singh, who had left the Congress to join the BJP in 2014, broke ranks and has extended support to the farmers’ protest. Singh is the grandson of the pre-Independence peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram and was associated with the Congress for over four decades. He has not yet severed links with the BJP. “Whatever I have achieved in politics would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday. “Therefore, it is my moral responsibility to stand with the farmers in their fight today. I have decided to support this (farmers’) fight,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Abdullahs stare at loss of homes||Farooq Abdullah and son Omar Abdullah, scions of a Jammu and Kashmir family that played a key role in the erstwhile state’s accession to India and gave it several chief ministers, are suddenly staring at homelessness on their home turf. The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday claimed to have attached multiple properties of Farooq, including three residences in Kashmir and Jammu worth Rs 11.86 crore, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED action comes weeks after Farooq, a five-time chief minister who is now the Srinagar MP, was questioned in connection with the alleged laundering of funds of the Jammu & Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), which he once headed. ED officers said three residential houses — one at Gupkar Road, Srinagar; another at Katipora tehsil, Tanmarg; and the other at Bhatindi, Sunjwan village in Jammu — had been attached. Farooq alleged that he was being punished for taking a stand against the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. He suggested that if his houses were attached, he and son Omar would have nowhere to live. “They want to harass Farooq Abdullah, to make me bend before them.… I have been served with no letter, nothing as yet,” Farooq told The Telegraph. “This shows what kind of people they are. How can they attack my Srinagar house? I am living in this house with my son, my family.” In October, Omar vacated his government accommodation at Gupkar. He was reportedly asked to leave the house by the government, although he claimed he was doing so on his own. He subsequently moved into his father’s home on the same road. Farooq said the only property he had raised in his decades-long political career was a house in Sunjwan, Jammu. “All my properties are parental properties. I have made nothing myself other than the Jammu house. This (Gupkar house) we got in 1976 (when his father Sheikh Abdullah was chief minister),” he said. “The property in Tanmarg, I got from my mother’s side,” Farooq added. Omar said in a series of tweets that these properties largely dated back to the 1970s, “with the most recent one built before 2003”. “There can be no justification for the seizures because they fail the very basic test of having been acquired as the proceeds of the ‘crime’ being investigated,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Regional leaders express support for Mamata Banerjee over IPS transfer||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and DMK chief M.K. Stalin on Saturday joined a clutch of regional leaders who have spoken up for state governments’ say in the transfer of officials in the wake of the standoff between the Bengal government and the Centre over three IPS officers. Earlier, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, too, had picked up cudgels for the rights of state governments. “Transferring officers to central deputation without the state govts’ permission, as has been done in West Bengal, is another glaring example of diluting the federal structure,” Amarinder, a Congress veteran, tweeted. Baghel had said while referring to a tweet by Mamata Banerjee: “Federalism is at stake yet again. The BJP govt at the Centre has encroached the state’s area of administration and transferred officers. And that too before elections. The Centre’s interference is highly objectionable.” His Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot — also from the Congress — had re-tweeted Baghel’s tweet. Stalin tweeted: “The unilateral transfer of 3 West Bengal IPS officers by the Union BJP Govt is autocratic and anti-federal. The civil service of the country must not be dictated by the whims and fancies of the ruling party in Delhi. I urge @PMOIndia to immediately rescind the transfer order.” The Centre has placed the three IPS officers on central deputation after stones were hurled at BJP president J.P. Nadda’s convoy in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Bengal polls: BJP finds “bhoomiputra” in Suvendu||Once upon a time in a small room in New Delhi…. Suvendu Adhikari, who has severed his links with the Trinamul Congress through multiple rounds of resignations, narrated a story to an audience at the Midnapore College and Collegiate Ground on Saturday. “Amitji is like an elder brother to me…. In 2014, after Amitji had helped the BJP win the Lok Sabha polls and swept the Uttar Pradesh elections, then in a small room in the old BJP party office in Delhi, Amitji gave me darshan. The meeting was organised by Siddharth Nath Singh who is now the health minister in Uttar Pradesh,” Adhikari recounted. Six years down the line —swifter than the bees saal Bollywood usually takes to reunite long-lost brothers —the darshan graduated into a full-blown embrace on the College Ground as Adhikari joined the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah. Although Adhikari said that Shah had never told him to join the party, several BJP insiders said that Singh had set up the 2014 meeting to lay the ground for a switch. As Adhikari did not join the BJP at a rally addressed by Shah in Burdwan in January 2015, a source said, Singh suffered a loss of face and told his colleagues that no one from the BJP would ever contact anyone in the Adhikari family. Evidently, the BJP changed its mind, possibly driven by a desire to find a “bhoomiputra” more familiar to Bengal than its own home-grown faces. Sources in the party said the BJP would be using Adhikari with two principal objectives. First, the former Nandigram MLA will be the counter to Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP is a party of “bohiragawto (outsiders)”. The second objective is to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, which will be the mainstay of the BJP’s campaign in the run-up to the Assembly polls in the summer of 2021. Adhikari demonstrated that he had been briefed about the mandate, devoting considerable time to presenting his son-of-the-soil credentials by referring to his long political journey from a student leader in Midnapore to a state leader. Delivering on the second mandate during his first address as a BJP politician, he launched an attack on the Trinamul leadership. “My new slogan will be ‘tolabaaj bhaipo hatao (remove the extortionist nephew)’,” Adhikari said. Several loyalists have maintained that Adhikari’s primary grouse against Mamata has been her decision to make Abhishek her political heir apparent. Although Adhikari joined the BJP only on Saturday, speculation about him deserting Trinamul has been doing the rounds since 2014. In his address, Adhikari tried to justify his switch and respond to the “traitor” tag levelled at him by his former party colleagues. “Where I can’t have any self-respect, where there is no faith, no respect... I will not stay. This is the pride of Midnapore,” Adhikari said in his 11-minute speech after Shah handed him the BJP flag. It is not clear what Adhikari meant by “no respect”. He was one of the senior-most members in Mamata’s cabinet with charge of several key departments. His family has two MPs — father Sisir and brother Dibyendu — and a civic body chairman, brother Soumendu whose term ended recently. The Trinamul narrative over the last month or so has been that the party gave Suvendu Adhikari enough importance but he deserted it ahead of the elections to fulfil his ambitions. There have been murmurs in the BJP camp that Adhikari had tried to strike a hard bargain with the BJP central leaders for important posts for himself and his family members before quitting Trinamul. But Adhikari took care to explain that he was joining the BJP as an ordinary worker who was willing to “work at the booth level” or “draw wall graffiti”. Except for Adhikari, those who joined the BJP — 10 MLAs (including Suvendu), one MP, one former MP and one former minister, among others — at the Midnapore meeting on Saturday were political lightweights, sources in both the BJP and the Trinamul said. The list included Sunil Mondal, Trinamul MP; Tapasi Mondal, CPM MLA; Ashoke Dinda, CPI MLA; and Sudip Mukherjee, Congress MLA. The Trinamul MLAs were Saikat Panja, Shilbhadra Dutta, Dipali Biswas (from the CPM to Trinamul to the BJP), Sukra Munda, Biswajit Kundu and Banasri Maity. “The defections will continue in phases,” said a source close to Suvendu. Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee dared Adhikari to contest from Nandigram in 2021. “We will show him.... Even the people of Midnapore could not have imagined that a traitor like him could be born in the land of Vidyasagar, Khudiram Bose and Matangini Hazra,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Pari case central probe call ||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the Odisha government to recommend a probe by a central agency into the murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayagarh district. In its order, the NCPCR said: “The investigation conducted by the police authorities is severely flawed with glaring defects, which has caused untoward delay in the investigation of this serious incident of murder of a minor girl.” “Therefore, in view of the erroneous investigation conducted by the police authorities in this serious incident of murder of a minor girl, the commission recommends for disciplinary action to be taken against the investigating officers in the matter and recommend for a through investigation of this incident by a central agency,” the commission added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Dormitory for Puri devotees||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple Administration is planning to provide cheap accommodation to devotees who visit the shrine from all over the country, temple chief administrator Krishan Kumar announced on Saturday. The Bhakta Niwas, which will have dormitory accommodation, will offer beds at rates between Rs 100 and Rs 150 each. It is expected to come up on a 10-acre plot at Baseli Sahi, 2.5km from the 12th century shrine. “Devotees can stay by just paying Rs 100 to Rs 150 for one bed. There will be arrangements to accommodate 3,000 to 4,000 devotees,” an official said. The announcement came four days ahead of the opening of the Shree Jagannath Temple for devotees on December 23. The temple has remained closed since March because of the pandemic. In the first phase, only the servitors and their families will be allowed to enter the shrine on December 23 and 24. Over the next week, only people from Puri will get permission to visit the temple. The shrine will remain closed on January 1 and 2. From January 3, the temple will be thrown open to all devotees but those visiting will have to produce Covid-negative reports. Krishan Kumar, the temple chief administrator, made the announcement of the cheap accommodation after inspecting Odisha government-initiated development work at the temple corridor and in Puri city with V.K. Pandian, private secretary to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. Earlier, Naveen had visited Puri on October 17 and directed the administration to expedite the developmental projects. The Puri district administration has courted controversy following its decision to dismantle the 100-year-old Bagala Dharmasala, which used to provide accommodation at rates between Rs 10 and Rs 20. The dharmasala is located 100 metres from the temple. Local journalist and social activist Jagannath Bastia has challenged the demolition of the dharmshala in the high court. “The Puri temple administration should set up the Bhakta Niwas near the temple so that elderly devotees find it convenient. The proposed site is far away from the temple. Beside, the temple administration should reduce the tariff of the existing three Bhakta Niwases. They are charging like hotels,” Bastia said. The three Bhakta Niwases offer rooms at rates between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,400. There are nearly 650 hotels and lodges in Puri. Prior to the lockdown, nearly 30,000 people used to visit Puri every day but now the number has drastically reduced. “People have started coming to Puri again. But it will take time for the tourist business to pick up,” said Puri Hotel Owners’ Association president Ramakrushna Das Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||JNU to open for science students on Monday||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will open for research students from the science stream from Monday. According to guidelines issued by the university on Saturday, both day scholars and hostel residents will be allowed entry into the campus to use the laboratories. So far, the university had been allowing only those research students who are supposed to submit their thesis in June 2021. After reaching Delhi, the students will have to undergo quarantine for a week before joining the university. The canteens, dhabas and central library on the campus will remain closed. However, several faculty members of JNU criticised the varsity administration for not allowing social science and humanities students into the campus. “The students of social science are being discriminated against. They need to meet their supervisors, work on their research subjects. But the institution is only allowing science students,” said Prof. Mousumi Basu, secretary of the JNU Teachers’ Association. “Even though the university has allowed the entry of science students, I doubt if any student will come now. Those who can defer their laboratory work will prefer to delay their return,” a teacher said. Physical classes have not been held in JNU since March, when the pandemic-induced lockdown was announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Chidambaram invites Narendra Modi comment on 3 ‘lies’||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Saturday confronted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has accused the Opposition of spreading lies, with three incontrovertible facts that could leave the government in an embarrassing position. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Prime Minister has once again accused the Opposition of ‘spreading lies’. Here are three so-called lies that he may wish to comment upon: 1. The AIKSCC (All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee), which is coordinating the farmers’ protests, has said that farmers are selling paddy at Rs 900 per quintal though the MSP is Rs 1,870 per quintal. Is that a lie?” The Congress leader added: “2. A Delhi court that acquitted Tablighi Jamaat members has said that it is probable that the accused ‘were picked up to maliciously prosecute them upon directions from the ministry of home affairs’. Is that a lie? 3. The CBI has contradicted Uttar Police police and charged four accused persons with gang rape and murder of the Hathras victim. Is that a lie?” The Prime Minister has been claiming that his government has implemented the Swaminathan Commission recommendation of giving minimum support price (MSP), which is input cost plus 50 per cent, and citing instances where farmers have gained from the new farm laws. Farmers’ unions have fiercely contested this, saying that the government was making a false claim by doing a wrong calculation — based on partial input cost instead of total input cost. They have also been saying that most of the items are getting sold far below the MSP. While there is a unanimous view among the farmers that the Prime Minister’s claim of implementing the Swaminathan Commission recommendations was a lie, Chidambaram also said so through his question. The second issue, about the Tablighi Jamaat being responsible for the initial spread of the coronavirus in India, is also an embarrassment for the government as senior ministers and BJP leaders had, with the help of sections of the media, launched a vicious propaganda campaign to malign a community. Now, various courts have rejected the allegation, absolving Tablighi Jamaat members of all charges. The third claim, that the Hathras teen had not been raped, has also turned out to be a lie as the CBI has filed a chargesheet confirming gang rape. Along with the Uttar Pradesh police brass, many BJP leaders had propagated the no-rape narrative and made unsubstantiated allegations of an international conspiracy. Modi had earlier accused the Opposition of spreading lies during demonetisation and the anti-CAA protests as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Four arrested for bid to sell Narendra Modi’s constituency office in Varanasi||Four men have been arrested for allegedly trying to sell online Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency office in Varanasi, called the “mini-PMO”. Laxmikant Ojha, Manoj Yadav, Babulal Patel and Jitendra Kumar Verma were picked up on Friday evening and sent to jail custody on Saturday on the charge of forgery. Police said Ojha, a teacher at a school for special children, had on Wednesday posted an advertisement on the digital marketing website OLX with pictures of the bungalow, declaring it was for sale at Rs 7 crore. The ad, which the Dutch domicile online marketplace removed on Thursday after being contacted by the Varanasi police, said the north-facing house with a built-up area of 6,500sqft had four bedrooms and four bathrooms. It described the building as the “PMO office” in Varanasi and mentioned Ojha as the agent who would deal with the buyers. The BJP had rented the building in the upscale Ravindrapuri neighbourhood after Modi became the Varanasi MP in 2014. Modi was meant to meet people there but has never stepped inside the premises during any constituency visit. It’s only visiting Union ministers and other BJP parliamentarians who use the building to meet people and try to address their grievances. Police sources said Manoj, Babulal and Jitendra were, respectively, a milk seller, an electrician and a tea seller. They said Ojha had told them the trio were his friends and had misled him by saying the building’s owner wanted to sell it. “He (Ojha) said he had been offered Rs 7.5 lakh as his share if the building was sold online,” an officer said. He quoted Ojha as saying the three co-accused had helped him post the ad from his smart phone since he wasn’t very tech savvy. Experts said OLX cannot be held liable as it had followed the rules of “due diligence” under the Information Technology Act and pulled out the ad within 36 hours of learning about the mischief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Hathras chargesheet fails to allay kin fears||The family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim on Saturday said they were unsure of justice being done despite the CBI filing a chargesheet, for the four accused had supporters among “powerful people” and state police officers. “We shall feel that justice has been done only when the four accused are hanged and the police officers who burnt her (victim’s) body against our wishes are punished,” the 19-year-old victim’s sister-in-law told reporters at the family home. “Yes, the CBI chargesheet says our daughter was gang-raped on September 14 and died on September 29 of injuries inflicted by the four accused, but many things are happening around us,” she added. “There are powerful people openly standing behind the four criminals, and there are officers in the state and the district who don’t believe it’s a case of gang rape.” She added: “We know we have put our lives in danger by waging a war against the tormentors and killers of our daughter.” After the victim was brutalised in a field on September 14, the police had refused to file gang-rape charges for eight days till the girl made a statement from her hospital bed on September 22. Police sources have said she named the four suspects and alleged gang rape. The investigators are treating it as a dying declaration. After her death in a Delhi hospital, the Uttar Pradesh police “hijacked” the body and burnt it in her village, allegedly after locking up her family at their home. Days later, a senior police officer declared the girl had not been raped, while the administration virtually cordoned the family off from media contact. The case was transferred to the CBI in the second week of October on a recommendation from the state government. The family is under CRPF protection on a directive from the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court. The family of one of the four accused, Sandeep Singh, is gearing to “challenge the CBI chargesheet in court”, a relative told reporters on the condition of anonymity. “The girl never clearly alleged gang rape, and mentioned only two names clearly (as those of her attackers) in her last statement,” he said. “That statement was not a dying declaration since it came a week before her death. The CBI chargesheet won’t stand in court. We’ll meet our child at Hathras district jail in a day or two and tell him not to worry.” He added: “We have written to the government seeking a lie-detector test on the girl’s family members.” The other three suspects are Luvkush Kumar, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar. Munni Devi, mother of Luvkush, said: “I was working in the field when I heard a noise in an adjoining field. The girl was lying unconscious. I asked my son to bring water. Later, he was implicated in the case.” Rakesh Kumar, father of Ram Kumar, said: “My son was working in a chiller plant near the village. His attendance was marked and he can be seen in CCTV footage working there at the time of the incident.” Alok Singh, senior jail superintendent at Hathras district jail, said the four suspects were in a quarantine centre at the prison and would be shifted to ordinary cells on Monday. “The CBI had taken them to Gandhinagar on November 21 for a polygraph test and a brain electrical oscillation signature (both are lie tests). They were brought back on December 6 and put in 14 days’ quarantine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
20-12-2020||India||Students denied refunds in violation of rules||Thousands of students who secured admission to one higher-education institution and then sought transfer to another have been denied refunds and their academic certificates in violation of rules, the higher education regulator has said. Many private universities and colleges hold on to their students’ higher secondary or graduation certificates for several months after admission. The University Grants Commission had on September 22 directed institutions to return these certificates and the entire fees paid during admission if students requested a transfer by November 30. “The commission has been receiving several references in the form of RTI applications/ complaints/ public grievances/ court cases in respect of non-refund of fee by the universities/ institution(s) in violation of the UGC guidelines,” the commission secretary said in a December 17 letter. “The commission has taken a very serious view of such complaints. Most of these complaints have come from the students who have taken admission (to) private or self-financing universities and deemed to be universities and later opted out for one or the other reason. “It is reiterated that the UGC guidelines are to be followed mandatorily by all the universities in letter and spirit. Any institution/ university found to be violating the guidelines and refusing to refund the fee by giving its own interpretation of the guidelines shall be liable for punitive actions.” The letter said the punishment could include a recommendation to the state government for withdrawal of a defaulting institution’s university status, or one for de-affiliation of an errant college by its university. Under the UGC’s guidelines, the commission can stop funding such institutions. The UGC’s September 22 circular had also said that students seeking a transfer by December 31 would be paid a refund after deducting Rs 1,000 as processing fee. “Today (Saturday), a student was offered spot admission to the MBA course at our institution. He had already got admitted to another institution,” a teacher at the Institute of Management and Information Technology, Cuttack, said. “He said that getting back his college-leaving certificate (the graduation certificate he had deposited with the first institution) would be difficult. He has enquired with that institution. We have given him provisional admission. Only if he gets the certificate can his admission be confirmed.” Ravi Bhardwaj, a lawyer who has represented several private institutions in court cases, blamed the UGC for failing to clarify the refund rules till September 22. “The UGC clarified in September that institutions have to refund (the full fees) to those seeking withdrawal by November 30. Earlier in October 2018, it had issued refund guidelines saying students would not receive any refund if they withdraw after 30 days of the closure of the admission process,” he said. “Many institutions had conducted admissions in July and August this year and begun online classes. It’s difficult for them to comply with the September 22 circular (on refunds).” He said the UGC had issued a circular in May saying the students could pay their dues in instalments. It should have clarified the matter relating to refunds right at that time, Bhardwaj said. “The UGC has issued this directive to protect the interests of the students. It should take a balanced view. The institutions too are in stress because of low admission in view of the pandemic and the economic slowdown,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
20-12-2020||India||Congress bridges generation gap, averts crisis||The Congress leadership appears to have succeeded in averting a crisis by stressing the importance of unity and striving to erase the perceived old-versus-young line that has generated distrust and unease in the party. At a meeting of the top leadership where the “Group of 23” leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party were present, the Congress president forcefully argued that difference of perception in a big family like the Congress’s must not be taken as antagonism and everybody should come together to strengthen the party at this critical juncture when the country is grappling with an unprecedented social and political challenge. Rahul Gandhi echoed the sentiment, rubbishing the perception that he was against senior leaders. The former Congress chief made an emotional appeal to the seniors not to pay attention to rumours, explaining that he respected them not only because of their experience and contribution to the party but also because they had worked with his father, Rajiv Gandhi. This was received by the so-called dissenters with gratitude as they too wondered why such an artificial line dividing the party into two groups had been drawn. “We are not rebels or dissenters. Writing a letter to the party president is not a crime,” was the refrain from them. These leaders are not dissatisfied with the meeting though they concede that a lot has to be done at the organisational level to address the concerns raised by them. They all reiterated at the meeting that they had full faith in the leadership of Sonia and Rahul and the attempts to create rifts were condemnable. Nobody was critical of Rahul’s role in the recent months and everybody appreciated Sonia’s call for working with unity to strengthen the party. There was no discussion on the question of the next party president. A section of the media erroneously created an impression that Rahul had agreed to return as Congress chief. A senior leader who was present at the meeting told The Telegraph: “We don’t know where from this information came. Some leaders did try to raise the subject, asking Rahulji to return as party president. But Rahulji himself said this meeting was not for electing the party president. He said the agenda was to discuss ways of strengthening the party.” Sources recounted that Rahul also said it was not important what post he held as the main purpose was to revive the party and work together with everybody to achieve that objective. Except a few leaders, nobody referred to the question of Rahul’s return or the leadership crisis. It was clarified at the meeting that the process to elect the new party president had been set in motion and there was nothing more to be done about that. The so-called dissenters stuck to their position about organisational infirmities and referred to the debacle in the Bihar Assembly elections and the recent bypolls in some states including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Suggestions for election to party posts, from district-level office-bearers to the Congress Working Committee, and the constitution of a parliamentary board were also made. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra stressed the need for a public outreach, arguing that revival was difficult unless the party leaders stepped out to work among the people. The immediate outcome is doubtless the breaking of ice, of dissolution of the “us-and-them” binary that has troubled the Congress for the past few months. Veterans like Kamal Nath and Ashok Gehlot have worked hard to bridge the communication gap and convince the seniors that there was no move to isolate them. The controversy might have rubbed the message in yet again that the party cannot be run by younger leaders and there can be no agenda against the experienced, entrenched forces. The meetings will continue and Sonia will discuss organisational and political issues with other groups, including office-bearers, in the coming days. The focus, apart from organisational changes, will be on the coming Assembly elections. A proposal for holding a Shimla and Panchmarhi-like brainstorming session is also under consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
