21-12-2020||India||Congress veteran Motilal Vora passes away at 93 after Covid complications||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora, a staunch Gandhi family loyalist who had a political career spanning almost five decades, died at a hospital here on Monday following post-Covid-19 complications, his family said. He was 93. Vora was admitted to the Escorts Hospital in Okhla here a few days ago with a urinary infection. He developed a severe lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said. He completed 93 years on Sunday. He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where he stayed most of his life. Vora, a two-time former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh and also a former governor of Uttar Pradesh had served as a Rajya Sabha member four times and as a Lok Sabha member once. He started his political innings as an MLA in 1972 and remained a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly till 1992. He was the chief minister of the state from 1985 to 1988 and elected to the office again in 1989. He remained active in the party till earlier this year. He was the party's treasurer for a long time and last held the position of AICC general secretary (administration). President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political leaders including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to the departed leader. "Sad to hear that veteran Congress leader Shri Motilal Vora is no more. He was humility personified and belonged to a generation of leaders who carry their politics with unflinching conviction till the end. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," President Kovind tweeted. Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman said he was deeply saddened to learn about Vora's demise who commanded great respect and love across the political spectrum. "When I came to Rajya Sabha in 2014, I used to listen to his speeches and watch his behaviour in the House closely. For me, he had the qualities of an ideal Member of Parliament. "His dedication, loyalty and contribution to his party is recognised by all. His work against malnutrition in children, especially in Chhattisgarh, has now started giving good results," he said. "In Vora ji's demise, the country has lost an honest, simple and committed leader. It is an irreplaceable loss not only to the Congress party but also to the country," the vice president said. PM Modi said he was saddened by the demise of the Congress veteran. "Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti," the PM said in a tweet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to express their condolences. Condoling Vora's demise, Rahul Gandhi said, "Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much. My love and condolences to his family and friends." Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said every Congress leader and worker is feeling personally pained by Vora's death. "Vora ji was a symbol of loyalty, dedication and patience towards the ideology of Congress," she said. She also said Vora was present at every party meeting even at the age of 92 and expressed his views openly on every issue. "Today, while bidding him goodbye I feel sad that an elder member of the family has left us. We will all miss him very much," she added. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "A giant is no more. Sh Moti Lal Vora was the epitome of commitment, dedication and loyalty. He inspired an entire generation with his untiring attitude and capacity to brave every adversity. My heartfelt homage." The Congress party also tweeted through its official handle, "We offer our heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of stalwart Congress leader, former Union Cabinet Minister and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Motilal Vora. Congress has lost a guiding light. May his soul rest in peace." Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora, a staunch Gandhi family loyalist who had a political career spanning almost five decades, died at a hospital here on Monday following post-Covid-19 complications, his family said. He was 93. Vora was admitted to the Escorts Hospital in Okhla here a few days ago with a urinary infection. He developed a severe lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said. He completed 93 years on Sunday. He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where he stayed most of his life. Vora, a two-time former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh and also a former governor of Uttar Pradesh had served as a Rajya Sabha member four times and as a Lok Sabha member once. He started his political innings as an MLA in 1972 and remained a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly till 1992. He was the chief minister of the state from 1985 to 1988 and elected to the office again in 1989. He remained active in the party till earlier this year. He was the party's treasurer for a long time and last held the position of AICC general secretary (administration). President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political leaders including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to the departed leader. "Sad to hear that veteran Congress leader Shri Motilal Vora is no more. He was humility personified and belonged to a generation of leaders who carry their politics with unflinching conviction till the end. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," President Kovind tweeted. Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman said he was deeply saddened to learn about Vora's demise who commanded great respect and love across the political spectrum. "When I came to Rajya Sabha in 2014, I used to listen to his speeches and watch his behaviour in the House closely. For me, he had the qualities of an ideal Member of Parliament. "His dedication, loyalty and contribution to his party is recognised by all. His work against malnutrition in children, especially in Chhattisgarh, has now started giving good results," he said. "In Vora ji's demise, the country has lost an honest, simple and committed leader. It is an irreplaceable loss not only to the Congress party but also to the country," the vice president said. PM Modi said he was saddened by the demise of the Congress veteran. "Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti," the PM said in a tweet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to express their condolences. Condoling Vora's demise, Rahul Gandhi said, "Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much. My love and condolences to his family and friends." Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said every Congress leader and worker is feeling personally pained by Vora's death. "Vora ji was a symbol of loyalty, dedication and patience towards the ideology of Congress," she said. She also said Vora was present at every party meeting even at the age of 92 and expressed his views openly on every issue. "Today, while bidding him goodbye I feel sad that an elder member of the family has left us. We will all miss him very much," she added. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "A giant is no more. Sh Moti Lal Vora was the epitome of commitment, dedication and loyalty. He inspired an entire generation with his untiring attitude and capacity to brave every adversity. My heartfelt homage." The Congress party also tweeted through its official handle, "We offer our heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of stalwart Congress leader, former Union Cabinet Minister and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Motilal Vora. Congress has lost a guiding light. May his soul rest in peace."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Vietnam important partner in India's Indo-Pacific vision: PM Modi at virtual summit||Describing Vietnam as an important partner in India's Indo-Pacific vision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said cooperation between the two countries can contribute to maintaining peace and stability in the region. At a virtual summit with Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Modi said India looks at its ties with Vietnam with a long-term and strategic perspective. "Vietnam is an important pillar of India's Act East policy," Modi said in his opening remarks, adding the scope of the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries has expanded significantly. "Peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region is our common aim. Our cooperation can make an important contribution in maintaining peace and stability in the region," said Modi. He also complimented Vietnam for the way the country handled the coronavirus pandemic. India and Vietnam upgraded their relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2016 and defence cooperation has been one of the most significant elements in the fast-expanding bilateral ties. Both countries have stakes in the Indo-Pacific and are aiming to explore the potential for further cooperation in the region. At the East Asia Summit in Bangkok last year, Prime Minister Modi proposed setting up of the Indo-Pacific Ocean's Initiative (IPOI) to conserve and sustainably use the maritime domain and to make meaningful efforts to create a safe and secure maritime domain. The 10-nation ASEAN has reflected its vision for the region in a document titled 'ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP)'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||India suspends all flights to and from UK from Wednesday||All flights from the UK to India and vice versa will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Monday in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. Moreover, the ministry said passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday would be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airports "as a measure of abundant precaution". A number of countries like Canada, Turkey, Belgium, Italy and Israel have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. The Civil Aviation Ministry tweeted: "Considering the prevailing situation in UK, Govt. of India has decided that all flights originating from UK to India to be suspended till 31st December 2020 (23.59 hours)." This suspension will start after 11.59 PM of December 22 and consequently, flights from India to the UK shall also stand temporarily suspended during the above said period, it added. "As a measure of abundant precaution, passengers arriving from the UK in all transit flights (flights that have taken off or flights which are reaching India before 22nd Dec at 23.59 hrs) should be subject to mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival at the airports concerned," it mentioned. A chorus was growing within the political corridors of India to ban flights from UK with many countries around the world opting for a similar approach. Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. "New mutation of coronavirus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately," Kejriwal tweeted. In a tweet, Gehlot said India was late in banning international flights when COVID-19 had started spreading, leading to a drastic spike in cases in the country. "The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. GoI must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same & also immediately ban all flights from the UK & other European countries," he tweeted. "India needs both a preparedness plan as well as steps to restrict any movement from affected countries. Our medical experts must be ready with a treatment plan in case of any outbreak of the new strain of virus. Health protocols must be adhered to even more strictly," the chief minister said. Earlier, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "The government is fully alert about everything. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic the way we are seeing in this press conference," the minister said amid concerns about the new strain. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19. Responding to a question on the panic and a demand to ban flights from the UK, Vardhan told reporters, "I would say this to all that all these imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic... don't involve yourself in this." The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of the new strain in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||No need to panic, assures health minister on new Covid strain||The government is vigilant, and there is no need to panic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday amid concerns over the emergence of a new coronavirus strain in the UK. The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the new strain, which has led to a surge in the infection rate in the UK. Responding to a question on the panic and a demand to ban flights from the UK, Vardhan told reporters, "I would say this to all that all these imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic... don't involve yourself in this." "The government is fully alert about everything. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic the way we are seeing in this press conference," the minister said. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. Several European countries -- France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy -- have banned flights from the UK with the British government warning that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposing a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week said a fast-moving new variant of the virus that is 70 per cent more transmissible than existing strains appeared to be driving the rapid spread of new infections in London and southern England in recent weeks. But he stressed "there's no evidence to suggest it is more lethal or causes more severe illness," or that vaccines will be less effective against it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Kejriwal, Gehlot ask govt to ban all flights from UK in view of the new Covid strain||Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of the new strain in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there. "New mutation of coronavirus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately," Kejriwal tweeted. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday asked the Centre to take prompt action and prepare a contingency plan. In a tweet, Gehlot said India was late in banning international flights when COVID-19 had started spreading, leading to a drastic spike in cases in the country. "The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. GoI must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same & also immediately ban all flights from the UK & other European countries," he tweeted. "India needs both a preparedness plan as well as steps to restrict any movement from affected countries. Our medical experts must be ready with a treatment plan in case of any outbreak of the new strain of virus. Health protocols must be adhered to even more strictly, the chief minister said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the government is alert and there is no need to panic. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. PTI SDA||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Hathras rape-murder case 'exposed' UP govt, says Akhilesh Yadav||The Uttar Pradesh government has been "exposed" in the Hathras rape-murder case and it will also face the same treatment in the "false cases" against Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday had filed a charge sheet against the four men accused of the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district. The findings submitted by the CBI left top Uttar Pradesh Police officials red-faced as they had claimed that no evidence of rape was found in forensic tests. In a tweet, Yadav said, "The way the lies of the BJP government have been exposed in the Hathras incident, the process of exposure of false cases in UP has started." "Believing in the judiciary and democracy, we are confident that the government will also lose the false cases against Azam Khan and he will get justice very soon," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted. Khan, who represents Rampur in the Lok Sabha, is currently lodged at the Sitapur jail after he surrendered at a Rampur court in a case pertaining to fake birth certificate produced by his son Abdullah for the last assembly elections. The Samajwadi Party MP, among many other cases, faces charges of encroachment of land around Mohammad Ali Jauhar University, where he is the chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||More than 24,000 Covid cases, 333 casualties in a day ||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,55,560 with 24,337 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 96 lakh, according to Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,45,810 with 333 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,06,111, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.53 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent, according to the data. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the 15th consecutive day. There are 3,03,639 active coronavirus cases in the country which comprise 3.02 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,20,98,329 samples have been tested up to December 20 with 9,00,134 samples being tested on Sunday. The 333 new fatalities include 98 from Maharashtra, 40 from Bengal, 30 from Kerala and 26 from Delhi. The 1,45,810 deaths reported so far in the country includes 48,746 from Maharashtra followed by 12,009 in Karnataka, 11,983 in Tamil Nadu, 10,277 in Delhi, 9,360 in West Bengal, 8,196 in Uttar Pradesh, 7,076 in Andhra Pradesh and 5,201 in Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Copper Age relics unearthed in Bihar along Kosi river||The remains of an ancient site, said to be around 3,500 years old, have been discovered along the Kosi river in Bihar. The site, located at Naugachhia in Bhagalpur district, around 260km east from state capital Patna, has come as a surprise find for historians and archaeologists because the area had never yielded such antiquity till now. Located near Guwaridih village under Bihpur circle, a portion of the site was exposed due to erosion of a huge mound spread across 25 acres by a stream of the Kosi during monsoon this year. It has yielded items like terracotta pottery, burnt bricks, brick walls, brick structures, copper and iron tools, punch-mark coins, beads of terracotta and semi-precious stones, ornaments, animal fossils, triangular bricks, weights and other objects in significant numbers. Chief minister Nitish Kumar flew to inspect the settlement on Sunday after it became a talking point among the locals, historians and archaeologists. He gave instructions for an intensive exploration of the place and its adjoining areas to unravel the spread of the particular culture, its connections with other archaeological sites and civilisations. “I had asked a team of experts to visit the place after one of our MLAs informed us. The team recently submitted a small report saying it seemed to be an ancient archaeological site. I have come to visit the place and at first glance it does seem to be a very old one going back to thousands of years,” Nitish told reporters. “A branch of the Kosi river is eroding the site. I have asked the water resources department to divert the flow of the river to preserve the site. Our experts would explore the place and the adjoining areas to understand its expanse and value. If they confirm its importance, we will excavate and conserve the entire area and we will also acquire land from the villagers if needed,” Nitish added. Experts said that more similar sites could be found in the vicinity because the area is dotted with mounds. Extensive exploration would reveal whether it was an urban settlement or something else, they said. Bihar Heritage Development Society executive director Bijoy Kumar Choudhary, who accompanied the chief minister, said that the settlement seemed to be going back to the chalcolithic (Copper Age) period. “The site’s antiquity is going back to the chalcolithic period, which in Bihar is considered to be around 1500 BC. The punch-mark coins of copper indicate that the site existed around the 6th century BC. The potsherds indicate that it continued till the Kushana period and later in the first few centuries of AD. We are going to intensively explore the place on the chief minister’s instructions,” Choudhary said. He said that the discovered site could be connected to the Anga “Mahajanapada” (one of the 16 important states in ancient India). He also said that the enthusiasm of a local villager — Avinash Chaudhary — was of much help as he collected and protected many of the antiquities found at the site. Recently, a 2,000-year-old archaeological site was found at Chanan in Banka district in the state. It is currently located in the bed of Chanan river. Nitish has instructed the water resources department to divert the course of the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Change in antigen norms ‘shuts out’ Indian firms||An industry body has accused the Centre of abruptly increasing the accuracy thresholds for rapid antigen tests used to detect the novel coronavirus, effectively granting a South Korean company a monopoly and eliminating Indian companies from government orders. The Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMED) has questioned the Centre’s decision to “all of a sudden” change the required accuracy thresholds — a sensitivity of 84 per cent from 50 per cent and a specificity of 100 per cent from 95 per cent. Sensitivity measures true positives while specificity measures true negatives in the tested samples. A sensitivity of 84 per cent and specificity of 100 per cent would mean the test should yield no more than 16 per cent false positives and zero per cent false negatives. High false negative rates are worrying because such tests could misleadingly label infected people as “negative” and contribute to spreading the infection. The guidelines require that anyone with symptoms who tests negative should be confirmed as negative through the more reliable RT-PCR diagnostic test. The association on Saturday told the Indian Council of Medical Research — the government agency designated to validate all Covid-19 tests — that the revised specifications for rapid antigen tests are “discriminatory” and favour a South Korean company. The specifications for tenders in the government e-marketplace portal have been changed “to match the results” of Korea’s SD Biosensor’s new test approved by the ICMR, the AIMED said in a letter to ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava, the health ministry and other government departments. Officials in the ICMR and the health ministry did not respond to queries from this newspaper seeking their perspective on AIMED’s concerns. “Indian manufacturers will sit idle and not be able to participate in tenders while SD (Biosensor) will again get a monopoly with 100 per cent government tender business and sell this product at very high prices to government agencies,” AIMED wrote in the letter. AIMED’s forum coordinator, Rajiv Nath, said the diagnostic test manufacturers appreciated the need to upgrade accuracy thresholds over time as technology improved, but were questioning the abrupt change, which came without any intimation and sought a match with the specifications of a single company. The chief executive of one diagnostic company said the new 84 per cent sensitivity threshold for rapid antigen tests exceeded the 80 per cent sensitivity criterion set by the US Food and Drug Administration. “Everyone views the US FDA as setting the gold standard — yet for this specific requirement, they have even surpassed the levels required by the US FDA,” said the executive, who requested not to be named because he did not want to appear critical of the Centre. The South Korean company, according to AIMED, has supplied over 80 per cent of the rapid antigen diagnostic tests used by government agencies across the country. “They sold their product at over Rs 400 per test until several Indian players entered the market with tests costing Rs 50,” Nath said. The rapid antigen tests, which look for viral proteins, are easier and faster but less reliable than the RT-PCR tests that look for viral genetic material. But many states have increased their use of the rapid antigen tests and the Union health ministry has urged states to confirm, whenever necessary, negative antigen tests with RT-PCR tests. “Domestic companies have helped reduce the price but the new technical specifications appear designed to provide exclusive opportunities to the South Korean company,” the executive said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Undaunted, farmers announce intensification of their agitation||The farmers on Sunday announced an intensification of their agitation to exert political, diplomatic and economic pressure on the government, including a high-decibel protest aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They issued a call to supporters to clang vessels to drown out next Sunday’s instalment of Modi’s monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, turning the Prime Minister’s own idea against him. Modi had in March asked all Indians to beat utensils and clap hands at a specific time to applaud the frontline workers in the fight against the pandemic. “Now, we urge all farmers and others who support our cause to drown the Prime Minister’s broadcast through the programme,” Jagjit Singh Dallewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) said. The call, through which the farmers tried to tell the government they were tired of its monologue, came on a day Union home minister Amit Shah hinted at another round of talks this week. Late in the night, the government sent a letter to the farmers to spell out their concerns about the amendments it had proposed and to pick a date for talks. However, with Modi now leading the defence of the new farm laws, the farmers are not particularly optimistic of an early resolution and indicated at their news conference that the protests could spill over to the new year. They also announced a slew of protest programmes to keep up the momentum, undaunted by the government’s attempts to prevent mobilisation and intimidate them with income-tax raids in Punjab on their commission agents. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to stage relay hunger strikes at all the protest sites from Monday, free the toll plazas in Haryana for three days beginning December 25, pressure the BJP’s allies to take a stand, and mobilise farmers across the country. The BJP has already lost its oldest ally, the Akali Dal, over the farm laws while another ally, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, too has decided to throw in its lot with the farmers. The farmers are tapping their contacts among the diaspora across world capitals to have protests held outside the Indian missions. The SKM has extended its boycott call from Jio SIMs and accessories to Adani’s products, emboldened by reports of Reliance complaining about losing subscribers to rivals. On December 23, observed as Kisan Divas, all farming households will forgo a meal in support of the movement, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said. He alleged that farmers were being stopped from proceeding towards Delhi. Still, the farmers have been able to block one carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Shajahanpur. Farmer leaders said the raids in Punjab suggested a panicky government was trying to intimidate the commission agents, who had contributed substantially to the protests. Farmers have decided to gherao income-tax offices in Punjab. Darshan Pal, a farm union leader, cited reports that said several singers who had supported the movement were being targeted by the government, and that questions were being asked about the funding of some of the farmer unions. The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab’s largest farmer organisations, said a central agency had asked it to furnish details of its FCRA registration, which allows it to receive foreign funds, PTI reported. Otherwise, the Centre has said, the donations from abroad “would be sent back”, the outfit’s leaders said. They accused the government of “using all tactics” to try and “defeat the agitation”. The protesting farmers observed Sunday as “martyrs’ day” in memory of those who died while participating in the protests. Candlelight marches were held in the evening in memory of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi visits gurdwara; farmers left in the lurch  ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a visit to the Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi, staging what appeared his latest attempt to reach out to Punjab’s Sikh farmers who are leading the protest against the new farm laws. “This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was cremated,” Modi said, posting a series of tweets and pictures of his visit. “I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindness of Guru Teg Bahadur Ji.” Modi, whose extensive homage to Guru Nanak on his birthday last month too had been interpreted as an attempt to mollify the Sikh farmers, posted the tweets on his gurdwara visit in Punjabi apart from Hindi and English. It was an unscheduled visit and even the gurdwara authorities were apparently informed at the last moment. If Modi has visited a gurdwara in New Delhi since becoming Prime Minister six years ago, no one this newspaper asked could readily recall such a visit. Among the many videos and pictures of the visit circulated on social media, one video posted by a few journalists stood out. It shows Modi interacting with the gurdwara authorities as a priest, the granthi, recites from the holy Guru Granth Sahib in the background: “No matter how many religious texts a man reads, it is all a waste unless he thinks about the welfare of humanity…. And when the end comes, where and how long will he run?” Critics questioned Modi’s wooing of Sikh farmers at a time when his government was stonewalling the protesters’ demands to repeal the new farm laws and his party colleagues were maligning the protesters as “Khalistanis”. “Who is Modi trying to fool by going to the gurdwara? The Guru’s Sikhs are sitting in lakhs on the roads. Instead of going to the gurdwara, go to the farmers and apologise,” Congress MP Ravneet Bittu said during a TV debate with the BJP’s Harjit Grewal. “What do we say, who does God reside in? In humans. People have been forced to sit on the roads....” For all the government’s efforts and ploys to break the farmers’ agitation that has besieged Delhi’s borders since late November, the movement continues to grow and intensify. That Sikh farmers from Punjab, known for their grit and valour in battle, are at the forefront of the protests has made matters particularly difficult for the authorities. Gurdwara Rakab Ganj stands at the site where the body of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh guru who was beheaded on Aurangzeb’s orders for resisting persecution of Hindus and Sikhs, was consigned to flames. The government recently brought out a booklet to highlight Modi’s “special relationship” with the Sikh community, but Sunday’s gurdwara visit was his first direct attempt at using religious symbols to court the farmers. “It is the special kripa of the Guru Sahibs that we will mark the special occasion of the 400th Prakash Parv of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji during our government’s tenure,” another tweet from Modi said. “Let us mark this blessed occasion in a historic way and celebrate the ideals of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji.” None of the outreach efforts seems to have worked so far on the farmers, who have expressed outrage at BJP leaders’ slander and what they see as the government’s efforts to fob them off with empty words.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath govt faces cowshed project complaints||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s claim that protecting the “mother cow” is his priority is being tested by complaints that his government stopped funding its cowshed project months ago, leaving the animals to starve to death. Over a dozen panchayat chiefs from Banda district in Bundelkhand have written a joint letter to Adityanath saying they would release all the cattle from the temporary cowsheds under their care unless the funds and the arrears are released by December 25. “We have been running 43 cowsheds since 2018, when the state government erected shelters for unclaimed cattle and allocated funds,” the letter says. “But we haven’t received any funds since April 2020 and have been running the shelters with our own resources in the hope that the money would be released soon.” Gyan Singh, a signatory and a leader of the district’s Gram Pradhan Sangh, told reporters: “Our tenures as village panchayat chief will end on December 25. We’ll then release the cattle so they don’t die of hunger.” He said the 43 sheds housed and fed 15,000 stray cows. After December 25, the panchayat chiefs will hold their posts as caretakers till the upcoming rural polls. The election process is to begin next week. The state government is supposed to pay the village panchayats Rs 30 per day per cow. However, for unexplained reasons, the funds stopped flowing to most districts since February this year, and to the rest since April, government officials said. “We have not only forwarded multiple complaints from the panchayat chiefs but also written from our side to the government several times,” a senior veterinary department official in Bundelkhand said on the condition of anonymity. Adityanath had in February last year allocated Rs 613 crore towards cow welfare for the financial year 2019-20. No such allocation was made for the current fiscal. Stray cows are a big problem in Uttar Pradesh, roaming the highways and causing accidents, or entering agricultural fields and destroying crops. An ex-serviceman allegedly shot a cow dead in anger on December 17 at village Devpur-Kamalpur in Azamgarh district after stray cattle destroyed his crops. Accused Chunnu Lal has been arrested under the Arms Act and the Gowansh Nivaran Adhiyam, a law against the torture or killing of cows. He could be jailed for 10 years if convicted. Vijay Pal, one of the panchayat chiefs who signed the letter to Adityanath, said: “We have spent a lot of our own money to feed these animals. There will be none to look after them once our tenures end on December 25. Keeping them in the sheds thereafter would simply mean killing them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||China picks new military commander; will look after India border||Chinese President Xi Jinping has appointed a new commander of the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command which looks after the country’s border with India, amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Sources in the Indian Army termed the appointment as “routine”. Gen. Zhang Xudong succeeds 65-year-old Gen. Zhao Zongqi who is retiring. President Xi has promoted four senior Chinese military and armed police officers. Among them was Gen. Zhang, commander of the Western Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), state-run Xinhua news agency reported on Friday. Not much is known about Gen. Zhang, especially his association with Western Theatre Command, as he reportedly served mostly in other theatre commands of the PLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Punjab farmer organisation asked to submit foreign fund details||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab’s largest farmer organisations protesting against the farm laws, on Sunday said it has been asked by a central agency to submit its registration details that allow it to receive foreign funds. The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president, Joginder Ugrahan, and its general secretary, Sukhdev Singh, said the “Centre is using all tactics as their sole purpose is to defeat the ongoing agitation”. “They are asking for details about NRI funds. The NRIs from Punjab help us with donations from their hard-earned money. They are supporting our agitation, what is the problem in that? Back home too, people support us,” Ugrahan said. Singh said that “a department under the Centre has sent an email which we received through our bank’s branch in Punjab. In the email, it was stated that we should give registration details in respect of these donations from abroad otherwise they will be sent back”. The Foreign Contribution Regulation Act stipulates mandatory registration of any outfit receiving foreign funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Fraud charge on Nirav Modi's brother||Nehal Modi, younger brother of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, has been indicted here on the charge of fraudulently obtaining diamonds worth over $2.6 million from one of the world’s biggest diamond companies in Manhattan. Nehal, 41, faces the charge of grand larceny in the first degree, Manhattan district attorney Cy Vance Jr said in a statement on Friday. “While diamonds may be forever, this flawed scheme was not, and now Modi will face the clarity of a New York Supreme Court indictment,” Vance said. Interpol had earlier issued a red-corner notice against Nehal on charges of money laundering that are being probed by India’s Enforcement Directorate. Nehal, a former member of Noble Titan Holdings, had allegedly made false representations to obtain over $2.6 million worth of diamonds from LLD Diamonds USA on favourable credit terms and consignment, and then liquidated the diamonds for his own ends. Vance’s statement said Nehal, “who comes from a well-known family in the diamond industry”, had initially been introduced to the president of LLD Diamonds through industry associates. In March 2015, he allegedly got LLD to provide him with several diamonds, worth nearly $800,000, claiming he was pursuing a relationship with Costco Wholesale Corporation and wanted to present the diamonds to it for a potential sale. After LLD provided the diamonds, Nehal allegedly lied to the company saying Costco had agreed to buy them. Subsequently, LLD allowed him to buy the diamonds on credit, with full payment required within 90 days. Nehal then pawned the diamonds at Modell Collateral Loans to secure a short-term loan, Vance’s office said. Nehal is said to have later taken diamonds from LLD several times for purported sale to Costco and some payments to LLD, but allegedly used most of the proceeds for personal use and other business expenses. Nehal’s brother Nirav, 49, is wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering. He has been in a London prison following his arrest in March last year. The New York Post quoted Nehal’s lawyer Roger Bernstein as saying “this is a commercial dispute” and “Nehal is not guilty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Farmers convert roadside wall into 'wall of goodness'||It was a normal roadside wall of brick and mortar till a day ago, but now it is called the “neki ki divar (wall of goodness)”. From clothes to toiletries to medicines, the protesters who are continuing their sit-in at Delhi’s Ghazipur border against the Centre’s new farm laws, can get these things by writing their needs on this wall. “We have set up a ‘neki ki divar’ today. The idea is to ensure all our farmer brothers and sisters are well equipped to be a part of the protest and keep themselves warm in Delhi’s harsh weather,” Survinder Kisan, one of the protesters at the Ghazipur border, said. Two kiosks have been attached to the roadside wall at the protest site. “At one place people can leave what they want to donate and the other side is for protesters who can collect things as per their needs from the existing stock,” he said. “If what they need is not available, they can write it on the wall and it will be provided to them,” Kisan said. Space has been left on the wall and chalks have been kept, so that people can leave messages about their needs, he said, adding a register will also be maintained. They are providing masks, sanitisers, medicines, toiletries, beddings, and woollen clothes. “We will add more items. Food is already being served at langars,” Survinder said. The protesting farmers also observed Shraddhanjali Diwas on Sunday to pay homage to those who had “died during the ongoing agitation”. “We are paying homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. It will be a pity if we let go of their sacrifices without getting our demands met,” said Ratan Jhadola, another protester. The Ghazipur border was closed on Thursday because of the farmers’ protest. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at various borders of the national capital for almost four weeks now as formal talks between the government and representatives of farmers’ unions remained deadlocked with protesting peasants refusing to accept anything less than a repeal of the three newly enacted laws. The Supreme Court on Thursday acknowledged the right of farmers to non-violent protests and mooted the idea of putting on hold the contentious farm laws to enable negotiations with agitating farmers which was opposed by the Centre, saying agriculturists would then not come forward for the talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Congress asks Narendra Modi to visit farmers, withdraw laws||The Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to concede the demands of the farmers instead of relying on hollow symbolism, which would not undo the “injustice” done by his government. After Modi tweeted pictures of his visit to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi to pay tribute to Guru Teg Bahadur on Sunday morning, the Congress pointed to the verse the priest was reciting from the Guru Granth Sahib that was heard in the background in videos of Modi speaking to officials at the gurdwara. The message heard in the background was about the futility of religiosity unless the devotee changed his thinking and served mankind. Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala posted that video along with this tweet: “Modi ji, pay heed to the essence of the message: ‘No matter how much religious matter how many texts a man reads, it is all a waste unless he thinks about the welfare of humanity…’ Wish the Prime Minister adopted the message from Guruwani instead of showing cruelty to farmers and using this visit to Gurudwara for mere photo opportunity.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also tweeted: “Modi ji, you can’t undo your mistake only by visiting Gurudwara. Farmers have been humiliated by calling them Khalistani, terrorists, agents of China and Pakistan, Naxals, Maoists. Their rights have been trampled by the new laws. Atone for this sin. Shed arrogance and withdraw these laws. Don’t take the curses from farmers.” Later at a news conference, another spokesperson Shama Mohamed said: “It is always a good thing to go to a gurdwara, go to a mandir. You know, we Indians are very spiritual people and I appreciate the Prime Minister’s going there. But there are these farmers who are protesting at the border. Thirty-three farmers have died due to extreme cold and ailments; you know it is very cold even sitting inside the house, we need heaters, now they are on the roads out there.” She added: “Has anybody in the government expressed condolences for the death of 33 farmers? Why can’t the Prime Minister go there and console them? Where is the empathy? He can console the families; just imagine what is going through those families, their children; they are also there at the Delhi borders. Instead of just going to religious places, which we understand is a good thing, but, he must give justice to these farmers and repeal these black laws and re-enact new laws in consultation with farmers, opposition parties and other stakeholders.” Criticising the callousness and insensitivity of the government she added: “I want to know why is our Prime Minister silent on so many deaths and the sufferings of lakhs of people in this cold? Why is home minister Amit Shah quiet? He can go to Bengal to campaign for election, which is far away in May, but not utter a word on the death  of 33 farmers. The All India Kisan Sabha is observing Shraddhanjali Divas today. But not a word from the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
