22-12-2020||India||Farmers defer decision on talks to Wednesday ||Farmer unions on Tuesday said they will make a decision regarding holding talks with the Centre on Wednesday, while agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar remained hopeful of a discussion soon. As the farmers’ protest against the three agri laws entered its 27th day, union leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said that 32 farmer organisations from Punjab held a meeting and discussed the next course of action. Addressing a press conference, he said the decision regarding talking to the Centre will be taken on Wednesday when farmer leaders from across the country will discuss the agenda. Sandhu said that they would also write to Britain MPs, urging them to press their Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to attend India's Republic Day celebrations on January 26. Union Agricultural Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal on Sunday had written a letter to 40 farmer unions, asked protesting leaders to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks so that the ongoing agitation could end at the earliest. Meanwhile, Tomar said he was hopeful of resuming the talks, the sixth round of which was cancelled on December 9. “Representatives of different farmers' bodies had come to tell that the laws are good and are in the interest of farmers. They had come to urge the government not make any amendments to the laws,” Tomar said after meeting two groups supporting the laws. “I am hopeful they (protesting farmers' unions) will soon complete their internal discussions and come forward for talks. We will be able to find a solution successfully,” he said. UP-based Kisan Sangarsh Samithi (KSS) and Delhi-based Indian Kisan Union (IKU) are among those farmer groups that have extended support to the laws in the last three weeks. The previous groups were from Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. However, nearly 40 protesting farmers’ unions have maintained that the new laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has been saying that these apprehensions are misplaced. Tomar on Tuesday further asserted that the new laws will bring in a fresh era in Indian farming, saying that the agricultural sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. He was interacting with members of international media from the Foreign Correspondents' Club of South Asia. “The minister reiterated that reforms have been made in the interest of farmers and will bring about a new era in Indian agriculture. The Government has had many rounds of talks with farmer unions and is willing to continue the dialogue on contentious issues, clause by clause, with an open mind,” an official statement said. Tomar, along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, has been holding discussions with 40 protesting unions. Tomar described the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities Amendment Act 2020 as the biggest agricultural reforms in the country so far. “These reforms will provide farmers market freedom, encourage entrepreneurship, access to technology and transform agriculture,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers show black flags at Haryana CM’s convoy||A group of Haryana farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws, showed black flags to the convoy of state Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar when he was passing through Ambala city, sources said. According to them, some of the farmers tried to block Khattar’s motorcade but the police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister. Khattar had come to Ambala to address public meetings in support of party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said that they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are not repealed. A large number of police personnel were deployed near the Chowk. The farmers had gathered at the grain market and also tried to block the Ambala-Hisar highway. On December 1, a group of farmers had shown black flags to Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria in Jandli village adjoining Ambala city. Kataria is a BJP MP from Ambala. Almost two weeks later, BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini faced the ire of farmers in Yamunanagar as they raised slogans against the Centre for not repealing the three agri laws. Saini, an MP from Kurukshetra, was visiting Khurdi village to lay the foundation stones of some projects and inaugurate a community centre. The protesters had thrown black paint on the foundation stones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||New Covid strain to have no impact on emerging vaccines, assures govt||There is no cause of concern or panic over the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, the government said on Tuesday, noting that no similar or significant mutation has been seen yet in the coronavirus strain in India. Addressing a press briefing, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said that the mutated SARS-CoV-2 strain detected in the UK has no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines. "As of now, based on our discussions, deep understanding of data available and our deep assessment, there is no need to panic but it is a cause to be more vigilant. This new challenge we have to counter with our comprehensive efforts. We will be safe if we suppress the genomic sequence," Paul said. There is no change in treatment guidelines due to this mutation and the vaccines that are being developed, particularly those in the country, will not be impacted, he said. Paul said that mutation might result in the virus becoming more infectious and spreading more easily between people. "It is also being said that in these viruses, the transmissibility has increased by 70 per cent, you can also call them super spreader in a way but it does not increase the propencity of death, hospitalisation and severity of the disease. What is affected is tendency to affect more people that by itself is a cause of concern. It is an adverse development," he said. Paul said that there is no need to "panic" and added that "we are yet to spot such a virus in our country". Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there has been a sustained decline in COVID-19 cases in India since mid-September. "India has reported 124 COVID-19 cases per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 588. India has reported two COVID-19 deaths per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 10 deaths," he said. Bhushan said that 26 states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases of Covid-19. The government has issued standard operating procedures listing the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled to or through the UK in the past four weeks, from November 25 to December 23, he said. The Union health ministry said that 61 per cent of Covid-19 deaths reported in a span of 24 hours were from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh. While, 57 per cent of COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours were from Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||Centre issues fresh SOP for passengers coming from UK||Passengers coming from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive, stated the Health Ministry's standard operating procedure issued on Tuesday in view of the new variant of coronavirus detected there. India has suspended all passenger flights connecting the United Kingdom from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of a mutated strain of the virus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. The SOP by the Health Ministry for epidemiological surveillance describes the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all flyers who have travelled from or transited through the UK from November 25 to December 23. It stated that all travellers from the UK will be required to declare, according to the existing procedure, their travel history of past 14 days and fill up the self-declaration form to be screened for COVID-19. All passengers coming from the UK from December 21 to 23 would be subjected to the RT-PCR test on arrival and this has to be ensured by respective state governments, the SOP stated. Those found negative in the RT-PCR test at the airport would be advised quarantine at home and followed up. The passengers who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate unit coordinated by the respective state health authorities. They would earmark specific facilities for such isolation and treatment, it said. A spike gene-based RT-PCR test should also be performed by an appropriate laboratory in case of a positive sample, the health ministry recommended. Also, contacts of such travellers who were found COVID-19 positive at airport testing would be subjected to institutional quarantine and tested according to ICMR guidelines. "Necessary action to send the samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, or any other appropriate lab for genomic sequencing will be initiated at the facility level." In case the report of the sequencing is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol including home isolation and treatment at the facility level as per case severity may be followed, the SOP stated. "If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2, then the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. While necessary treatment as per the existing protocol will be given, the patient shall be tested on 14th day, after having tested positive in the initial test. "In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, the further sample may be taken until his two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative," the guidelines stated. It stated that state-wise passenger manifest of the flights from the UK landing at various airports in India for the past four weeks from November 25 to December 23 shall be conveyed by the Bureau of Immigration to the state government and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) so that the data would be provided to the surveillance teams. The list of passengers travelling between December 21 and 23, who are found RT-PCR negative at airport testing, shall be shared with the states by the Central Unit of IDSP. They shall be advised quarantine at home and tested as per ICMR guidelines. Their monitoring would be ensured by the state governments and IDSP. Those travellers from the UK who arrived in India from November 25 to December 8 will be contacted by district surveillance officers advising them to self-monitor their health and in case of development of symptoms would undergo RT-PCR test. The list of travellers who arrived in India between December 9 and 23 will be shared with respective states and district surveillance officers for daily follow up till 14 days after their arrival in India. "The district surveillance officer has to ensure daily follow up of passengers under observation for 28 days starting from the date of arrival," the SOP stated. The new variant of the SARS-CoV 2 virus has been reported by the Government of United Kingdom to the World Health Organization. This variant is estimated by the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) to be more transmissible and affecting the younger population. The new variant is said to be 70 per cent more transmissible, though health experts say there is no evidence that it is more deadly or would react differently to vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Suresh Raina, Sussanne Khan held for violating social distancing norms||Thirty-four persons including cricketer Suresh Raina and Bollywood celebrity Sussanne Khan were held after a raid at a posh club near the Mumbai airport on Tuesday for violating social distancing norms, police said. Thirteen women who were among those held were allowed to leave after being served notices while the men were shown as arrested and granted bail later, police said. The raid took place at the Dragonfly Experience club near the Mumbai international airport at around 3 am, police said, adding the 34 also included seven staffers of the club. They were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC, police said. "Party (Nahin) Chalegi Till Six In The Morning! A raid was conducted at a nightclub in Andheri at around 3 am, for flouting COVID prevention norms. Action has been initiated against 34 people, out of which 19 were from Delhi & Punjab, including some celebrities #NewNormal," Mumbai Police tweeted. The raid was conducted after the club establishment remained open beyond the permissible time limit and did not adhere to coronavirus norms, police said. "Suresh was in Mumbai for a shoot which extended to late hours and was invited by a friend for a quick dinner post the same prior to him taking his flight back to Delhi. He was not aware of the local timings and protocols," a statement on behalf of Raina said. "Once pointed out, he immediately complied with the procedures laid out by the authorities and regrets the unfortunate and unintentional incident. He always holds rules and laws laid down by governing bodies with the highest regard and will continue to do so in the future as well," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Covid: Delhi to check health conditions of those arriving from the UK||Amid rising concerns over a new variant of the coronavirus discovered in the United Kingdom, the Delhi government on Tuesday announced that it will check the health conditions of passengers who have arrived to the national capital from the country. The Delhi government will visit their houses to do so. State Health Minister Satyendar Jain said all passengers arriving from the UK are now being tested for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport. “The Delhi government is on alert in the wake of a mutated coronavirus strain detected in the UK. The situation is being closely monitored and mandatory tests are being conducted at the Delhi airport for all passengers arriving from that country,” he told reporters. Jain said that the Delhi administration has fought difficult battles against Covid-19 and all efforts will be made so that the improvement made in curbing the pandemic is “not reversed”. The Civil Aviation Ministry on Monday suspended all flights from the UK to India and vice versa from Wednesday till December 31 owing to the newly detected strain of the virus. “In the last two weeks, about 6000-7000 people have landed at Delhi airport, many of whom would have travelled to other places like Punjab from thereon,” Jain said. “We will go house-to-house and do check-up of passengers to assess their condition, and also advise them to isolate themselves for some time,” he added. According to sources, passengers coming to India from the UK are undergoing RT-PCR tests at the airport. If someone tests negative but has symptoms, they will be subjected to institutional isolation. Those testing negative will also be advised to go to self-isolation for seven days, they said. Jain has also urged those who have recently come from the UK to monitor their health and go for tests at the slightest of Covid-like symptoms, and inform the government. Asked about the threat of the new virus strain entering Delhi, he said, “CM Kejriwal had appealed to the Centre to close flights from the UK, and it had been done. So, we are doing everything possible to contain the spread”. “A new vaccine is being prepared to treat Covid-19,” he said. Asked if the new strain could negate its efficacy, he said, “Only scientists and ICMR can comment on it.” Delhi recorded 803 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the lowest since August 17, taking tally to over 6.17 lakh, even as the death toll increased to 10,304 with 27 new fatalities. “We recorded such a low number of cases and a positivity rate of 1.29 per cent,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Automated system flagged Kisan Ekta Morcha's page as spam, clarifies Facebook||Social media giant Facebook said Kisan Ekta Morcha's page had been taken down after its automated systems found increased activity and flagged it as spam, and that the page was restored in less than three hours. Facebook had faced criticism from various quarters after the page - which is run by a farmers' collective - was taken down on Sunday evening. "As per our review, our automated systems found an increased activity on the (Kisan Ekta Morcha) Facebook page and flagged it as spam, which violates our Community Standards. We restored the page in less than three hours when we became aware of the context," a Facebook spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that the review showed that only the Facebook page was affected by the automated systems while the Instagram account remained unaffected. While a vast majority of work fighting spam is done automatically using recognisable patterns of problematic behaviour, the company also relies on human review team to work on cases where human expertise is needed to understand the context of a particular situation, the spokesperson said. "In Q3 2020, out of the 1.9 billion pieces of content removed globally for violating our policies on spam, we restored 74.9 million pieces of content globally, when we identified issues ourselves," the spokesperson added. Protestors at the ongoing farmer's agitation had said social media is crucial for their movement as it allowed them to share their views. Many had seen the shutting down of the Facebook page as an attempt to silence them. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech recruits 13,000 volunteers for phase III trials||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced the recruitment of 13,000 volunteers and continued progress towards achieving the goal of 26,000 participants for the Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' across multiple sites in India. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, Bharat Biotech said in a statement. The indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV), it added. "Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated 2 dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses," Bharat Biotech said. According to the company, the vaccine is developed and manufactured at Bharat Biotech's BSL-3, biocontainment facility. The company has successfully recruited 13,000 volunteers for the Phase III clinical trials of the vaccine and the target is to have 26,000 participants, as per the statement. "This is an unprecedented vaccine trial ever to take place in India, and we are overwhelmed with the steady rise in participation," Bharat Biotech Joint MD Suchitra Ella said. The company had started the phase III clinical trials in mid-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Amid new variant concerns, six passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19||Six passengers who entered the country on Air India’s London-Delhi flight have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, a senior government official said on Tuesday. This comes at a time when a new strain of the coronavirus has led to millions entering a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK from Sunday, with non-essential shops and businesses now closed. The flight landed around 11:30 pm on Monday. “Five passengers were found Covid-positive at the Delhi airport. One passenger, who took a connecting flight to Chennai, was tested there and found positive,” the official said. In a separate case, two passengers from the UK were found positive for Covid-19 after they arrived at the airport at Calcutta, health department officials said on Tuesday. A flight carrying 222 passengers from the UK arrived at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) airport on Sunday night, they said. “Twenty-five passengers did not have Covid reports with them. So they were taken to a nearby quarantine centre, and their coronavirus tests were conducted. Two tested positive,” the West Bengal Health and Family Welfare Department official said. The Centre on Monday announced that all UK-India flights will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31 owing to the emergence of the new variant of the virus. It also said all passengers coming from the UK on Monday and Tuesday would be compulsorily tested for coronavirus on arrival at airports. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Twitter that the passengers who are found Covid-19-positive would be sent for institutional quarantine set up by states or union territories (UTs). “Those found negative should be advised to isolate at home for seven days and will be medically monitored by states/UTs,” Puri added. Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harsh vardhan on Monday assured that the government is vigilant, and there is no need to panic over the emergence of this new starin. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena takes a dig at PM over gurdwara visit||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday wondered what will be the outcome of the ongoing farmers' protest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a gurdwara and sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose followers are among those protesters. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' was referring to Modi's visit on Sunday to Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi where he paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice. Guru Teg Bahadur, whose death anniversary was observed on Saturday, was cremated at the Gurdwara Rakabganj. Thousands of farmers, including Sikhs, have been protesting near the Delhi borders since November 26 against the Modi government's three new farm laws. The editorial in the Marathi daily said farmers from Punjab did not flinch even when Modi reached the gurdwara, "turning his back towards the Sikh peasants' protest", and continued with their demonstration. "Prime Minister Modi sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur. Happy about it. Thousands of Sikh fighters are also fighting (protesting) from the same inspiration near Delhi border. Hence, it is a question of what will be the outcome of the battle," the editorial said. It said 'Gurbani' was being played when the prime minister reached the gurdwara. The Gurbani says services and devotion towards God will be of no use if one does not change his/her thoughts, the editorial noted. The Gurbani says reading the holy religious book several times will be of no use if one does not understand its teachings, and also asks what will one do when his/her time comes and an account of his/her deeds is checked, it said. The gurbani mentions that none could defend himself from time, it added. It is "not right" that Modi's political opponents criticise him for anything he does, the editorial said in a cryptic remark and asked what is there to be restless if he visited the gurdwara. Modi's opponents are alleging "politics" behind the prime ministers visit the gurdwara and asking why are the farmers from Punjab protesting in the cold if he loves Sikhs so much, it said. "...but none should question Modi's faith. Guru Tegh Bahadur was a great saint. The Guru accepted martyrdom for humanity, principles and ideals...he was the protector of religion. Hence, not only Sikhs, everyone on this land should bow before Guru Tegh Bahadur," the editorial said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||CBI convicts priest, nun in 1992 murder case of Sister Abhaya||A Central Bureau of Investigation court at Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday found a nun and a priest guilty in the murder case of 21-year-old Sister Abhaya. Her body was recovered from the well of a convent in Kottayam in 1992. CBI special court judge J.Sanal Kumar pronounced the verdict in regard to the case. The verdict in this regard was pronounced by CBI special court judge J Sanal Kumar. The quantum of the sentence will be pronounced on Wednesday. The court said the murder charges against Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy guilty will stand. Both are in judicial custody. Another accused in the case, Fr Poothrakayal was discharged earlier over lack of evidence. The judgement comes 28 years after the young nun was found dead in the well of St Pius convent, where she stayed. Abhaya's parents Thomas and Leelamma passed away a few years ago awaiting justice for their daughter. First local police and then crime branch investigated and concluded that it was a case of suicide. The CBI took over the investigation of the case in 2008. The trial in the case began on August 26 last year and many witnesses had turned hostile. According to prosecution, Abhaya was attacked with the handle of an axe because she was witness to some alleged immoral activity involving the three accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Development should not be seen through political prism, says Modi at AMU event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said political and ideological differences should be set aside for the sake of national goals, asserting that politics can wait but development cannot. Addressing the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), he said development should not be seen through the political prism. Without elaborating, he said some elements driven by self-interest and negativity are bound to feel uneasy when everyone comes together to achieve common goals. "We have to understand that politics is an important aspect of society. But in society there are also issues other than politics, Modi said in the speech delivered through video conference to a university he called a mini-India. He said there is space beyond siyasat' (politics) and 'satta' (power), which should be explored by campuses like AMU. It is natural to have differences in society, he said. But when the issue is securing national goals, these differences should be set aside. He listed economic development, education, the standard of living and nationalism (rastravaad) among the common goals. These are some of the issues on which we cannot differ in the name of our political or ideological (vaicharik) compulsions. This was the first time in over five decades that a prime minister participated in an AMU event after Lal Bahadur Shastri attended one in 1964. The PM's address also comes against the backdrop of sporadic protest by AMU students in past months over issues like the new Citizenship Amendment Act, and the targeting of the campus by some BJP leaders. Modi stressed on development and said it should not be seen through the prism of politics. When we come together for this goal, it is possible that some elements feel uneasy. Such elements are found in every society in the world. These are people who have self-interests and to fulfil them they can adopt any device and all types of negativity. But the space occupied by such people will shrink when the goal is to make a new India." the PM said "Politics can wait, society can wait. But the country' development cannot wait," he said. Modi said the poor, the poor, the deprived and the youth do not want to wait any longer. We should not waste time in 'matbhed' (differences) and move forward on a common ground to build a new India, that is 'Atmanirbar Bharat'," he said, stressing on self-reliance. Modi lauded the AMU's 100-year-old heritage, recalling the contribution of its alumni. "We have to unitedly work to ensure that the feeling of 'Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat' (One India, Great India) gets strengthened day by day on the AMU campus," he said. He said over 1,000 foreign students are studying at AMU and it is important to showcase the country's greatness to them. The prime minister said as the country progresses, nobody should be left behind due to their religion. His government's motto is "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas" and it is functioning without discrimination towards anyone, Modi said, listing several welfare schemes. On the Swachh Bharat campaign, he claimed that with the construction of lakhs of toilets the rate of Muslim girls dropping out of schools has reduced sharply. Over one crore Muslim girls have also been given scholarships, he said. He said 35 per cent of the students in AMU are women and congratulated the university for this. The prime minister said the government is working on increasing opportunities in higher education and gave statistics showing the rise in a number of institutes since a BJP-led government came to power in 2014. The PM advised AMU scholars to conduct research on unknown freedom fighters and highlight their contribution. Modi said AMU produced great personalities over the past 100 years and has shaped the lives of many. He also praised the AMU efforts in fighting coronavirus by conducting free COVID-19 tests, setting up a plasma bank and contributing to the PM Care fund. He called AMU "mini India". Urdu and Hindi, Arabic and Sanskrit are all taught on the campus, he said. Along with Quran, the translations of Gita and Ramayana are kept in the library. "This diversity is the country's strength. We have to neither forget it nor let it get weakened," he said. Earlier, Education Minister Ram Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor also addressed the virtual event. Before Modi, Lal Bahadur Shastri attended an AMU event as prime minister in 1964. Before him, Jawaharlal Nehru visited the campus four times, beginning with 1948 when an honorary doctorate was conferred on him at the annual convocation. This was followed by visits in 1955, 1960 and 1963.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Fresh Covid cases below 20,000 after nearly six months||The number of daily new coronavirus infections reported in the country was recorded below 20,000 after nearly six months while the Covid-19 active caseload fell below 3 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,75,116 with 19,556 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,46,111 with 301 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,36,487 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.65 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below 3 lakh. There are 2,92,518 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,31,70,557 samples have been tested up to December 21 with 10,72,228 samples being tested on Monday. The 301 new fatalities include 55 from Maharashtra, 41 from West Bengal, 27 each from Kerala and Delhi. A total of 1,46,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,801 from Maharashtra followed by 12,016 from Karnataka, 11,995 from Tamil Nadu, 10,304 from Delhi, 9,401 from West Bengal, 8,212 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,078 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,212 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly session on farm laws||The Kerala government has decided to convene a special session of the state Assembly on December 23 to pass a resolution against the farm laws. Two weeks after it took a call not to implement the controversial laws that have led to nationwide protests, the state government held a cabinet meeting on Monday to decide on the special session to formally register its opposition to the three farm laws. A source at the chief minister’s office said the cabinet has recommended state governor Arif Mohammed Khan to convene the one-hour session on Wednesday morning. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would move the resolution, leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress and heads of all parties would be allowed to speak on the motion before passing it. The government had earlier decided to challenge the contentious laws in the Supreme Court. State agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar told The Telegraph that the government would send a strong message against the NDA government for steadily usurping the rights of the state governments. “Since agriculture is in the concurrent list, the Centre should have consulted the states. Instead, they went ahead and hurriedly passed the farm laws that are detrimental to the interests of the farmers across the country,” Kumar said. “Such tendencies are against the spirit of federalism enshrined in the Constitution and would eventually leave the states at the mercy of the Centre,” the minister said. He said the state government would soon approach the apex court against the farm laws. He said Vijayan would move the motion in the hour-long special session where leaders of all political parties would get to air their opinions. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government was among the first to come out in support of the agitating farmers, thousands of whom have assembled in Delhi with the demand of repealing the laws that allegedly favour corporate companies. On November 1, Kerala became the first state to fix minimum support prices for vegetables. Left leaders have been actively participating in the agitation against the farm laws. Acting secretary of Kerala CPM A. Vijayaraghavan on Monday took part in the protests in Ghazipur in the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and assured all support from his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||CBSE exam rules can’t refuse name change: Allahabad High Court||Allahabad High Court has ruled that people have a fundamental right to change their names, which the examination rules of the Central Board of Secondary Education cannot override. The high court has allowed a plea from a former CBSE student that challenged the board’s rejection of his application to have his first name changed on his Class XII certificates. The single-judge bench of Justice Pankaj Bhatia cited several Supreme Court and high court rulings and said the right to change one’s name was part of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It said such rights were subject to reasonable restrictions but not by an organisation like the CBSE that was a registered society and not a statutory authority. “The rules as framed by the CBSE do not have any statutory flavour and cannot be considered to be the ‘law’ as required for placing reasonable restrictions on the rights enshrined under Article 19(1)(a), in terms of Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India,” the December 2 judgment said. Ravi Bhardwaj, a senior lawyer with long experience in fighting education-related cases, said the judgment had questioned the sanctity of the rules framed by the board. He feared that students, teachers and schools might now begin questioning the CBSE’s rules on examinations and school affiliation. “The government should now consider enacting a law to give the CBSE a statutory character. This has been long due. Considering the extensive presence of CBSE schools in India, it’s time this requirement was given due importance,” Bhardwaj said. The petitioner, known as Rishu Jaiswal when he cleared his Class XII boards in 2015, had later changed his name to Kabir Jaiswal. When he sought to have the name change reflected on his certificates, the CBSE refused. The court has allowed the change. According to the CBSE’s exam by-laws, a candidate’s name or those of her parents can be changed on board documents — following a court directive and a gazette notification — only before the candidate’s results have been published. If the results have been published, only corrections in the spellings of the names of the candidate and her parents are allowed, that too within five years of the publication of the results. Also, the candidate must get her school to forward the application along with the admission records. “I agree with the judgments of Kerala High Court as well as Delhi High Court to hold that change of name is an expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India,” the December 2 judgment said. Bhardwaj said the right to change one’s name was not directly mentioned in the Constitution, but had been interpreted by the courts to lie within the ambit of one or the other fundamental right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Britain Covid mutant ‘not seen in India yet’ ||The unusual mutant variant of the novel coronavirus observed in the UK and a few other countries has not been seen in India yet, according to scientists familiar with the genome sequences of over 4,000 viruses from India. The variant named B.1.1.7 has an unusually large number of genetic changes and scientists believe one of these mutations helps the virus gain efficiency at entering human cells while another mutation appears to help the virus evade human immune responses. Several of the mutations have emerged in the coronavirus spike protein that the virus uses to enter human cells and is the focus of most vaccines against the coronavirus disease designed to generate immune responses against the spike. “Mutations by themselves are not surprising in viruses, but this set of mutations is something we need to note and watch,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, a lab engaged in analysing genome sequences. Agarwal told The Telegraph that B.1.1.7 has not been detected among Indian coronavirus samples sequenced so far. An online database of coronavirus genomes maintained by the IGIB has until now analysed 4,338 genomes and found 5,574 unique variants. While the mutations appear to increase the efficiency of transmission, Agrawal said, there is no evidence yet that they have any implications for either the severity of the infection or the need for hospitalisation. A consortium of UK scientists studying the coronavirus genome has reported that the earliest genomes belonging to the B.1.1.7 lineage were collected in September in Kent and Greater London but the cluster has grown rapidly over the past four weeks. By mid-December, Andrew Rambaut at the University of Edinburgh and his colleagues across the UK had compiled 1,623 genomes of the B.1.1.7 lineage of which 519 were sampled in Greater London, 555 in Kent, 545 in other regions of the UK and four in other countries. The UK scientists have pointed out that one of the mutations in B.1.1.7 named N501Y helps the virus increase its binding affinity to molecular gateways the virus uses to enter human cells. And another mutation 69-70 del could arm the virus with the capacity to evade the human immune response. A study by two US researchers had last week suggested that mutated versions of the novel coronavirus could retain the ability to bind to human cells even while evading antibodies and underlined the need for smarter vaccine designs. The researchers analysed around 147,000 viral genome sequences and found several mutations that could disrupt the spike protein-antibody interface in such a manner that the virus is able to continue binding to its entry gateway into human cells. The findings have “two important implications,” Paul Axelsen, professor of pharmacology, biochemistry, biophysics and medicine and his collaborator wrote in their paper describing their analysis of these mutations. Mutated versions of the coronavirus may be able to reinfect people who have recovered from an earlier infection and vaccines with only one variant of the spike protein may induce little protection against variants already circulating in human populations, the researchers wrote. Vinod Scaria, a senior bioinformatics researcher at the IGIB said there is already significant evidence for the emergence of such antibody escape mutations in coronavirus variants. “There are around 100 such variants with the capacity to evade various antibodies,” Scaria told The Telegraph. “It is a theoretical possibility that when vaccines are widely deployed, the virus might undergo a selection pressure and develop mutations biological advantageous to evade specific antibodies.” Scientists say the findings point to the need for continued surveillance for viral mutations after vaccines are deployed. “There is no way to say what mutations will come up when vaccines get deployed in large parts of the world,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School for Biosciences at Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). “Vaccine escape mutants could come up but how they will affect virus fitness is unknown,” Jameel said. “It would be a very thin edge for the virus to escape a vaccine but not reduce its virulence and fitness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||UP cowshed owner kills labourer trying to chase away cow||A 43-year-old father of four was thrashed to death in Kanpur on Monday afternoon for trying to drive out a cow that had entered his home by beating it with a stick. A witness said Raman Kumar alias Kallu, a labourer from Darbhanga in Bihar, was trying to chase out the cow that had entered his rented house. Ayush Yadav alias Bauwa, the owner of the cow, saw this and attacked Kallu. Deepak Bhuker, additional superintendent of police of Kanpur, said: “The accused allegedly beat to death the victim with a lathi. We have registered a case on the basis of the complaint of a family member of Kallu. The attacker, who has a cowshed in the area, is absconding and would be arrested soon.” Kallu’s wife Maya, who works as a maid, said she took her husband to a local nursing home with the help of her neighbours. “He was referred  to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” she said. Kallu and Maya Devi have  three daughters and a son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Karnataka High Court stays mass amnesty for BJP leaders||Karnataka High Court on Monday stayed a state government order to drop 61 criminal cases against a posse of BJP lawmakers and functionaries, including ministers, apart from allies and political aides. On a plea from the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, the division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty said no further steps should be taken on the August 31 government order. The court order had not been uploaded till late Monday evening. Among the beneficiaries of the government order were law minister J.C. Madhuswamy, tourism minister and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, agriculture minister B.C. Patil, MLA Halappa Achar, Lok Sabha member Pratap Simha, BJP-backed Independent MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, and the chief minister’s political secretary, M.P. Renukacharya. Madhuswamy and Ravi face charges of unlawful assembly, rioting and wrongful restraint in connection with a sectarian clash in Mysore in November 2015. Patil had been booked in 2012, when he was in the Congress, on the charge of damaging police vehicles during a Ganesh idol immersion. Simha is accused of injuring a police officer by speeding and breaking down police barriers during a Hanuman Jayanti procession in December 2017. Law minister Madhuswamy had justified the government order and claimed the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular too had dropped criminal cases against their leaders when they were in power. Political observers said the Congress and the JDS had not withdrawn cases on this scale. The state government had issued the order under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which allows a public prosecutor to withdraw a case with the court’s consent. It’s not clear whether the government had sought the individual lower courts’ consent by the time the PUCL petition took the matter to the high court on October 23. PUCL counsel Clifton Rozario told The Telegraph that the high court had on Monday directed the state government to file its statement of objections by January 22. The next hearing is on January 29. At the previous hearing on December 1, the high court had said that the public prosecutor “cannot act like a post box or act on the dictates of the state government and he has to act objectively as he is also an officer to the court”. The court had noted that the public prosecutor could disagree with a government decision to drop cases. It emphasised that action under Section 321 of the CrPC “can be taken only with the permission of the court”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi writes to Yogi Adityanath on cow deaths in Lalitpur district||Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the death of cows in Lalitpur district, alleging administrative neglect and corruption leading to the painful tragedy. Accusing the BJP government of doing nothing for the cows despite lofty promises and cow-centric propaganda, Priyanka said, “We are not aware how so many cows died in Lalitpur’ Saujana but the photographs of the bodies are disturbing. It appears the cows died of starvation. It is apparent the tragedy occurred because they were not fed for days together. This is not the first incident. Who is responsible for these deaths?” She added: “Several promises were made for cow protection before the BJP came to power but the truth is that the government has miserably failed. It is true that cowsheds were opened but there are no arrangements for feeding them and corrupt officials have shown gross insensitivity, leaving the cows to starve to death. On the other hand, there is a new problem of stray animals which has troubled the farmers across the state. The farmers are spending thousands on fencing of their fields to protect their crops.” She advised the Yogi government to learn from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh where Godhan Nyay Yojna has effectively tackled the stray cattle menace and bolstered rural economy. Under the scheme launched last July, the Bhupesh Baghel government buys cow-dung for Rs 2 per kg and use it to manufacture natural fertiliser that is sold at Rs 8 per kg. She claimed that cowsheds are now becoming financially self-sufficient as the government is buying cow dung worth Rs 15 crore every month. This scheme has encouraged cattle-rearing and compelled the owners to keep the cows at home to collect cow-dung, controlling the damages caused by stray cattle to the standing crop. Women self-help groups have been engaged to prepare vermicompost from it, which will also reduce the farmers’ dependence on chemical fertiliser and boost fertility of soil. The Congress is also confronting the Yogi government on this issue to expose their hypocrisy about cow protection and challenge its monopoly over this emotional issue which feeds Hindutva politics. By citing Chhattisgarh’s example and recalling how strongly Mahatma Gandhi felt about cows, Priyanka is conveying a message that cow protection is not a Sangh Parivar agenda, a perception cultivated over years because other parties were not vocal about these basics. The Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh had also taken innovative measures on cow protection and taken care to publicise them with a clear objective of countering the RSS-BJP propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Hathras victim's family wants to leave Uttar Pradesh||The Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s family on Monday said they feared harm in their village and wanted to shift to Delhi, and hoped that Allahabad High Court would accept their plea to transfer the case out of Uttar Pradesh. The high court had in October ordered CRPF security for the family after they alleged intimidation by state police and cited meetings by local Rajputs in support of the four accused, who belong to their caste. “We understand that our CRPF security is not forever and will be withdrawn in future. It will then become difficult for us to live here. The situation is volatile,” the 19-year-old Dalit victim’s father told reporters. He said the CRPF had put up barbed-wire fencing around his house on Saturday, a day after the CBI filed a chargesheet accusing the suspects of gang rape and murder. “A dozen CRPF personnel are guarding us. Now the fencing has been put up. This suggests they have some intelligence (about a possible attack) from somewhere. We are tense and don’t want to live in fear,” the father said. Many Rajput leaders of the area had publicly threatened to harm the victim’s family if they didn’t withdraw their allegations against the four accused. “We want to dispose of everything we have in the village and move to Delhi, and will be comfortable if the case too is transferred to Delhi,” he added. A relative said the family hoped their house and small plot would fetch Rs 10 lakh. They have about Rs 40 lakh in the bank, which includes compensation received from the state government and assistance from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “Their elder son has worked in Delhi in the past and knows the place. He may be able to start some sort of business there,” the relative said. “This is why they feel they would be safe in Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||AMU told: No reason to brag about Narendra Modi addressing event||Celebrated historian Irfan Habib has said it’s “not a matter of pride” for Aligarh Muslim University that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would address the inaugural event of its centenary year celebrations as chief guest. “There is no reason for AMU to boast of a PM’s participation. He represents Indian culture in a wrong manner. AMU is for scholars and not for those who believe in their own divisive culture,” the 89-year-old AMU professor emeritus told reporters in Aligarh on Monday. Modi will address the event online on Tuesday. Several student groups at AMU have threatened to show him black flags because he “was not honest in checking the communal riots in Gujarat in 2002 when he was chief minister”. “The PM’s address doesn’t make any difference to the university. It is not a matter of pride for AMU; it will not add anything to the respect the university enjoys because of its academic activities,” Habib said. “The Bharatiya Janata Party government (in Uttar Pradesh) has passed an ordinance against what it calls ‘love jihad’. The policies of the BJP are poisonous. Its agenda is to bring out polluted research. The PM is watching all this silently.” He added: “The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh was against the Muslims even before Independence, and the BJP believed that it would keep getting votes by following that agenda.” Habib’s comments came a day after the AMU teachers’ association issued a statement welcoming Modi’s participation. “We all welcome the Prime Minister of our motherland to be a part of our centenary celebration, and sincerely hope that his presence will help in the quantum jump in overall autonomy and development of the institution,” the teachers’ statement said. However, an AMU professor told reporters on the condition of anonymity that most of the teachers would skip Modi’s address. “Over 70 per cent of the teaching staff have decided not to attend the opening day function. It will not be an official boycott but we would prefer staying back as we don’t accept Modi’s presence even online,” the professor said. Aligarh senior superintendent of police Muniraj G. said the administration was “keeping a watch on social media” to prevent any attempt at mobilising anti-Modi protests. Rakesh Kumar Malpani, additional district magistrate (Aligarh city), said security forces had been stationed around the AMU campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Indian physicist and designer create web series on astronomy ||A physicist and a designer in Calcutta have jointly produced a 13-part homegrown Web series on astronomy inspired in part by similar but independent initiatives decades ago by a British scientist and an American astronomer. The first episode of Cosmic Quest, created by Partha Ghose, former professor at the S.N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences and Tridibesh Sanyal, a visual communicator, will premiere on December 24 on India Science, a web channel of India’s science and technology ministry. The series will span the 13.8-billion-year history of the cosmos — from its origin or the Big Bang and the evolution of galaxies and stars to the emergence of human beings and cognition and the gradual accumulation of astronomical knowledge. Both Ghose and Sanyal say they were inspired by similar series, The Ascent of Man by British scientist Jacob Bronowski in 1973 and Cosmos by the American astronomer Carl Sagan in 1980, but Cosmic Quest will feature unique India-specific angles never attempted before. “We want this to be a gentle way to introduce astronomy to everyone — through angles that others have left largely untouched,” said Ghose, who has conceived, written and anchored the series. “Similar efforts in the past have been mostly Euro-centric.” The series plans to use a mix of 3D animation and graphics, location shoots, possibly even enactments to drive the narration as Ghose seeks to take viewers across billions of years, while featuring contributions from India — from Vedic astronomy and the links between geometry and astronomy that emerged in the Indus valley civilisation to the discovery of zero by 5th century BC astronomer Aryabhata and his other ideas to India’s orbiters to the Moon and Mars. “We’re relying hugely on special effects,” said Sanyal, visualiser and director of the series who also composed its music. “We’re aware that our target viewers are familiar with the visual effects in movies like Avatar and The Avengers.” The series, its makers say, will seek to provide education through a movie-like and immersive experience using visual and sound effects and musical compositions. The School of Educational Technology at Jadavpur University provided the platform for animation for the series. “This new series is part of our efforts to carry science to the masses through India Science,” said Nakul Parashar, director of Vigyan Prasar, the science communication unit of India’s science and technology department. “We’re aiming to telecase one episode per week.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Dalit scholarships plagued by bureaucratic delays||The next time she hears Prime Minister Narendra Modi preach “minimum government, maximum governance”, a PhD Dalit student from Maharashtra may well put on a wry face. The young woman, who declined to give her name for obvious reasons, said red tape was threatening to derail her hopes of earning a doctorate in science from a British university. “I had applied to join the University of Manchester’s PhD programme on reproductive science and got the unconditional offer letter for admission in June,” she told The Telegraph last week. “In September, I received the provisional selection letter from the Centre for the National Overseas Scholarship (NOS), which would enable me to study abroad. But three months on, I’m still to receive the final award letter, with just a fortnight left before the January 1 deadline within which I have to forward it to the university.” Foreign universities and their countries’ visa-granting authorities insist on outstation students proving in advance their ability to pay the tuition fees and living expenses. For students like the Maharashtra girl, this guarantee is provided by the NOS, supposed to be given annually to 100 students from poor Dalit families and a few other vulnerable groups to help them pursue master’s and PhD programmes at foreign universities. But the scholarship is habitually blighted by bureaucratic delays, students and Dalit activists say. An official in the social justice and empowerment ministry, which awards the scholarship, acknowledged that for the past three years, only about 60 of the 100 expected beneficiaries had been receiving the final award in time to secure admission overseas. The Maharashtra girl said she had written to Modi and social justice minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot to speed up the final award. “The government wants to increase women’s participation in science and technology, yet it’s creating hurdles before women like me who want to research a core field of science,” she said. She has already once deferred her admission, originally slated for September, and will not be allowed a further deferment. Her classes start from January 1. The scholarship takes care of the tuition fees, visa charges, the two-way air journey, health insurance premium and the living costs, the last in the form of a “maintenance allowance”. Applications are received in April and July. The corresponding provisional lists of the awardees are published in July and September, respectively, after the ministry checks the applicants’ documents to see if they meet the eligibility criteria relating to academic credentials and income. The ministry then forwards the details to the Indian missions abroad to verify the students’ claims about receipt of the admission offer letter and the volume of the tuition fee. The final award letter is issued after a further scrutiny of the original documents. “The entire process should not take more than 15 days,” said Amol Meshram, an IIT Kharagpur alumnus who runs the non-profit Centre of Excellence of Garib Dalit Pidit and is helping the girl negotiate the bureaucratic labyrinth. However, the ministry forwarded the documents of those selected for the provisional list in the first week of September to the missions only on December 17, an official said. Sometimes, the process can take over a year. A student from Odisha, who wants to do his PhD on pesticides and their health impacts from the University of South Castle in Australia, said he had applied for the NOS last year and was provisionally selected. “But my date of admission arrived in May 2020 and I had still not received the final award letter. On my request, the university has postponed my admission till January 30. I got the final award this month,” he said. His struggle isn’t over, though. The Australian university is holding classes online because of the pandemic, and has sought another letter from the sponsoring body (social justice ministry) agreeing to pay the student’s tuition fees for the period he participates in the virtual lessons from India. “I wrote to the ministry 25 days ago but haven’t received any response,” he said. Apart from the delays, Meshram said, the NOS maintenance allowance is always lower than the sums recommended by the visa-granting foreign missions, based on estimates of living expenses in the cities the students are headed for. They are also lower, he said, than the estimates of Indian missions in their advisories for Indian travellers. For example, the NOS grants a uniform £9,900 (Rs 9.9 lakh) as annual maintenance allowance for Indian students in the UK, despite some cities like London being more expensive than others. “You need to show the visa officer £1,334 (Rs 1.3 lakh) for each month of your course (at a London institution), for a minimum of nine months. This comes to £12,006 (Rs 12 lakh),” Meshram said. Which means the applicants have to arrange the balance £2,106 (Rs 2.1 lakh) by themselves — an uphill task for the impoverished students the scholarship is meant for. “The delays in issuing the sponsorship letter and the inadequate living allowances are an act of government-sponsored atrocity on Scheduled Caste students,” Meshram said. Ambedkarite scholar Anil Wagde said the delays brought both mental trauma and career setbacks. “Many applicants travel to Delhi at their own cost to receive updates on their case since they risk losing a year. Yet, they seldom get answers and end up losing a year -- sometimes admission as well,” Wagde said. “The government must adhere to a timetable. This will save the students a lot of anxiety, expenses and most importantly an academic year and their seat in the foreign university.” Responding to an email sent to the social justice ministry on December 14, its secretary, R. Subrahmanyam, said the scheme had been revised in 2020. “This is one scheme which we have comprehensively reformed this year and you would be happy to note that largest ever number of students have joined/are joining the universities before Feb 2021 despite the Covid scare,” Subrahmanyam wrote. “The requirement of police verification has been done away with this year.” The decades-old NOS used to be awarded to a maximum of 30 students a year till 2016-17, when the figure was raised to 100. Officials said the scholarship was always plagued by delays, mostly owing to the requirement of police verification that was in place till last year. Asked why the delays have continued this year, another official said that while filling in the foreign universities’ forms, the students often carelessly ticked an option that prevented the institution from disclosing the tuition fee to a third party. When the Indian missions sought the fee details for these candidates, therefore, the foreign universities declined to answer. “But we still try to help the student and ask him to contact the university and consent to the fee information being shared. Once that is done, the award letter is given,” the official said. He said 77 students had been provisionally selected this year, of whom 24 had been issued with the final award letter by December 15. The files of 17 others were at an advanced stage of processing. Document verification was going on for the remaining 36.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||India halts UK flights till New Year||India on Monday suspended flights to and from the United Kingdom till December 31, citing the emergence of a fast-spreading mutant strain of the novel coronavirus in that country. The suspension starts from 11.59pm on Tuesday. Till then, all the passengers flying in from the UK would be tested on arrival at the airports and quarantined if found positive, the government said. The objective is to shield the country against the possible entry of the mutant coronavirus variant that is believed to have caused 70 per cent of all the new infections in the UK and forced its government to impose a stricter lockdown. Several other countries like France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Iran and Turkey too have temporarily suspended flights to and from the UK. India had anyway suspended all scheduled international flights on March 23 because of the pandemic, and they remain suspended at least till December 31. Currently, the only international flights allowed are special flights like chartered flights, international passenger flights under air bubble arrangements, and repatriation flights. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines to each others’ territories under restrictive conditions. India has air bubble pacts with 23 countries, including the US and the UK. At present, Indian airlines like Vistara and Air India operate flights to the UK (which have now been suspended). Vistara operates daily flights between Delhi and London, and three weekly flights between Mumbai and London. National carrier Air India operates three weekly flights each from New Delhi and Mumbai to London and back. British Airlines has six weekly flights between Delhi and London, and five weekly flights between Mumbai and London. Virgin Atlantic operates four weekly flights each from Mumbai and New Delhi to London and back. The Union health ministry had on Monday requested the suspension, citing concerns about the new B.1.1.7 variant of the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Scientists say the B.1.1.7 variant — not detected so far in India — contains an unusually large number of genetic changes whose full implications remain unclear but are believed to increase its transmission efficiency. India has since mid-September witnessed a sustained decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases as well as the number of active patients. “In this scenario, any interjection of the coronavirus variant through passengers with air travel history could pose critical risks for pandemic management in India,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the civil aviation ministry. India’s total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases has exceeded 10 million but the epidemic has been shrinking since mid-September’s peak of over one million active cases. The health ministry on Monday recorded 24,284 new cases and around 300,000 active patients. British health authorities recorded over 35,000 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Analysts said the flight suspension would have a “negligible impact” on the travel industry since air traffic on international routes remained low. “Due to current environment of Covid and the quarantine rules, tourism to the UK in any case had not picked up,” said Nishant Pitti, CEO, EaseMyTrip.com, an online travel agency. The flight suspension was suggested by a joint monitoring group headed by the director-general of health services, a vaccine task force headed by the principal scientific adviser to the government, and the member (health) in the Niti Aayog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||Farmers say govt talks offer ‘smokescreen’ not agenda||The protesting farmers on Monday described the Centre’s Sunday night offer for talks as a smokescreen meant to deflect attention from its unwillingness to consider their demand for repeal of the three farm laws they have been opposing from the ordinance stage in June. Stating that the farmers have always been open to talks, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said it was the government that had turned a deaf ear to their demands while keeping up the pretence of being accommodative. The AIKSCC has not specified any day for resuming negotiations while sending a detailed response to the agriculture secretary’s letter inviting them to talks on a date of their choice. The AIKSCC has decided to organise protests on Tuesday at the offices of the Ambanis and the Adanis at the Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai, where farmer union leaders from Punjab are expected to address farmers. Reports from Punjab and Haryana spoke of farmers removing Jio towers from their land and gheraoing offices and outlets of the Ambanis and the Adanis, who they believe stand to benefit the most from the three new laws. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah, in whose name the response has gone from the AIKSCC to the Centre, said: “There is no indication in the letter of any change of heart within the government; they are repeating the same thing over and over again. So, what’s the point in suggesting a date when they are not willing to talk to us on our agenda? Give us an assurance that they will take up our agenda — which is very limited — and we are always ready to talk.” The AIKS is a member of the AIKSCC. Referring to the repeated detailing by the government of the points it is willing to concede, the AIKSCC underlined that from June, several representations had been submitted to the government, first for withdrawal of the ordinances and then for repeal of the laws after they had been enacted. The “Dilli Chalo” call was given when all such efforts failed. While the government has shown willingness to amend the laws on eight points, the farmers insist this is cherry-picking from the various infirmities in the laws they had pointed out as the reason for demanding repeal. The farmers contend that tweaking the laws will not change their intent which, by the government’s own admission, is to encourage trade in food. The AIKSCC letter contests all the claims made by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in his open letter to the farmers. The letter listed the benefits the farming community would reap from the three new laws. The farmers contend that instead of being the silver bullet the government is making the new laws out to be, the three pieces of legislation would turn farmers into labourers and allow corporate groups to gradually take over their land. Apart from the government’s refusal to even consider a repeal, the farmers’ letter makes it clear, their position has also been hardened by the treatment meted out to them -- first the water cannoning and road-digging by the BJP government in Haryana while they were approaching Delhi nearly a month ago, and then the sustained vilification of the agitation. With the protests finding an echo in world capitals, all Indian missions are aggressively tweeting English translations of Tomar’s letter while the AIKSCC has urged the diaspora to step up the protests overseas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||Main accused in Pari case arrested||The special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government to probe the kidnapping and murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayagarh district has arrested the main accused in the case. The accused, whose name is yet to be disclosed by the SIT led by senior IPS officer Arun Bothra, will be produced in a Nayagarh court. He will be taken on remand for further interrogation. Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in Nayagarh’s Jadupur village on July14 and her skeletal remains were found dumped in a gunny bag in the bushes behind her house on July 23. The case had triggered public resentment in the state and Pari’s parents had attempted self-immolation alleging police inaction in the case. They had also alleged that the accused were being shielded by higher education minister Arun Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh. This is the first arrest made by the SIT in connection with the case and the accused, according to sources, also happens to be from Jadupur village. A few days ago, the SIT had picked up a college student from Jadupur village along with two women members of his family for questioning. The investigating team released the two women but the young man is still in its custody. The arrested accused has been booked under various sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Further investigation is on to ascertain if more people were involved in the crime. The SIT had earlier said the minor girl was raped before being killed. SIT chief Arun Bothra said the investigating team had sufficient evidence to nail the arrested accused. “He is the prime accused. The investigation is underway to ascertain the complicity of others who had helped him in the crime,” Bothra said. As Pari’s skeletal remains were found near a pond, the SIT suspects that her killers might have thrown the murder weapon into the water body. The team has decided to pump out water from the pond to look for the weapon. The case grabbed the limelight after Pari’s parents attempted self-immolation in front of the state Assembly in Bhubaneswar on November 24. With the BJP and the Congress also stepping up the attack on the government, the chief minister was forced to order a high court-monitored SIT investigation into the murder that also rocked the winter session of the state Assembly. The BJP, which has been demanding a CBI probe into the case, is leading a padyatra from Bhubaneswar to Pari’s native village. The Congress, too, continues to demand justice for the girl’s family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||SKM workers benefit from my rule: P. S. Tamang (Golay)||Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) president and state chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) on Monday might have shot himself in his foot by suggesting it was his party workers who had been reaping the benefits of his one-and-a-half-year old government. Addressing SKM’s “Rolu Divas” programme in South Sikkim, Golay had his foot-in-the-mouth moment while urging SKM workers to be patient and keep their faith in the party and government. “Today, who are supplying school uniforms? It is SKM workers. Who is supplying books? It’s our SKM workers. And, who is supplying copies? SKM workers,” he said, citing some other examples where his party workers have benefited. The tenor and tone of Golay’s entire speech seemed to suggest that he was concerned at the impatience being displayed by SKM workers hitherto deprived of the spoils of power. “Please don’t be in a hurry. I want to tell you one thing: Do you want to earn Rs 500 in one year or Rs 5,000 in five years. You decide…Our workers must have patience,” he implored. Citing his own example, the SKM president said had he been impatient and thought only about himself and his family, he wouldn’t have become the chief minister. “I am not like the previous chief minister (Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling) who used to say there was no alternative to him. My alternative has to take birth in this party. I want to provide that opportunity,” he promised. SKM celebrates December 21 as Rolu Divas because on this day in 2009, Golay, while still being an MLA of the SDF, had first called for a change in the leadership of Chamling, who was then the chief minister. Golay eventually quit the SDF in September 2013, six months after he had launched the SKM in February of that year. Golay said he would embark on the tour of those constituencies whose MLAs were not ministers and also hold meetings with party workers at all levels in the days and weeks to come in order to strengthen the party. “Lot of our friends appear hurt when they do not hold any post. Don’t worry. We will revamp the party on February 4 (SKM’s foundation day), 2021 and entrust responsibility to all workers,” he added. Without naming the SDF, Golay also held out an olive branch to its supporters and asked them to join the SKM. “Those who did not help us in 2019 and helped the then government are also Sikkimese and they too love Sikkim. If they like our party’s principles and want to join our family, they can come,” he said while asserting those who chose not to should rest assured of defeat in the 2024 election as well. J.B. Darnal, a spokesman for the SDF, said it was shameful that the chief minister openly proclaimed to being partisan. “It doesn’t behove the office of chief minister to act in such a manner. Work should be awarded on the basis of merit, not on the basis of party affiliation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
