23-12-2020||India||Farmers ready for talks, but don’t want ‘meaningless’ amendments||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday said that the government should not repeat “meaningless” amendments to the new agri-marketing laws but come up with a concrete proposal in writing during the next round of talks. A farmer leader, while addressing a press conference on Wednesday, said they were ready for talks, but first the Centre should send a concrete proposal for that to happen. “We have already told Union home minister Amit Shah that protesting farmers will not accept amendments,” farmer leader Kumar Kakka said at the media interaction. “Farmer unions are ready to talk to the government and are waiting for the government to come to the table with an open mind,” Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav added. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Molla claimed the government wanted to tire the farmers out so that the protest would end. Earlier, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government would  continue with reforms in the farm sector as they were still due in many areas, but was hopeful that the farmers would fix a date for the next round for talks. “I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue,” he said. The minister said any agitation can be resolved only through dialogue as has been the case always in history and urged the protesting unions come forward for the next round of talks. The government has already sent a draft proposal to unions offering at least seven amendments to the three legislations that were enacted in September. "I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue," Tomar told reporters. At least five rounds of formal talks with the protesting unions have failed to break the deadlock, but a number of other farm groups have been meeting the government in the meantime to extend their support to the new laws. While the government has presented the three laws as major reforms, protesting farmers fear they would weaken the mandi and MSP systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has accused opposition parties of misleading the farmers. The government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an open heart, he said, while wishing the entire farming community on the occasion of the National Farmers Day, celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of India's fifth Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. Stressing that a solution can be reached only through dialogue, Tomar said, "History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only." Farmer unions should discuss the government's draft proposal and inform them if they want to add or delete anything, he said. Separately, addressing a delegation of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that extended their support to the farm laws, the minister said agriculture is an important sector for India. The government "is and will be" committed to strengthening the sector, he said. "In the last six years, efforts have been made to reform the farm sector to a large extent. There are still many areas left where reforms are due," Tomar noted. The Minister said there were recommendations for reforms in the farm sector in the past also by experts, unions and state chief ministers, but the previous government might have faced difficulties in converting the recommendations into laws. But the Modi government brought these reforms in the agriculture sector and most farmers are in favour of these laws, while some are protesting, he added. The minister also received six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including Punjab through NGO CNRI in support of the farm laws. Of these, 12,895 farmers from Punjab have signed in favour of the laws, while 1.27 lakh such farmers are from Haryana. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Tomar hopeful of protesting farmers resuming dialogue with govt||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government will continue with reforms in the farm sector as they are still due in many areas, even as he reiterated his hope that protesting farmers will soon come forward to resume their dialogue with the Centre to resolve their concerns over three new laws. The minister said any agitation can be resolved only through dialogue as has been the case always in history and urged the protesting unions to fix a date and time for the next round of talks. Protesting farmer unions, who have stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of all three agri-laws, have not yet conveyed their decision on the central government's offer for fresh talks. Thousands of farmers have been camping on various borders of the national capital for almost four weeks now. The government has already sent a draft proposal to unions offering at least seven amendments to the three legislations that were enacted in September. "I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue," Tomar told reporters. At least five rounds of formal talks with the protesting unions have failed to break the deadlock, but a number of other farm groups have been meeting the government in the meantime to extend their support to the new laws. While the government has presented the three laws as major reforms, protesting farmers fear they would weaken the mandi and MSP systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has accused opposition parties of misleading the farmers. Tomar said the government is hopeful that unions will soon discuss, decide and communicate their decision, after which the government can hold the next round of discussions immediately. The government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an open heart, he said, while wishing the entire farming community on the occasion of the National Farmers Day, celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of India's fifth Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. Stressing that a solution can be reached only through dialogue, Tomar said, "History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only." Farmer unions should discuss the government's draft proposal and inform them if they want to add or delete anything, he said. Separately, addressing a delegation of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that extended their support to the farm laws, the minister said agriculture is an important sector for India. The government "is and will be" committed to strengthening the sector, he said. "In the last six years, efforts have been made to reform the farm sector to a large extent. There are still many areas left where reforms are due," Tomar noted. The Minister said there were recommendations for reforms in the farm sector in the past also by experts, unions and state chief ministers, but the previous government might have faced difficulties in converting the recommendations into laws. But the Modi government brought these reforms in the agriculture sector and most farmers are in favour of these laws, while some are protesting, he added. The minister also received six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including Punjab through NGO CNRI in support of the farm laws. Of these, 12,895 farmers from Punjab have signed in favour of the laws, while 1.27 lakh such farmers are from Haryana. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||13 farmers booked for blocking Haryana CM's convoy||Haryana Police has registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after a group of peasants protesting against the Centre's new farm laws had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Chief Minister ML Khattar's convoy. On Tuesday, a group of protesting farmers had shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City. Some of the farmers had allegedly tried to block Khattar's motorcade but police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister after some time. The case against the farmers was registered late Tuesday on the complaint of some security personnel. Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some farmers also allegedly hurled sticks towards some vehicles in the motorcade. Ambala City police registered a case against 13 farmers under various IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder) 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Khattar was in Ambala on Tuesday to address public meetings in support of the party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers had waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Karnataka imposes night curfew amid concerns over new Covid strain||The Karnataka government has decided to impose a night curfew from December 23 night till January 2 across the state amid growing concerns over the new Covid-19 strain, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. The announcement comes after the chief minister met Health Minister K. Sudhakar, members of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for Covid-19 and other senior officials. “In view of the new stain of the COVID-19 virus and as per the advice of the Government of India and Technical Advisory Committee, it is decided to impose night curfew from today till January 2, 2021 between 10 pm and 6 am,” he told reporters. “It will be applicable for the entire state.. I request all public to cooperate to prevent and contain the new Covid-19 strain,” Yediyurappa added. Sudhakar had held a detailed discussion earlier in the day, with TAC members comprising senior health experts. On Monday, neighbouring Maharashtra had declared a night curfew in municipal corporations and major cities in a bid to curb the spread of the new Covid-19 variant that has been detected in the United Kingdom. Yediyurappa announced that Covid-19 certificates were a must for those travelling from abroad to the state, and the test should be done only 72 hours prior to the journey. All arrangements have been done at the airport to conduct tests and health staff have been deployed there and we have seen that no one enters the city without getting tested. Responding to a query, the chief minister said that normal activities shall continue until 10 pm, but no one should go out after that time. He said a guideline will be issued soon in this regard. “Regarding schools and colleges we have discussed and informed that it will open from January 1 for class 10 and second year PUC (class 12) students,” he said, adding, “Within two days we will see if there are any developments and come back. As of now it will start from January 1.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya muder: court pronounces life sentence to Father, nun||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment the catholic nun and priest, who were found guilty of killing 21-year-old Sister Abhaya in 1992 at Kottayam. Special CBI judge K. Sanal Kumar pronounced the sentence and slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on the two accused --  Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy. The court had on Tuesday found the two guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya, who was found dead in a well in St Pius convent in Kottayam in 1992. The case, involving the brutal murder of the 19-year-old Sister Abhaya after she saw two priests in a compromising position with a nun in a convent in 1992, witnessed many twists and turns as witnesses turned hostile and multiple investigative agencies wrote it off as a suicide, provoking protests. The local police, crime branch and the CBI had filed closure reports before a court ordered a reinvestigation in 2008. The duo was also sentenced to seven years imprisonment for tampering with evidence. The two sentences will run concurrently. Massive protests had erupted in Kerala after Sister Abhaya’s death after the local police and the crime branch wrote off the case as “death by suicide.” The CBI, too, had filed closure reports in 1993, 1999 and 2005, unable to decide whether it was a suicide or murder. The central agency made the arrests after the court ordered it to reopen the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Jagannath temple in Puri reopens for servitors and their family members||The Shree Jagannath Temple here reopened for devotees on Wednesday after remaining closed for nine months in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The much-awaited 'darshan' of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath, began at 7 am amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines for servitors and their family members only, officials said. The Temple remained closed since the middle of March due to the outbreak of the pandemic. This is for the first time in the history of the 12th century Lord Vishnu shrine here that the devotees were denied the opportunity for having 'darshan' of the deities, the officials said. "It was a matter of luck for any human being to have darshan of the deities in Jagannath dham. We are blessed to get the opportunity in the first phase," said an elderly woman after visiting the temple. On the first three days (December 23, 24 & 25), servitors and their family members will be allowed to enter the temple for darshan with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms, Puri Collector Balwant Singh told reporters. He said devotees are allowed entry into the temple after proper checking of identity proof, hand sanitisation and mandatory wearing of face masks. The family members of servitors will be allowed darshan of the deities on the first three days, the residents of Puri will get the next opportunity to enter the temple from December 26 till December 31 evening, officials said. The temple will again remain closed on January 1 and 2 in view of the rush of devotees for the New Year, the official said, adding that the temple will be opened for all devotees from January 3. Meanwhile, the district administration has prepared a ward-wise schedule for the people of Puri for the darshan of the deities. The residents of each ward in Puri Municipality area are given specific date and time to have darshan of the deities, he said. He said all devotees need to produce Covid-19 negative report of test done in the last 48 hours from January 3 to enter the temple. No offerings of flowers, tulsi (basil leaves) and other such items will be allowed inside the temple. Asked why the people of Puri do not need Covid-19 negative certificate, the official said: "The administration is aware of the coronavirus status of the local people. Therefore, they need not produce a COVD-19 negative certificate." As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prepared for the smooth darshan of devotees, the people would enter through Singhadwara (Lions Gate) of the Temple and exit through any of the other three gates. This apart, barricades are raised along the Badadanda from Marichikot Chhak in nine rows to avoid the rush in the temple. The visitors are asked to maintain social distance and wear face masks. They would have to sanitise their hands at the temple gate before entering into the shrine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Modi took inspiration from Charan Singh, Rajnath says on ‘Kisan Diwas’||The Centre on Wednesday reiterated its commitment to the welfare of farmers, in view of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Charan Singh known for championing their cause. It expressed hope that the ones protesting against the new laws will soon understand and withdraw their agitation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in a series of tweets, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken multiple steps to ensure farmers’ well-being while taking inspiration from Charan Singh. He will not allow any harm to them under any circumstances, the defence minister said. Rajnath Singh has been one of the key government ministers to have engaged in talks with farmers to end the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. “Some farmers have been agitating due to the farm laws. The government has been talking to them with utmost sensitivity. I hope they will soon withdraw their agitation,” he said. Charan Singh’s birth anniversary is observed in India as ‘Kisan Diwas’ (farmers’ day). The senior BJP leader noted that Charan Singh voiced the concerns of farmers all his life and worked for their welfare. “He always wanted that farmers get good prices for their produce so that their income increased and that their honour always remained secure,” Rajnath added. “Taking inspiration from the former prime minister, Modi has been taking measures for farmers' welfare,” he asserted, while paying tributes to Charan Singh. Lauding farmers, he said they have provided the country the shield of grain security. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. Born in 1902 in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Charan Singh espoused the farmers' cause and is credited with shaping several policies that helped cultivators. He died in 1987.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Unfortunate that farmers have to protest for rights, says Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said it is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmers, but unfortunately cultivators are now forced to stage protest for their rights. On the occasion of the National Farmers' Day, the former Union agriculture minister in a post on Twitter wished for justice to the farmers. Thousands of cultivators have been protesting at the border points of Delhi since November 26 against the Centre's three new farm laws. "It is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmer who forms an important part of the economy. But unfortunately, the farmer of the country is now forced to stage protest for his rights and demands," Pawar tweeted. "Wishing for justice to the farmer on the occasion of the National Farmers' Day," he added. Farmers protesting at the Delhi border points have been demanding a repeal of the new agri laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload inching towards 1.1 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,99,066 with 23,950 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96.63 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,46,444 with 333 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,63,382 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.69 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 2,89,240 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,42,68,721 samples have been tested up to December 22 with 10,98,164 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 333 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra, 38 from West Bengal, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Delhi. A total of 1,46,444 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,876 from Maharashtra followed by 12,029 from Karnataka, 12,012 from Tamil Nadu, 10,329 from Delhi, 9,439 from West Bengal, 8,224 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,082 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,230 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers to take stand on govt’s open invitation||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmers are protesting against the three farm laws, is expected to take a stand on Wednesday on the government’s open invitation for talks but the farming community feels the contents of the invite have not created a conducive atmosphere. Matters have not been helped by the unabated effort by the government or those associated with it to misrepresent facts, which the farmers view as an attempt at belittling their movement. Delhi police also denied permission to hold an event to pay tribute to Chaudhary Charan Singh, a crusader for agrarian rights and former Prime Minister whose cremation site in the capital is known as Kisan Ghat. In the latest instance, the Kisan Ekta Morcha, an online platform of the protest, has called out the BJP’s Punjab unit for using the photograph of Hoshiarpur-based actor, director and photographer Harpreet Singh in a poster. The poster seeks to highlight the measures taken by the government on the minimum support price this financial year. But Harpreet himself is participating in the protests and pointed out the “misrepresentation” by the BJP. His Twitter timeline, under the name Harp Farmer, is filled with photographs of him with the protesters and endorsing their actions. On Wednesday, the farmers have given a call for skipping lunch to observe Kisan Diwas — the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh. Delhi police have cited the pandemic as the reason for refusing permission to the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) to organise a memorial function at Kisan Ghat. The party had sought permission on December 16 to organise an event at the site for three hours with only 50 people present as mandated by Covid guidelines but Delhi police on Tuesday denied permission. Tweeting out the response, RLD vice-president and former MP Jayant Chaudhary said: “Hume great leader se Chaudhary Sahab ke jayanti par shraddhanjali dene ki anumati nahi mili hai. #NewIndia ka loktantra!! (We have not got permission to pay tribute to Chaudhary Sahab from the great leader. Democracy in #New India!!”) The farmers’ unions from Punjab met on Tuesday to take a stand on the government’s invitation. Those privy to the conversation say there was considerable disappointment over the manner in which the Narendra Modi government had dealt with the issue. Apart from the fact that the central government has turned a deaf ear to their core demand for the repeal of the three laws, the farmers are particularly upset with the allegations levelled against them about being a Khalistani front and the high-handedness of the Haryana government, which continues to stop protesters from moving towards Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Kerala governor rejects state cabinet's farm law session||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan has rejected the state cabinet’s decision to convene a special session of the Assembly to pass a resolution against the contentious farm laws. The veto on the eve of the proposed one-hour session on Wednesday injects an extraordinary constitutional confrontation into the ongoing controversy over the farm laws that has so far been playing itself out on the streets and in the court. The rejection also shows how prickly the farm laws have become for the Narendra Modi government that otherwise preaches federalism. The CPM-helmed ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led Opposition United Democratic Front found the governor’s decision a violation of his constitutional obligation to honour a decision taken by the state cabinet and sought his immediate recall. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to the governor to say it was wrong to assume there was no urgency to call the session when there are serious concerns about Kerala’s farm sector, and added that the governor’s refusal to do so was a violation of the Constitution. “The President and governors should function as per the advice of the council of ministers. Shamsher Singh Versus the state of Punjab (1975) had made this clear,” Vijayan said, referring to a landmark Supreme Court verdict. The Sarkaria Commission on Centre-state relations had also said a governor is duty-bound to abide by the decision of a government on convening or adjourning the Assembly, Vijayan wrote. “The governor does not have any powers to refuse if the cabinet recommends to convene the Assembly,” he said. Khan, who had left the Congress to join the BJP before he became governor, has a history of crossing swords with the Vijayan government in Kerala, especially over the Citizenship Amendment Act early this year. Opposition leader and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala urged the government to convene the session in the members’ lounge in the state Assembly building. “The members should assemble at the members’ lounge and pass the resolution against the farm laws,” Chennithala said. On the farm law issue, the government had twice clarified the governor’s queries on the need to call a special session when the budget session is scheduled for January 8. Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan described the governor’s rejection as an “unbelievable decision” and said there were no restrictions in calling a special session of the Assembly. “It is the cabinet that should take such decisions,” the Speaker added. Kerala agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said the governor’s decision had given rise to an “extraordinary” situation in the state. “It is a fact that this has created an extraordinary situation. Our people should realise this. The governor cannot reject a cabinet’s decision to call an Assembly session,” said Sunil Kumar. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj said governors had to go by the cabinet decisions on such matters. “Article 163 of the Constitution clearly states that the council of ministers ‘aids and advises’ the governor, and not otherwise. Article 174 says the governor shall ‘from time to time summon the House’. That’s where Article 163 comes into play,” Raj said. “The advice is to convene the Assembly, which he has to do. Or else, what will happen is even when 140 MLAs (of Kerala) want to have the session for whatever reason, the governor who is a nominee of the Centre, will be able to stall it,” Raj told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “The governor is now stalling, despite the willingness and desire of the elected representatives. That goes against federal principles enshrined in the Constitution because he is acting like a king and challenging the will of the people,” said Raj. “Former governor of Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh V.S. Ramadevi had once quoted R. Venkata Rao, professor of Andhra University, as saying that the governor’s post is ‘useless when inert and dangerous when active’. This is illustrated in today’s development in Kerala,” the senior lawyer said. “The governor’s decision citing lack of urgency is undemocratic. Nationwide protests are on against the farm laws. These laws will adversely impact even Kerala’s farmers,” Chennithala, the Congress leader, said, explaining why the Opposition backed the government’s move to convene a special session. Congress MP T.N. Prathapan said: “Other Opposition-ruled states have passed such resolutions. Our demand is that the President should recall the governor who has taken an unconstitutional decision.” It was the second time that political parties in Kerala have called for the recall of Khan who started his term by taking a confrontationist posture against the Left government. The governor had engaged in an open battle with the state government over its decision to approach the Supreme Court against the Citizenship Amendment Act in January. While the government had then maintained there was no need to seek the governor’s prior approval before going to court, Khan had insisted he could stop any move to question a legislation that had received the President’s assent. The governor again intervened when the Assembly passed a resolution seeking the withdrawal of the CAA. Khan had then remarked the resolution had no legal binding. He soon read out the policy speech that had a paragraph against the CAA, clarifying that he was doing it in line with the chief minister’s “wish”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Retired bureaucrats ask PM to review Vista project||Retired bureaucrats have written an open letter to the Prime Minister to convey their dismay at the executive highhandedness, including complete disregard for the rule of law and the environment, in decision-making on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. They have flagged the brazen impropriety in going ahead with the construction of the Parliament building when the matter was sub judice. “While the matter is in the courts and further construction activities are suspended, we urge the government to seize this as an opportunity to review the project in its entirety. We strongly believe that the project should not be implemented, particularly at this time,” the letter said. The letter added: “However, even if the government decides to go ahead in principle, the project must be subjected to critical scrutiny by citizens and independent experts, plans must be redrawn to make them compatible with environmental and heritage conservation standards and the due processes of law relating to such projects must be followed. The essence of a democratic ethos is to listen to the voices of citizens and engage in dialogue with them.” In the open letter, the collective of retired bureaucrats — which goes by the name Constitutional Conduct — urged the Prime Minister to put the project on hold, considering the economic crisis facing the country and the need to prioritise health in the face of the pandemic. “This project, from its very inception, has been marked by a degree of executive highhandedness rarely witnessed before. Whether it was in inviting design options, selecting consultants, holding fair and transparent stakeholder consultations, obtaining approvals of the institutions and authorities dealing with urban design, planning and environmental clearances — everything was done to ensure that rules and procedures were given short shrift, due processes treated with contempt and a predetermined plan of action bulldozed through.” On the court case, the 69 signatories to the letter — who have retired from some of the senior-most positions in government — have asked if the construction of the new Parliament building was undertaken when the matter was in court to “present a fait accompli that would be difficult to reverse”. Expressing regret over the Supreme Court’s decision to allow the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they said: “While the case was sub judice, it was incumbent upon the government to await its outcome.” The retired bureaucrats have also questioned why it was the Prime Minister and not the President who laid the foundation stone. “We wonder what locus standi the Prime Minister has to lay the foundation stone of the Parliament building. The Prime Minister is the head of the executive, not of the legislature. For a building that will accommodate the two Houses of Parliament, the appropriate protocol would have been for the President of India to lay the foundation stone. This was a clear instance of breach of constitutional propriety.” Article 79 of the Constitution states that “there shall be a Parliament for the Union which shall consist of the President and two Houses”. Referring to the frequent changes in the terms of reference submitted for environmental clearances, the signatories to the letter said this demonstrated the haste with which the massive project was being undertaken, “without adequate internal consultations or application of mind”. Billing the entire approach as cavalier, Constitutional Conduct further expressed great dismay that “at a time when we are faced with an economy in perilous decline and a pandemic which has brought untold misery to millions, the government has chosen to invest vast sums on a project which represents nothing but the pursuit of pomp and grandeur”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Edge for People’s Alliance in Kashmir polls||The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, was winning or leading in 110 of the 280 seats across 20 districts by Tuesday night in the maiden District Development Council elections in the Union Territory. The BJP was winning or leading in 75 seats, including three in the Kashmir Valley. The Gupkar Alliance, whose formal name is the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (JKPAGD), had 35 wins or leads in Jammu. The alliance includes the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The outcome of the local polls was being dissected in New Delhi to answer questions as weighty as “is it a win for democracy?” and “is it a vote for the abrogation of the key provisions of Article 370” that conferred special rights on Jammu and Kashmir? Is it a vote for the revocation of special rights? No, if the early results are any indication. The Gupkar Alliance, formed for the specific objective of restoration of the special status, is headed to form councils in 13 of the 20 districts if the Congress offers it support, the BJP in five while two others could go either way. The Gupkar Alliance’s victory is seen as a rebuff to the Narendra Modi government, which has called the axis a “gang” and its leaders “anti-nationals” and “looters”. Union home minister Amit Shah had last month claimed that the “Gupkar gang” was “going global”. “They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar gang also insults the Tricolour,” he had said. If the polls are being projected as a referendum on the abrogation, the results will have to be seen as the first public expression of anger against the scrapping of Article 370 provisions and a snub to the BJP’s “all-is-well” narrative. Alliance leaders said the verdict should force the Centre to rethink its decision to cancel the special status. “The DDC results have made it clear that people of J&K voted en masse for @JKPAGD thus rejecting the unconstitutional decision to abrogate Article 370. They have overwhelmingly supported @JKPAGD which stands for restoration of J&Ks special status. The trends that have emerged in the DDC polls in J&K are very encouraging for the @JKPAGD,” former chief minister and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said the BJP had made the election a “prestige issue about Art 370 & J&K’s special status”. “The people have now spoken & it’s for those who believe in democracy to pay heed to these voices,” he tweeted. Is it a victory for democracy? An election conducted in peace and with fairness is a victory for democracy. But the situation on the ground was far from ideal. Consider the odds against which the Gupkar Alliance fought the elections: ⚫ The Gupkar Alliance faced a hostile administration that denied its leaders a chance to campaign freely. ⚫ Its candidates were “locked up” in the name of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of elections, arrested or put under house arrest on one pretext or the other. But PDP chief Mehbooba’s key aide Waheed-ur-Rahman Para, a DDC candidate who was arrested days ahead of the contest in a militancy-related case, won comfortably in Pulwama. Mehbooba has accused the agencies of falsely implicating him. “The @JKPAGD is an alliance that emerged out of the betrayal of the people of J&K on 5th Aug 2019. We have faced every obstacle — illegal detentions, agency threats & pressures, our candidates were locked up to stop them campaigning & from all this we are emerging victorious,” Omar tweeted. *The Congress ditched the alliance at the eleventh hour following the BJP’s accusations that it was joining hands with “anti-nationals”, ending up splitting the anti-BJP votes at many places. The Congress was winning or leading in 27 seats. Only 33 per cent of the electorate in Kashmir voted — not a healthy sign for democracy. The turnout not only reflected the sullen anger at New Delhi but also the mistrust with which large sections of the population view the Gupkar Alliance. In Jammu, the voting percentage was 68. How did the BJP win seats in the Valley? At many places, the parties in the Gupkar Alliance worked at cross-purposes and are believed to have fielded proxy candidates against the official nominees. This explains how the BJP managed to open its account in the Valley. For instance, in Pulwama’s Kakapora, where the BJP candidate bagged 365 votes and won, the PDP nominee got 326 votes but a candidate believed to be a proxy of the National Conference won 178 votes. The BJP appeared to be drawing solace from the win in three seats — out of 140 in the Valley. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir general secretary and Kashmir in-charge Vibodh Gupta claimed that it was proof that the people in the Valley had shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a “new Kashmir”. “The BJP’s maiden victories in DDC elections speak of two stories — one, a tough fight by the BJP and the other of conveying a strong message to the Gupkar gang that the end of their communal politics and divisive politics is near,” he said. Omar, however, wondered why the alliance’s wins in Jammu were being ignored. “I understand the temptation to overplay the 3 seats the BJP has won in the Valley but why underplay the 35 wins/leads of the @JKPAGD in Jammu province? We aren’t Kashmir-based parties, we are political parties with strong support in both Kashmir AND Jammu,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya murder case: Priest, nun pronounced guilty ||A special CBI court on Tuesday pronounced a Catholic priest and a nun guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya whose body was found in a well at a convent in Kerala’s Kottayam district 28 years ago. The case, involving the brutal murder of the 19-year-old Sister Abhaya after she saw two priests in a compromising position with a nun in a convent in 1992, witnessed many twists and turns as witnesses turned hostile and multiple investigative agencies wrote it off as a suicide, provoking protests. The unwavering statement of a thief who had entered the convent that night and had seen the two priests sneak in helped in nailing the guilty. On Tuesday, the CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram held Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy guilty of murder. The local police, crime branch and the CBI had filed closure reports before a court ordered a reinvestigation in 2008. The CBI court found the priest and the nun guilty under IPC Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence). Kottoor was also found guilty of house trespass in order to commit a punishable offence under IPC Section 449. The court will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Wednesday. According to the chargesheet, Abhaya, 19, an inmate of St Pious X Convent in Kottayam, had woken up at 4am on March 27, 1992, to prepare for her college exam. When she went down to the kitchen to fetch drinking water, she was believed to have seen Sephy and two priests in a compromising position in the nun’s room. Kottoor strangled Abhaya while Sephy hit her on the head with a hand axe that left a deep gash. The duo then dumped Abhaya into a well while she was still alive, according to the findings of the CBI after the case was reopened. While Kottoor is the first accused, Sephy is the third accused. The CBI court had in March 2018 acquitted the second accused, Father Jose Poothrukkayil, citing lack of sufficient evidence to proceed against him. Kottoor and Poothrukkayil were lecturers at BCM College in Kottayam where Abhaya was a student of Class XII. Only 49 of the 177 witnesses could be cross-examined. Key witnesses like Abhaya’s roommate Sister Anupama had turned hostile. A man named Sanju P. Mathew who lived near the convent had disowned his earlier statement that he had seen Kottoor’s scooter at the convent. Sephy broke down in the courtroom when judge K. Sanil Kumar handed down the verdict. She later prayed in the courtroom before being taken away for a mandatory Covid test. Kottoor looked emotionless as he was being escorted to a vehicle but said he was innocent. “I am innocent. God is my court,” he told reporters. Kottoor and Sephy, who have been actively involved in Church duties, were later moved to respective jails for men and women in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI had arrested them along with Poothrukkayil in 2008. But they were granted bail in January 2009. Massive protests had erupted in Kerala after Sister Abhaya’s death after the local police and the crime branch wrote off the case as “death by suicide.” The CBI, too, had filed closure reports in 1993, 1999 and 2005, unable to decide whether it was a suicide or murder. The central agency made the arrests after the court ordered it to reopen the investigation. The testimony of a small-time thief, Adakka Raju, had come in handy for the prosecution to establish that the two priests had entered the convent the night before Abhaya was found dead in the well. Raju had been trying to steal copper strips of the lightning conductor on the convent roof when he saw the priests sneak in. Raju, who has since been working as a manual labourer, told reporters after the verdict: “My child has got justice. I always call her my child.” “I have two daughters. What will be the condition if they suddenly don’t exist? I saw that child as my own daughter,” Raju said, adding that he “had offers worth crores” to change his statement. Abhaya’s parents died about four years ago and her only brother Biju Thomas works in Dubai. Jomon Puthenpurackal, who was among the rights activists instrumental in getting the CBI to probe the case, told reporters that it was “the victory of the people” who had fought for the victim and her family. “They thought they could sabotage this case with money and power. They even tried to lure me and eliminate me when I stood firm,” said the rights activist who had floated the Abhaya Case Action Council as a pressure group. Varghese P. Thomas, the deputy superintendent of the CBI who had in 1993 as the investigating officer reported it as a case of murder, got emotional while reacting to the verdict. “When guilt is proved, it means truth has won,” said Thomas, who took early retirement after allegedly coming under pressure from his superiors to write off the death as a suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||India’s air pollution deaths are about 30% higher than earlier estimates: Study||New research has suggested that India’s air pollution deaths are about 30 per cent higher than earlier estimates — 1.67 million premature deaths during 2019, or more than 10 times the country’s coronavirus death toll during 2020. These 1.67 million premature deaths attributable to air pollution made up nearly 18 per cent of India’s total deaths during 2019, according to the study that has underlined the burden of disease and death and the economic impacts of poor air quality. The study by a consortium of researchers at the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and collaborating institutions has calculated the economic loss from disease and deaths due to air pollution at 1.4 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2019, or Rs 260,000 crore. This is more than three times higher than the Centre’s current health budget of about Rs 65,000 crore. The largest proportions of air pollution-linked deaths were due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (32 per cent), ischaemic heart disease (30 per cent), strokes (16 per cent) lower respiratory infections (11 per cent) and neonatal disorders (5 per cent). “Improvements in the study methodology have led to a higher estimate of the impacts of air pollution on health in India than previously estimated,” said Lalit Dandona, a professor at the PHFI and chair of population health at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Their earlier study had estimated 1.24 million air pollution deaths in 2017. But the new methodology yields estimates of 1.6 million deaths in 2017 and 1.67 million in 2019. The revised figures have emerged from refinements on how air pollution impacts low birthweight, premature births and strokes. “Air pollution impacts even unborn children — our data clearly show how air pollution has an impact across the course of life from before birth into late adulthood,” said Kalpana Balakrishnan, director of the ICMR Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality Climate and Health and member of the study team. The new study has underscored significant differences in air quality across states. The average exposure to particulate matter sized 2.5 microns (PM2.5) ranged from 15.8 microgram per cubic metre in Kerala to 217 in Delhi. Bihar, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had the worst air quality. The economic loss due to air pollution as a percentage of the state GDP was the highest in the northern states because people there are exposed to “very high concentrations” of PM2.5. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh had the highest economic loss as a percentage of GDP but had lowest per capita GDP among states. The findings, published on Tuesday in the journal Lancet Planetary Health, imply that health and economic impacts of air pollution are highest in the less developed states. “This is an inequity that needs to be addressed,” Dandona said. The study also identified long-term changes in air pollution patterns — a 64 per cent reduction in the death rate attributable to household air pollution but a 115 per cent increase in the death rate from outdoor air pollution. Household air pollution is decreasing in India, resulting in 64 per cent reduction in the death rate attributable to it from 1990 to 2019, whereas the death rate from outdoor ambient air pollution has increased during this period by 115 per cent. The researchers say their findings underline the need for state-specific air pollution control strategies. “It is imperative that policy-makers at the local and national levels take decisive steps to address this serious threat to public health,” said Christopher Murray, director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington. The air pollution study is part of an effort to estimate the global burden of diseases directed by Murray and his colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Covid mutant scan on UK arrivals||India’s health ministry on Tuesday directed its disease surveillance units to screen all travellers who have arrived from the UK since November 25 for the novel coronavirus and keep in special isolation units anyone found with the unusual mutant variant named B.1.1.7. The directive which calls for coronavirus genome sequencing from positive patients would apply to passengers who have travelled from or transited through the UK since November 25 and are part of efforts to determine whether B.1.1.7 is already in India — and ring fence the variant if detected. However, scientists caution that such efforts while helpful would need to be supplemented through a sustained effort to sequence coronavirus isolates within the country. India has recorded more than 10 million infections, but has sequenced less than 5,000 coronavirus isolates. “In contrast, the UK with over two million coronavirus infections has already sequenced over 140,000 viral isolates,” a senior scientist told The Telegraph. “We need a similar nationwide sequencing effort to really understand how the coronavirus is evolving.” The health ministry has asked surveillance units to send any positive sample to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genome sequencing. If the sequence is consistent with variants already circulating in India, patients with mild symptoms may remain under home isolation. However, the health ministry said, if the sequence indicates the presence of B.1.1.7, the patient would continue to remain in a separate isolation unit and remain there until two consecutive diagnostic tests show no presence of the virus. All community contacts of travellers who have tested positive would also be subject to institutional quarantine and, under standard guidelines, tested for the coronavirus on the fifth and 10th day or earlier if they develop symptoms. Health officials are hoping such actions would prevent any further spread of B.1.1.7 — if the variant enters the country through UK travellers — in India amid concerns that B.1.1.7 is more infectious and capable of spreading faster than other known variants. “There is cause for greater vigilance, but no cause for panic,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of India’s Covid-19 task force and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Paul asserted that available data suggest that the variant has no impact on the severity of disease or need for hospitalisation. Research groups in laboratories under various government agencies — the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Council of Medical Research, and the Department of Biotechnology — have thus far sequenced 4,338 coronavirus genomes and identified 5,574 variants. None of the Indian sequences analysed so far belong to the B.1.1.7 lineage, but scientists assert that the relatively tiny fraction of viruses sequenced in India imply that there are large information gaps about the variants circulating in the country. “We have the sequencing infrastructure and we have skilled people in the country — and it doesn’t cost so much money. On a megascale, each sequence would cost only around Rs 2,000,” said a scientist who requested not to be named. “But what we see are piecemeal sequencing efforts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||China raid alert at  20 spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh||The Indian Army has identified as many as 20 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) which are likely to witness border incursions and transgressions by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army once the winter is over and the snow melts, sources in the security establishment said. “With the LAC becoming the new LoC, the army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) are sending reinforcements to these 20 spots in the wake of intelligence inputs that the PLA is planning fresh incursions,” said a security official attached to the Intelligence Bureau. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — since May and eight rounds of military talks have failed to break the deadlock. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. “Considering the ground situation and palpable tension along the LAC, the Indian Army does not want to further lose territory to the PLA. Intelligence reports have suggested that the Chinese troops are planning incursions at the 20 sensitive spots inside India-claimed lines once the winter is over,” said the security official. “Both the army and the ITBP are building new border posts and are also planning to bolster operational and infrastructure capabilities at these 20 spots along the LAC to prevent any such incursion,” the official added. Some of these sensitive spots had witnessed border incursions by the PLA in the past. An ITBP official said that in the wake of the ongoing impasse between the two sides, disputes at these 20 spots were likely to arise because of differences in perception of the LAC. “Both sides often accuse each other of transgression and intrusion but such incidents come down drastically during winter in the snow-covered Himalayan region. The latest intelligence report has hinted at possible Chinese incursion and transgression at these 20 spots, which is alarming. The army is deliberating key strategic deployment to fortify our positions,” the ITBP official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Message from polls: Kashmir before religion||Dr Harbaksh Singh, Parmeet Kour and Chaman Lal were all fighting against Muslim candidates in predominantly Muslim constituencies but their religion did not come in the way of their victory. Kour and Singh, both Sikhs, have won the District Development Council elections from Tral and Rafiabad constituencies in Pulwama and Baramulla districts, respectively, while Lal, a Kashmir Pandit, has become the sarpanch of Shopian’s Zainpora. “I got 1,452 votes out of 3,900 (votes polled) and my rival, who is a Muslim candidate from the Congress, got 986 votes. It is mostly the Muslims, over 1,300, who voted for me and the rest were from my community,” Singh, who is from the People’s Democratic Party, told The Telegraph. “My victory is a snub to all the communal forces who have been projecting Kashmir in a bad light. It shows how Kashmiriyat and secularism are alive. There has been a media campaign against my party, saying they are Pakistanis, but my victory shows how they are all wrong.” The PDP is part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Alliance, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions that gave Jammu and Kashmir its special status. The BJP has repeatedly dubbed the alliance a “gang of anti-nationals”. Parmeet Kour, 30, a mother of three and a candidate of the People’s Conference (PC), which is also part of the Gupkar Alliance, won from Rafiabad’s Dangiwacha. “I am so happy. People from all communities voted for me,” said Kour, whose husband is a driver. PC leader Sajad Lone attributed Kour’s win to the “secular traditions” of the region. Kashmiri Pandit Chaman Lal, an Independent elected sarpanch from Shopian’s Zainpora, lives in Jammu and could not even travel to Kashmir for campaigning after his wife’s death last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to take two crore signatures to Kovind||Rahul Gandhi will lead a Congress delegation to President Ram Nath Kovind on December 24 to seek his intervention in the impasse over the new farm laws as lakhs of farmers are camping on roads amid the harsh winter for 27 days. Although the President hasn’t made any intervention despite requests by an Opposition delegation a few days ago, this time Rahul will submit to Kovind signatures of over two crore people in support of the demand to scrap the three new laws. The Congress had been collecting these signatures across the country for the past two months. This will be part of a sustained Congress campaign to extend support to the farmers’ movement. The signatures have been collected from farmers, agriculture workers and other stakeholders from different states. The Congress leadership has also been contemplating separate political action in support of the farmers, who have so far shown aversion to any political party joining their movement. The Congress on Tuesday issued a statement expressing anguish over the government apathy. The statement, issued by general secretary in-charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal, said: “Lakhs of farmers have been on protest in freezing weather against the three blatantly anti-agriculture laws aimed at bartering their interests in the hands of select crony capitalist friends of the Modi government. They have been blocked from entering the national capital of Delhi for the last 27 days despite prior notice and peaceful intent.” Arguing that the laws had caused “immense pain and anguish among the farmers across India”, the statement said: “The farmers have been sitting on an indefinite strike against these laws. Forty-four farmers have already lost their lives during the ongoing protests. Led by Rahul Gandhi, the Congress along with other political parties had vehemently opposed the bills inside and outside Parliament. Rahul undertook an extensive ‘Tractor Yatra’ across Punjab and Haryana as also in different states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi sermon on struggle for ‘new India’ ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday linked his dream of a “naya Bharat (new India)” with the freedom struggle and urged the students and alumni of Aligarh Muslim University to set aside “ideological differences” and align with the “singular aim” of the nation’s interest irrespective of “belief and faith”. Speaking at the minority institution’s centenary celebrations via video link from Delhi, Modi hailed the role of the university in the freedom movement, termed the campus a “mini-India” and said its diversity was the country’s strength. He, however, side-stepped the consistent attacks on AMU by BJP members who do not miss out on any opportunity to hint at its “anti-national” bent. Neither did the Prime Minister refer to the brutal police attack on the campus last December on students protesting his government’s new citizenship regime. Students had been assaulted on campus and inside the library and tear gas shells and rubber bullets had been fired. “Today, our one and singular aim should be how to make India self-reliant. More important than where and in which family we were born, which belief and faith we grew up on, is how to link each and every citizen’s aspiration with the country’s aspiration,” Modi said in his over 40 minutes virtual speech. “Friends, ideological differences exist in society, it’s normal. But when it’s a matter of achieving national aspirations, then all differences should be set aside,” he added, calling upon the youths of the university to come forward to build a “naya Bharat”. Vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor pointed out that Modi was the first Prime Minister in the last 56 years to participate in a celebration of AMU. He hailed Modi as a “visionary leader dedicated to serve the country”. Modi was silent on the fact that AMU has been repeatedly targeted by BJP leaders, including local MP Satish Gautam. The MP, after his re-election last year, had said his “first priority” would be to “send the portrait of Muhammad Ali Jinnah at AMU to Pakistan”. Gautam had also backed the demand of a section of students to construct a temple on the university campus. BJP members have also demanded ending of the institution’s minority status and slammed the students there for holding protests against the new citizenship regime and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Modi focused on stressing that the nation and its interests should be placed above everything else. He said that on issues like “rashtravad (nationalism)” and development, there is “no scope for disagreement in the name of political and ideological differences”. Modi recalled how people associated with AMU had participated in the freedom struggle, setting aside their ideological differences, and urged the same kind of commitment for building a “naya Bharat”. “What our forefathers did for Independence, the same work the young generation has to do now for a new India,” he said. “Like Independence was a common ground, the same way we will have to work on a common ground for a new India,” Modi added. He said a “new India” would be “self-reliant” and prosperous in all aspects and its fruits would be enjoyed by all citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Naveen seeks colleagues’ tips to strengthen party ||Odisha chief minister and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik has asked party colleagues to suggest ways of strengthening the party ahead of its 24th foundation day on December 26. Presiding over the party’s state council meeting via video conferencing, Naveen on Monday underscored the regional party’s commitment to the development of the people of the state and sought suggestions from all council members to strengthen the party and also improve the quality of governance. Naveen is leading the state as its chief minister for the fifth time in a row. He has also been leading the party since its inception in 1997. The BJD state council meeting was held a day after the party’s executive body meeting at the party headquarters in Bhubaneswar. Significantly, while chief minister himself has hardened his stance against the Centre after a spell of bonhomie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior BJP leaders, other BJD leaders have also become more vocal in demanding special category status for Odisha. On Friday addressing the executive committee meeting of Biju Yuva Janata Dal, the party’s young wing, Naveen had urged party workers to fight against the Centre’s injustice to the state and asserted that national parties have never served Odisha’s interests. He had also reiterated his demand for Odisha being accorded special category state status. He had also raised the contentious issue of Mahanadi water sharing and sought to invoke Odia pride. The sudden change in Naveen’s stand against the BJP-led Centre is being seen as part of a deliberate strategy to counter the growing perception that the BJD shares a friendly relationship with the saffron party and its bosses in Delhi even though publicly it continues to maintain the façade of having equal distance from both the BJP and the Congress. This is also being seen as a bid to galvanise the regional party ahead of the urban elections next year. The BJD happens to be the most successful regional party of the state with Naveen turning it into a virtual election winning machinery. The party has come to power in the state five times in a row. However, in the last elections the BJP was able to win eight out of the 21 Lok Sabha seats in the state, an increase of seven seats compared to the 2014 elections. The BJP also improved its Assembly tally and emerged as the main Opposition party in Odisha which seems to have become a cause of worry for BJD and its supremo who wants to whip up regional sentiments to strengthen his party’s hold on the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Pawan Chamling asks govt to deliver on job promise||Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling on Tuesday hit back at the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha, asking it to stop indulging in whataboutery and, instead, act on its promise of regularising the jobs of the over 18,000 employees appointed under the “One Family One Job” scheme. Weighing in on the raging OFOJ issue, Chamling pointed out that SKM had tried to spread a canard before the last Assembly election in April 2019 by claiming that the beneficiaries of the scheme would risk losing their jobs if SDF were to come back to power. “They also promised to regularize the OFOJ within 100 days of their governance. I think people are more interested to know why the SKM government failed to deliver on that promise,” he wrote on his Facebook page. On Sunday, the Sikkim Subject Committee had organised a day-long dharna in Gangtok, demanding regularisation of OFOJ jobs. Three persons had also recently filed a petition against the policy in the High Court of Sikkim. Chamling, whose SDF government had started the OFOJ policy in 2019, dismissed allegations that the high court petition was a conspiracy hatched by his party as “laughable”. “The three petitioners know who is behind the case. They only know the truth. I respect the court and I will be saying nothing as the matter is sub-judice. The SDF will never risk the future of our poor people for political gain.” The five-time former chief minister said his government had designed the OFOJ scheme for the benefit of the weaker sections since the caste, community and gender-based quota system had only benefitted the creamy layers. “There is a section that has been deprived of any opportunities for ages despite these reservations. When we realised that caste, community and gender-based reservations failed to reach down to that level, we formulated this scheme which I call a ‘humanitarian-based ultra-reservation’ for the weakest section of society,” he said. Chamling said there were an estimated 40,000 families without a single government job when the scheme was launched and the appointments were made on an ad-hoc basis initially with the provision for regularisation after five years. “That period of five years would have helped them to get ‘on-the-job training’ and to learn needed skills,” he said. This scheme, he said, was also designed to increase rural jobs. “We created village-centric posts such as Village Police Guards, Environment Protection Guards, Village Marketing Assistants, Village Health Assistants, etc...,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
