24-12-2020||India||ED attaches assets worth Rs 4,109 Cr in Agri Gold Ponzi scheme case||The ED has attached properties worth Rs 4,109 crore spread across various states in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged Ponzi scheme, the agency said on Thursday.  The case pertains to the Agri Gold Group of Companies. Three promoters of the group were arrested by the central agency on Tuesday.  "The attached assets include 2,809 landed properties, Haailand Amusement Park in the name of Arka Leisure and Entertainments Private Limited in Andhra Pradesh (spread over 48 acres) and shares of various companies, plants and machinery," the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said in a statement on Thursday.  The assets attached provisionally under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are located in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.  The accused can appeal against the ED order before the Adjudicating Authority of the PMLA within six months.  The ED initiated a probe into the matter after going through various police FIRs filed against the accused in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka for allegedly duping over 32 lakh investors after funds worth Rs 6,380 crore were collected from them.  The "main accused" are Avva Venkata Rama Rao, Avva Venkata S Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad -- the promoters of the Agri Gold Group of Companies who have been arrested by the ED.  The agency initiated the probe against the accused after going through various police FIRs filed against them in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka.  Investors from Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh were also duped through the Ponzi scheme, it had said.  "The scam was perpetrated by Avva Venkata Rama Rao through the Agri Gold Group of Companies. He had earlier worked in the Golden Forest CIS (collective investment scheme) fraud and having learnt the tricks of the trade in that scheme, had hatched a well-planned conspiracy.  "He, along with his seven brothers and associates, set up more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from the general public with a promise of providing developed plots/farm lands or withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term," the agency had said.  It alleged that the accused "engaged" thousands of commission agents to lure people with various schemes for a hefty commission and managed to collect Rs 6,380 crore from a total of 32,02,628 investor accounts.  "In the end, the gullible investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits. The group collected deposits illegally from across the country," the ED alleged.  The agency said the Agri Gold Group of Companies "did not obtain permission from the RBI to collect such deposits".  "The SEBI has reported that the business of the Agri Gold Farm Estates India Private Limited (a group company) was nothing but a CIS and ordered the company to stop taking further deposits and return the money to the depositors.  "Instead of complying with the directions of the SEBI in letter and spirit, accused Avva Venkata Rama Rao opened new companies and started collecting deposits in the names of the new companies on the pretext of real estate business with the help of an army of commission agents," it alleged.  The ED said its probe found that the accused "never developed lands sufficient to give plots to all the investors".  It had said Avva Venkata Rama Rao and his family went on a "siphoning spree", illegally diverted the public deposits and invested in myriad verticals and private companies, which were directly owned by their family.  The agency had said the accused "also set up companies abroad" and diverted large amounts of funds to offshore entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: BJP challenges Rahul Gandhi for debate on peasants ||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday challenged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for an open debate on what his party did for farmers’ benefits when in power and what the Modi government did for them. The BJP leader noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer Rs 18,000 crore to nine crore farmers on Friday, taking to a total of Rs 1.20 lakh crore the amount of money it has directly credited to their bank accounts so far. “This is merely the beginning. It will continue for 10 years and the total scheme is of Rs seven lakh crore,” he said, noting that all the Congress did when it was in power was to waive their loans amounting to Rs 53,000 crore. This money was not given to farmers but to banks against their loans, he noted. “I challenge the Congress and Rahul Gandhi for an open debate. I will prove how the Congress always ignored farmers' interests and how Modi empowered them. Farmers always demanded remunerative prices for their produce but the Congress never did so,” he added. The opposition party has been "unmasked" as it has become clear and it and its allies have been using farmers' shoulders to fire at the government and have been "instigating" them, he alleged. Gandhi had alleged earlier in the day that there is "no democracy in India" and it exists “only in imagination”. A Congress delegation met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the Centre's three agri laws. “The farmers (camping at Delhi borders) would not return till these laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws,” he told reporters after meeting the president. Javadekar made light of Gandhi's demand for a session, saying when Parliament is in session, Congress members obstruct and do not take part in a debate. He said the government's doors are always open for dialogue with agitating farmers, and it is confident that a solution will emerge. Taking a swipe at the Congress leader, Union Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that leave aside the entire country, even the Congress does not take seriously whatever Gandhi says. If Gandhi was so concerned about farmers, his party when in power could have done something for them, Tomar said. The Congress has always been against farmers, he alleged. In its 2019 election manifesto, Gandhi had said if the Congress came to power, the government would end the agricultural produce market committee (APMC), ensure trade without mandi tax, and promote contract farming, he said. “Now I want to ask Rahul Gandhi, if he lied in 2019 or is lying now. On this, the Congress has to come clear,” Tomar said. At a briefing at the BJP headquarters, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi took a swipe at Gandhi by calling him “perpetually young, disenchanted, frustrated and agitated” and said his “baseless and illogical” broadside against the government was in line with his nature. In a counterattack on the Congress leader over his charge that the government invariably dubs its critics as "anti-national", Trivedi said the opposition party had levelled a case of "treason" against former prime minister Charan Singh, a noted leader of farmers, and jailed him as well. BJP stalwart and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also been levelled with a similar charge by the party, he said. He asked why Gandhi is not agitating for farmers in Kerala as the state from where he is an MP does not have the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. “This cannot be accepted that what is good in Kerala is bad in Delhi,” he said, noting that food processing giants such as Nestle and Pepsico have been present in Punjab for many years. Farmers in other states should also benefit from similar private interventions in the farm market, he said. Union Minister of State Rattan Lal Kataria said the three farm laws are aimed at improving the overall economic condition of farmers. He said that the government is open to any discussion on the farm laws and shall address all concerns of farmers. “The government has been and shall always be concerned about the farmers' welfare and the three Acts are also aimed at the same. These laws will provide new rights and opportunities to farmers and further empower them in the long run,” Kataria said in a statement. Kataria criticised the opposition parties whom he accused of "trying to play politics over this matter" and termed them as "opportunists". Allaying fears among the farmers and strongly rejecting the "false propaganda" being spread on the discontinuation of MSP, the minister said the government has continuously increased the minimum support price for procurement of crop||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Karnataka scraps night curfew before implementation||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew its night curfew order, hours before it was scheduled to be implemented. The decision to impose night curfew for nine days from 11 pm to 5 am starting from Thursday was taken on Wednesday in line with the Centre's advice, amid concerns over a new COVID-19 variant spreading in the UK. In a statement, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said: "In view of the public opinion that there was no need for night curfew, the decision was reviewed and after consulting with cabinet colleagues and senior officials it has been decided to withdraw the night curfew," Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister appealed to the people to exercise self-restraint by wearing facemasks, hand hygiene and social distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The Karnataka government had decided to impose a night curfew from December 23 night till January 2 across the state amid growing concerns over the new Covid-19 strain. “In view of the new stain of the COVID-19 virus and as per the advice of the Government of India and Technical Advisory Committee, it is decided to impose night curfew from today till January 2, 2021 between 10 pm and 6 am and will be applicable for the entire state. I request all public to cooperate to prevent and contain the new Covid-19 strain,” Yediyurappa had told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Farm unions invited to hold discussion with Centre again||The government on Thursday again invited protesting farmer unions for talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), which is out of the purview of three new farm laws. In a three-page letter written to 40 farmer leaders, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal said, "I again request you that the government has been discussing all issues with an open heart and good intention to end the protest, and will continue to do so. Kindly suggest a date and time (for the next round of talks)." Previous five rounds of talks between the government and the unions have failed to break the deadlock with the farmers insisting on the repeal of the three laws and camping at various border points of Delhi for nearly a month now. Aggarwal asked the union leaders to provide details of other issues they want to discuss. The talks will be held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi at a ministerial level, he said. On MSP, Aggarwal said the farm laws have no connection with the price regime nor would have any impact on the procurement of farm produce at the fixed rates. This has been told to the unions in every discussion and it has also been made clear that the government is ready to give written assurance on MSP, he said. "Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions," he noted. Aggarwal's letter has come in response to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's December 23 letter, through which it had informed the government that the farmer unions are ready for talks but asked it to send a "concrete proposal in writing instead repeating rejected proposals around meaningless amendments." In the December 24 letter, the government reiterated that it is ready to find a "logical solution" on the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. Aggarwal said it is important to keep all doors open for discussion for the government. It is the responsibility of the government to listen to farmer organisations and farmers and the government cannot deny this. "The government with an open heart has held several rounds of discussion with farmer unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and urged them to choose a date as per their convenience for the next round of talks," he added. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and some other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Delhi ready to store, administer Covid vaccine to priority category persons||The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and provide Covid-19 vaccine to priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He said his government is all set to start the vaccination drive as soon as it gets the vaccine from the Centre, and registration is underway for people in three priority categories who will receive it first. "There are a total of 51 lakh priority category persons in Delhi -- three lakh health workers, six lakh frontline workers, and 42 lakh of those aged above 50 and those below 50 but having co-morbidities," the chief minister said at a virtual press briefing. Each person will be given two doses, and a total of 1.02 crore doses will be required in the first phase of vaccination in Delhi, he said. Currently, there is storage capacity for 74 lakh doses, and it will be scaled up to 1.15 crore within a week, Kejriwal said. Each person in priority categories is being registered to receive the vaccine. They will be informed through SMS and other means whenever their turn for vaccination arrives, the chief minister said. The necessary staff, officials and health workers have also been identified and trained for the vaccination drive. The sites where vaccination will be carried out is also being readied, he said. The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has improved significantly in the past few days, but all eyes are set on when the vaccine will be available and people will get rid of the virus, Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Priyanka, other Congress leaders detained on way to meet President||The Delhi Police on Thursday detained Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and other party MPs while they were staging a sit-in protest outside the party headquarters, citing violation of prohibitory orders. The Congress, in a bid to sharpen its attack on the Centre, staged a strong protest outside its office on Thursday, after  they were prevented from marching towards Rashtrapati Bhawan. Leaders, including Priyanka, had planned a protest march from the party office at Akbar Road to Rashtrapati Bhawan, where they were supposed to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and hand him over a memorandum signed by two crore farmers. The Delhi Police, however, imposed Section 144 CrPC around the Rashtrapati Bhavan as well as the Congress office. The protesting leaders were therefore detained and taken to Mandir Marg police station. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury later met Kovind and demanded the repeal of the three farm laws. Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting against these laws for almost a month now, at different borders of Delhi. “We told the president that the laws are anti-farmer and that farmers and labourers will suffer due to them. The government said these laws are in favour of the farmers, but the country is seeing that farmers are against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said. “The farmers would not return till these laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws,” he told reporters after the meeting. The Congress leader said all parties of the Opposition were with the farmers. He alleged that the way the laws were passed without any discussion, consultations, they needed to be withdrawn. “We three people went to the president, but took the voice of farmers to the president, by taking 2 crore signatures of farmers,” he said, adding, “The farmers are in pain and are also dying, the prime minister will have to listen to them.” He claimed that the country will suffer if Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not take them back. “Anyone trying to take power from Modi will be dubbed as anti-national,” he alleged. Gandhi further alleged that only three-four people are running the system and said the party is fighting this. “It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office...There is no democracy in India, it is only in imagination, not in reality,” he charged. Earlier Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the government is committing a sin by name-calling the protesting farmers. “It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If the government is terming farmers’ protest as sedition, it is a sin. The government is committing a sin by calling names to farmers,” she said. “The Government is arrogant, is doing only its own politics and has no respect for farmers or the jawans, who are the sons of farmers,” she charged. She also alleged that anyone speaking against this government is name-called and dubbed as anti-nationals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Tagore's vision forms crux of 'Atmanirbhar' initiative, says Modi||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore's vision is the essence of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission of his government for the empowerment of India and the world as he took forward his outreach to premier educational institutions of Bengal. Addressing a function to mark the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, the country's oldest Central University, he extolled the pivotal role it played in India's freedom movement and in furthering the cause of universal brotherhood. Visva-Bharati was declared a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament in 1951. "Gurudev's vision for Visva-Bharati is the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the path to India's development for the development of the world. It's a campaign for India's empowerment and prosperity, and through it, the prosperity of the word," he told the gathering through video conferencing from New Delhi. He said Tagore and the institution he founded not only strengthened the spirit of nationalism but also promoted inclusiveness that strengthened "vishva bandhutva" (universital brotherhood). The prime minister, who addressed the convocations and centenary celebrations of four universities--the Mysore University, Lucknow University, Aligarh Muslim University and Visva-Bharati--within a span of little over two months, dwelt on the role played by educational institutions in driving the freedom movement. He said from the "Vedas to Vivekananda", Tagore's thoughts reflected the collective thought of India, which was never introverted or exclusive. "His vision was that what is best in India the world should benefit from it, and India should learn from the good things they have. Now look at the very name of your university--Visva-Bharati....coordination and cooperation of India with the world," he said. The prime minister said Visva-Bharati was the embodiment of the vision and the hard work of the Nobel laureate and a "venerable source of constant energy to the country." He said, today, India was spreading Visva-Bharati's message to the world. "India is today leading the world in the field of environment protection through the International Solar Alliance and is the only country moving at a rapid pace to achieve the goals of the Paris Accord," he asserted. He recalled the role of the leaders of the Bhakti Movement like Guru Nanak, Kabir and Surdas, who sowed the seeds of the freedom movement long before it started in the 19th and 20th century. The Bhakti Movement, he asserted, strengthened India's spiritual evolution and collective consciousness. He said after the long period of the Bhakti Movement arrived Ramkrishna Paramhansa who discovered Swami Vivekananda who was a "blend of Bhakti (devotion), Gyan (knowledge) and Karma (action)." "The Bhakti Movement united us, the Movement for Knowledge gave us intellectual strength and the Movement of Karma, exemplified by the likes of Shivaji, Maharana Pratap, Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi and Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki gave us the spirit and courage to fight for our rights." He said at a time when India was fighting to win freedom from the colonial rule, the need was felt for an ideological movement and to prepare a new generation that could play a major role in rebuilding India. "Educational institutions and universities like Visva- Bharati and others gave a new direction to the freedom movement." Praising the institution for its remarkable achievements in varied fields like art and literature, and science and innovation, the prime minister urged its students to reach out to the artisans in the region to explore ways to find national and international markets for their produce. "That will make them self-reliant. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the initiative for India's prosperity which will aid in global prosperity," he said. Modi also spoke about the inclusive culture that was inherent in India's ethos. It came at a time when West Bengal is witnessing political violence in the run-up to the assembly elections and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has often dubbed his BJP a "party of outsiders." He said Tagore's elder brother Satyendranath Tagore, an ICS officer, was posted in Ahmedabad in Gujarat years before Independence and the Nobel laureate had penned two of his works there. Satyandranath Tagore's wife Gyanandini Devi, he was told, had popularised the way of wearing saree that would allow women to perform household chores with greater comfort. "I want all of you to strengthen this culture," Modi said. He wrapped up his speech with a line of Tagore's poem "Ore grihobashi khol dar khol (you who are indoor, open the door), and said limitless opportunities were open for those at Visva-Bharati outside. Modi also began his nearly 30-minute speech with Tagore's poem 'He vidhata, dao, dao, moder gaurav dao (O'Lord give me glory).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Aurobindo Pharma inks pact with Covaxx to develop Covid vaccine||Aurobindo Pharma on Thursday said it has inked a licensing pact with US-based company COVAXX to develop and commercialise a vaccine for Covid-19. The company has entered an exclusive licence agreement to develop, commercialise and manufacture UB-612, the first multitype peptide-based vaccine to fight Covid-19, for India and UNICEF, Aurobindo Pharma said in a regulatory filing. COVAXX is currently conducting a Phase 1 clinical trial for the vaccine candidate. "This vaccine has immense potential in eliminating shedding, and hence containing, the spread of the pandemic," Aurobindo Pharma Managing Director N Govindarajan said. As per the agreement, the Hyderabad-based firm has obtained the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and sell COVAXX's UB-612 vaccine in India and to UNICEF, as well as non-exclusive rights in other select emerging and developing markets. Aurobindo Pharma and COVAXX are partnering on clinical development, manufacturing and marketing of US firm's vaccine candidate, UB-612. It will manufacture the finished doses at its facilities in Hyderabad. The drug major has the capacity of manufacturing 220 million doses in multi-dose presentation and is building additional facilities to have a total capacity of nearly 480 million doses by June 2021. "During this global health crisis response, we must establish partners with the strongest capabilities, like Aurobindo, to prioritise the development and the delivery of our vaccine," COVAXX co-founder and CEO Mei Mei Hu said. As one of the leading industry players with a strong track record of execution and investment in vaccines, Aurobindo is the ideal partner to advance UB-612 in India and other emerging nations and to support COVAXX's mission of democratising health worldwide, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Urmila Matondkar does not repent her brief stint with Congress||Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who recently joined the ruling Shiv Sena, has said she does not regret her brief association with the Congress and has high regard for that party's leadership. Talking to PTI, Matondkar said one-year of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been "brilliant", and taking care of people's welfare amid COVID-19 and natural disasters was a big task. Matondkar (46) also said she is a "people's actor" and will work hard to become a "people's politician". "I don't want to become a leader who just sits in AC rooms and tweets...I know what I have to do and how to do and I will keep learning," she said. Matondkar, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on Congress's ticket, joined the Shiv Sena on December 1 this year. Last year, she had joined the Congress in March and quit the party in September. On her brief stint in the Congress, she said, "I was in the party for less than six months and the Lok Sabha campaign for 28days gave me many good memories." Matondkar said she is not the person who would keep regrets in her heart. "If I did not spoke against the Congress even after quitting the party, I see no reason why I should do it now," she said. "My conscience was important for me," she said, referring to her decision to resign from the Congress. Last year, in a letter dated May 16, addressed to the Congress leadership, Matondkar had criticised the conduct of Sandesh Kondvilkar and Bhushan Patil, close associates of party leader Sanjay Nirupam. Matondkar, who had lost to BJP's Gopal Shetty from Mumbai-North Lok Sabha seat, said she didn't quit the party because of the defeat in the polls. She said she had also got an offer from the Congress for nomination to the state Legislative Council through the governor's quota. "I thought since I had quit the party, it would be improper to take a post it had offered," she said. On her joining the Shiv Sena earlier this month, Matondkar said "I got a call from Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's office, saying I could help in enhancing the standard of cultural affairs of the state by representing the field in the Legislative Council." "I feel one year of the MVA government headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was brilliant. The welfare of people amid Covid-19 and natural disasters was a big task," she said. Asked about her shift of ideology, Matondkar said the word 'secular' has been "lost in translation". "Being secular doesn't mean you have no belief in religion while being a Hindu doesn't mean you hate other religions. The Shiv Sena is a Hindutvawadi party. Hinduism is a great religion which is all-inclusive," she said. "My intention is to become a people's leader like I have been a people-made film star," the actor said, adding that she wants to work for people irrespective of their caste, creed and religion. The MVA government has recommended her name to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for a seat in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Koshyari is yet to take a call on the 12 names that the government has forwarded for nomination to the Upper House from the governor's quota. Matondkar said if her nomination to the Legislative Council under the governor's quota is not accepted, she would continue to work for people in whatever way she can through theShiv Sena's platform. "Irrespective of whether or not I become an MLC, I have started working as a Shiv Sainik...I did not join the Shiv Sena for any post. I had not joined the Congress to contest elections. I would have been happy campaigning for the party (Congress)," she said. Matondkar, who is a graduate in psychology, said she is regularly interacting with people, reading a lot and making notes. To a query about her film career, Matondkar said she had agreed for a web series and a film before the lockdown. "I am not sure if that will happen now," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload crosses 1.1 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,23,778 with 24,712 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 96.93 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,46,756 with 312 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,93,173 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.75 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 2,83,849 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.80 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,53,08,366 samples have been tested up to December 23 with 10,39,645 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 312 new fatalities include 93 from Maharashtra, 34 from West Bengal, 22 from Kerala and 21 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,46,756 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,969 from Maharashtra followed by 12,038 from Karnataka, 12,024 from Tamil Nadu, 10,347 from Delhi, 9,473 from West Bengal, 8,245 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,085 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,243 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers tie talks to concrete proposal||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Wednesday that it would require a concrete proposal to return to the negotiating table, not a repetition of the amendments that it had already rejected. The protesting farmers announced their decision to soldier on for the repeal of the three farm laws, squarely blaming the Narendra Modi dispensation for the continuing stalemate. “We request you to send a concrete proposal in writing, instead of repeating rejected proposals around meaningless amendments, so that it can be made into our agenda for resuming negotiations,” the SKM said in its letter to the agriculture secretary, underscoring that farmers are ready for talks and “waiting for the government to undertake these dialogues with an open heart, open mind, sincerity and honesty”. The letter is in response to the secretary’s open invitation on Sunday for talks at a time of their choosing. “The government is sending letters galore just to mislead the nation by saying that it is the farmers who are not agreeing. What is the point of sending us the very same proposal that we have rejected in successive meetings?” asked Gurnam Singh Chanduni of the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Urging the government to address the issue in good faith and with an open mind, the farmers have sought to expose the ill-intentions that are stark in the letter sent to them on Sunday. For starters, the farmers have taken offence to the agriculture secretary asking whether an earlier communication received from the SKM in the name of Darshan Pal was his individual view or that of all the organisations. That the secretary should have asked such a question when the communication had clearly specified that Pal was writing on behalf of the SKM — which is the banner under which the ongoing agitation of nearly 500 farmers’ organisations and collectives are being held — has irked the farmers who see it as yet another effort to raise doubts about their movement. Wednesday’s response also articulates the disappointment within the farming community over the repeated efforts by the government to malign their movement. “The government has resorted to trickery and manipulation. In addition, the government is constantly trying to be divisive by holding parallel talks with so-called farmer leaders and organisations that exist only on paper.…” As always, the farmers have made it clear that there is no going back on their demand for the repeal of the three laws, besides the enactment of a law to guarantee minimum support price for 23 crops in line with the formula suggested by the M.S. Swaminathan Commission. Yudhvir Singh, a farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh, warned that the government was playing with fire by prolonging the issue indefinitely. “Many of us have children in the forces. They are getting demoralised by the treatment that is being meted out to their fathers, mothers and siblings by the government,” he said, adding that the Uttar Pradesh government has been particularly harsh on the protesters. He was referring in particular to farmers being stopped by Uttar Pradesh police at the Moradabad toll plaza when they were trying to proceed towards the border with Delhi in Ghaziabad. Not only were the farmers selectively prevented from moving ahead, the local administration also forced the closure of the eateries on the roadside, the protesters alleged. Literally left out in the cold by the government, farmers view Wednesday’s cabinet announcement that the Prime Minister would release the next instalment under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on Friday as rubbing salt to injury. According to the cabinet decision, Rs 18,000 crore will be transferred to more than nine crore beneficiary farmer families. Under this scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 a year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmers, payable in three equal four-monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each. “What are they tom-tomming about? For a family of five, this amounts to a few rupees,” said one farmer leader. He added: “Humein daan nahi, daam chahiye (we don’t want charity, we want fair price for our crops).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Delhi University to create five seats to be offered through discretion||Delhi University (DU) has decided to create five seats in each of its colleges from next year that will be offered through the discretionary power of the authorities. Academics fear that such a move would promote arbitrary allocation and sycophancy.  No other central university or central educational institution has a discretionary quota. In a notice on Monday, DU stated that the “College University Seats” would be available in undergraduate courses over and above the existing seats. The university authorities will suggest the names of two students for admission through the discretionary quota while the college principal will be able to nominate three. According to the notification, students with scores within 10 per cent of the last cut-off of the respective category of the candidates can be offered these seats. This means a general category student who will get admitted through the quota must secure within 10 per cent marks of the last cut-off for general category students. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said the discretionary quota was synonymous with corruption and should not be introduced in educational institutions. “DU is a premier university. It has always given admission on the basis of scholastic and co-scholastic merit and principles of affirmative actions for the historically neglected socially deprived sections. This has helped talents from diverse fields to pursue education and excel in life. Any other consideration in admission will lead to corruption and mediocrity,” Jha said. Over 60 colleges function under DU. They have increased their seats by 25 per cent in the past two years to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS). But there has been no commensurate expansion in teaching staff and infrastructure. “The issue was not discussed in the executive council. This seems to be a direction from the top. After DU, the government may ask IITs and IIMs to start a discretionary quota. This is not good for higher education,” Jha said. The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), a teachers’ group, criticised the university administration. “When there is intense competition to secure admission in DU colleges, such a move is not only totally unethical but also illegal,” said a statement issued by DTF president Nandita Narain. “Candidates with lower cut-offs will be allowed admission by the administrators at different levels.” Messages from this newspaper to DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi on the quota did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Malayalam poet and activist Sugathakumari passes away||Eminent Malayalam poet, conservationist and women’s rights activist Sugathakumari, who had been undergoing treatment for Covid-19, died at the government medical college hospital in the Kerala capital on Wednesday. She was 86 and leaves behind daughter Lakshmi Devi, family sources said. Fondly called “Sugatha Teacher” by her admirers, the activist-poet had been admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital after being diagnosed with the viral infection on December 21. One of the most celebrated Malayalam poets of the contemporary era, Sugathakumari was known for her poems filled with compassionate empathy, human sensitivity and philosophical quest. She fought against injustices, especially the oppression of women and indiscriminate exploitation of nature. Sugathakumari had led the fiercest environmental campaign witnessed in Kerala — against a proposed hydel project in the Silent Valley on the Western Ghats three decades ago, and was also at the forefront of the recent agitation against the construction of an airport at Aranmula. She had been running for over three decades “Abhaya”, an organisation for deprived women. She had served as the first chairperson of the Kerala State Women’s Commission. Born as the second daughter of freedom fighter and poet Bodheswaran and his wife Karthiyayini Amma on January 22, 1934, Sugathakumari published her first collection of poems — Muthuchippikal — in 1960.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin generates dual immune response ||India’s homegrown candidate vaccine against the novel coronavirus disease developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has generated a dual immune response that has raised hopes of immunity lasting six to 12 months. The candidate vaccine named Covaxin generated anti-coronavirus antibodies and stirred immune memory cells in the vaccinated volunteers, researchers with Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research said in a scientific paper released on Wednesday. The paper, describing the results of safety and immunogenicity trials in 380 volunteers in nine hospitals across the country, has also reported similar immune responses across age groups. The trials offered the candidate vaccine to volunteers aged between 12 years up to 65 years. The immune responses, including neutralising antibody concentrations, observed in the recipients three months after the second dose of the vaccine have prompted the researchers to speculate that the immune responses could last six to 12 months. But the researchers have asserted that these results measure only immune responses and whether and how they translate into actual protection from the infection would become clear only through efficacy trials now underway in 12 cities across India. In the efficacy trials, around 25,800 healthy volunteers would be divided into two groups — those in one group would receive the vaccine, the others would receive placebo, or dummy jabs. Significantly fewer Covid-19 infections in the vaccine group than in the placebo group would signal the vaccine’s efficacy. “The available results look very promising — especially because the vaccine appears to stimulate two important arms of the immune system,” said Tanmay Majumdar, a scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, who was not associated with the vaccine. Majumdar and other scientists say a key question about any Covid-19 vaccine is how long would it protect people from the infection. “The neutralising antibodies are critical to blocking the virus from entering cells and preventing immediate infection. But over time, we need memory T cells to activate B cells into making antibodies — the immune response data suggests that this vaccine induces T cell memory responses,” Majumdar said. Bharat Biotech is among three companies that have applied to India’s drug regulatory agency seeking emergency use authorisation of the vaccine. The other two companies are the US-based Pfizer with its candidate vaccine and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The promising trial results have also prompted an American company to sign a pact with Bharat Biotech to shepherd the candidate vaccine into the US market, the first Covid-19 technology transfer from India to the US. Ocugen Inc, based in Malvern, Pennsylvania, and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced a “binding letter of intent” under which Ocugen will have the US rights to Covaxin and will take responsibility for its clinical development, registration and commercialisation in the US market. Covaxin is made from an inactivated (killed) coronavirus isolated earlier this year by scientists at the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. Along with Covaxin, India is also conducting trials on two candidates — AstraZeneca-Oxford and Russia’s Sputnik V — developed outside India. In preparation for the development of Covaxin in the US, Ocugen has assembled a vaccine scientific advisory board featuring academic and industry experts who will guide the clinical and regulatory pathway to approval in the US market, the company said. “Covaxin uses a historically proven vaccine design approach,” said Harvey Rubin, an infectious disease specialist and professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania and a member of Ocugen’s vaccine scientific advisory board. The inactivated virus candidate vaccine has elicited strong immune responses against specific target proteins on the coronavirus along with strong cellular responses, Rubin said. “Covaxin offers a vaccine candidate different from other options currently available in the US market with potentially broader coverage against multiple protein antigens of the virus.” Scientists familiar with vaccine designs point out that inactivated virus vaccines against other infections have been used for more than 70 years. Because they are made up of whole virus particles, inactivated virus vaccines are expected to trigger a broad immune response to multiple viral proteins. “We believe this unique yet traditional approach to vaccination holds great potential to appeal to a broad range of the population,” Shankar Musunuri, chief executive officer and Ocugen co-founder, said in a media statement. “We’re very pleased with the demonstrated safety and immunogenicity results.” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, said the company had received expressions of interest for the supply of the vaccine from multiple countries. “We’re excited to collaborate with Ocugen for the US market,” Ella said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Night curfew in Bangalore from December 24 to January 2||The Karnataka government on Wednesday declared a six-hour night curfew from December 24 to the morning of January 2, covering Christmas and New Year, during which no gatherings would be allowed anywhere in the state. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the curfew would be in place from 11pm to 5am as a precautionary measure against the new strain of Covid-19 reported in Britain. “We took the decision after consulting the Union government and the technical advisory committee (of the state health ministry) considering the new strain of Covid-19,” Yediyurappa said. The decision comes a day after two passengers who arrived from Britain tested positive for Covid-19. Their blood samples are being tested for the new strain of the virus. The guidelines to implement the curfew allows midnight mass on Christmas. But the Bangalore Archbishop’s office had already issued a circular to hold the mass at 7pm. While no commercial establishments, restaurants and pubs would be allowed beyond the embargo, buses, trucks, airport taxis and autorickshaws from railway stations would be permitted to ply. All industries that require to operate at night would be allowed to do so with 50 per cent of the staff strength. Movement of their employees would be allowed during the curfew period on producing company identity cards. The government tweaked the timings from the originally announced 10pm to 6am after several ruling BJP lawmakers suggested the relaxation in view of demand from commercial establishments. Health minister K. Sudhakar urged everyone to be home by 11pm. “We have already said this is not the time to celebrate New Year’s Eve.” “Don’t create issues…. It’s just nine days,” he added. Sudhakar said 2,500 passengers had arrived from Britain between November 25, the cut-off date for them to be screened, and December 23, when the flight ban from the UK kicked in. “We have found that 138 of them came without a Covid-free certificate. Their samples have been sent for testing,” he said. While the government had earlier on December 4 rejected a health department proposal for a night curfew, it had clarified that only street celebrations on New Year’s Eve would be scrapped. The sudden announcement didn’t take the Church by surprise. “In our monthly bulletin issued a few weeks ago we had already instructed all churches to hold the Christmas mass at 7pm,” the spokesperson of the Bangalore archbishop, J.A. Kanthraj, told The Telegraph. “Being responsible citizens, we didn’t want to endanger anyone by holding late-night masses or encouraging any kind of gathering although it is Christmas season. That was why we took this unilateral decision even before the government declared the night curfew,” he added. But restaurateurs and pub owners were aghast at the decision announced without any forewarning. The president of the Bangalore chapter of the National Restaurants Association of India, Manu Chandra, said: “We fully understand that the government has taken this decision in the larger public interest. But we should have been given a few days’ time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya murder case: life in jail for priest, nun||A special CBI court in Kerala on Wednesday sentenced a Catholic priest and a nun who were found guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, a teenaged nun, to life terms, ending a legal battle that dragged for close to three decades. The court sentenced Father Thomas Kottoor, 73, to life in jail for murder and trespass to commit a punishable offence and another seven years for destroying evidence. Sister Sephy, 57, was handed the life term for murder and another seven years in jail for destroying evidence. Each of them was slapped with a penalty of Rs 5 lakh under IPC Section 302 (murder) and Rs 50,000 each under IPC Section 201 (destruction of evidence). Kottoor was slapped with an additional fine of Rs 1 lakh for house trespass to commit a crime punishable with death (IPC Section 449). Both of them will serve the terms concurrently. CBI special judge K. Sanil Kumar had on Tuesday found Kottoor and Sephy guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, 19, at St Pious X Convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. The prosecution had appealed for the maximum possible punishment for both of them, while the defence had sought to consider the fact that Kottoor is a cancer patient. Sephy had told the court that she had aged parents to look after and pleaded for the minimum sentence. A student of Class XII, Abhaya had woken up at 4am to prepare for an exam and gone to fetch water from the kitchen. She is believed to have seen Sephy, Kottoor and Father Jose Poothrukkayil in a compromising position. Alarmed by the discovery of their act, Kottoor strangled Abhaya while Sephy hit her on the head with a hand axe that left a deep wound confirmed by the autopsy. They then dumped Abhaya in the convent well even though she was alive. Poothrukkayil was discharged from the case in 2018 for want of evidence. Jomon Puthenpurackal, a rights activist who floated the Abhaya Case Action Council to fight for the nun who belonged to a poor family, heaved a sigh of relief after the sentence. “My life’s goal stands completed today. I have no more desires left,” Puthenpurackal told reporters outside the court in Thiruvananthapuram. “This sentence is the victory of all those who wanted justice for her (Abhaya). This judgment will help restore confidence in the courts at a time when people have been losing faith in the judiciary.” Varghese P. Thomas, the deputy superintendent of the CBI and the investigating officer who had in 1993 reported the crime as a clear case of murder, said he now wanted the discharged priest to be brought to book. “The CBI has already filed a review petition against him (Poothrukkayil).… I am of the firm belief that even he will get the punishment he deserves,” said Thomas, who had quit the service 10 years ahead of retirement due to alleged pressure from superiors who wanted him to write the case off as suicide. After the police and the crime branch initially reported it as death by suicide, even the CBI had filed three closure reports citing lack of evidence to prove otherwise before evidence unearthed by Thomas helped in the prosecution. A court had ordered the reopening of the case in 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||An Xmas cake story: baked in India in 1883||When you bite into your plum cake this Christmas, say a silent thank you to Mambally Bapu, a Keralite tea exporter in Burma who suddenly felt homesick some 140 years ago. As the year 1883 wound towards its end, Indians had been left with a bitter taste in their mouth watching the rabid British opposition to being brought under native magistrates’ authority, as the Ilbert Bill envisaged. Enter Bapu to give his compatriots a chance to assuage palate and pride — by extending their gastronomic dominion over a jewel of English cuisine. In short, by baking the first Christmas plum cake by an Indian. The day was December 20, 1883. The place was Thalassery, a coastal town in north Kerala, then part of the Madras British Presidency. The inspiration had been provide by a British planter, Murdoch Brown, who was developing a cinnamon plantation in nearby Ancharakandi. “Mambally Bapu, my great-grandfather, was a businessman in Burma, shipping milk, tea and bread to British troops in Egypt. He returned to Thalassery in 1880 and soon established a bakery of his own,” said Prakash Mambally, owner of Mambally’s Royal Biscuit Factory, which now produces 17 varieties of Christmas plum cakes. “The Royal Biscuit Factory, set up by Bapu, was the country’s first bakery established by an Indian.” Bapu had learnt biscuit-making in Burma and wanted to return home and sell bakery products. From day one, he began making over 40 varieties of biscuits, rusk, bread and buns. A few days before Christmas in 1883, Brown arrived at Bapu’s biscuit factory with a rich plum cake he had bought from England. He told Bapu to taste a slice of the cake and make another one with the same taste and shape. Oblivious that he was carving a place for himself in Indian culinary history, Bapu agreed and sought 10 days’ time. Brown provided Bapu with ingredients such as cocoa, dates, raisins, and dry fruits. He told Bapu to buy a French brandy from nearby Mahe or Mayyazhi, a French settlement that now falls in Puducherry. Instead of travelling 14km to Mahe for the brandy, Bapu decided to use a substitute — a locally brewed liquor made with cashew apples and the banana variety kadalipazham. A blacksmith in Dharmadam, on the outskirts of Thalassery, prepared a mould as specified by Bapu. On December 20 that year, Brown arrived at Bapu’s shop and received the first Indian-made plum cake. Legend has it that after tasting it, Brown certified it as the best cake he had ever had and ordered a dozen more. “Those days, yeast was not available for fermentation in British India. So Bapu experimented with the locally brewed liquor,” said Premnath Mambally, a descendant of Bapu who owns the Shantha Bakery in Thiruvananthapuram. “The local liquor effectively fermented the dough and provided it with a unique taste.” Kerala is home to India’s largest plum cake market, a major share of it owned by the Mambally family. Its members operate some of the state’s top bakeries: the Cochin Bakery in Kochi, Shantha Bakery in Thiruvananthapuram, Modern Bakery in Kozhikode, Best Baking Co in Kottayam and Mambally’s in Thalassery. At each of these bakeries, visitors are greeted by paintings that mark the historic moment when Bapu handed over his first plum cake to Brown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Centre to pay 60% of Dalit scholarship ||The Union government will bear 60 per cent of the actual expenses under a key scholarship scheme for Dalit students who have cleared Class X, ending a policy that had shifted a major part of the expenses to the states. Lakhs of Dalit students in several states have not been receiving the fellowship after filling up forms under the Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme since states are not taking interest due to paucity of funds. The scheme aims to benefit 60 lakh Dalit students a year, paying their tuition fees and also maintenance fees ranging between Rs 230 and Rs 1,200 per student per month. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to change the funding pattern from “committed liability” of states to 60 per cent share by the Centre. The CCEA approved a spending of Rs 59,048 crore as central share under the scheme over the next five years. The scheme has been running under the “committed liability” method for almost three decades. Till 2016-17, the amount spent by a state in the last year of the previous plan period was considered the state’s committed share for each year for the next five years. The additional amount as required each year was given by the Centre. The Centre’s spending varied from state to state. On average, it worked out to almost 55 per cent spending by the Centre and 45 per cent by the states. With effect from 2017-18, the Centre modified the “committed liability” concept. The highest amount spent by the state and the Centre together in a state in any particular year in the 12th plan period (2012 to 2017) on the scheme was taken to be the committed share of that state. If the amount demanded by a state in a year after 2018 happened to be more than the committed share of that state, the central government would bear that additional amount. After this change, the share of the Centre came down to about 10 per cent of the total expenses, causing states to lose interest in the scheme. From 2020-21, the central share of 60 per cent will be released to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer scheme, after which the state government will release its share, a release issued by the Press Information Bureau said. Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, welcomed the decision but demanded that the scheme, started by the British following a demand by Bhimrao Ambedkar, now must become a legal entitlement. “This was necessary to ensure the inclusion of Dalit students in education. Now the scheme must become a legal right like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act that provides up to 100 days of work to every rural household in a year,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Notices to 48 respondents from Supreme Court ||An unprecedented 48 respondents — 43 farmers’ organisations and five government entities — have been arrayed as “respondents” in the Supreme Court hearing relating to the constitutional validity of the three farm laws facing intense protests. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had earlier decided to constitute a committee to resolve the farmers’ protest, telling the government that its “negotiations will again fail” and the friction cannot be left festering as it is a “national issue”. On December 17, the court had asked the petitioner, Rishabh Sharma who has sought the eviction of the farmers, to serve notices on the farmers’ organisations so that they can be heard and the possibility of including some of their representatives in the proposed committee explored. This is the first time in the history of the Supreme Court that such a large number of respondents have been arrayed in a single petition. The respondents arrayed by the petitioners on the orders of the Supreme Court include the Union of India, the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the Delhi police commissioner and 43 farmer organisations. It is unclear what the criteria for choosing the farmer organisations was because not all the collectives protesting outside Delhi are covered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Naravane visits forward areas along the Line of Actual Control||Army chief M.M. Naravane on Wednesday visited the forward areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a border standoff since May and took stock of the army’s combat preparedness. Sources in the Indian Army said Naravane visited forward areas of the Fire and Fury Corps, including Rechin La in the Chushul sector where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball. He interacted with the local commanders and troops and also undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC. The Fire and Fury Corps is responsible for the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “The army chief reviewed the operational situation on the ground and also undertook on-the-spot inspection of the state of the habitats of the troops on the forward lines of defence at Rechin La,” said an official attached to the army headquarters in Delhi. Rechin La is one of the several higher altitude areas in the Chushul sector where Indian soldiers are deployed at 14,000 feet above the sea level. Temperature there has touched minus 30 degrees Celsius. Naravane also visited the forward base at Tara and interacted with the local commanders. Sources in the army said that during his interaction with the troops, Naravane distributed sweets and cakes for Christmas to keep up the morale of the soldiers. “The army chief was later given a detailed briefing about the ground situation at the multiple friction points in the region where Chinese troops have been occupying Indian territory,” said a defence ministry official. The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC amid the ongoing border standoff in the Ladakh sector. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 40 degrees Celsius by next month. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May and eight rounds of military talks between the two sides have failed to find a solution. Sources said no breakthrough is expected in the coming months considering the Chinese tough stand and aggressive posture. “The PLA is also yet to respond to fix the final dates for the next round of military talks,” the defence ministry official said. Sources in the defence ministry said the army had increased its military readiness at the high altitude to deal with any Chinese provocation. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment along the LAC, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||BJP claims victory in 74 seats for the J&K polls||The BJP’s central leadership on Wednesday came out all guns blazing to claim victory in the maiden District Development Council elections after winning 74 seats, the highest by any individual party, but the results mask its multiple setbacks including its broader goal of installing a Hindu chief minister in the fledgling Union Territory. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, won 110 of the 278 seats and is likely to take control of 14 of the 20 district councils, with Congress support at some places. The BJP has got only six. Within the alliance, the National Conference has bagged 67 seats and the People’s Democratic Party 26. The Congress, which is not part of the alliance, has won 26 seats. The results of two Valley seats are awaited. Top central ministers including Amit Shah and Ravi Shankar Prasad claimed victory for the BJP emerging as the “single-largest party” in the elections. Shah, in a series of tweets, said the mass participation in these elections reflected people’s faith in democracy. “Congratulations to the people of J&K for such great turnout in DDC polls. I applaud the efforts of our security forces & local administration for successfully conducting these multi-phased elections. This will further boost the morale and trust of people of J&K in democracy,” the Union home minister tweeted. “I heartily thank our sisters and brothers of J&K for voting BJP as the single largest party in the District Development Council elections. BJP under the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji will continue to work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the J&K region,” he added. Prasad said the election was “a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s larger narrative for Jammu and Kashmir”. Seeking not to dwell much on the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, law minister Prasad said the results were the “victory of hope, victory of democracy, victory of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and the victory of the larger narrative about Jammu and Kashmir, which Narendra Modi ji has thought about the state”. Told that the Gupkar Alliance has termed its victory as a mandate against the Centre’s move to end Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, Prasad said “Article 370 is history now” and sought to focus on the BJP emerging as the single-largest party. The ministers this time chose not to refer to the Gupkar alliance as a “gang” and a group of “anti-nationals” and “looters”, which they have done repeatedly in the past, betraying how the alliance was already winning the war of narratives. But that is not even half the story. The election was not an alliance-versus-BJP contest. The Gupkar Alliance was in fact fighting the state machinery and won victory against considerable odds. They faced a hostile administration, which set up all hurdles conceivable to stop them from campaigning freely. Alliance candidates were “locked up” in the name of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of the elections. The BJP had fielded candidates in almost all 280 seats across Jammu and Kashmir and won 74. The NC, which won 67 seats, contested in only 100 seats. Despite all the advantages, the BJP clocked its most abysmal results in years, more so in stronghold Jammu. The party had won both parliamentary seats in Jammu in the last two elections in 2014 and 2019. Its tally rose to 25 — out of 37 seats — in the 2014 Assembly elections, or victory in around 70 per cent of the seats. The BJP could still not realise its goal of installing a Hindu chief minister from Jammu. But for the first time ever, it became a partner in government by forging an alliance with the PDP. The BJP’s game plan since had been to win all Hindu-majority seats in Jammu and take advantage of the split of the Muslim votes between the NC, Congress and the PDP in the region. It hoped to get allies in the Kashmir Valley — which has 46 of the 83 seats in the Assembly — by trying to engineer divisions in other parties. It could succeed only in splitting the PDP, with nearly a half of its former legislators joining hands to form the Apni Party. Some leaders from other parties have also joined them. Despite all advantages, the BJP could win only half — 71 of the 140 seats in Jammu. In Kashmir, it won just three of the 140 seats. The Apni Party could win only 12 seats. The CPM, which is part of the Gupkar Alliance, performed better than the BJP in Valley by winning five seats. A better performance could have set the stage for the BJP to get a Hindu chief minister for Jammu and Kashmir. In the 2018 local body elections, with major players like the NC and the PDP boycotting, the BJP had won 11 of the 38 municipal committees across Kashmir and many sarpanch and panch seats. If the alliance could not perform better, it was largely because of the Congress and infighting within the alliance’s camp. Additional reporting by our special correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Five-year old killed by neighbour: SIT chief||The chief of the special investigation team (SIT), Arun Bothra, on Tuesday said five-year-old child from Nayagarh’s Jadupur village was raped and killed by her 18-year-old neighbour Saroj Sethy who also had sex with her dead body. Bothra said the accused, who used to watch child pornography on his sister’s mobile phone, had turned into a necrophiliac. Addressing a press conference, Bothra revealed the motive behind the killing. “The girl had gone to Saroj’s house on July 14 when he was all alone. Taking advantage of the situation, he offered her berries and later tried to rape her. When the girl started crying, Saroj strangulated her. After she died, Saroj raped the dead body and discharged semen on the frock of the girl,” he said. The SIT chief said the boy later packed the child’s body and frock in a sack to hide the crime. “He dumped the sack in the bushes behind her house and covered it with coconut leaves,” Bothra said. Saroj’s father is dead and his mother is an ASHA worker. Saroj’s elder sister is married and the younger sister does a private job. Bothra claimed that Saroj had been influenced by the porn visuals he had been watching on the Internet. “Saroj used to watch child pornography on his  sister’s mobile. He had also downloaded porn visuals and locked them so that his sister did not know about it. On July 13, he had watched porn films the entire night. Though Saroj had no plans of committing rape and murder, he perpetrated the crime when he found the child alone in his house the next day,” he said. The team suspected that the girl was raped when, during the investigation, it found that the bottom wear and leggings that the child had worn on July 14 were missing. The girl’s frock, which was found along with the gunny bag, had semen stains on it. “We have confirmed that it’s a case of sexual assault and were almost sure that the neighbourhood people must be involved in the crime,” Bothra said. The investigation team zeroed in on Saroj after he initially declined the polygraph test. “When we told him that declining the polygraph test would prove him guilty, he agreed for the test. During the test, he confessed to his crime,” Bothra said. The SIT is in touch with the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and Delhi-based National Institute of Plant Genome Research to collect scientific evidence in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
