25-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: decision to hold talks likely to be taken on Saturday||As the protesting farmers’ organisations met on Friday over the government’s new letter inviting them for talks, some unions indicated that they may decide to accept the request to find a solution to the ongoing deadlock over the three contentious agri laws. The unions informed that they will sit again on Saturday for another discussion, where a decision is likely to be taken formally. An official in the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers' welfare also said the government was expecting the next round of meetings to take place in the next two-three days. A farmer leader, who wished to remain anonymous, said their demand for a legal guarantee on the minimum support price will remain in force. “We have another meeting tomorrow to take a decision on the Centre's letter. In this meeting, we may decide to resume talks with the government as it appears through its previous letters that it has not been able to understand our issues so far,” the leader said. He said the government's letters have no proposals, the reason why farmer unions may decide to hold fresh talks and make it understand their demands. “MSP cannot be separated from our demand of repealing these three laws. In these laws, there is mention about private mandis. Who will ensure that our crop is sold at fixed MSP if it is not there,” another leader sought to know. On Friday, several farmer unions held a meeting, but no decision could be taken on the Centre's latest letter. On Thursday, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be ‘logical’ to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. On Wednesday, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 unions protesting at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for the last 28 days, had asked the government to not repeat the proposal of ‘meaningless’ amendments that they have already rejected but to come up with a “concrete offer” in writing for the resumption of talks. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Friday demanded that the Centre arrange trains so that farmers from different parts of the country reach the ongoing protests at Delhi's border points, adding that they are ready to pay the cost of tickets for all peasants. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with a political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with the protesting farmers and asserted that his government was willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Modi blames Opposition 'agenda' for deadlock with farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a direct attack to people with a political agenda, said that they were responsible for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers. He asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. In a speech targeting the Opposition, Modi said when the agitation began farmers had some genuine demands like guaranteed minimum support price. Later, people with political motives took over and began making unrelated demands like the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free, he said. Defending the three new agri laws fiercely, Modi said that an overwhelming number of people had welcomed the Acts, and also listed their benefits during an interaction at an event, where he released Rs 18,000 crore to 2,000 crore farmers. His government is approaching dialogues with protesting farmers with an open heart, Modi said, claiming that the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their political agenda by misleading farmers and using their shoulders to fire at the government as they lack any logical argument against these laws. Defeated in elections, these parties are now indulging in event management for selfies and are appearing on television for publicity, he said. “Our decision can be tested on logic and facts. If there are any shortcomings, it should be highlighted. It is a democracy. We are not claiming that God has given us all knowledge,” the Prime Minister added. “Farm reforms became necessary because poor farmers, who are over 80 per cent, were getting poorer during rules of earlier governments,” he said. “Though the government is making humble efforts to resume the dialogue, some are not letting talks happen due to political reasons and are misleading the farmers,” Modi said. In a specific attack, he lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal while alleging that they have destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided every year. “Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long,” Modi said. Blaming political parties for infiltrating the farmers’ protest, he said, “You would have seen that when the agitation started their demand was about MSP guarantee. They had genuine issues because they were farmers. But then those with political ideology took over.” “MSP, etcetera were pushed aside and now what is happening is that they are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free, opposing policies that have existed through several governments. Why have they shifted from farmer's issues to new demands,” he added. Despite that, farmers across the country have wholeheartedly welcomed agriculture reforms, he said, assuring farmers that he will not let them down. Referring to some strong allegations and attacks made on him, Modi said politicians, who do not believe in democracy and are known in other countries as well, have used a kind of language that he cannot share but he has tolerated this and will appeal to protestors to talk with the government in the interest of farmers. “I don't know what all they have said. I cannot even share that. Despite all this, tolerating all this and keeping my cool, I once again appeal to those who are protesting that our government is ready to discuss with them in the interest of farmers. But the discussion will be on issues, facts and logic,” Modi said. Some of his attacks appeared to be aimed at Left-affiliated parties. “Those ruling Kerala for years are joining Punjab farmers for selfies and publicity but they did nothing for the mandi system in their own state”, he said, claiming that many leaders have used the protests to further their own ideology. Targeting his rivals, Modi said some of them have been feigning concerns about farmers' land even though everyone knows whose names came up in the media for land grabbing. His remarks appeared to be aimed at Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra, who has been accused of irregularities in owning large tracts of land, a charge he has often dismissed as a vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||PM’s speech attempt to divide us, say farmers’ unions||Protesting farmers’ unions on Friday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address seemed like an attempt to “divide and mislead” farmers, saying that they want a legal guarantee that minimum support price (MSP) will continue to be in place. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, while reacting to Modi’s allegations that the opposition was misusing the protest to push their agenda, said that they do not allow any political parties to use their stage. He further accused the government of diverting the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers and asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. “The prime minister's claim that we are being misguided by other political parties is false. It has been a month since we have been protesting at Delhi borders, and we have not offered our platform to any politician,” Kohar said. “In fact, we have banned them from using our stage. Our protest is not political,” he added. “In public speeches, the prime minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing,” senior leader of the Sankyut Kisan Morcha Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI. He added, “PM Modi made an attempt to divide and mislead the farmers during his address today...in election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so.” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee secretary Avik Saha asked why the Centre was not giving a legal guarantee on MSP. Saha said the prime minister on Friday only addressed farmers from six states and wondered why he did not address issues of protesting peasants. Kohar, a member of Sankyut Kisan Morcha, said during his speech, “PM Modi claimed that the three farm laws will benefit farmers, but he did not tell how the new laws will be beneficial for the peasants.” “You cannot go away by saying that it is good law, you will have to prove how it is good for farmers. There should be arguments based on facts,” he said. Avtar Singh Mehma, state press secretary, Krantikari Kisan Union (Punjab), alleged that the government's claim that some farmers are in support of the three laws is ‘false’. “We had targeted political parties like the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the AAP before we came to Delhi. So how can we be misguided by these political parties,” Mehma asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Smriti Irani accuses Rahul of lying to mislead farmers||Union minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday, accusing him of "lying and misleading" farmers over the Centre's recent farm laws. Addressing a farmers' rally in her parliamentary constituency Amethi, Irani said, "Rahul Gandhi is telling lies and misleading farmers. He is shedding crocodile tears for farmers and misleading them, his own jija (brother-in-law) has encroached upon the land of farmers." Irani's attack on Gandhi comes amid protests by farmers on various border points of Delhi against the Centre's recent farm laws. Throwing a challenge at Gandhi for a debate on farmer issues, Irani asked him to come in the midst of farmers here and claimed that she would expose him for every single sin committed by him. The Union minister addressed the rally in Singhpur block in Tiloi as part of a mega exercise undertaken by the BJP to reach out to farmers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). Irani said Gandhi, whom she defeated in the last parliamentary election, is showing sympathy for farmers now, but he himself has "grabbed" the land of farmers. "The kind of development which had taken place before I came here is known to all. This family had knowingly kept Amethi and its farmers away from development. They kept misleading them, enjoyed the fruits of power sitting in Delhi and lived in a palace of gold," she alleged. Irani alleged that the Gandhi family did not think about the development of Amethi after winning elections. She also listed various development works undertaken after the BJP formed government in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||No benefit and a lot of harm: Kejriwal on farm laws||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre's new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. According to the BJP, Kejriwal said, the laws will enable farmers to sell their produce outside mandis. But they only get half the price for their crop outside mandis so how is that a benefit. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government. "BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. They have repeatedly rejected a government offer to amend the farm laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the MSP system and stuck to their demand for the repeal of the legislations -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the government's talks with protesting farmers and said genuine apprehensions about MSP guarantee have got overshadowed by unrelated issues such as the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||IIM-A decides to raze dorms over ‘unsafe’ conditions of living||The Indian Institute of Management- Ahmedabad (IIM-A) on Friday said it will demolish 14 of its dormitories designed by legendary American architect Louis Kahn, as they have become ‘unsafe’ for living. The institute said “dilapidation and structural deterioration” in the dorms have prompted them to make the decision. It reasoned that these buildings had borne the brunt of time over the years, and had become beyond repair as it withstood a lot, including the 2001 earthquake and water seepages. Kahn, a world-famous architect, had been invited to Ahmedabad by renowned scientist Vikram Sarabhai to design several buildings. IIM-A was one of the iconic buildings that was built by him in the 1960s. In a letter to the alumni, IIM-A director Errol D'Souza shared photographs of the damaged conditions, which the buildings are in. “We felt it necessary to keep you informed as we are the custodians of the Louis Kahn buildings that have the potential to inspire future generations. Over the past couple of decades, the buildings have undergone dilapidation and structural deterioration,” he said. “The earthquake at the beginning of the millennium and water seepage through ageing and deterioration of the exposed brick walls has resulted in large cracks in the masonry and periodical detachments of it in fragments. They are unsafe for living,” he said. “We have grappled with questions as to why we should presume that the past is not changeable and why we should assume that future generations will value things in exactly the same way that past generations have. We wondered if it is appropriate for us to colonise future perceptions of living spaces,” he added. “It has not been easy to deal with the issues that have come up as we have attempted to restore these buildings,” D’Souza said in the 11-page letter. “As is well-known that concrete encasing was not used by Kahn to protect the embedded reinforcement bars in the brickwork and that has resulted in rusting of the bars and cracks in the brickwork. The bricks used were not the best in class and had an in-built efflorescence,” said the letter. “The bricks used by Kahn were what architects call second class bricks as per IS 3102-1971 with an average compressive strength of 4.89 N/sq mm and with in-built efflorescence,” the it said. “The pointing that was used to hide the blunt edges of the bricks got damaged and allowed collection of water, which resulted in ingress into the masonry. The earthquake of 2001, among other things, posed challenges to the structural stability of the buildings,” it said. “We have attempted to address these issues with the best team of conservation architects anyone could ask for- SNK (Somaya & Kalappa Consultants). We had invited international restoration consultants Peter Inskip and Stephen Gee to advise us and they suggested we first restore one building and then based on our findings we could proceed to take up further work in other buildings,” the letter added. “We decided to restore Dorm 15 and the Library,” D’Souza said. “Wherever cracks were found, they were stitched with stainless steel helical bars. Where the cracks were deep, face bricks were removed and fresh brick-work was done. In some cases, like the flat arches on the east facade of the library, they were completely redone with stainless steel reinforcement,” he said. “After completion of the complex work, we were curious about the longevity of the buildings. We appointed an independent structural consultant, who opined that the compressive and tensile stresses in the walls exceed the limits as per the coda requirements of IS:1905-1987 and that the buildings are unsafe,” he said. “After long deliberations, it was decided to commit to doing whatever it takes to restore the core of the Louis Kahn buildings, the library, the faculty wings, and the classroom complex and the dorms on the periphery of the system of buildings,” the director said. “For the other dorms, however, it was decided to be guided by three imperatives: (1) functional needs, (2) cultural heritage, and (3) available resources,” he added. “After much circumspection, we have decided to restore Dorms 16 to 18. Along with the restored Dorm 15 as you would recollect they constitute the periphery of the built campus and are the first buildings that persons who enter the campus see and understand along with the LKP and associated buildings as the grandeur associated with the work of Kahn,” he said. “For the other dorms (1 to 14) that are in the inner core, we will invite architects from across the world to present us options as to how we should go about making new dorms,” D'Souza said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Treat laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, says Rajnath||Union Minister of Defence and BJP leader Rajnath Singh on Friday urged protesting farmers to try the three new farm laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, assuring that the government will bring in necessary amendments if they are not found beneficial. Calling the agitating farmers as his own people, Singh said, “Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers' families. We have a lot of respect for them.” Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three agri-marketing laws for a month now, at different borders of Delhi, demanding their repeal. Five rounds of talks between them and the Centre have failed to end the deadlock, as they remain firm on their grounds. Addressing a rally at Dwarka in the national capital, Singh said he himself is a farmer’s son and assured that the Modi government “will never do anything which is not in the interest of the farmers”. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws that they are not in their interest. I am the son of a farmer and have worked in farms. I want to assure you that there is not a single provision in these laws which is against farmers,” the minister said at the rally, organised as part of the BJP’s campaign to spread awareness about the benefits of the laws. He reiterated that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue and some people are trying to create a misconception that it will end. “For once let this act (acts) be implemented, for a year or two... Try this experiment and if you feel that this act (acts) is not in the interest of farmers, then I can say you this with conviction as I know the intention of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi we will do all necessary amendments in it,” the former president of the saffron party said. Underlining that all problems can be resolved through dialogue, Singh said Prime Minister Modi wants the talks with farmers to continue, and therefore, the government has extended an invitation to them. He appealed to all protesting farmers to come forward for discussions on the farm laws and if they want to rope in experts for discussions, the government is ready for that as well. “Several rounds of talks have been held whatever suggested by farmers our government has ready to do all those amendments. The problems can be resolved through dialogue only, wherever there is scope for amendment the government is ready to do that,” the minister said. Hailing former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh as the great farmers' leader, Singh also attacked opposition parties saying that Congress and CPI always cheated and breached the trust of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Modi lashes out at Mamata govt for not availing central benefits for Bengal farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday bashed the Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal while alleging that they have destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided with every year. The PM was speaking at an event where he released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). With the push of a button, Modi enabled the transfer of money at an event which the ruling BJP has made into a mega exercise to reach out to farmers by having its leaders interact with the farming community at more than 19,000 venues across the country and also listen to the prime minister's address. Modi released the instalment of Rs 2,000 to every farmer on the birth anniversary of the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which is every year celebrated as "Good Governance Day" by the ruling party. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The prime minister wondered while there were agitations against the new farm bills, no protests were visible against West Bengal's decision of not implementing PM-Kisan scheme. "Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long," he said Modi said the Mamata Banerjee government has destroyed West Bengal and was playing politics by stopping benefits for farmers in the state. He said the entire country is benefiting from the PM-KISAN programme, but only one state, West Bengal, has not implemented this scheme. As a result, over 70 lakh farmers are not able to take benefit of this scheme and this money is not reaching them, he said, adding that this is because of political reasons. "Why there was no protest for ensuring PM-KISAN money," he said. "If you listen to 15 years old speech of Mamta Ji, then you will know how much this ideology has ruined Bengal," he said. Modi said everyone knows how the state has been ruined by the political ideology of those who ruled there for decades. "The public is watching those doing selfish politics very closely. The parties that do not speak on the benefit of farmers in West Bengal are engaged in harassing the citizens of Delhi here in the name of the farmers and are ruining the economy of the country," he said. Modi also made a veiled attack on the once-potent political force in the state, the Left parties, saying that those who ruled the state for three decades, brought it down and did not do anything for farmers. Assembly elections are due in West Bengal in April-May next year and the BJP has already launched a massive campaign to unseat Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the state. Banerjee has been West Bengal's Chief Minister since 2011 after ending 34-year-old Left rule in the state. "The people following one specific ideology ruled Bengal for 30 years, brought the state down and the whole country knows about it. The parties that do not speak on the benefit of farmers in West Bengal are engaged in harassing the citizens of Delhi here in the name of the farmers and are ruining the economy of the country," he said. In an apparent attack on Left parties, Modi said, "Parties which are missing APMC-mandis nowadays, but repeatedly forget that there are no APMC-mandis in Kerala. And these people never agitate in Kerala." The CPI(M) is also leading the LDF government in Kerala. While putting up a strong defence of the three new farm laws, Modi said the Centre is willing to resume the dialogue on all farmers-related issues, even with those staunchly opposed to his government as long as the talks are based on issues, facts and logic. He asserted that an overwhelming number of farmers across the country have welcomed the new laws and are already reaping the benefits, and listed out the BJP's victory in panchayat elections across states, in which farmers were the main voters and including in areas surrounding protest sites. He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers. Referring to the protests, Modi said farmers had some genuine apprehensions about new laws including on MSP guarantee when the agitation started, but soon people with political affiliations came in between and started firing from peasants' shoulders to push their own and unrelated demands. "You would have seen that when the agitation started their demand was about MSP guarantee. They had genuine issues because they were farmers. But then those with political ideology took over," Modi said. "MSP, etcetera were pushed aside and now what is happening. They are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free. Why have they shifted from farmer's issues to new demands," he said. "Despite that, farmers across the country have wholehearted welcome agriculture reforms I assure you that I will not let you down," Modi said. Modi alleged that the farmers' protest is also being used now for opposing many existing policies. The programme comes amid protests by various farmer unions against three farm laws recently enacted by the Modi government. The government has insisted that these reforms are in the interest of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||No corporate can take away farmer's land, asserts Shah and Modi||No corporate can snatch away any farmer's land as long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister of the country, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday and asserted that the provision of MSP will continue and mandis will not be shut down. Addressing a gathering in Kishangarh village in the national capital, Shah said if farmer organisations felt that any provision of the three new farm laws is against their interests, the Modi government was ready to discuss and consider the same with an open mind. Shah blamed the Opposition, including Congress, for spreading lies about the minimum support price (MSP) and other provisions of the farm laws. "The Opposition is speaking brazen lies. I again reiterate that the MSP will continue and the mandis will not be closed. Farmers' welfare is the top-most priority of the Modi government," Shah asserted. The years-old demand of one and half times MSP on crops has been implemented by the Modi government during 2014-19, he said. Shah attended Kisan Samman Nidhi event and listened to Prime Minister Modi's video interaction with farmers from several states, along with other BJP leaders at a Gaushala in Kishangarh village. Modi also reiterated his cabinet colleague's stance after a while. While addressing the virtual meet, the prime minister sought to allay the fears that private firms might grab farmers' land under a new contract farming law enacted by the Centre, as he listened to success stories about benefits of the new Acts while interacting with peasants from seven states. In their interaction with the PM, the seven farmers shared their success stories and also highlighted the benefits of recently enacted agri-laws. They also shared their good experience of working with private players under contract farming agreements. "Sitting in Arunachal Pradesh, you are sure that your land is safe. But some people are spreading a myth that those who enter into a contract (agreement) with a company for sale of crops will also lose their land. So many lies are being spread. I am happy that you have shared your experience," Modi said while interacting with farmer Gagan Parin. He also said some politicians, for their own agenda, are spreading lies that the laws will impact the farmers. Parin also said he has received Rs 6,000 as part of the PM-KISAN scheme and used that money for purchase of fertiliser and meeting labour cost. Sharing his experience with the prime minister, farmer Ram Gulab from Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh said a newly set up FPO with 300 farmers has entered into an agreement for sale of sweet potato with an Ahmedabad-based company. "Earlier, farmers used to sell sweet potatoes at Rs 10-15 per kg, but now we have entered an agreement for Rs 25 per kg. They will take the produce from the farm field. We need not bear transportation costs and not face middlemen problems," he said. When Modi asked if he feared losing land (after entering into an agreement), Gulab said: "No sir. Our land will not go." He also said that the new laws will be beneficial for farmers. Modi said: "Lies are being spread. When people like you talk, there will be confidence in others that no one will lose land, only crops are sold...." The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 is one of the three laws against which farmers, especially from Punjab, are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly a month now. Clearing the apprehension about the contract farming, Modi said earlier there was a penalty on farmers for violation of a contract agreement. The new law ensures that there is no penalty on farmers. "We are getting reports of how farmers are taking benefit of the laws. The government is standing with farmers at every step. The government has set up strong legal support to help farmers," he said. When someone enters into an agreement with a farmer, that person will provide farm inputs and services to farmers to get good produce. In case the crop is damaged, still, those who have entered into an agreement have to give the rate at which it was entered into to a farmer, Modi said. "He (private party) cannot end an agreement at his will. On the other side, if a farmer wants to end an agreement he can do it. Isn't this in favour of farmers?" the prime minister asked. Further, Modi said, in case the crop is good and market rates are higher than the agreed price, then a farmer will have to be given the agreed rate and also a bonus above that. "Earlier, all risk was on farmers and return used to be for others. Now, all risk will be borne by a company that enters (into an agreement) and returns will be for farmers," he added. Sharing benefits of other farm schemes, farmer M Subramani from Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu talked about how he was able to address the water problem in four acres of land using drip irrigation. "Earlier, there was water to farm only one acre. Now, I get water for the remaining three acres using drip irrigation. Earlier, I was earning Rs 40,000, now I am getting Rs 1.40 lakh," he said. Another farmer from Odisha (Naupada district) Naveen Thakur said he has received Rs 10,000 under the PM-KISAN scheme and also got the benefit of a crop loan at a lower interest of 4 per cent rate through Kisan Credit Card. On benefits of crop diversification, Haryana-based farmer Hari Singh Bishnoi from Fatehabad district said he has diversified to horticulture crops in 10 acres of land, in which he has planted lemon in three acres of land and guava in seven acres of land. "We sell outside mandis. We are getting more money," he added. Taking advantage of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Maharashtra-based farmer Ganesh Rajan Bhosle from Latur district said he paid a premium of Rs 2,580 and took crop insurance in 2019. He received a claim of Rs 54,314 for damage to his soybean crop due to excess rains last year. He also informed the prime minister that his fellow farmers are also associated with this scheme. "This is a good scheme and every farmer is benefitting."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Farm unions likely to hold meeting to respond to Centre's letter||Protesting farmer unions are likely to hold a meeting on Friday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with farmers during a money transfer event as the agitation at Delhi's borders against the new Agri laws is about to complete a month. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- is expected to meet later in the day to discuss the Centre's letter and respond to it formally. On Thursday, the protesting farmer unions alleged that the government's latest letter for talks is nothing but propaganda against the peasants to create an impression that they are not interested in dialogue and asked it to put the scrapping of the three recent farm laws in the agenda to resume the parleys. The Union Agriculture ministry while extending a fresh invite, however, made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), saying it was out of the purview of the new farm laws. The ministry also reiterated it is ready to find a "logical solution" to the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. With the push of a button, Prime Minister Modi will enable the transfer of more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore beneficiary families. The amount will be the next instalment of financial benefits to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). The protests have led to closure of roads in Delhi, and diversions have also caused traffic congestions. Taking to Twitter on Friday, Delhi Traffic Police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic. "Pl take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad,Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road & NH 44," the department said in a tweet. In another tweet, the traffic police said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to take alternative route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders," it mentioned. In an advisory, the Delhi Traffic Police said NH-44 beyond Singhu Border has been closed for general traffic with effect from Saturday, and diversions have been made accordingly to avoid inconvenience to the public. According to another advisory, vehicular traffic going to Haryana from NH-44 via Palla red light is being diverted from NIIT to Holambi 100-foot-road and DSIDC 80-foot-road to pass through Lampur border and Safiabad border. Another diversion is from the U-turn near DSIDC and Singhu village cut towards the Singhu school toll tax. Vehicular traffic coming from Haryana via Safiabad, Saboli, Pau Maniyari borders is being diverted from the Safiabad More, Saboli More, Ramdev Chowk and sector-A/5 Narela via Raja Harish Chander hospital towards NH-44 to go to Delhi. Vehicles coming from Lampur border is being diverted towards Grain Mandi and then Munim ka Bagh via Harish Chander red light to NH-44. Vehicular traffic coming from Azadpur Mandi to GTK depot will be diverted from GTK depot towards Rohini. Vehicles coming from Mukandpur to Singhu border will be diverted towards Mukandpur, the advisory stated. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Covid recoveries cross 97 lakh as more than 23,000 test positive||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,46,845 on Friday with 23,067 new infections being reported in a day, while total recoveries crossed 97 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll increased to 1,47,092 with 336 new fatalities, the data at 8 am showed. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,17,834 during the same period, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.77 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 2,81,919 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 16,63,05,762 samples have been tested for detection of COVID-19 up to December 24 with 9,97,396 samples being tested on Thursday itself. Of the 336 new fatalities, 89 were reported from Maharashtra, 37 from Delhi, 32 from West Bengal, and 22 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 49,058 fatalities, followed by 12,039 from Karnataka, 12,036 from Tamil Nadu, 10,384 from Delhi, 9,505 from West Bengal, 8,267 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,089 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,260 from Punjab. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||President, PM pay rich tribute to Vajpayee on his birth anniversary ||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the dignitaries who paid rich tribute to the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. President Kovind paid homage to Vajpayee at 'Sadaiv Atal', a memorial to the former prime minister, here, the Rashtrapati Bhavan stated in a tweet. Besides Kovind and Modi, top Union ministers also attended a prayer meeting at the memorial and paid homage to the first prime minister from the saffron party. Vajpayee's visionary leadership saw the country's development reach unprecedented heights, Modi said in a tweet. "His efforts for making a strong and prosperous India will be remembered forever," he said. Naidu shared several poems penned by Vajpayee to remember him fondly and lauded him as a "great visionary" and the "man of masses ". "Atal Ji was a leader par excellence who was respected across party lines. He was an exceptional orator, a distinguished scholar and a gifted poet, but above all, he was a large-hearted human being who cared deeply for the country and its welfare," he said. Home Minister Amit Shah said Vajpayee's ideas and dedication to the country's development will always inspire them to serve the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda were among other key leaders who paid homage to him. Born in 1924, Vajpayee was a founder member of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP, a party which rose from the margins to rule India for the first time in the 1990s with him being its main face. His tenure is credited with ushering in a fresh wave of liberalisation, boosting growth and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Assets attached in Kerala gold case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 1.85 crore, including those of senior Kerala bureaucrat M. Sivasankar, in connection with its money-laundering probe in the alleged Kerala gold smuggling case, the agency said on Thursday. “Fixed deposits along with seized cash recovered from the bank lockers totalling Rs 1.85 crore have been attached. Among the attached assets, Rs 1 crore belongs to M. Sivasankar, IAS, and former principal secretary to the chief minister of Kerala,” the agency said in a statement. Sivasankar was arrested by the agency on October 28 and he is now in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Fresh claim on Krishna birthplace ||Four persons have jointly moved a petition in a Mathura court on behalf of Bhagwan Keshavdev (Lord Krishna) to claim the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust’s right to the 13.37 acres of land where a temple and a mosque stand, a place identified by Hindutva entities as the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Two advocates — Mahendra Pratap Singh and Rajendra Maheshwari — and two Hindutva organisations — the United Hindu Front and the Dharm Raksha Sangh — claimed in their petition before the court of the senior civil judge on Wednesday. that the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sangh, the management committee of the Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura, and the Intezamia Committee of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Masjid had illegally entered into an agreement on October 12, 1968, to coexist. The petitioners have said the property actually belongs to the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust. They did not say when this trust was formed. “Obviously, the Sewa Sangh and the Intezamia Committee have no right to the land. We have documents to prove that the disputed land where the temple and the mosque stand side-by-side belongs to the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust, which also owns the Thakur Keshavdev Virajman Mandir in the Bangar area of Mathura. The case will be heard on January 22,” Singh said. There has been a concerted attempt to build an Ayodhya-style movement in Mathura, projecting the area where the temple and the mosque coexist as the birthplace of Lord Krishna. On November 13, a Supreme Court lawyer had moved Allahabad High Court on behalf of Lord Krishna, seeking possession of the Shahi Idgah. A third case is pending in the district court of Mathura. Mehek Maheshwari, the petitioner in the high court, had requested that the Shahi Idgah be handed over to Hindus, claiming that Lord Krishna was born in a prison located at the same spot in the Dwapar Yuga. He has demanded the excavation of the place where the mosque is located so that it could be proved that the spot was the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The petitioner has also challenged the Places of Worship Act, 1991, which advocates status quo, as of 1947, at places of worship. The management committees of both the temple and the mosque have said they have nothing to do with such disputes. On October 1, Ranjana Agnihotri, a lawyer from Lucknow, and six others moved the Mathura district court claiming that a Krishna temple existed at the birthplace of the God before it was destroyed several times by Muslim invaders and Mughal forces. Describing themselves as “friends of Lord Krishna Virajman”, Agnihotri and the others had stated in court that the place where the Shahi Idgah stands was the prison of Kansa, the demon who had wanted to kill his nephew Krishna soon after his birth. A local court — that of the civil judge, senior division — had earlier rejected the petition while observing that being devotees of a god is not reason enough to claim ownership of a sacred place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Kerala renews farm session bid||The Kerala cabinet on Thursday decided to make a recommendation to the governor to convene a special session of the Assembly on December 31 to pass a resolution against the controversial farm bills. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had in a controversial decision turned down the earlier recommendation of the cabinet to convene a special session on December 23 in a direct face-off with the Left Democratic Front government. The ruling and Opposition parties, barring the BJP, had slammed the governor for overstepping his constitutional duties in rejecting the state cabinet’s decision. An irate Congress had on Wednesday demanded that the government should push for its rights and not be cowed down by the governor. Congress leaders wanted the government to move a resolution and table an ordinance against the farm bills. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday told a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram that he hoped the governor would go by the cabinet decision this time. “According to our parliamentary system, a governor can only accept what the cabinet has decided,” said Vijayan who had recently written a strongly worded letter to Khan citing constitutional provisions and legal precedence that clearly state that the governor had no discretionary powers over convening or proroguing the Assembly. The chief minister alluded to the ongoing farmers’ strike across the country and said Kerala was not self-sufficient in food grains. “The farmers’ agitation has caused a lot of concern in our state that depend on others for food grains. Hence it is inevitable that we discuss the issue in the Assembly and find solutions,” Vijayan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Karnataka scraps night curfew ||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew its night curfew order a day after shocking the hospitality industry that was gearing up to welcome New Year revellers. The government had on Wednesday issued an order enforcing night curfew from 11pm to 5am starting from December 24 to the morning of January 2. The government attributed the turnaround to public opinion. “It has been decided to withdraw the night curfew after receiving feedback from the public and discussing with senior officials,” the government said in a statement. However, New Year’s Eve revelry will not be allowed on the streets anywhere in the state, and pubs and restaurants can allow only 50 per cent of the seating capacity. The government had cited the mutant Covid virus detected in Britain as the reason for clamping down during the festive season. Two passengers who arrived in Bangalore from London had tested positive for the coronavirus. Sources said several BJP lawmakers were unhappy with the decision that would have hit the hospitality sector very hard.The president of the Bangalore Hotels Association, P.C. Rao, welcomed the curfew withdrawal. “We had already said that the night curfew would not be beneficial in any way. We are glad that the chief minister has listened to our requests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Delhi High Court poser on beaten youth who died||Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to police seeking a status report on the investigation into the death of a youth who was seen in widely circulated video clips being beaten by cops on a Delhi road during the February riots, following which he died. The court issued the notice on the basis of a petition filed by Kismatun, 61, alleging that her son Faizan was later tortured in custody before he was released and he died in hospital. The videos had showed Faizan and four other youths lying injured on a road while policemen assaulted them with batons and kicked them, ordering them to sing the national anthem and taunting them with the word “azadi”. In her petition before the court, Kismatun had sought the constitution of a court-monitored special investigation team to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the death of Faizan. The petition had also said that although the police had registered a murder case, there had been no progress in the investigation. According to the petition, the investigation conducted by the crime branch over the past nine months was nothing but a sham and designed to shield the guilty men in uniform rather than investigating the crime. Faizan’s family has alleged that while the five youths lay on the road after the police assault, they were taken not to a hospital but to a police lockup and brutalised again. Delhi police had registered a case accusing “unknown people” of killing Faizan. A senior police officer claimed that a mob had assaulted Faizan and four others in Jaffrabad, the epicentre of the violence, and the police had taken them to hospital. “A probe is still on to identify those who assaulted the five youths.” Told that the videos showed policemen beating the youths with batons and that Faizan’s family had alleged custody torture, the officer said on the condition of anonymity: “The cops did not beat them. They rushed them to hospital when they saw them lying on the ground after being assaulted by a mob.” He, however, said it was a big mistake on the part of the police to force the youths to sing the national anthem. “An inquiry is on to identify these policemen.” During the northeast Delhi riots, several videos had surfaced purportedly showing the police supporting the rioters, either standing and watching the mobs run amok or, in some instances, accompanying them as they raided Muslim neighbourhoods. One close-shot video showed Faizan and the four other injured youths lying on the ground, one of them bleeding, trying to sing lines from the national anthem. A policeman is heard saying: “Achchhi tarah ga (Sing it properly).” The police were seen prodding and beating the youths with their batons, and abusing them. Delhi police on Thursday raided the office of lawyer Mehmood Pracha, who is handling several cases related to the riots in which 53 people died. He is representing many of the accused in the riot cases. A police officer said Pracha’s office was searched after obtaining a warrant from a local court. The lawyer said the cops seized his computers and laptop. Delhi police have alleged that Pracha had tutored victims to give false statements in riot cases. Pracha has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||ICAR research station in Leh||A regional research station of the ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute (ICAR-CAZRI) was inaugurated virtually at Leh on December 21. The inauguration was done by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and junior ministers Parsottambhai Rupala and Kailash Choudhary. Also present were Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) secretary Sanjay Singh; Dr Trilochan Mahapatra, the secretary of the Department of Agriculture Research and Education and director-general of ICAR; Dr S.K. Choudhary, deputy director-general (NRM) of ICAR; Dr O.P. Yadav, director, ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur; and Dr Dipankar Saha, head, RRS-Leh. Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, the Ladakh MP, attended the event. The ICAR regional hub will “address the multiplicity of mountain ecosystems in a holistic manner, eyeing through natural resources and its management for the sustainable development of Ladakh region and its people and environment”, according to a media note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||It stands to Reason that word of mouth is safer in India now||After almost half a century of making films — and waging legal battles to ensure they are screened — Anand Patwardhan is as determined but more cautious. His latest film, the multilingual Reason, or Vivek in Hindi —  completed in 2018 — is set for a ticketed online screening with English subtitles on bookmyshow.com on December 27 at 3pm, followed by an interaction with the director. Publicity has only been by word of mouth, to shield the exhibitor from any extra-legal pressure against the screening. Besides winning awards, Patwardhan is a veteran of such pressures. Screenings even in classrooms and private spaces have been disrupted — often violently — by Right-wingers who are recurring characters in his films like In the Name of God. So far, Reason has only made it to film festivals. An unauthorised version with Hindi subtitles is available for free viewing on YouTube. The Mumbai-based filmmaker explained: “The need to tell such stories becomes greater when circumstances are difficult. Otherwise we will live under complete fascism if no one dares speak out. Even though our voices are hard to get across because of distribution obstacles, making films cannot be stopped. “Today people make films on their mobile phones.… Look at the farmers’ movement in Delhi. Even when the mainstream media do not cover it well, people are covering it on their phones. You cannot keep things a secret now.… (My) films may not be well publicised but people are eager to see it. There will be an audience through word of mouth, even if it is not in the major papers.” Reason is four hours long and divided into eight parts. They deal with the killings of rationalists allegedly by the Hindu revivalist group Sanatan Sansthan, the protest in Gujarat over the flogging of Dalits who clean animal carcasses, the suicide of Hyderabad scholar Vemula Rohith Chakravarthy, and the lynching of Mohammad Akhlaq in Dadri over false rumours of beef possession. Patwardhan said: “It (Reason) basically talks about rising majoritarian values, but it also traces historic roots from over a 100 years ago. When Hindus and Muslims united during the First War of Independence in 1857, the British won through divide-and-rule tactics. Later, to fight the growing nationalism of the Congress under Mahatma Gandhi, they supported the Muslim League, the Hindu Mahasabha and the RSS at the same time. The hatred created against Gandhi finally resulted in his murder in 1948.” The Centre stalled the screening of Reason at last year’s International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala, which is the only Indian festival where a film can qualify for the Oscars. The organiser, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, and Patwardhan approached Kerala High Court and won the case to screen the film. It was the runner-up in the Long Documentary category. This January, he had to go to court again after his film was not selected for The Mumbai International Film Festival. Patwardhan said: “...They did censorship through the backdoor by installing a selection panel that rejected Reason and other films critical of the government and its ideology. (Director) Pankaj Rishi Kumar and I went to Bombay High Court, stating that both our films had won international awards that qualified our films for the Oscars. But under the present government, most courts are clearly scared. “On the first day the judge gave a long lecture that he knows how often the government has attempted to censor my films in the past. But after the weekend, he suddenly indicated that he cannot really supersede the selection panel. So we withdrew the case rather than lose and set a bad precedent for others.” Last year, students screened In the Name of God, known in Hindi as Ram ke Naam, at Presidency University, despite denial of permission and electricity being disconnected during the screening. At the University of Hyderabad, incidentally Vemula’s alma mater, the organisers of a screening were detained by police. At Ambedkar University in New Delhi, the screening was disrupted by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. The film about the Hindu nationalist mobilisation to demolish the Babri Mosque was released in 1992 — just before the demolition — and won the National Film Award for the Best Investigative Documentary. Patwardhan had to go to court for it to be telecast on Doordarshan, finally in 1997. His debut film, Waves of Revolution, on the Bihar Movement was released underground in 1975. Prisoners of Conscience on the horrors of the Emergency was given a “U” certificate in 1978 only after a letter from Satyajit Ray. Patwardhan said: “Why was Ram ke Naam attacked? They (proponents of Hindutva) don’t want their own people to see it because some of them have changed their minds after watching it.… Even 30 years later I still come across kar sevaks and sympathisers who had gone for the demolition, but contacted me to tell me that the film had opened their eyes.” He added: “Most people who watch my films understand what I am trying to convey and the films do not provoke violence, but quite the contrary. I have fought many court cases against censorship and we used many precedents from Supreme Court judgments that state that when the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) looks at a film, they should not cater to the most deranged point of view in the audience and worry that such a person might get inflamed. “The most ill-informed person cannot hold the rest of the population to ransom. The CBFC should imagine that there is a reasonable audience, and not an audience full of mad people who live on fake news.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||This Christmas, a ‘thief’ who can bless us||Yeshuve, ninnodothannnu Kurishilchatha kallane Urachunilkkuvanullu Ninte neethikku sakshiyay Balachandran Chullikkadu, poet This Christmas, Kerala is celebrating a reformed thief who is being equated with God’s signature and who has emerged holier than some of the men who wear the cloth. Raju, then a petty thief, faced a difficult choice 28 years ago. If he testified against the suspects in the high-profile murder of a nun in a Kerala convent, he would have to incriminate himself by confessing he had been at the site to steal. The choice he made in 1992 has now helped nail the priest and nun who killed Sister Abhaya and turned him into the toast of Kerala. It is a mere coincidence that the verdict was delivered three days before Christmas. The coincidence --- and the role of a section of the Church -– prompted many to circulate the searing Malayalam lines penned by  Balachandran Chullikkadu, one of the most renowned poets in Kerala, that have been reproduced at the start of this report. An inadequate translation: “Jesus, the thief who died with you on the cross is the only one who stood firm as witness to your justice.” Even the special CBI court that delivered the verdict and sentence acknowledged that Raju “may have been a thief, but he was and is an honest man... (and) a speaker of truth nonetheless”. Its judgment noted how Raju had stuck to his statement amid intimidation and blandishment. It said the police had held Raju in custody for 58 days, tortured him and implicated him in 40-odd theft cases, while offering him lakhs of rupees, a new house, free education for his daughters and a job for his wife if he changed his testimony. But Raju stood firm throughout as successive administrations went slow on a case that involved the reputation of the Church. The case passed from the district police to the crime branch, which claimed suicide, and to the CBI, which tried to file three closure reports. Eventually, under court directions, the accused were arrested and the trial began last year. “They tried to lure me with all kinds of things,” the now sixty-something Raju said after Tuesday’s verdict, “but I have two daughters.” Sister Abhaya, 19, a Class XII student of BCM College in Kottayam, had been found dead in a well at the St Pious X Convent hostel in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. After waking at 4am to prepare for an exam, she had gone down to the kitchen and allegedly seen a nun, Sister Sephy, in a compromising position with Father Thomas Kottoor, Abhaya’s college lecturer. They strangled and hit Abhaya on the head with a small axe before dumping her, still alive, into a well. On Tuesday, a special CBI court convicted Kottoor and Sephy of murder and, on Wednesday, handed them life terms. Father Jose Poothrikkayil, another accused and a lecturer in the college, was acquitted for lack of evidence. Raju, who came forward on his own to testify, admitted to stealing copper strips from the lightning arrester on the convent’s rooftop on two successive nights. On the third night, he said, he saw two men approach the staircase of the convent with flashlights shortly before the time Abhaya was murdered. He identified one of the men as Kottoor. A local activist who had waged a long battle seeking justice for Abhaya, described Raju’s presence at the site as divine intervention. “God appeared as Adakka Raju and became an eyewitness,” Jomon Puthenpurackal said. (Raju had earned the nickname “Adakka” or betel nut from his practice of raiding betel groves at night.) The court said: “It is noteworthy that PW3 (prosecution witness 3 — Raju) was subject to continuous, severe and gruelling cross-examination by two lawyers for two long days, but he, uneducated and untrained though he was, stood his ground.” He “may have been a thief, but he was and is an honest man, a simple person without the need to dissemble, a human being who became a professional thief by the force of circumstances, but a speaker of truth nonetheless”, it added. As for the theft cases against Raju, the courts threw them out for lack of evidence. Raju says he quit theft and took to manual labour after becoming a witness in the Abhaya case. He now refers to Abhaya as his daughter. Abhaya’s parents died about four years ago and her brother works in Dubai. “So I’m talking as her own father. I’m very happy. Today I’ll drink in joy,” Raju told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Centre soldiers on with Boris plan||The external affairs ministry (MEA) on Thursday said British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit for this year’s Republic Day parade was on, amid speculation that it may have to be cancelled owing to the rapid spread of a mutated version of the coronavirus in the UK that has forced several countries including India to stop flights to Britain. Asked if the visit was still on considering India has already stopped flights to and from the UK till the year-end, MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava said: “We had invited the Prime Minister of the UK as the chief guest for the Republic Day parade in 2021. When UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab was here, he had publicly confirmed his (Johnson’s) acceptance. So we look forward to welcoming the Prime Minister here.” The Shiv Sena has taken a swipe at the Narendra Modi government for going ahead with the visit, likening it to hosting US President Donald Trump in February-end by which time the World Health Organisation had already declared the coronavirus a “public health emergency of international concern”. In the party mouthpiece Saamana, the Shiv Sena questioned whether it would be alright for Johnson to visit India in January when the world had suspended flights in and out of the UK and India, too, insists on visitors from Britain quarantining for 14 days. British MPs are in the process of drafting a letter to Johnson to clarify his understanding of the farmers’ protests and also raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the visit. An initiative of Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the effort has cross-party support. Earlier, he had got three dozen MPs from across all parties to sign on a letter to Raab, urging the UK government to speak up for the rights of farmers to peaceful protest and also raise the issue of the three contentious farm laws with the Indian government as 92 per cent of Sikhs in Britain have ties to agricultural land in India. Dhesi spoke about the farmers’ protest in the House of Commons earlier this month and Johnson’s reply had raised eyebrows as he had said it was an India-Pakistan issue that was for the two countries to resolve. The British government later clarified that the Prime Minister had “misheard” the question. Given the strength of the Punjabi and Sikh diaspora in the UK, several MPs are being petitioned by their constituents to raise the issue. Also, the protesting farmers here have made it clear that they would tap their links in the diaspora to mobilise opinion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Government letter tests farmer patience||The Centre on Thursday sent a fresh invite to the protesting farmers for talks at a time of their choosing but offered them little else apart from a statement that it was ready to find a “logical solution”, prompting the cultivators to express exasperation at “one more letter” and point out that the Narendra Modi dispensation was being tone deaf. The three-page letter sent by the joint secretary in the agriculture ministry’s department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare, Vivek Aggarwal, does not provide any indication of what a “logical solution” could be but makes it clear that there is no question of discussing any new demand relating to the minimum support price (MSP). “Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions,” Aggarwal wrote. Along with the repeal of the three new farm laws, the protesting farmers have from the beginning been demanding a law to guarantee MSP for 23 crops, fearing that the reform-oriented legislation would eventually elbow out this protective mechanism. Neither is there any indication in the letter that the government is willing to meet the farmers halfway, except for the perfunctory statement that it is willing to talk with an open mind. The farmers had on Wednesday made it clear in writing to the government that they were not interested in having talks for the sake of talks without something concrete on the table to discuss, and that this had to be more than the amendments the Centre had offered. The proposed changes have already been rejected by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the banner under which the protest is being undertaken. Reacting to Thursday’s letter, Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the “Dilli Chalo” call — said in a broadcast message: “The reply unfortunately repeats what the government has been saying for the last month.” As if this was not enough to upset the protesting farmers, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar continued with the exercise of meeting farmers who claim to be in support of the new laws. This has irked the protesting farmers considerably as they view it as a divisive tactic. In their letter to the government on Wednesday, the SKM had said: “In addition, the government is constantly trying to be divisive by holding parallel talks with so-called farmer leaders and organisations that exist only on paper.…” Saha stated that if the new laws were reformist, these reforms were not for the farmers but for agricultural trading. He alleged that the government was refusing to bend to protect the “strongman” and “demigod” image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “who can do no wrong”. Seeing through the government’s agenda to tire them down, the protesting farmers have been maintaining that they have no option but to continue with their agitation as the new farm laws are a “death warrant” on them. As the protest at Delhi’s borders — particularly at Singhu and Tikri — gears to complete a month on Saturday, support for the movement has been growing and farmers from other states have been moving towards the capital in batches. However, according to the AIKSCC, the Uttar Pradesh government in particular is leaving no stone unturned in trying to stop the farmers as the government and the BJP want to present the agitation as Punjab and Haryana-specific and not a nationwide one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Ten unions skip virtual meeting on labour laws||If the agitating farmer unions have alleged the talks with the Centre have been a “monologue” with the government ignoring their suggestions, the workers’ unions have now voiced a similar apprehension. Ten central trade union organisations on Thursday boycotted a virtual meeting called by labour minister Santosh Gangwar to finalise the rules for the new labour laws, alleging an online discussion would be a “monologue” rather than a meaningful discussion. Labour ministry sources said the Prime Minister’s Office had suggested the meeting keeping in mind the agitating farmers’ allegation that the three new farm laws had never been discussed with them before their passage in September. The trade unions too had alleged that no “meaningful” consultations had been held with them on the four new labour laws. However, most of the workers’ bodies rejected Thursday’s online talks, demanding physical meetings — one for each of the four laws. “There cannot be any meaningful discussion within four hours in a virtual forum where the government can mute and unmute any speaker,” Amarjeet Kaur, a leader of CPI labour  arm Aituc, said. “These laws affect the 48-crore (strong) workforce. They contain many anti-worker provisions. But the government wants the consultation as a ritual: the rules are already decided. That is why we did not take part in such a monologue.” Apart from Aituc, those that boycotted the talks included the Congress-affiliated Intuc, CPM-backed Citu and the independent body Hind Mazdoor Sabha. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) attended the meeting along with a few of the smaller workers’ bodies. Several trade union organisations had submitted a memorandum on Tuesday demanding the government defer Thursday’s meeting and hold face-to-face talks. However, the meeting went ahead and discussed the rules for the Code on Wages and the Code on Industrial Relations. Because of the protest, the discussions on the rules for the two remaining laws — on occupational safety and social security — have been postponed to January 12. It has not been confirmed whether that meeting would be held online too. Intuc leader Ashok Singh attended the meeting only to say the government must accept the unions’ demand. Singh said: “I did not speak about the subject. I registered my protest over the way the meeting was being held and told the government to accept our demand.” While the Code on Wages was passed last year, the other three — the Code on Industrial Relations; the Code on Social Security; and the Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions — were passed during this year’s monsoon session. When the last three were passed in the Rajya Sabha, the major Opposition parties had been staying away in protest against eight MPs being suspended for demonstrating against the passage of the three farm laws. According to International Labour Organisation conventions to which India is a signatory, laws on labour welfare must be passed and the rules implemented only after tripartite discussions among the employees, employers and the government. A labour economist who did not wish to be quoted said the process of rule-making had been opaque. “After the draft rules were notified, hundreds of comments came for modification. The government has prepared a final version that should be shared with the trade unions to let them know whether their suggestions have been accepted or rejected, and why. But the government has not shared the final version,” he said. One of the provisions in the Code on Wages is that the allowances paid to an employee cannot exceed 50 per cent of the total compensation (that is, it cannot exceed the basic pay). Employers have opposed this while the workers have welcomed it. “Industries pay less under the head of basic wage while the allowances make up the major chunk of the salary,” BMS general secretary Vrijesh Upadhyay said. “This helps the industries keep down their provident fund contribution.” He said the new provision would force the employers to cut the allowances and raise the basic pay by an equal amount, benefiting the workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Christmas message: Where are we heading to?||This Christmas, I remember my fellow Jesuit, Fr. Stan Swamy. December 25 is his 79th day in jail. I wonder how he is celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ at Taloja. As a true Jesuit, I am confident that he is reaching out to the fellow prisoners and sharing with them the joy of the newborn divine Baby Jesus, and if the jail authorities do not ask him to appeal to the court for permission, he would distribute some sweets and wish them all a Feliz Navidad. As winter sets in, close to 2.6 billion Christians across the globe, and other believers alike, brave themselves up for Christmas. It is now a global festival that has transcended the perimeters of religion and symbolises different sentiments — love, friendship, hope, benevolence, forgiveness and amity. It is the season of gaiety and giving. It teaches us to share the joys of life; for it is in giving that we receive. Unfortunately, Christmas celebrations now are far removed from the first Christmas celebrated 2,020 years ago by only three people in a manger in a small little village in Bethlehem — Joseph, Mother Mary and Baby Jesus — in the company of some shepherds. Now it has become highly commercialised, devoid of its human elements. Hence, its true essence is lost. It is the shepherds who received the good tidings of Jesus’ birth first. I remember the tens of thousands of farmers who are protesting in Delhi and elsewhere against the unconstitutional and draconian farm laws. I pray that this Christmas brings them some good news. This loss of humanism is all the more glaring in the treatment being meted out to an octogenarian, Fr. Stan. The world is not unaware of the arrest of the 83-year-old Jesuit who has committed his entire life to the uplift of the poor, the marginalised and the voiceless, and who is also suffering from advanced Parkinson’s disease. For all his commitment and services, today he is under investigation by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) for his alleged participation in the Elgar Parishad case — since October 7. What is even more pathetic is that a person with his condition had been denied his basic necessities by the insensitive bureaucracy — his straw and sipper. These two harmless and nondescript items have been an integral part of his existence for the past few years now and yet the powers that be have turned a blind eye towards this. If this is the kind of treatment being meted out to a person who is only under investigation, then one can wonder at the treatment accorded to ordinary inmates who may or may not have been wrongfully detained for years. Where are we heading to? Where is our humanity? How many times shall the Son of God have to descend to the Earth to save us from our own selves? Can this Christmas be an occasion of hope and freedom for thousands of unfortunate prisoners like Father Stan and distressed farmers who are the lifeline of our country? I appreciate the steps taken by some good people who campaigned to provide Father Stan with a straw and a sipper. He needs more than these — fair trial and justice. Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore had said: “Every child comes into the world with the message that God is not yet disappointed with humans. Let our celebration of Christmas not turn into a meaningless annual ritual but an event of hope and freedom.” It is said: “A thousand times in history a baby has become a king. But only once in history did a king become a baby.” On this joyous occasion of Christ’s birth, I wish all readers a Merry Christmas and a joyful New Year 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||PM agenda to help cronies: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that Narendra Modi would go to any extent to discredit those who oppose his agenda of “transferring India’s wealth” to a few crony capitalists, arguing that agitating farmers were being defamed as they had stood up to oppose the Prime Minister’s plan to hand over agriculture to corporate entities. Asserting that no power in India can survive the wrath of the “kisan-mazdoor”, the Congress leader said: “Farmers and labourers have understood that the BJP and Modi have only one objective. Modi works to make money for three-four capitalists. Anybody opposing this will be called a terrorist. Anybody standing against Modi is a terrorist now. If Mohan Bhagwat stands against Modi, he too will be called a terrorist. Even as the entire India opposes a decision, Modi will remain with his capitalist friends.” Speaking to the media after meeting President Ram Nath Kovind to submit a memorandum with two crore signatures against the new farm laws, Rahul said: “Modi will construct whatever narrative is required to transfer the wealth of the country to three-four business people. He will do anything to discredit those who oppose this. He will even call them terrorists. You can offer some help to your friends but Modi works for them.” Asked about the Prime Minister’s argument that the farm reforms would bring investments and boost agriculture, the former Congress president said: “Millions of people live off agriculture; it is the backbone of India. You can’t destroy systems in the name of reforms. Millions of farmers, agriculture workers and small traders won’t be able to feed themselves. This will generate massive pain in the country. Nobody will be spared; everybody will have to face the effects of these laws.” Describing Modi as “an incompetent man controlled by some people”, Rahul said: “This is being done when China is at the border. He doesn’t talk about China but is weakening India from within, breaking its systems. Kisan-mazdoor ko maar raha hai (He is killing the farmers and the labourers). I am warning the country — see what is happening. The media should also see. The country is in trouble. The country is drifting on a dangerous path.” Asked about the arrest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other Congress leaders by the police that didn’t allow a march to the President’s house, and whether peaceful protests shouldn’t be allowed in a democracy, Rahul burst out: “Democracy…? Which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India. It may be in your imagination.” Congress office-bearers, members of Parliament and workers had assembled in large numbers at the party headquarters since morning as a march had been planned to Rashtrapati Bhavan. But the police stopped the march within yards, allowing only Rahul, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Chowdhury to proceed to Rashtrapati Bhavan in a car. As other leaders led by Priyanka sat on the road in protest, they were taken to Mandir Marg police station. Priyanka also launched a stinging attack on the government for defaming the farmers by claiming Khalistani and Naxal links. Asked about the Prime Minister’s charge that farmers had been misled by the Opposition, she said: “It is the Opposition’s duty to give voice to the farmers’ cause. But they know what is good and what is bad for them. Nobody can mislead or instigate them. It is their movement. They wouldn’t have been sitting in this cold with their children and families if it was an Opposition ploy.” Rahul too responded to the charge of misleading and instigation, saying: “Do you say farmers have no understanding? Have they come to the Delhi border to eat sweets? They have realised Modi is stealing their incomes.” The memorandum submitted to the President explained the “catastrophic” consequences of the three new farm laws that have also been opposed by experts and agriculture scientists, and requested him to tell the government to withdraw them. The memorandum also dwelt on the miseries suffered by the protesting farmers, 44 of whom have lost their lives in the biting cold. The truckloads of signatures were later sent to the agriculture ministry. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, has asked all office-bearers to spend at least 20 days in a month in the field, working among the people to rebuild the party organisation in the state. Priyanka gave specific tasks to office-bearers and senior leaders as part of the Sangathan Srijan Abhiyan beginning on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: Section 144 versus Section 288||In an evening light at a border, Amreek Singh from Pilibhit on the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border says he drove his tractor with a hitched trolley for 300km on a song. Amreek Singh is from the Terai. He is 36 years old. Where we are talking is the National Highway 24. In the distance is the garbage dump of Delhi’s refuse. The tractor he drives is a “New Holland”. It has bass speakers fixed on metal pillars. The border here is between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. All in India. There is also, literally, a “No Man’s Land”. The distance between the rolled iron fence of the Uttar Pradesh police and the concrete brick barricade of the Delhi police is 100 metres. It took less than that from my house on Sardar Sankar Road to Lake Market in south Calcutta. On National Highway 24 that connects Calcutta and Lucknow to Delhi, there is a flyover at the border. There are barricades erected on the border. The border is on the flyover. The flyover anachronistically is a border. There is music. Blaring from the speakers that have been attached to the pillars of a tractor. It is loud. And there is banner. In the service-lane of the flyover where the police have erected a barricade, there is a placard reading “yahan section 144 laagu hain”. (Section 144 CrPC is imposed here onwards). Section 144 is a British colonial-era law that prohibits a gathering of five or more people. Next to the banner on Section 144 is a poster that reads “Yahaan, kisanonka Section 288 lagoo hain”. It is a take that mocks the police notification. It says, “if you have 144 that prohibits, we have 288 that gathers”. From the distance to that banner, there is music playing. Actually a rock that beats to a sound of resistance. India’s national capital New Delhi has six main highways that converge and dissipate. That was not so always. Before 1911, the capital used to be Calcutta. The last time Delhi was gheraoed — surrounded — was in 1857. The year that is marked as “Sepoy Mutiny”. In a moment to capture, Amreek Singh said: “It is not that we want to be here. We are here because we know we rule the country. Remember that in the midst of disease and death, people returned home to kheti (farming).” He was seated on a divider that separates a service lane from the toll road. Next to him was a Nihang Sikh from Uttarakhand, Sardar Gurpreet. And there is Nafis Ali. He is not the customary Muslim in this story. He is here and he is real. Today, farmers are on India’s and South Asia’s widest road. The Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). Indian citizens are being stopped from entering India’s capital. And they are being blamed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Kerala journalist case transferred ||The additional district and sessions judge-I of Mathura will now hear the case involving Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan and three others, with a court here holding that the chief judicial magistrate was not competent to hear the matter and order remand of the accused. “The chief judicial magistrate, Mathura, would ensure transfer of all the records, remand papers, etc. to the court of the additional district and sessions judge-I immediately,” stated an order passed by district and sessions judge Yashavant Kumar Mishra earlier this week.  Mishra said further hearing in the case would continue in the court of the additional district and sessions judge-I. Journalist Kappan and three others were arrested by Mathura police on October 5 when they were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of a Dalit woman who had died after her gangrape and assault. Kappan, Atiqur Rahman, Aalam and Masood, with alleged links with the Popular Front of India, were booked under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The case was initially probed by the crime branch of Mathura police but was later transferred to the Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF). The district and sessions judge said that according to the apex court ruling, no other court except the session judge’s court is authorised to hear such cases. The order was delivered on an application by Rakesh Kumar Paliwal, deputy superintendent of police (STF), Gautam Buddha Nagar, seeking transfer of the case to a sessions judge. Defence counsel Madhuban Datt Chaturvedi said they had raised the matter during the remand hearing, but it was rejected by the judge. He asked who would be held responsible for the “illegal confinement” of Atiqur Rahman and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Muzaffarnagar riots: Attempt to let BJP leaders off the hook||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has initiated the process of withdrawing cases related to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots against three BJP lawmakers. Rajiv Sharma, a government counsel, told reporters in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday that he had moved an application in a local court to withdraw the cases against the three leaders — Suresh Rana, Kapil Dev and Sangeet Som, the MLAs of Thanabhawan, Muzaffarnagar and Sardhana, respectively. “The state government had sought my opinion on the withdrawal of the cases and I gave a report that it was possible. Finally, the government asked me to move the application in court to exonerate these leaders,” Sharma said. “Now it is the discretion of the court to decide.” The three leaders had allegedly given inflammatory speeches at a rally in the Nangla Mandaur area of Muzaffarnagar on September 7, 2013, following which massive violence broke out. The rally had been organised in reaction to the killing of Gaurav Singh and his cousin Sachin Singh in Kawal village on August 27 that year. The two youths of adjoining Milakpur village had beaten one Shahnawaz Qureshi on the charge of molesting the sister of one of them. Shahnawaz died of injuries in a hospital the same evening. The communal violence that started during and after the Nangla Mandaur rally eventually claimed 60 lives and displaced 50,000 people in Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Baghpat districts. Karan Singh Yadav, a police sub-inspector, had filed cases against Rana, Dev and Som. The BJP stood by its leaders from the beginning and even honoured them at a programme in Agra on November 21, 2013, soon before an election rally of Narendra Modi. Rana, Dev and Som had been arrested after the riots in 2013 and the National Security Act imposed against them. However, the NSA advisory board revoked the charges after a few months and a court granted them bail. Som was also accused of posting a fake video on his Facebook page purporting to show violence in Muzaffarnagar. But the police found out that the footage was from another place a few years ago. The then Samajwadi Party government had also allegedly tried to withdraw the cases against the three leaders but the move was aborted when the news was leaked to the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
25-12-2020||India||Asaram blanket stunt in UP jail ||More than 75 blankets were distributed in an Uttar Pradesh jail on Tuesday along with pictures of Asaram, a jailed “holy man” serving a life sentence for rape who was once close to Narendra Modi and the BJP. The incident happened in Shahjahanpur, home district of the raped girl and a witness in the case, Kripal Singh, who was murdered. The two alleged blanket donors had earlier been lodged in the same jail, accused of conspiring to kill Kripal, before obtaining bail. District magistrate Indra Vikram Singh has serve a notice on jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar seeking an explanation. Asaram, a self-styled “godman”, had since 2008 got embroiled in controversy over the disappearance and alleged murder of young boys from many of his dozens of ashrams across northern and western India, prompting Modi to distance himself from him. In 2018, he was convicted of raping the minor Shahjahanpur girl at his Jodhpur ashram in 2013. He is lodged in a Jodhpur prison. Tuesday’s event came to light after the jail administration issued a media release, identifying the blanket donors as Arjun and Narayan Pandey, residents of Asaram’s Lucknow ashram who are accused of plotting the July 2015 murder of Kripal in Shahjahanpur. Sources in the Shahjahanpur administration said pictures of Asaram on glossy paper and books and booklets of his sayings were distributed along with the blankets. The said a follower of Asaram addressed the inmates, glorifying the jailed baba. “I have sent a notice to the jail superintendent. Further action will be initiated on the basis of his reply and other facts,” the district magistrate said. The jail superintendent said permission had been taken for the blanket distribution but was silent about Asaram’s pictures being handed out. He alleged that “rumours” were being spread about the programme. “Some religious texts were distributed among the jail inmates with the blankets. Unfortunately, the organisers put up banners about Asaram at the event site,” he said. He did not explain how banners could be put up on jail premises without permission. The Shahjahanpur rape victim’s father, who had been a follower of Asaram before the assault of his daughter, told reporters: “I have sent a complaint to the district magistrate to probe the jail administration’s lapses.” In December 2017, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of Hindu monks, had declared Asaram a “fake baba”. Kripal was the third witness to be murdered in criminal cases against Asaram or his organisation. Akhil Gupta of Muzaffarnagar was killed in January 2015 after telling a local court he had seen two girls entering Asaram’s room in his Surat ashram in 2004. The girls had accused Asaram and his son Narayan Sai of sexual assault. Amrut Prajapati, a witness in the disappearance of two boys from a Gujarat ashram, was shot dead in June 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
25-12-2020||India||India’s largest hockey stadium to come up in Odisha||India’s largest hockey stadium will come up in the steel city of Rourkela in Sundergarh district, about 500km from here. The stadium will host the Men’s Hockey World Cup-2023 along with Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. Announcing this chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said, “Odisha will once again be the proud host of the prestigious Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2023. The tournament will be organised both in Rourkela and Bhubaneswar.” Terming Sundergarh as a powerhouse of hockey talent, Naveen said, “Many great hockey players from the district have represented the nation at the international level. Dilip Tirkey and Suntia Lakra who led the Indian Hockey Team, have brought laurels for the country” As per the government plan, the hockey stadium, spread over 15 acres of land, will have a seating capacity of 20,000. The stadium will come up on the campus of Biju Patnaik University of Technology, Rourkela. At present, the sitting capacity of Kalinga stadium in Bhubaneswar is 16,000. Stating that the contribution of the district to Hockey is unparalleled anywhere in the world, Naveen said, “As a tribute to the contribution of Sundergarh to Indian Hockey, I would like to announce that we will build a new international level hockey stadium in Rourkela with a seating capacity of 20,000.” It will have all the modern amenities and will offer a unique experience. “I hope it will emerge as the best venue for Field Hockey in the world,” Naveen said. Reacting to Naveen’s announcement, Former Hockey India Team Captain Dilip Tirkey tweeted,” What could be better news than this! Hon’ble Chief Minister announced a new world-class hockey stadium in my home city Rourkela, set to host FIH Men's Hockey World Cup 2023 along with previous host.” Odisha had hosted the Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018 and all the matches were played at Kalinga Stadium. “It’s a rare opportunity for any country to host the world cup, but Odisha as a state is going to host it for the second time in a row,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
