26-12-2020||India||BJP to push idea of ‘one nation, one election’||The Bharatya Janata Party will organise nearly 25 webinars over the next few days on the issue of “one nation, one election”, as it seeks to build popular support for what has been a strong plank of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Party sources said its senior leaders, besides members of academia and legal fraternity, will be attending these ‘webinars’, seminars that are held online. “We plan to hold 25 webinars by the end of this month,” a party leader said. Since coming to power in 2014, Modi has often advocated holding all elections together, from Lok Sabha to state assemblies and local bodies, arguing that this will orient various elected bodies fully towards development as the current cycle of frequent polls across the country hampers work. Recently, while addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference, the prime minister had pitched for “one nation, one election”, saying it is the need of India as polls taking place every few months impact development works. “Elections are held at different places every few months and the impact it has on development works is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on ‘one nation, one election’,” Modi had said. The Law Commission under Justice B S Chauhan had a couple of years ago recommended holding simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money. The draft, submitted to the Law Ministry, had, however, cautioned that holding simultaneous elections is not possible within the existing framework of the Constitution. It had recommended amendment to the Constitution and electoral laws. The Centre has been toying with the idea for quite some time now. The government think-tank, NITI Aayog, had suggested synchronised two-phase Lok Sabha and Assembly polls from 2024 to ensure minimum campaign-mode disruption to governance. Modi had held a brain storming session with heads of 21 political parties on holding simultaneous polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
26-12-2020||India||Saradha scam: CBI files fresh plea to quiz IPS officer||The Central Bureau of Investigation has moved the Supreme Court again, seeking to question senior IPS officer Rajeev Kumar in links with the multi-crore-rupee Saradha chit fund scam case. The central investigation agency, which has been directed by the Supreme Court to solve the ponzi scam case in Bengal, has moved the fresh plea, alleging that the officer was not cooperating with their investigation, sources said. The CBI said that it is necessary to quiz Kumar to find out the larger picture in the case. The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing on the reopening of the apex court after the winter break. The Saradha group of companies allegedly duped lakhs of people to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of return on their investments. Kumar was the Bidhannagar police commissioner when the scam was discovered in 2013. He was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the Bengal government to probe the case, before the Supreme Court handed it over to the CBI in 2014, along with other chit fund cases. In November last year, the top court had sought the response of the IPS officer on the CBI's appeal challenging the anticipatory bail granted to him in the chit fund scam by the Calcutta High Court. The probe agency had filed an appeal in the apex court against the October 1, 2019 order of the Calcutta High Court, which had granted Kumar the relief saying it was not an appropriate case for custodial interrogation. The high court had directed Kumar to cooperate with the investigating officers and make himself available before them for questioning on a 48-hour notice by the CBI. On September 21, 2019, a pre-arrest bail plea of the IPS officer was rejected by the Alipore District and Sessions Court in Kolkata. The Centre and the West Bengal government were also locked in an unprecedented standoff after a CBI team had reached Kumar's official residence for questioning him, but had to retreat as the local police detained its officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
26-12-2020||India||BCI condemns police attack on advocate in UP||The Bar Council of India, the country’s apex bar body, Saturday condemned the incident in which Uttar Pradesh Police allegedly assaulted an advocate after dragging him out of his house in Etah. It also urged the CJI and Allahabad High Court Chief Justice to take action against guilty. The BCI said the UP police had “crossed all limits of atrocities” and that it was worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal. A video clip, purportedly of the incident, showing police personnel breaking open the door of a house, dragging a man in advocate’s dress out and assaulting him mercilessly, has gone viral. “The UP police has crossed all limits of atrocities and similar incidents were witnessed in West Bengal, Bihar and from other parts of the country. “Such action of the police is rather worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal,” the BCI said. It said, “The act of police of Uttar Pradesh is shocking, it cannot be expected from the protectors of Law and Order.” “The brutality clearly shows that the police personnel of Etah were acting with some planning with some ulterior motive. “The Council, thus, resolves to request Chief Justice of India and Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court to take immediate steps to find out the guilty police personnel and issue a direction to UP government to immediately put them under suspension, transfer them and remove them from service,” it said in a press release. It said that such incidents cannot be tolerated anymore and if the judiciary and the government ignore such atrocities on lawyers, or even on common man, “the Bar will have no option except to come on roads”. The BCI said it has also resolved to write to the Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take suitable action in the matter and make suitable laws for providing protection to lawyers. “The Bar Council of India has resolved and stated that the entire Legal Fraternity is in support of Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh and Lawyers of Uttar Pradesh on this issue. “The Council is going to convene a joint meeting of representatives of all the State Bar Councils through Video-Conferencing to decide the future course of action within 3-4 days,” it said. It said the joint meeting shall also consider the “inaction” of Union and state governments who have failed to provide any financial assistance to lawyers during the tough time of pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
26-12-2020||India||Need to plug loopholes in anti-defection law: Naidu||Underlining the need to make the anti-defection law more stringent, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said if loopholes in it are not plugged, “we will be making a mockery of democracy”. He also cautioned that people will lose faith in the political class unless urgent and collective action is taken towards cleansing the system and promoting clean politics. Delivering the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture organised by the India Foundation in Hyderabad, Naidu lamented that the absence of value-based politics, lack of ideology, hunger for power, muscle and money power and the entry of people with a criminal background into politics were leading to violence in the political arena. “Unless these undesirable trends are checked, the situation will further deteriorate and cause irreparable damage to the country’s polity,” he cautioned according to the text of his speech. Drawing attention to the manner in which the anti-defection law has been rendered ineffective, Naidu emphasised the need to make it more stringent and effective. Noting that defection matters cannot remain undecided for long periods, he suggested making it mandatory for the presiding officers to dispose of defection matters within three months. “We will be making a mockery of democracy if we fail to plug the loopholes in anti-defection laws,” Naidu, also the chairperson of Rajya Sabha, observed. According to PRS Legislative Research, the anti-defection law seeks to prevent political defections which may be due to reward of office or other similar considerations. The Tenth Schedule was inserted in the Constitution in 1985. It lays down the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the presiding officer of a legislature based on a petition by any other member of the House. He felt that all political parties should put an end to “politics of convenience” and practice the “politics of conviction” and “politics of consensus” as demonstrated by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He also called upon the political parties to shun populism and accord priority to long-term development. Expressing dismay over the sway of 4Cs - cash, caste, criminality and community - in Indian politics, he appealed to the people to elect their representatives on the basis of other 4Cs - character, conduct, calibre and capacity. Naidu emphasised that it is the duty of all political parties to ensure that their members, including legislators, maintain ethical conduct at all times and at all places. He also appealed to the legislators to raise the level of debates, follow standards, avoid unruly behaviour and always adhere to 3Ds - discuss, debate and decide - avoid the “4th D” - disrupt. Speaking on the theme of this year’s lecture, “Building democratic consensus - The Vajpayee way”, Naidu said for Vajpayee, consensus was not an expedient political tool rather it was a core element of his convictions. His consensual approach made him widely acceptable across the social and political spectrum, the vice president added. This consensual approach enabled him to successfully lead a large coalition to its full term in an era of unstable coalition governments. Naidu described Vajpayee as the “father of coalition practices” in India. However, Vajpayee's ability to forge consensus did not necessarily mean compromise all the time, Naidu said. He cited the example of Vajpayee’s second stint as the prime minister in 1999 when he refused to budge under the pressure of a coalition partner and sacrificed his government. Calling Vajpayee as ‘vikas purush’, Naidu said that despite heading a coalition government, he successfully overcame all hurdles and paved the way for socio-economic transformation of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
26-12-2020||India||Oxford vaccine likely to be the first to be approved in India||The Oxford vaccine may be the first one against Covid-19 to be rolled out in India, as the drug regulator in the country is looking forward to a UK nod to the vaccine, which according to sources is likely next week. India, which hopes to come up with a vaccine in January, will then decide on giving an emergency use authorisation to the Serum Institute, which is manufacturing the shots in the country. Once the UK drug regulator gives its approval to the Oxford vaccine, the expert committee on Covid-19 at the CDSCO will hold its meeting and thoroughly review the safety and immunogenicity data from the clinical evaluations conducted abroad and in India before granting any emergency authorisation for the vaccine here, official sources said. The process of granting emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ may take time as its phase 3 trials are still underway, while Pfizer is yet to make a presentation. “Going by this, the Oxford vaccine ‘Covishield’ is likely to be the first to be rolled out in India,” a source said. Serum Institute of India (SII) last week also submitted some additional data required by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the sources said. Amid fears about the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, government officials recently said that it will have no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines that are being developed in India and other countries. Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines early this month. The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on December 9 had sought additional safety and efficacy data for Covid-19 vaccines of SII and Bharat Biotech after deliberating upon their applications. The application by the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer was not taken up for deliberation as the company had sought more time for making a presentation before the committee. The Pfizer vaccine has already been approved by several countries including the UK, the US, and Bahrain. While considering SII's application, the SEC had recommended that the firm should submit an updated safety data of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials in the country, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India, along with the outcome of the assessment of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) for grant of EUA. As for Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, “after detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial in the country for further consideration”, the SEC had said. The Pune-based SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has made a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. The SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from the DCGI, officials recently had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||BJP ally in Rajasthan quits NDA over farm laws||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convenor and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday said that he was quitting from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), citing the Centre’s three new contentious farm laws. “I am not stuck with Fevicol with the NDA. Today, I separate myself from the NDA,” Beniwal said while addressing a farmers' rally in Shahjahanpur in Alwar district. The RLP chief had on Friday announced a march to Delhi on Friday  in support of farmers organisations holding a protest against the contentious laws. “I was stopped from entering the Lok Sabha with a fudged Covid report. Had I been there, I would have thrown away the copy of the farm bills in the house,” Beniwal, 48, said at the rally. He had earlier said that the RLP will “think about continuing” its alliance with the NDA if the ‘black laws’ are not repealed. The RLP is the latest high-profile political party to quit the NDA this year amid a backlash over the three agri-marketing laws. Earlier this year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had split from the alliance over the same legislations. Farmers from Rajasthan have been protesting in Shahjahanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for 14 days. Meanwhile, farmers’ unions on Saturday accepted the Centre’s offer to hold a dialogue and end the deadlock over the issue. In a letter to Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said, “We propose that the next meeting between the farmers' representatives and the Government of India be held on December 29 2020 at 11 am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Farmers' unions to hold talks with Centre on Tuesday, Dec. 29||Farmers’ unions protesting against the three new agri-marketing laws have accepted the Centre’s offer to hold a dialogue and end the deadlock over the issue. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions on Saturday wrote to the government asking it to hold talks on December 29. In a letter to Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said, “We propose that the next meeting between the farmers' representatives and the Government of India be held on December 29 2020 at 11 am.” “As the government is willing to hold talks with us and asking us for a date and our issues, we have proposed to hold a dialogue on December 29. Now, the ball is in the court of government when it calls us for talks,” Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait told PTI. The unions reiterated that repealing the three contentious laws and legal guarantee for MSP should be part of the agenda for the talks with the Centre. According to the letter, the agenda proposed by the protesting unions includes amendments to be made and notified in the Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020 to exclude farmers from its penal provisions. The farmer unions also demanded that changes in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect the interests of farmers should also be part of the agenda for the next round of dialogue. Earlier this week, Aggarwal had written to the 40 protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. “Unfortunately, your (Aggarwal's) letter continues the government's attempt to mislead the public by suppressing true facts about the deliberations in the previous meetings. We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts,” the letter said. “If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings. The campaign launched by the entire state machinery to defame and malign the farmers' movement must stop forthwith,” the Sankyukta Kisan Morcha said in its letter. At the press conference, farmer leader Darshan Pal said that it was also decided that farmers will hold a tractor march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) highway on December 30 in protest against the Centre's agri laws. “We request people from Delhi and other parts of the country to come and celebrate New Year with protesting farmers,” Pal said. Another farmer leader, Rajinder Singh, said, "We will march from Singhu to Tikri to KMP. We ask farmers from surrounding states to come in huge numbers in their trolleys and tractors. If the government doesn't want us to block the KMP highway, then they better announce the repeal of the three farm laws."  The move comes after the organisations held meetings on Friday and Saturday to decide on the Centre’s offer of holding talks to resolve the impasse over the situation at the borders of Delhi, where farmers have been protesting for a month now. The decision also comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a strong attack on the Opposition, said that it was misleading the farmers for “political reasons”. He firmly defended the farm laws, asserting that the government was ready for talks “with an open heart”, provided that the dialogue was factual and logical. “I want to tell also those who are opposing us that the government is in favour of farmers and that it is ready for discussions, provided that the talks are based on sound arguments and facts,” Modi said. However, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday said there is “no confidence” in the words of the BJP-led government, referring to Modi’s assurance that the laws would be beneficial to farmers. “There is no confidence in Modi government's assurances for discussions with farmers since these bills were passed without any prior discussion and by preventing a vote in the House. No confidence in whatever they say. The PM claimed today that some money had been released. But this is part of a pre-poll ongoing scheme,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, more farmers from Maharashtra and Punjab are on their way to join the protests at Delhi and make them even stronger. Following Modi’s steps, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged protesting farmers to try the three new farm laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, assuring that the government will bring in necessary amendments if they are not found beneficial. “For once let this act (acts) be implemented, for a year or two... Try this experiment and if you feel that this act (acts) is not in the interest of farmers, then I can say you this with conviction as I know the intention of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi we will do all necessary amendments in it,” the former BJP president said at a rally in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Manoj Tiwari willing to help Kejriwal understand benefits of farm laws||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday invited Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to his residence here, offering to clear his "doubts" and explain to him benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Kejriwal, who is Aam Aadmi Party's convenor, on Friday claimed the new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and will do a lot of harm. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Tiwari said Kejriwal does not allow anyone to enter his house and refrains from meeting public representatives or extending invitations. Recently, three mayors and other leaders of BJP-ruled municipal corporations sat on a dharna outside the chief minister's residence for 13 days but he did not meet them. Tiwari tweeted to Kejriwal, inviting the AAP convenor to his official residence on Mother Teresa Crescent in Lutyens Delhi on Sunday at 3 pm to explain the benefits of farm laws before media persons. "Let's do constructive politics for farmers' benefit," Tiwari said in his tweet. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, the chief minister had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government. "The BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Friday. Tiwari, former Delhi BJP president, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday explained benefits of farm laws and senior leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and national president JP Nadda have repeatedly assured that MSP and Mandis will continue as well. "Still, if Arvind Kejriwal cannot find any benefits in the three farm laws and has some doubts he may accept my invitation. I will be happy to help him see the benefits of the farm laws," Tiwari said. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Suvendu vows to be a 'disciplined soldier' of BJP||Suvendu Adhikari, TMC's Nandigram face who has joined BJP, on Saturday said that he will work as a disciplined soldier of the saffron party to bring it to power in West Bengal in the 2021 state polls. BJP is the world's largest political party and is dedicated to the service of the nation, while in TMC there is no discipline, he said at a felicitation programme for those joining BJP from TMC. "We will work so that BJP comes to power in the state and transform West Bengal into Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal). West Bengal has to be handed over to the hands of the able leader Narendra Modi", he said. Adhikari said, "In BJP we will work as a disciplined soldier of the party to dislodge TMC and put BJP in power in the assembly polls in 2021". He said that it was due to Syama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Jan Sangh who raised his voice against Bengal getting transferred to Pakistan during partition that "We are able to live in present-day West Bengal". Referring to PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Adhikari said many states have taken advantage of it to benefit farmers. But West Bengal government has denied and deprived the farmers of getting those benefits. "It is a need that the party which is ruling the country also comes to power here (in Bengal)", he said. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said "Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is saying that BJP is an outsider party. Bengal was going to Pakistan. It was Syama Prasad Mukherjee who raised his voice against this and present day West Bengal is here due to him". Hitting out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the "outsider" controversy, Vijayvargiya said she even considers Prime Minister Narendra Modi an outsider. The world recognises Modi's leadership but not Banerjee, he said. "Modi is respected by the people of Balochistan in Pakistan and sends rakhi to him. Even Amit Shah is termed as an outsider by her. She is trying to create a wave by crying outsiders against people who come to West Bengal". Vijayvargyia said that the car of TMC MP Sunil Mondal, who recently the saffron party, was attacked by TMC workers while coming to BJP office during the day. "I have given a report to the union home minister", he added. Continuing his criticism of Banerjee, he said that while she wears a white saree and chappal her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) wears a spectacle which costs Rs 25 lakh and stays in a seven crore bungalow which has an escalator. "This is what the Trinamool Congress leaders are saying". "Who is behind cattle smuggling, syndicates? It is her nephew who is all behind these", he alleged. "TMC is running dictatorship in the state. In BJP democracy prevails", Vijayvargiya added. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the party's wings are spreading across the state. Modi's Mann Ki Baat Programme on the radio will be aired in every booth on December 27. National vice-president of BJP Mukul Roy claimed that TMC will go into oblivion in the next assembly polls. BJP knows how to give respect to its workers, unlike TMC. "TMC will taste defeat surely", he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||RSS ‘sanskar’ responsible for success in political life, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said the lessons and ‘sanskar’ he learnt from the stalwart leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have helped him succeed in politics. The senior BJP leader revealed he was writing a book on the value system of the RSS and its “karya-paddhati” (working methodology) and how it can impact corporate and management sectors Gadkari was speaking at the Yeshwantrao Kelkar Yuva Award program at the 66th national convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the RSS' student wing, here. The Union road transport minister said journalists often ask him how he was able to execute big infrastructure projects successfully. "I am neither engineer and techno savvy nor was I a genius or brilliant student. I ask them (journalists) do you know the RSS, its ideology, its style of functioning?" he said. He got the opportunity to work closely with Sangh leaders of the past such as Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras, Gadkari said, describing them as geniuses. “The success I achieved is certainly due to the sanskar (lessons on values) received from the ABVP and RSS and these leaders,” he said. “For the last few months, I am trying to put into book the sanskar and working methodology learned from Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras. (On) How this working methodology can impact the working in corporate and management sectors,” the Union minister said. Manish Kumar, who is working on organic farming, received the Kelkar award at Gadkari's hands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Central Vista: MPs' offices coming up in place of two buildings ||The Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan in Lutyens' Delhi will be the first two buildings to be razed to pave the way for the construction of chambers of Members of Parliament there as part of Central Vista redevelopment project. An official from HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, which has prepared the master plan of the ambitious project, said that MP offices will come up where Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan are currently located on Rafi Marg and Sansad Marg respectively. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building where the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The National Emblem will crown the new Parliament building. According to the plan, a tunnel would be constructed to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex. "The new Parliament will have six committee rooms to conduct business," the HCP official said. The government has identified around four locations -- in Gole Market, K G Marg, near Africa Avenue and near Talkatora Stadium -- in central Delhi for the temporary shifting of offices of various ministries. Government sources said that the demolition of buildings will be carried out in phases to ensure smooth functioning of various ministry offices. To construct Common Central Secretariat for ministry offices, several buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan among others are likely to be demolished. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. According to the CPWD's latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista, the prime minister's new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. The prime minister's new residence will be built on a 15-acre plot and it will have 10 buildings and they will have ground plus three floors, the CPWD said in its proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||North East excelling under PM's leadership, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday asserted that the North East has emerged as the growth engine of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said Modi considers the North East as the focal point for the nation's development and has visited the region "30 times in the last six years and each time, he has come with some gifts". Speaking at a programme to launch various projects, Shah said Assam has embarked on a journey of peace and development under Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. "Assam was earlier known for agitations and violence, but Sonowal and Sarma have unified the people of the state and the region with the rest of the country by upholding and promoting heritage and traditions," he said. Shah said NDA's triumph in the just-concluded Bodoland Territorial Council polls was like a semifinal before the assembly elections in which it will emerge winners with a huge majority. The home minister said all militant organisations in the state have surrendered and returned to the mainstream. He also urged farmers agitating against the new agriculture laws to resolve their issues through discussions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||PM attacks Opposition over J&K local polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that the DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir have written a new history in the region, saying the transparent election process and enthusiastic participation of voters to say it is a “moment of pride” for India. Taking a hit at the Congress yet again, he said that the party was offering him lessons of democracy, while “not carrying out panchayat and municipal polls” in Puducherry, a Union Territory where the Opposition is in power. The Prime Minister was speaking at an event where he launched a scheme via video-conference to extend the benefits of Ayushman Bharat to all residents of the union territory. Attacking the Congress without naming it, he said some people in Delhi offer him lessons in democracy day in and day out, and use “abuses” for him, but they have not organised the panchayat polls in Puducherry despite a Supreme Court order. Modi noted that the three-tier panchayat polls were carried out in Jammu and Kashmir in over a year after it became a union territory. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a recent attack on the PM over the farmers’ protest against the agri laws, had said that there is no democracy in India. “The District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir have seen people winning due to their work and not names,” the Prime Minister said. The Centre has undertaken all-round development of Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Modi said a big mistake of those who were in power for decades in the country was to ignore the development of border regions, including Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states, but his government has rectified this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth progressing well, says hospital||Superstar Rajinikanth, who was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad for severe blood pressure fluctuations, is progressing well, the hospital said on Saturday. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami spoke to the actor over the phone and enquired about his health, an official release here said, adding he prayed for the star's speedy recovery. The hospital said the actor's blood pressure was still on the higher side although it is under better control than on Friday. Investigations have not revealed anything 'alarming' so far about his health, the hospital said in a bulletin. The 70-year old actor is scheduled to undergo more investigations on Saturday, reports of which would be available by the evening, it said. "Mr Rajinikanth who was admitted in the hospital yesterday is progressing well. He has had an uneventful night and his blood pressure is still on the higher side although under better control than yesterday," it said. His blood pressure medications were being titrated carefully and he would continue to be under close monitoring, it said. He has been advised complete rest in view of his labile blood pressure and visitors were not being allowed to meet him, it said. Based on his investigations and control of blood pressure, a decision on his discharge would be taken by the evening, the bulletin added. Rajinikanth was on Friday admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad for severe blood pressure fluctuations. He was in the Telangana capital since December 13 to shoot for Tamil flick, 'Annathe,' a Sun Pictures production and he isolated himself after four of the crew members tested COVID-19 positive days ago. The superstar, however, tested negative. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu and actor-politician Kamal Haasan have wished the actor a speedy recovery. The actor is set to launch his own political party next month ahead of the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Anti-conversion law: UP going strong at more than one arrest per day||Going full steam, the Uttar Pradesh police have made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. Nearly a dozen FIRs have been lodged since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 27. Eight arrests were made from Etah, seven from Sitapur, four from Greater Noida, three each from Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh, two each from Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Kannauj and one each from Bareilly and Hardoi, officials said here. The first case was registered in Bareilly just a day after the legislation came into force. The police cracked the whip following a complaint of Tikaram Rathore, the father of a 20-year-girl and resident of Sharif Nagar village in Bareilly. He alleged that Uwaish Ahmad (22) had become friends with his daughter and was trying to "coax, coerce and lure" her to convert. An FIR was lodged at Deorania police station in Bareilly district and the accused was arrested on December 3. Acting swiftly after being tipped off about interfaith marriages, the Lucknow Police stopped a ceremony in the state capital, asking the couple to meet the legal requirements first. In Muzaffarnagar district, one Nadeem and an accomplice were arrested on December 6 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Nadeem, however, got reprieve when the Allahabad High Court directed the police not to take any coercive action against him. Likewise, in Moradabad, two brothers, arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, were released on an order of a CJM court. Rashid and Salim were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar's office in Moradabad to record Rashid's marriage to a Hindu woman whose family had filed the complaint. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38), who is married, was picked up in Mau district on December 3 and 13 of his accomplices booked for allegedly abducting a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with an intent to change her religion. An FIR was lodged at Tambor police station in Sitapur district and 22-year-old Zubrail along with five of his family members and two locals was accused of kidnapping a 19-year-old girl and converting her. All, barring Zubrail, were arrested on December 5. In Bijnor, 22-year-old labourer Afzal was arrested on December 13 for allegedly kidnapping a girl from her home. A 19-year-old woman lodged an FIR with Shahabad police station in Hardoi district on December 11 alleging that she was raped on the pretext of marriage and also pressured to convert by one Mohammed Azad. She also alleged that she was being sold by Azad in Delhi. Azad was booked for rape, for flouting UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020 and for human trafficking. He was arrested on December 16. Rashid Ali (22) and Saleem Ali (25) were arrested under the new law in Moradabad district on similar charges. A man was sent to jail in Bijnor on December 16 for 'love jihad', a term coined by BJP leaders and right-wing activists to describe the crime against which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also spoken out. Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of 'Ram Naam Satya Hai' to threaten those who do not respect daughters and sisters. Amid a hue and cry over the law, social activist Shantanu Sharma said, "We have no problems with the new law but its enforcement should not cause harassment to people. It should be ensured that it is not misused." "Making a new law doesn't mean that forcible conversions will be checked easily. Ultimately, it will be the police which will enforce it. It's too early to predict whether it will succeed in its purpose or not, but it should be used carefully," he said. Former UP Director General of Police Yashpal Singh said that when a girl flees, there is pressure for her recovery. "It (law) is good as per the social structure and with this there will be not exploitation. However, as per modern social outlook, people can feel stripped off their freedom." High court lawyer Sandeep Chowdhury said, "The law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. It militates against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution." He pointed out that a PIL has already been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the law and now it is for the court to decide. The high court has asked the state government to respond to a petition which contended that the new law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. The ordinance aimed at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, got the assent of UP Governor Anandiben Patel just within days of the state cabinet approving its draft. The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Delivering justice during pandemic||Bombay High Court and lower courts across Maharashtra stepped into the mostly uncharted waters of virtual hearing during the year as the coronavirus pandemic forced the state into lockdown. After actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death shocked the country in June, there was a flurry of litigation related to the case. Actor Kangana Ranaut also found herself at the courts doorstep when the Mumbai municipal body demolished 'illegal' construction at her Bandra bungalow. The lockdown led to some important criminal cases such as the September 2008 Malegaon blasts and Sheena Bora murder getting stuck, as examination and cross-examination of witnesses posed a difficulty due to movement restrictions. In April, a few benches of the high court in Mumbai started hearing urgent matters through video conference. The facility was also made available at the benches at Aurangabad, Nagpur and Goa and in subordinate courts all over the state. Justice Dipankar Datta of the Calcutta High Court took over as new Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court towards the end of April. Amid lockdown, he chose to drive from Kolkata to Mumbai with his son, covering the distance of 2,000 km in three days. The high court functioned through the annual summer vacation. The number of benches hearing matters virtually was gradually increased and by October all the benches were back in action. In November, the high court decided to resume physical hearings. But as a few lawyers' associations demurred, Chief Justice Datta said the high court would conduct virtual hearings once a week and physical hearings on other days. This system is to be in operation till January 10, 2021. In April, the high court passed a directive that all interim orders passed in civil and criminal cases shall continue till further decision as litigants could not travel to courts. The directive has been extended till January 2021. In September, when all hearings were being conducted virtually, the high court came to the rescue of Kangana Ranaut by staying the demolition of her office-cum-bungalow in Pali Hill area, initiated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The court held that the action was illegal and smacked of malice. Ranaut's legal troubles, however, continued with a magistrate's court ordering police to lodge a First Information Report against her and her sister Rangoli Chandel for alleged offences of sedition and trying to incite hatred and communal tension through Twitter posts. They moved the high court, which in November granted them interim protection and asked them to appear before the police to record statements on January 8, 2021. Lyricist Javed Akthar filed a defamation complaint against Ranaut over some of her statements. A magistrate's court on December 19 directed the Mumbai police to probe the complaint and file a report. Actor Richa Chadha filed a defamation suit against another actor Payal Ghosh, who had accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault, for making false statements about her. Ghosh apologised to her, following which Chadha withdrew the suit. Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami was arrested by Alibaug police for alleged abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik in 2018. He failed to get interim bail from the Bombay High Court but was granted relief by the Supreme Court after he had spent a week in jail. Goswami and his channel also moved the high court seeking the quashing of a case registered by Mumbai police over an alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging racket. Following Sushant Singh Rajputs death on June 14, 2020,his girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty was accused by his family of abetting the suicide. She, in turn, filed a complaint against Rajput's sisters for allegedly forging a prescription to procure drugs for anxiety for him. Rajput's sisters moved the high court which granted them interim protection from arrest. A petition was filed in the high court by some former IPS officers and others seeking regulation of media coverage in cases such as Rajputs death which spawned many conspiracy theories. The high court has reserved its order on the plea. An offshoot of the probe into Rajput's death was the discovery of evidence about alleged drug use in Bollywood. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in September arrested Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others for allegedly procuring narcotics. While Rhea was granted bail by the high court in October, her brother managed to get bail only in December. The NCB later arrested comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya for alleged consumption of drugs but both were released on bail by a magistrates court.
In February, the high court granted bail to former media baron Peter Mukerjea, who along with former wife Indrani Mukerjea is accused of being party to the conspiracy to kill Sheena Bora, her daughter from an earlier relationship. Indrani Mukerjeais still behind bars. Some of the accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case had to knock on the courts door for simple amenities in jail such as winter clothing. Stan Swamy, 82, suffering from Parkinsons disease, filed an application in the sessions court seeking a direction to jail authorities to provide him a straw and sipper. Activist Gautam Navlakha, another accused, complained that his spectacles were stolen in jail and the authorities refused to accept the new pair sent by his family. The high court said these are humane considerations and should not be denied. It suggested that a workshop should be conducted for jail officials to sensitise them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Less than 300 casualties in a day for first time in six months||India's daily new Covid-19 fatality count was reported below 300 after over six months, taking the death toll to 1,47,343, while the infection tally rose to 1,01,69,118, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. A total of 251 more deaths and 22,273 new infections were reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,40,108, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.78 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 2,81,667 active coronavirus infections in the country, constituting 2.77 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,71,59,289 samples have been tested up to December 25, including 8,53,527 on Friday. The 251 new fatalities include 71 from Maharashtra, 31 from West Bengal and 30 from Delhi. The total 1,47,343 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,129 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,048 from Tamil Nadu, 12,044 from Karnataka, 10,414 from Delhi, 9,536 from West Bengal, 8,279 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,091 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,269 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Translocated tigress released into wild in Rishikesh||A tigress that was translocated to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve was safely released into the wild on Friday. The gate of the enclosure at Motichoor where the tigress had been kept was opened around 1.30 pm in the presence of Member Secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority, SP Yadav; Uttarakhand's Chief Wildlife Warden J S Suhag; and scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India, Rajaji Tiger Reserve Director Dharmesh Kumar Singh said. A radio collar has been fixed on the six-year-old tigress to keep a constant track of its movement, he said. The tigress was translocated on Thursday from the Bijrani range of the Corbett Tiger Reserve to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve to give a boost the tiger population there. This is the state's first successful attempt at tiger translocation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Fire in Delhi factory leaves one dead||A 45-year-old man died in a fire at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri area early Saturday morning, a Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said. A call about the fire was received around 3.50 am, and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said. DFS Director Atul Garg said fire officials broke down the door of the factory and rescued three people, one of whom was unconscious. The man was taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where he was declared brought dead, he said, adding that he was identified as Jugal Kishor. The fire broke out on the third floor of the factory where machines and raw materials are kept, Garg said. The two people rescued were identified as Aman Ansari (18) and Feroj Ansari (24), officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Cold conditions persist in Delhi, mercury likely to rise||Cold conditions persisted in the national capital as the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. "Shallow" fog reduced visibility to 1000 meters at Safdarjung and 800 meters in the Palam area, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. According to the weather department, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 meters, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". The mercury is likely to increase slightly on Sunday and Monday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Moderate fog is likely during this period, Srivastava said. Cold wave conditions will return December 29 onwards, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. Delhi's air quality improved slightly, but it was still "very poor". The city's air quality index (AQI) was 324 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday, 433 on Wednesday and 418 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". A marginal improvement is predicted by Sunday as wind speed picks up under the influence of the WD, Srivastava said. However, he said, the air quality will dip again, starting Monday, due to predicted high humidity, low wind speed and temperatures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Farmers reply 'not for sale'  to Centre's PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme payout||The Centre’s decision to make a big “song and dance” about the payment of the seventh instalment of a farm scheme on Friday appears to have further strengthened the resolve of the protesting farmers to stay the course — all hurdles created by the State, the bitter cold and other difficulties notwithstanding. The day not only saw a bigger mobilisation at the Ghaziabad border of Delhi with farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh breaking down barricades to proceed further. The cultivators also responded to Friday’s payout of Rs 2,000 for all those in the farming community registered for the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme with the “FarmersNotOnSale” hashtag on social media. Also, the boycott of the Mukesh Ambani-owned Jio is gathering steam with farmers now cutting off power supply to the company’s cellphone towers and public announcements in villages of Punjab urging people to port their connections to other telecom service providers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi heard an echo of the protests in person during a programme organised at the Central Hall of Parliament to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee when two AAP MPs began shouting slogans in support of the farmers. During the day, the farmers who had left Nasik earlier this week to join the protests reached Shahjahanpur on the Jaipur-Delhi highway near the Haryana border and created a Maharashtra flank of the ongoing agitation to counter the government’s claim that the movement was limited to only Punjab and Haryana. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the call for “Dilli Chalo” on November 26 and 27, accused the government of deliberately “not reading” their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill, 2020, that plans to reduce subsidies. The AIKSCC has given a call for observing Saturday as “Dhikkar Diwas” and boycott of Ambani and Adani products and services on the premise that the three new laws are aimed at helping corporates who have been the biggest donors to the BJP. The AIKSCC also made it clear that the farmers are in no hurry to show the government that its tactic to tire them down will not work. Many farmers have said that they have been hardened by farming, which has also taught them patience. About the claims made by Modi in his address to selected farmers from six states, the AIKSCC’s Avik Saha said: “It was a fusion of false, fake and fabricated news.” Modi told the farmers that the government was ready for talks with “an open heart”, yet again defended the farm laws and accused the Opposition of misleading the peasants for “political reasons”. (See Page 4) Taking a dig at Modi for talking to farmers from different states while ignoring those sitting at Delhi’s door with their demands, Saha said: “He has taken a decision to selectively play Prime Minister to whoever he wants.” On the PM-Kisan scheme, announced in February 2019 and given retrospective effect from December 2018, Saha said: “Why the Prime Minister chose to make such a song and dance about this scheme which has been going on for a long time is for everyone to see.” The unkindest cut, according to the AIKSCC, is the Prime Minister’s claim that the protesting farmers are shifting the goalposts when their demand has all along been the repeal of the three laws and a legislation to guarantee minimum support price, which Modi had himself demanded as chief minister. Likewise, defence minister Rajnath Singh’s suggestion to try out the laws for a couple of years was rejected on the ground that it would disrupt the sector no end and there would be no way of return. “The impact of the law is already predictable and known. What is there to wait for when the crisis is already so acute for farmers?” said another farmer union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Indian scientists express support for free access to academic research||Sections of India’s science community have asked the Centre to oppose a petition by three international academic publishers in Delhi High Court seeking a ban on two alleged pirate websites that offer free access to academic research. Over 2,000 teachers, scholars and students from institutions across India in a statement released on Friday urged the court and the Centre to allow researchers in India continued access to Sci-Hub and LibGen. Three academic publishers — American Chemical Society, Elsevier and Wiley — have sought a ban on the two websites that provide free access to research papers and books. Sci-Hub, created in 2011 by Alexandra Elbakyan, a web developer based in Kazakhstan, calls itself “the first pirate website in the world to provide mass and public access to tens of millions of research papers” to “remove all barriers in the way of science”. The website library has over 85 million papers. The other site LibGen (Library Genesis) also offers free access to scientific papers, comics and magazines. Elsevier had in 2015 filed a similar legal challenge against both Sci-Hub and LibGen in the US, and a New York court had in 2017 awarded $15 million in damages for copyright infringement by Sci-Hub and LibGen. The lawyers who filed the petition for the publishers in Delhi High Court and the lawyers representing the two websites were not immediately available for comments. But Indian scientists have now expressed their support for Sci-Hub and LibGen. “We support their initiative which, we contend, does not violate any norm of ethics or intellectual property rights as the research papers are intellectual products of the authors and institutions,” a scientists’ group called the Breakthrough Science Society said in a statement. The Society has said academic publishers have adopted business models under which they treat the knowledge created through academic research funded by taxpayers’ money “as their private property”. More than 2,000 faculty members, students and scholars have signed the statement. While researchers and reviewers of papers are not paid, the academic publishers “make windfall profits of billions of dollars by selling subscriptions to libraries worldwide at exorbitantly inflated rates which most institutional libraries in India and even developed countries cannot afford”, the Society said. Padmanabhan Balaram, a senior biochemist and former director of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, also wrote on Friday to India’s science and technology ministry to intervene to ensure that this case does not block access of Indian researchers to content from the websites. “The websites are serving public good in the way perhaps Robin Hood was serving public good,” Balaram told The Telegraph on Friday. “We have to understand the circumstances and conditions under which Robin Hood did what he did.” “Even the most well-endowed academic institutions in India are unable to afford the subscription costs of all the journals they would like to have,” Balaram said. Balaram, in his letter to the secretaries of India’s departments of science and technology, biotechnology, and scientific and industrial research, said the government should not allow the websites to be blocked without an investigation “into monopolistic and unfair pricing in the science publishing industry”. India, Balaram wrote, spends hundreds of crores of rupees through multiple library consortiums and open access charges paid by Indian scientists using public funds, referring to “open access” journals that ask scientists to pay for papers they want to publish. He said scientific publishers had profited from both scientists and libraries, “exploiting cleverly the author pays and reader pays models”. He has asked the government departments to find ways to get publishers to “negotiate on their unreasonable business model that results in a colossal waste of research funds”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Govt trying to tire out farmers: Congress||The Congress on Friday alleged that the Narendra Modi government was displaying political dishonesty by engaging with the protesting farmers while simultaneously working on a strategy to tire them out. Lamenting that the death of 44 farmers had failed to move the government, the Congress said the Centre was so committed to help the corporate sector that it had decided not to withdraw the “black laws”, come what may. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claims of welfare measures were a farce as farmers had got a raw deal during his rule. Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister said Rs 6,000 would be given to every farmer in a year. According to the agriculture census of 2015-16, there are 14.64 crore farmers in India but only 9.24 crore have been selected as beneficiaries of the scheme. He is publicising the sanction of the next installment under this scheme without revealing that input cost has gone up by Rs 15,000 per hectare over the last six years, which means collection of additional Rs 2.36 lakh crore from the farmers every year.” The Congress spokesperson gave a break-up: “Diesel price is up by Rs 25, 5 per cent GST on fertiliser for the first time in history, 18 per cent GST on pesticides, 12 per cent on tractor and other agricultural equipment. The price of DAP fertiliser increased from Rs 1,075 per bag to Rs 1,450, urea bag quantity reduced by 5kg at the same price, potash fertiliser price up by Rs 500 and super fertiliser up by Rs 90 per bag. This works out to a total additional collection of Rs 2.36 lakh crore for the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Bella Ciao gets a Punjabi version||In the span of a year, the streets of India have proved to be fertile ground for the churning out of two Indian versions of Bella Ciao — the Italian protest folk song that became an anti-fascist resistance anthem against Nazi German occupation. After the anti-CAA “Wapas jao”, which borrowed the tune of Bella Ciao and tailored it to the context of the protest against the Centre’s citizenship thrusts, the second version — “Farm laws wapas jao” — is a throwback to the original sung by the mondina (seasonal rice workers) in protest against the harsh working conditions in the paddy fields of north Italy at the turn of the 20th century. It was this original that had taken a life of its own during the anti-fascist resistance as a universal symbol of protest. “Given the history of Bella Ciao, it just made sense to make a version of it tailored to the farmers’ protests,” 27-year-old Poojan Sahil, the man behind both Indian versions, told The Telegraph as the Punjabi version of the song has gone viral online within a fortnight of its release. Poojan’s song has been made into a video and uploaded on YouTube. The video, which has a montage of pictures from the farmers’ protest, has been produced by Karwan-e-Mohabbat, a people’s campaign for constitutional values. Poojan plans to visit the farmers’ protest site over the weekend to see for himself if the song has struck a chord with the farming community picketing at Delhi’s borders, particularly at Tikri and Singhu where the majority are from Punjab. Released on YouTube on December 17, the video has already got nearly three lakh views, given the aggressive use of social media by not just the protesters but also those supporting them in India and across the world. Poojan, an engineer by training who chose to take up teaching mathematics at school level, tried his hand at Bella Ciao for the first time around this time last year during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the Hindi version also had gone viral. A Punjabi himself, he took the help of his parents to pen the song for the farmers’ protest and would like to perform it at one of the sites if there are takers. Though he makes his own music, Poojan likes to work around already familiar songs for such issues because he feels the familiarity helps in spreading the word. “Music and rhyme are a good way to communicate; particularly to people who may not agree with you.” And, a song like Bella Ciao has shown it has the staying power. As for his politics, the Delhi boy insists that like many of his generation, it has evolved because the politics of the country has thrown them into the deep end of the pool over the past six years. “Like many of my generation who came out to support the anti-CAA protests, there is disappointment at what is going on around us. We feel that we will have to struggle for freedom of thought, the very existence of our friends.... essentially the world the generations before us took for granted,” Poojan said, reliving what Bertold Brecht said in the 1930s: “In the dark times will there also be singing? Yes, there will also be singing. About the dark times.” And, Bella Ciao is not alone. Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s Hum Dekhenge has also got its own farmers’ protest edition in a mix of Punjabi and Tamil as an offering of a Chennai-based youth initiative by the name of Justice Rocks and has been hashtagged “Madrasis4Punjabis”, showing that the agitation have found resonance across the country and linguistic barriers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand villages end deadlock after 90 years ||Love blooming between young minds has forced two Uttarakhand villages to bury the hatchet after 90 years. And when the time came for truce, it took just one hour to staunch the bad blood. The residents of Hachina and Ajera in Pithoragarh district have also decided to allow marriage alliances between youths of the two villages. The elders went to Kokila Mata temple located between the two villages on Friday and sought permission from the Goddess to forge the friendship. The residents of Hachina and Ajera had fought with each other in 1930 to claim their right to the nearby forest of Lori. The elders say both villages used to collect wood from Lori but one day the residents of Hachina declared that since the forest was closer to them, they would use its resources exclusively. The enmity that started then triggered many fights. Then one day in 1930, residents of the two hill villages went to Kokila Mata temple separately and resolved that they would have no contact with each other. The divide ran so deep that there was no intermingling down several generations and residents did not even enter each other’s village. “Recently, we realised that although the youths of our villages don’t talk to each other when they are here, many of them have secretly developed romantic relationships and friendships in their colleges. Initially, the elders had resisted but gradually they began considering ending the deadlock,” said a villager who didn’t want to be named. Jaman Singh Bora and Kaman Singh, two social workers of Hachila and Ajera, respectively, said they realised that there was no point allowing the enmity to fester. They feared that the intermingling of the boys and girls could trigger another confrontation if the dispute was not resolved soon. “After a series of meetings with the villagers, it was decided that the panchayat chiefs of Hachila and Ajera, Hansa Devi and Baldev Singh, would invite their fellow villagers to the temple to discuss the issue. It was decided after an hour of meeting at the temple that they would forgive each other. They will also start marriage alliances,” Bora said. “The villagers submitted a joint application before the Goddess through a priest that they wanted to end the enmity,” Bora said. “The villagers are very happy as they have removed a 90-year-old burden from their minds and hearts,” Kaman Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||21-year-old chosen mayor in Kerala||It won’t be someone from the BJP but the next time Prime Minister Narendra Modi lands in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, he could be received by the country’s youngest mayor. Arya Rajendran, a 21-year-old BSc student, was on Friday picked as Thiruvananthapuram mayor by the local district committee of the CPM. The decision would have to be ratified by the party’s state committee, which, according to CPM sources, would be a mere formality. Arya defeated the Congress’s Sreekala by about 2,800 votes in the Mudavanmugal ward of the Kerala capital in the recent local body polls. The BJP, attempting to gain a toehold in Kerala, had desperately wanted to take control of the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation so that the party’s own mayor could receive Modi whenever he comes calling. A dark horse, Arya was nowhere in the reckoning during the election campaign when the CPM projected O.G. Olena and S. Pushpalatha as the probable candidates for the mayor’s post. But both of them lost the elections. Arya is a state committee member of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the campus wing of the CPM, and the state president of the party’s children’s organisation, Balasangham. She belongs to a CPM family, with both parents and elder brother active members of the party. Her father Rajendran is an electrician, while mother Sreelatha is an insurance agent and elder brother Aravind works in Abu Dhabi after graduating in engineering. The choice of Arya illustrates the importance the CPM has given to youths in the recent polls. She is currently a second-year BSc student at All Saints College in Thiruvananthapuram and is determined to continue with her studies. Arya said her background with Balasangham and the SFI had helped her during the campaign. “It is my experience with Balasangham and the SFI that gave me the courage and confidence to face an election,” she said, adding: “It’s the same background that will give me the strength to move forward as a councillor.” Arya exuded confidence while saying that she would continue her studies alongside her work as a councillor. “During my campaign, people had told me to continue my studies even if I manage to win. Fulfilling that promise is one of my major goals,” she told a news channel. The CPM-led Left Democratic Front won 51 of the 100 wards in the Thiruvananthapuram corporation, up from 43 in the 2015 civic body polls. The Thiruvananthapuram mayor’s post has been reserved for women this term. With 50 per cent of all local body seats in the state reserved for women, mayoral positions are alternated between men and women. V.K. Prashanth of the CPM was elected mayor after the 2015 local body polls. But he vacated the post after getting elected to the Assembly in a by-election to the Vattiyoorkavu seat in the Kerala capital in October 2019. K. Sreekumar of the CPM had replaced him. While all political parties had fielded a lot of youngsters in the local council polls, the youngest was the CPM’s Reshma Mariam Roy, who turned 21 and thus became eligible to contest elections just a day before she filed her nomination papers. She won from her home ward number 11 of the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Ministers meet Kerala governor over session to oppose farm laws||Two senior Kerala ministers met governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday in an effort to end the standoff triggered by his rejection of a cabinet decision for a special session of the Assembly to oppose the Centre’s contentious farm laws. The meeting on Christmas came a day after the cabinet made a second recommendation to convene the House on December 31. Khan had earlier triggered a massive controversy by rejecting the first recommendation to hold a one-day session on December 23. While law minister A.K. Balan and agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said they had a cordial discussion with the governor, they could not say for sure if Khan would approve the cabinet’s recommendation to convene the special session on New Year’s Eve. The ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front want to pass a resolution against the farm laws that have set off protests across the country and are detrimental to the interests of Kerala that depends on other states for its food grains. After a 30-minute discussion with Khan at Raj Bhavan, the two ministers told reporters that they expected a positive outcome. “It was a very positive approach from the government and the governor,” Balan said. “The governor raised some points and the subsequent action would be based on what he said,” the law minister said without going into the details of the discussion. Agriculture minister Kumar said: “We expect the governor to take a rational decision on the special session.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||US lawmakers urge Mike Pompeo to speak for farmers||Seven US lawmakers have urged secretary of state Mike Pompeo to speak to Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar about the ongoing protests against the new farm laws in the context of America’s “commitment to the freedom of political speech abroad”. While other US lawmakers have already picked up cudgels for the farmers’ right to peaceful protest, this is the first time a group of members of Congress are petitioning the secretary of state to make an intervention. Essentially, all of them are responding to a demand from their own constituents as Punjabis in general and Sikhs in particular have a significant presence in their respective constituencies. The seven signatories to the letter — five Democrats and two Republicans — have explained the reason for seeking the US government’s intervention. Referring to reports of water cannon attacks, barbed wire barricades and teargas used on the farmers, they said: “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikh Americans linked to Punjab although it also heavily impacts the Indian Americans belonging to other Indian states. Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned for the well-being of their families in India.” Understanding the importance of the India-US relationship, which enjoys bipartisan support in Washington, the US lawmakers have been careful to acknowledge the right of every country to draft their own laws. “As national legislators, we respect the right of the government of India to determine national policy, in compliance with existing law. We also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against agricultural laws that many Indian farmers see as an attack on their economic security.” Indian-origin Democrat Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal is one of the signatories to the letter. Jayapal had last year angered the Indian foreign ministry establishment by moving a bipartisan resolution in Congress on the Kashmir clampdown. The other signatories are Donald Norcross, Brendan F. Boyle, Brian Fitzpatrick, Mary Gay Scanlon, Debbie Dingell and David Trone, taking the number of US lawmakers who have raised concerns about the protests to over a dozen. While the number of legislators across world capitals expressing concern has grown as the protests have prolonged, the Indian external affairs ministry has not commented since its statement after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke up for the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi dismisses farmers' protest as politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, yet again, firmly defended the farm laws, asserted that the government was ready for talks “with a open heart” and accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers for “political reasons”, as the administration and the BJP went all out to claim they had the majority of the cultivators behind them. A routine government work of giving out doles was turned into a political spectacle aimed at not only countering the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders but also claim that an overwhelmingly large section of the peasantry was happy with the three new laws. On former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Modi released an instalment of Rs 2,000 into the bank accounts of each of 9 crore farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Modi used the occasion to interact with and then address the farmers. Ministers, chief ministers, MPs, MLAs and BJP leaders fanned out across the country to listen to Modi’s address on live screens along with gatherings of mostly farmers, according to the party. The government and party machineries were deployed to gather crowds at different locations across the country for the event. The BJP claimed that crores of farmers listened to Modi. The overdrive appeared part of the sustained effort to discredit the protesting cultivators by indirectly claiming that “crores of farmers”, or a majority of them, were with the government. A BJP general secretary had claimed on Thursday that “just about 1 per cent of the country’s farmers” were protesting. After releasing the money, Modi first interacted with select farmers from different states through videoconference and then delivered a speech. Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh were stationed at different locations in Delhi to interact with gatherings and listen to Modi’s speech with them. Transport minister Nitin Gadkari was sent to Assam on a similar mission and many other ministers were in their respective states or constituencies. Modi’s speech, like many since the farmers’ protest started, had a twin purpose — to defend the new laws as a “game-changer” for farmers and slam the Opposition and accuse it of misleading the “bhole bhale (gullible)” farmers for “political gains”. The agitating farmers have termed the laws “anti-farmer” and demanded that they be repealed. Along with the wider Opposition, Modi on Friday singled out Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and also the Left and accused them of misleading the farmers while ignoring the plight of tillers in Bengal. “On every issue of farmers, the government is ready to talk with an open heart,” Modi said after launching his attack on the Opposition. The government has been consistently following the carrot-and-stick policy. On the one hand it has been criticising the agitating farmers, saying they were being misled and used by the BJP’s political rivals and firmly defending the laws, and on the other saying it was ready for talks. “I want to tell also those who are opposing us that the government is in favour of farmers and that it is ready for discussions, provided that the talks are based on sound arguments and facts,” Modi said. Modi, like his party leaders have been doing, latched onto a protest by a section of farmers on Human Rights Day to claim that the peasants’ agitation was politically motivated. BJP leaders have been accusing the protesters of being “Khalistanis” and “Naxals”. “The movement started with the demand for inclusion of MSP in the agri-laws. Then political people jumped in and they started demanding freedom of some who are in jail after being accused of violence. Then they started a movement against toll plazas,” the Prime Minister said. Modi pointed out that he was not attacking the farmers but those political parties that were misleading them. He appealed to the farmers not to get misled and have faith in him. While the Prime Minister defended the laws and urged farmers for talks, defence minister Rajnath tried to woo them by saying that the government would amend the laws after an year if they were not found beneficial. Rajnath, while addressing a crowd at Delhi’s Dwarka where he had gone to listen to Modi’s speech, requested the farmers to try the new agri-laws as an experiment, stressing that the Prime Minister would never do anything that was against farmers. Addressing farmers at Kishangarh village in Delhi, Shah said no corporate entity can snatch a farmer’s land as long as Modi was Prime Minister. The home minister asserted that the provision of minimum support price (MSP) would continue and mandis would not be shut down. Modi’s interaction with select farmers appeared like an exercise to display how beneficial the farm laws were for the farmers. He started with a farmer named Gagan in Arunachal Pradesh, who claimed he was a beneficiary of the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme and said he grew organic ginger and sold them in Bangalore and Delhi. As soon as the farmer said he sold his produce in two big cities, Modi intervened and asked: “So you sell to private companies. Does the private company take only your ginger or your land too?” Gagan replied that he had entered into a contract with a private company to sell his produce, and not the land. Modi said: “You, sitting in Arunachal, are confident that your land is safe but some people are spreading this misinformation that farmers’ land will go if they enter into a contract to sell the produce. So much lies are being spread.” The other beneficiaries with whom Modi interacted appeared to have been picked carefully to ensure they hail the government’s existing schemes and also the new laws. The drift was that contract farming with private companies was more profitable. The agitating farmers have been saying the new laws are aimed at benefiting private companies as the government wants to slowly withdraw the MSP safety net. During his interaction with Hari Singh, a farmer from Haryana’s Fatehabad, Modi appeared happy when he said that he grew fruits apart from paddy and wheat and sold them in the open local market at a good price. The moment Hari Singh tried to say that he had sold his paddy for the MSP, Modi cut him short and congratulated him for the fact that he and his three brothers did joint farming and had not divided their land. He then switched to the next beneficiary from Odisha. Though the government has been claiming MSP would continue, the agitating farmers fear that with no legal guarantee in the new laws, they would be forced to sell their crop to private entities at rates detrimental to them. Farmers from Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh figured in Modi’s interaction but none from Punjab, which has emerged as the epicentre of the protests against the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Retired bank officer from Odisha cracks NEET||Age is no bar to acquiring new knowledge. Retired bank officer Jaya Kishor Pradhan has cracked the NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test)  examination and is going to enrol his name in the prestigious Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla to pursue an MBSS course from this academic session. The 64-year old Pradhan was about to enrol himself for the course on Thursday but could not make it because he failed to arrange the medical certificates at the last moment. He will be doing it on Monday. Dean and principal of VIMSAR Brajan Mohan Mishra told The Telegraph, “Now Pradhan has arranged the required certificates duly approved by the notary. We have received all the documents and all clearance has been given to him. We will enrol him as our student on Monday as he has passed the NEET examination. I had never heard of a student pursuing a medical degree at the age of 64.” Pradhan, who hails from Attabira in Bargarh district in Western Odisha, had retired as deputy manager in State Bank of India in 2016 from Bargarh branch. Pradhan, who had dreamt of becoming a doctor during his youth, had appeared for the medical entrance examination in 1974 but failed to crack it. Pradhan, who is physically challenged, later pursued his BSC degree in 1977. After passing out from the college, he joined as a teacher in Attabira ME School. “Later I appeared for the bank entrance examination and joined the Indian Bank and then State Bank of India in 1983. Later I retired as deputy bank manager of State Bank of India,” Pradhan told this newspaper. While the minimum age to appear for the NEET examination is 17, there is no upper age bar for taking the entrance test. “The Supreme Court’s decision to allow students above the age of 25 years for NEET helped me to pursue my dream of becoming a doctor. I will get the MBBS degree at the age of 70,” said Pradhan. Pradhan’s two  daughters — Jai Prava and Jyoti Prava (twins) — were studying for  Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) in a private college in Bilaspur in Madhya Pradesh. But Jai Prava passed away on November 20.  His only son Joyjeet is studying in Class 10. On how he prepared for the examination, Pradhan said, “While my daughters were preparing for the medical entrance examination, I read their books.  After the SC court removed the age bar for appearing of the entrance examination, I became serious and appeared for the examination this year and cracked it.” Pradhan, who has an infirm right leg, appeared the examination through the handicapped quota. Though he is sad about having lost one of his daughters he is keen to serve the poor through his knowledge. Director VIMSAR, Prof. Lalit Kumar Meher said: “We are happy to enroll a 64 year old student in our institution.” One of the senior medical professors of the VIMSAR college said, “Let us see how he would take up the pressure of attending classes and lab rooms. I wonder if he can do what you get students can do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Sand mafia gobbles up Sher Shah’s causeway ||The five-century-old and 4km-long stone causeway built across the Sone river by emperor Sher Shah Suri (1486AD-1545AD) as part of the famous Grand Trunk Road was considered to be the most significant archaeological find in Bihar after Independence. It was virtually intact when Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials discovered it in 2016. Today, the sand mafia is destroying it with impunity. They have wantonly damaged the causeway at many places; several portions of the structure are collapsing under the weight of huge sand-carrying vehicles and earthmovers. The causeway, located between Dehri in Rohtas district and Barun in Aurangabad district, is also being used as a jetty to illegally mine and load sand from the river. Mounds of sand are stacked along the causeway. Several huge stone slabs used in the structure are missing. The locals say they are being stolen to feed the stone-crusher units illegally active in the vicinity. Armed gangs roam around the area, dissuading common people from going anywhere near the causeway. Locals allege the nefarious trade is conducted in a nexus with the police and district administration officials. All this is happening despite chief minister Nitish Kumar’s frequent visits to archaeological sites and his vow to protect and conserve them. The leader is yet to visit the causeway. “The entire sand mining is illegal because ghats near any monument or bridge are not given on lease for the purpose. The sand mafia’s morale is very high and they are working unchecked. “The local administration turns a blind eye to their activities and it seems that the state government is also not serious about cracking the whip on them. Very drastic steps are needed to protect the causeway from them,” Rohtas-based history and archaeology researcher Shyam Sundar Tiwari told The Telegraph. The 20-feet-wide causeway made from 10-feet-long dressed sandstone slabs having a height and width of one foot each runs across the entire river bed of the Sone to bridge its two banks. The causeway was a part of the fabled Grand Trunk Road — known as the Uttarapath (the North Route) in ancient times and Sadak-e-Azam or Badshahi Sadak during the medieval era — stretching from Sonargaon and Chittagong in present-day Bangladesh to the Balkh region of Kabul in Afghanistan. The GT Road was considered to be of much military, commercial and transportation importance. The causeway, which had got buried under sand on the riverbed, was discovered when copious amounts of water released by the Bansagar Dam in Madhya Pradesh washed away the sand in 2016. The causeway was found by ASI deputy superintending archaeologist Shanker Sharma as part of the Uttarapath mapping project that now figures on the tentative list of the Unesco World Heritage status. Any site, property or monument considered to be a cultural or natural heritage of outstanding universal value and therefore suitable for being designated as a World Heritage is included in the tentative list. Asked about the ongoing destruction of the causeway, Sharma refused to comment. Patna circle superintending archaeologist H.A. Naik, under whose jurisdiction Bihar falls, expressed ignorance about the damage being perpetrated on the causeway. “We have not received any information or report from the state government or any other source about the destruction of Sher Shah’s causeway. We will send a team to find this out,” Naik told this newspaper. Then ASI director-general Rakesh Tewari, under whose tenure the structure was found, asserted that the onus of its protection was on the state government. “It is not a protected monument of the state or the Centre. However, its protection is the responsibility of the state government and the local administration. The causeway is a very important structure discovered by us,” Tewari said. Aurangabad district magistrate Saurabh Jorawal said he did not know about either Sher Shah’s causeway or illegal mining. “I have no idea about Sher Shah’s structure or illegal sand mining activities. However, we will get it checked,” Jorawal told this correspondent. Asked about the destruction of Sher Shah’s stone causeway due to illegal sand mining, Aurangabad police superintendent Sudhir Kumar Podika said: “This was not in my notice. I will ask my men to look into it. We conduct continuous raids against the sand mafia. Officials from the police, district administration, mining, transport, weights and measures are part of the raiding teams.” Since bridges of such span were not constructed in the 16th century, the causeway was an engineering marvel that allowed people and animal-drawn vehicles to cross the river. Surkhi-chuna (burnt clay and lime) mortar was used to connect the stone slabs of the structure. Stone chips were used to add strength to the mortar. The side of the causeway facing the flow of the river water was veneered with small stones to provide protection to the structure from the swift currents. Culverts were constructed on the causeway at regular intervals to allow the passage of water and the foundation of the entire structure is several metres deep. It became defunct during monsoon when water flowed over the structure and ferries were used to transport people, horses, elephants and carts from one side of the riverbank to the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
