27-12-2020||India||RCP Singh appointed as JDU chief amid alliance strain||Rajya Sabha member Ramchandra Prasad Singh has been appointed as the new chief for Janata Dal (United) (JDU) by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The move comes immediately Kumar suffered a setback with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) its ally in Bihar poaching six of its MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh. According to sources, despite the party appointing Singh as its chief, it was Kumar who had expressed his desire to senior party leaders about having the former IAS officer appointed as the new JDU chief. The move many believe is a way of making himself unavailable for BJP, as Kumar, holds the saffron party responsible the poor performance of his party in the recently concluded Bihal assembly polls. In doing so, Kumar is pushing his confidante to both looking after JDU and also dealing with BJP. With change of fold of JDU leaders in Arunachal Pradesh and change of order in JDU it seems like all is not well between the two NDA allies, with BJP projecting itself as the dominant partner since the Bihar polls concluded. According to an NDTV report, Singh, a former IAS officer of UP cadre, is not just close to the Bihar CM but also belongs to the same caste. He has also served Kumar as his personal secretary during the former’s tenure as railway minister. When Kumar became the CM in 2005, Singh moved on to become the principal secretary. Half a decade later, Singh was nominated as the Rajya Sabha member, following which he has been Kumar’s representative in Delhi, especially after JDU returning to NDA in 2017. According to sources Singh had played a key role in forming the JDU-BJP alliance for both the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2020 Bihar assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||Randeep Surjewala hits back at Nadda after he attacks Rahul over the ongoing farmers’ protest||The Congress on Sunday hit back at BJP president JP Nadda after he attacked Rahul Gandhi for opposing the new farm laws, alleging that he was trying to mislead the farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that before targeting Gandhi, the BJP chief should have known there is no MSP on potatoes and asked him why the government had to import potatoes when there is enough within the country. “Dear Naddaji, before misleading the farmers, you should have known that there is no MSP on potatoes. And...we also want reforms in the agriculture sector, but the question here is the way the life of farmers has been attacked with the three black laws,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “You should also tell why you are importing one million tonnes of potatoes from abroad while leaving the country’s farmers,” he said, replying to Nadda’s tweet. The BJP president on Sunday shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Lok Sabha in which citing a potato farmer, he seems to be advocating the need for farmers to get rid of the middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, as he accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers’ protest “What is this magic happening Rahulji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers’ interests. “You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards,” Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. The Congress has backed the farmers’ protest against three agriculture-marketing laws which give cultivators an option to sell their produce directly to private players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate India’s first-ever driverless train operations on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the country's first-ever fully-automated driverless train service on the Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro on Monday that will herald a new era of enhanced mobility driven by cutting-edge technology. With the commencement of these new-generation trains, the DMRC will enter the elite league of “seven per cent of the world’s Metro networks” which can operate services without drivers, the Delhi Metro said on Sunday. After starting driverless services on the 37 km Magenta Line (Janakpuri West Botanical Garden), another major corridor of the Delhi Metro, 57km Pink Line (Majlis Park Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by mid-2021, the DMRC said in a statement. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to inaugurate India's first-ever driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro's Magenta Line (Janakpuri West Botanical Garden) as well as the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line via video-conferencing tomorrow, scheduled at 11 am,” it said. These innovations are going to herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility for the residents of Delhi and other cities in the National Capital Region. The commercial operation of these new-generation trains, set to be a major technological feat, will begin later the same day, after the event, a senior Delhi Metro official said. “The driverless trains will be fully automated which will require minimum human intervention and will eliminate the possibilities of human errors. Delhi Metro has been a pioneer in introducing technology-driven solutions for passenger comfort and this is another step in the same direction,” the statement said. Once the driverless trains are operationalised on the Pink Link too, the Delhi Metro will have a driverless network length of about 94 km which will be approximately nine percent of the world's total driverless metro network, it added. After the launch, also it will be the first time when commuters will be able to use the NCMC on any corridor of the Delhi Metro. Prime Minister Modi in March 2019 had launched the indigenously-developed NCMC to enable people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including using metro and bus services across the country. Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the inter-operable transport card allows the holders to also pay for their bus travel, toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money. The NCMC, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Line will also be a major milestone as anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued in the last 18 months by 23 banks (all these are NCMC compliant as per directions of the Department of Financial Services, Government of India), from any part of the country will be able to travel on this line using that card, the Delhi Metro said. The same facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, it added. This is the first major event of Delhi Metro in 2020 which saw an unprecedented lockdown in the earlier months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation on the Yellow Line from September 7 after being closed for over five months. The Delhi Metro's currently operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including NOIDA Greater NOIDA line). On regular days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro is over 26 lakh. “Pre-COVID time, about 60 lakh ‘journeys’ were being performed every day on the Delhi Metro network making it the mass transportation backbone of the NCR,” it said. A ‘journey’ in metro parlance relates to a trip that includes all corridors used by a rider in a single travel. Driven by cutting-edge technology, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has been conducting various trials for its new 'driverless trains', whose flagging off will be a major technological milestone for the DMRC and the country. Although initially drivers will be deputed for operating the trains they would be gradually withdrawn to move to Unattended Train Operation (UTO). Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC's first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations. The driverless train, having six coaches, is equipped with several advanced features. The metro rail scenario in the entire nation has undergone a massive transformation in the last six years. While in 2014, only 248 km of metro lines were operational in five cities, presently 702 km are operational in 18 cities in India, the DMRC statement said. “In the days to come, over a thousand kilometres of new lines shall be added and about 27 cities in the country will have metro connectivity. By 2022, when the nation celebrates its 75th Independence Day, India will have a combined metro network of over a thousand kilometres which will carry more than a crore passengers every day,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||Smriti targets Congress over farmers' welfare and cow protection||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday hit out at the Congress over the issues of farmers' welfare and cow protection. Irani's attack on Congress came days after the Opposition party had decided to take out 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao (save cow, save farmers)' marches in different districts of Bundelkhand region to highlight alleged mismanagement in 'gaushalas' (cow shelters). "Those who had themselves grabbed land of farmers and have still not vacated, those who through their office-bearers had killed cows in a gruesome manner in Kerala and publicised it, do you think the people of Uttar Pradesh are confused and will forgive these people," Irani told reporters here. She said the people of UP know how much work her Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has done on the protection of cows. "The people of UP also know how Congress office-bearers in Kerala had organised a festival of killing cows. I am saying with full responsibility that after killing cows, these people got encouragement from the Congress high command. The people very well know the truth of the Congress party," she said in an apparent reference to the Congress's youth wing workers slaughtering a cow and serving its meat to people in Kerala to protest against the Centre's ban on the purchase of cattle from animal markets for slaughter. The minister, who represents Amethi in Lok Sabha, on Sunday heard the 'Mann ki Baat' radio address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Hajipur village. She also interacted with women, listened to their grievances, and assured them of addressing their problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||Pradeep Sangwan's campaign to clear plastic waste from Himalayas draws PM Modi's praise||Haryanvi youth Pradeep Sangwan's campaign of clearing plastic waste from different areas of the Himalayas on Sunday drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 35-year-old who hails from Gurgaon is a mountaineer based in Himachal Pradesh and he established 'Healing Himalayas Foundation' four years ago. Sangwan, along with a team of volunteers, clears tonnes of plastic and other waste left behind by tourists each year. In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast of the year, Modi, while talking about new resolves for the New Year, said there are some people who continuously keep doing something new and keep on realising new resolves. "You must have also felt in your life that when you do something for society then the society itself gives us the energy to do much more. Normal sources of inspiration can accomplish great tasks. One such young man is Pradeep Sangwan," he said. He said Sangwan is running a campaign called 'Healing Himalayas' since 2016, as part of which he along with his team goes to different areas of Himalayas and clears the garbage left behind by tourists. "Till now, Pradeep has cleared tonnes of plastic waste from different locations of Himalayas," Modi said while praising Sangwan's initiative. Sangwan later told PTI, "It is very inspiring that Prime Minister acknowledges small efforts by people like me. I thank him for bringing the work, which we are doing for the sake of protecting our environment, to national attention. It will definitely act as a big motivation." Sharing details of how he launched his campaign, Sangwan said his father was in the Army and also wanted him to become an officer in the defence forces. However, destiny took a different course when he could not clear the interview to join the Army. While doing his graduation from Chandigarh's DAV College, he came into contact with some friends from Himachal Pradesh with whom he started to explore the Himalayas in 2007-08. "I moved to Himachal in 2009, where for the next five years I undertook extensive travelling, treks etc. I met a group of people from 'gaddi' (shepherd) community in Lahaul when we were doing on such trek from Chandra Taal lake to Suraj Tal lake," he said. Sangwan said that he along with a friend spent 3-4 days with the members of this community and he was very impressed by how, even in a very remote area, they cared so much for their environment. He said the projects of his foundation, which sustains on voluntary donations, are focused on clean-up drives, waste management and other activities in the rural Himalayan region. Each year in December, Sangwan says that he designs a calendar for the following year where volunteers can align their trips accordingly. "While going up for a trek, we collect all the trash. Mainly we find plastic bottles, multilayer packaging plastic waste, and then we store it at one location on the route. While coming back we bring it back to the base village and transport it to the nearest facility. In the process, we engage mainly our volunteers," he said. "I recall that during a trek to Kheer Ganga in Kullu district in two days we got 10,000 plastic PET bottles. "Another sad thing we came across is that many people after drinking dispose of beer and other glass bottles in a reckless manner or break them. We also come across cases where cows were unable to move because a piece of glass got stuck in their hoof leaving them in great pain," he said. Sangwan stressed on working at the community level for better results in waste management in the Himalayan region. "My focus remains on the Himalayan rural region. We mainly work in the districts of Kullu, Shimla, Mandi and Kinnaur," he said. His foundation has now set up a first waste collection unit, which will be operational soon, in a village called Rakcham near Chitkul in Kullu district, while the second one will come up near Kheer Ganga base camp. Third and the fourth one will come up in Lahaul where Atal tunnel has come up, which is witnessing a lot of tourist activity. He said that in his campaign social media has acted as a powerful tool and more and even film stars like Randeep Hooda, who is from Haryana, have supported and appreciated his cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||Farmers bang 'thaalis' as PM harps on Aatmanirbhar Bharat in ‘Mann ki Baat’||Farmers, protesting against the new farm laws at various border points of Delhi, clanged thalis and shouted slogans on Sunday morning as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation during his weekly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast. The protest took place at several spots -- Singhu border, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts in Punjab and BJP-ruled Haryana -- as the Prime Minister spoke against single-use plastics, espoused the benefits of an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat", and paid tributes to the Sikh personalities of the country. Unlike his November address, the Prime Minister did not raise the issue of farmers, who have been protesting for a month at different borders of Delhi against three agri laws. Modi said that  people have supported the "vocal for local" campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. “The outgoing year saw the spirit of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ echo in society,” he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the Prime Minister asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolutions for the New Year. Modi also asked Indians to use Kashmiri saffron, saying that his government is working to make it a “globally popular brand”. The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. “We pay tribute to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion,” he said. As the programme went on, at many places, farmers, who were joined by people from other sections of society, raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni went to the Makrauli toll plaza in Rohtak district along with a group of farmers to protest against the legislations. “We are here to oppose Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’. We are registering this protest because the prime minister only says what he has to without listening to the voice of the people,” he said. The farmers had announced their plan of beating utensils last week. “Today again, PM Modi did ‘apne mann ki baat’ (spoke his own mind) and did not listen to ‘kisanon ke mann ki baat’ (farmers’ point of view). Farmers are demanding that the new laws should be repealed and the MSP (minimum support price) for crops be made a law,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri had told PTI at Noida on Friday, after Modi blamed the Opposition for politicising the farmers’ protest. The farmers' "thaali protest" was announced last Sunday. “On December 27 when the Prime Minister gives his Mann Ki Baat radio address, farmers will say 'we are tired of listening to your Mann ki Baat, when will you listen to our Mann ki Baat?' So we will bang utensils so that the noise of his Mann ki Baat doesn't reach us,” Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav was quoted as saying by NDTV. The idea of banging plates was proposed by Modi himself in March, to show solidarity with frontline workers of Covid-19 during the initial phase of the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
27-12-2020||India||Nadda posts Rahul's old speech to take a swipe at him||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi's speech in Lok Sabha in which he seems to be advocating the need for farmers to get rid of middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, as he accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers' protest. "What is this magic happening Rahul ji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers' interests. You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards," Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. Congress has backed the farmers' protest against three agriculture-marketing laws which give cultivators an option to sell their produce directly to private players. Agitating farmers have argued that these laws are aimed at weakening the existing government's support for the farm sector, a charge denied by the Centre. In his speech, apparently made in the last Lok Sabha when he was an MP from Amethi, Gandhi is heard saying that a farmer during his trip to Uttar Pradesh asked him to explain the "magic" behind a packet of potato chips costing Rs 10 while farmers sell potato for Rs 2 per kg. When he asked what they thought was the reason for this, the farmer said factories are located very far from them and if they could sell their produce directly there, they will get all the money without middlemen earning any cut, Gandhi is heard saying in the short video posted by Nadda. That was the idea behind a food park and this is in a way what farmers and labourers of Amethi and 10-12 districts of Uttar Pradesh has been fighting for, he says in the clip. Gandhi had accused the Modi government during its first term of shelving the food park project in Amethi. The government had denied the charge and said the park never had the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||CBI should tell if Sushant's death was murder or suicide: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday urged the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to reveal if Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death was a suicide or murder. He said the CBI should bring out its probe report into the case as soon as possible. "The people of Maharashtra and the country are eagerly waiting for the CBI's report on its investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. People ask me about the status of the case...I request the CBI to reveal whether it was a suicide or murder," Deshmukh said in a press conference. "Five to six months have passed since the case was handed over to the CBI. Hence, the agency should make public its report as soon as possible to clear whether it was suicide or murder," he added. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra on June 14 this year. Earlier, the Mumbai Police had filed an accidental death report and they were investigating the matter. On August 19, the Supreme Court had upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father at Patna against the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI. The central agency had then taken over the probe from Bihar Police. In October, the medical board of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had ruled out murder in the death of Rajput, terming it "a case of hanging and death by suicide".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||North East now experiencing new thrust in development: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the North East in his heart and so brought a flood of development in the region, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. The BJP government under Modi has given a new identity to the region which is now experiencing a new thrust in development, Shah said at the inauguration and foundation laying programme of several projects at Hapta Kangjeibung here. Earlier, Manipur was known for insurgency, bandhs, and blockades, but now most militant organisations have joined the mainstream and those left would also do so following efforts of the BJP government, he said. He attacked the Congress for failing to solve the problems of Manipur when they were in power and asserted that since the last three years under Chief Minister N. Biren Singh the state is moving ahead on the path of growth. The Inner Line Permit (ILP) has been the biggest gift by the Prime Minister to the people of Manipur which they got even without asking for it, the home minister said. "Modiji realised that Manipur is not having the Inner Line Permit when other states surrounding it had it which is an injustice to the indigenous people and he found a way," Shah said. It was a matter of "great satisfaction for us when Manipur got it (ILP) on December 11, 2019", he added. Inner Line Permit (ILP) is an official travel document issued by the concerned state government to allow travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It is obligatory for the citizens from outside those states to obtain a permit for entering into the protected state. Shah arrived here from Guwahati Sunday afternoon on the last leg of his three-day visit to the North East and laid the foundation of seven projects, including a medical college at Churachandpur, inaugurated the Thoubal Dam and dedicate the Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen Road to the public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||No farmers, but Aatmanirbhar Bharat, saffron find place in ‘Mann ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday during his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address of the year pitched for the resolution of saying no to single-use plastics, and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, and paid tributes to the Sikh personalities of the country. Unlike his November address, the Prime Minister did not raise the issue of farmers, who have been protesting for a month at different borders of Delhi against three agri laws, on Sunday. Modi said that  people have supported the ‘vocal for local’ campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. “The outgoing year saw the spirit of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ echo in society,” he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the prime minister asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolutions for the new year. Modi also asked Indians to use Kashmiri saffron, saying that his government is working to make it a “globally popular brand”. The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. “We pay tribute to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion,” he said. As the Prime Minister continued with his address, protesting farmers in Haryana’s Rohtak clanged thalis and raised slogans against the Centre, which has refused to repeal the three contentious laws, NDTV reported. “Today again, PM Modi did ‘apne mann ki baat’ (spoke his own mind) and did not listen to ‘kisanon ke mann ki baat’ (farmers’ point of view). Farmers are demanding that the new laws should be repealed and the MSP (minimum support price) for crops be made a law,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri told PTI at Noida.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Covid: India reports less than 20,000 cases ||India's daily new Covid-19 fatality count was reported below 300 for the second consecutive day, taking the death toll to 1,47,622, while the infection tally rose to 1,01,87,850, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Sunday. A total of 279 more deaths and 18,732 new infections were reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,61,538, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.82 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 2,78,690 active coronavirus infections in the country, constituting 2.74 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,81,02,657 samples have been tested up to December 26, including 9,43,368 on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Farmers set repeal-and-enact agenda for December 29 talks||Done with the government’s obfuscation, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have sought to buttonhole the Modi dispensation into discussing the real issues by sending a detailed agenda for the talks they have mooted on December 29. The proposed agenda lists the modalities for the repeal of the three farm laws and the mechanisms to be adopted to enact a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. The farmers have asked Narendra Modi to stop his “litany of lies”, saying it brings disrepute not only to the Prime Minister’s Office but also to the country. The farmers have expressed disappointment at the way the government has been trying to mislead the nation with “lies and fabrication of facts”. If the December 29 talks make no headway, the farmers are planning to intensify their protest. They say the government would be responsible for this. “If a survey is done of the number of times the Prime Minister lies in a day, it will be found that it is numerous times. This is a blot on the country. The Prime Minister’s Office is the face of the country. If the Prime Minister lies, it damages the image of the country.... We hope the Prime Minister will listen to us and quit lying and find the courage to be honest,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab. Rajewal was not alone in speaking about the Prime Minister’s “dishonesty” at a media conference held at the Singhu border protest site after the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had replied to the letter the government had sent on Thursday, which again invited the farmers for talks at a time of their choosing. Prior to Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakkaji” — who was formerly associated with the RSS-backed farmers’ union, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, and is now convener of a collective of 62 Madhya Pradesh-based organisations, the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh — too dwelt on how he had never come across a Prime Minister who was “so untruthful”. As an example, Sharma cited Modi’s repeated claim that his government had implemented the Swaminathan Commission formula for calculating the MSP when the government had actually submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court that this could not be done. These falsehoods and relentless propaganda against the protesting farmers are vitiating the atmosphere, the SKM said, urging the government to take the initiative to create an atmosphere conducive to talks and an early resolution. The SKM’s response to the government’s letter too flags this. “We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts. If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings.” Suggesting the meeting be held on December 29 at 11am, the SKM has presented an agenda, including the sequence in which the issues should be taken up. First are the modalities for the repeal of the three laws, followed by the mechanisms to be adopted to turn a remunerative MSP, as recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission), into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities. The other issues on the agenda are amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, and changes to the Electricity Bill, 2020, to protect their interests. “If there is no progress at this meeting, the next day we will move with our tractors between the Singhu, Tikri and Shahjahanpur borders, and the responsibility of any inconvenience caused will be solely on the government,” farmer leader Rajinder Singh said. That the farmers are not hopeful of an early resolution is evident from their call to all Delhi residents to join them at the borders, where they are protesting, on New Year’s Day and eat at the langars as “we will not be able to return home to usher in 2021”. While this “leaderless” movement of 500 farmer organisations and collectives has by and large been peaceful except when they have had to force their way past police barricades, there is concern about some leaders trying to disrupt the agitation from within. This was hinted by Ranjit Singh Raju, convener of the Gramin Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, Rajasthan, when he urged farmers from his state to stick to the Shahjahanpur border with Haryana and not try and join the protest at Tikri. “The SKM has given Rajasthan the charge of the Shahjahanpur border but some farm leaders are creating problems to weaken the movement,” he told the media while urging people to extend the boycott of Jio, Mukesh Ambani’s telecom venture, to Fortune products of the Adani Group. The farmer unions sought to distance themselves from the severing of power supply to Jio towers in Punjab, insisting that their call was for boycott but people were going further because of the anger against the corporate house that they see as a big beneficiary of the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Omar Abdullah audio clip tests Narendra Modi’s DDC poll boast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared on Saturday that all parties in Jammu and Kashmir had acknowledged the fairness and transparency of the recent District Development Council elections. The claim faced an instant test with former chief minister Omar Abdullah releasing an audio clip purportedly revealing how alleged associates of the BJP were facilitating horse-trading. The tape features voices that suggest discussions to facilitate the defection of a winning National Conference candidate to a party considered as the BJP’s B team in exchange for the release of a relative from prison. Against considerable odds, the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for restoration of the special rights under Article 370, won the highest number of seats, 112, against the BJP’s 75. Hours after Modi’s speech launching the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme in Jammu and Kashmir, Omar addressed a media conference where he played the audio tape of a phone conversation. The conversation took place purportedly between an individual who was present at the media conference and the husband of the National Conference winner from Shopian, Yasmeen Jan who on Friday had joined the Apni Party, which is seen as the BJP’s B team. In the audio, a voice, said to be that of the husband, claims his wife switched sides after Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari promised him to get his brother released from jail if she joined his party. The individual is heard warning him that his wife would lose the DDC membership for deserting the National Conference, Omar’s party and one of the partners in the Gupkar alliance. “Forget about what will happen. He (Bukhari) gave me the word himself that they will get Farooq (his brother) released if we do it (join the Apni Party)…. I swear by God… that he assured me to wait for just three days only (to see the results),” the voice in the audio says. Apni Party leader Abdul Rahim Rather later denied that any wrongdoing was committed and claimed that people were joining them voluntarily. Arrests are routine in Kashmir and families have to run from pillar to post to get their relatives released. A 100-year-old woman who participated in a BJP rally this month said she agreed to do so after a local BJP leader promised her to get her out of jail. “The Prime Minister talked a lot about the DDC elections and said this was a victory. If so, the next steps should be based on democracy,” Omar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: rage on ground forces BJP's Rajasthan ally Hanuman Beniwal to quit||Another NDA ally, Hanuman Beniwal, has quit the BJP-led alliance after the Shiromani Akali Dal, reflecting the intense pressure from the ground in agrarian states that the Narendra Modi government has so far chosen not to acknowledge. The loss of Beniwal, who hails from Rajasthan, need not in itself worry the BJP but its possible ripple effect may impact the stability of the coalition government in adjoining Haryana, where leaders are beginning to taste a farmer backlash. Beniwal on Saturday marched along with thousands of his farmer supporters from Rajasthan to Delhi’s borders and declared he was snapping ties with the NDA in protest against the three new farm laws. Following Beniwal’s march with the farmers, Delhi appears to be under siege from all sides — Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and now Rajasthan. Beniwal, whose Rashtriya Loktantrik Party derives strength from the landed Jat community in Rajasthan, had earlier threatened to quit the ruling NDA at the Centre if the three “anti-farmer” laws were not repealed. “I am not stuck to the NDA with Fevicol. Today I separate myself from the NDA,” Beniwal, who represents the rural Nagaur Lok Sabha seat in Rajasthan, said while addressing his farmer supporters at the Shahjahanpur-Kheda border with Delhi in Alwar district. “I have quit the NDA in protest against the three farm laws.… The laws are anti-farmer.… We won’t stand with anyone who is against farmers,” he added, amid loud slogans hailing his move. Although BJP managers had expected Beniwal to quit, the move is likely to add to the pressure on the government at a time the farmers’ protest is showing no signs of ebbing. Beniwal, his party’s lone MP in the Lok Sabha, got thousands of farmers to march from Jaipur to the Delhi border. The crowd of mostly Jat farmers from northeastern Rajasthan expressed anger at the farm laws. Beniwal said he was not leading the farmers’ march, he had only joined it. Beniwal, facing pressure from his Jat backers who have a substantial presence in Rajasthan, had first written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding repeal of the laws. He then quit as member of parliamentary panels before severing ties with the BJP on Saturday. The RLP has three MLAs in Rajasthan. The BJP-led government in Haryana survives on the support of Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party. Like Beniwal, Dushyant too banks heavily on the Jat community and is already under pressure to get the laws revoked or quit. Some of his 10 MLAs are learnt to be threatening to step down, citing intense pressure from their Jat voters. Dushyant, the deputy chief minister, faced boycott in his constituency on Thursday. Villagers dug up a helipad prepared for his visit to Hisar, demanding he relinquish his post in protest against the farm laws. Dushyant was forced to cancel his trip as local farmers refused to allow him to enter the village he was scheduled to visit. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the BJP has also been gheraoed and shown black flags by farmers. Early this month, Dushyant had called on defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urging them to resolve the crisis. After the meeting, he had expressed hope of a “conclusive result” in the next 48 hours. Weeks have passed but the government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, continues to firmly back the new laws, calling them beneficial for farmers and accusing the Opposition of misleading the cultivators. “We are not worried about Beniwal. He will again join hands with us later,” a BJP leader said, underlining that the Rajasthan MP had said he would not align with the Congress. “We hope Beniwal’s move doesn’t put pressure on Dushyant Chautala and his MLAs.” Congress stalwart and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, also a Jat leader, is believed to be trying to win over the JJP’s MLAs. Since the difference in numbers between the BJP and the Congress is not very wide in the state, a threat looms over the Khattar government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Plan to widen scan for fast-spreading mutant||India plans to sequence the whole coronavirus genomes from five per cent of Covid-19 positive cases in all states to enhance surveillance for early detection and containment of the fast-spreading UK variant. A national task force on Covid-19 decided on Saturday to expand genome sequencing through nationwide sampling of five per cent of the positive cases. Scientists say the initiative would also provide better insights into Covid-19 variants already circulating in India. Routine sampling of positive cases for genome sequencing is an idea health authorities in Kerala had adopted over a month ago after a pilot study in September to sequence 100 samples from each of the state’s 14 districts each month. The task force had called a meeting to discuss testing, treatment and surveillance strategies amid concerns that it is critical to detect and prevent the spread in India of the variant named B.1.17 with increased transmissibility reported by UK scientists. The Union health ministry said on Saturday that around 50 Covid-19 positive samples from people who have returned from the UK in recent days are under whole genome sequencing analysis in designated government labs. The ministry had earlier this week recommended a temporary suspension of flights from the UK and directed surveillance authorities to genome sequence any positive cases with a history of travel from the UK since November 25. Scientists say the plan to sample five per cent of positive cases nationwide will address speculation whether the UK variant might already be in circulation in the country but has remained undetected because of limited coronavirus sequencing efforts. India had up to Saturday sequenced only 6,370 viruses isolated from among over 10.16 million cases, in contrast to more than 157,000 virus sequenced in the UK which has had around two million cases. Eight labs, including the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani (Bengal), will do the genome sequencing. The others are in Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar and Pune. The five per cent sampling would mean 1,000 samples would need to be sequenced if the number of positive cases is 20,000. Scientists in some of the labs say they have the capacity to sequence 3,000 genomes ever 24 hours. “Kerala obviously saw the value in genome sequencing months ago,” said a senior scientist. After an experimental study in September led by doctors at the Calicut Medical College, Kerala’s health department in November approved a proposal by a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research lab to sequence 100 viruses every month from the state’s 14 districts. “Regular genomic surveillance is critical to understand how the virus mutates and whether the mutations might have any implications on the behaviour of the virus,” the scientist said. Mutations emerge spontaneously in the virus and efforts are underway worldwide to catalog these genetic changes and determine whether they might impact testing or treatment strategies. Although the B.1.1.7 variant reported from the UK and a few other countries spreads from person to person more easily, medical researchers say there is no evidence that the variant has any impact on the infection severity or the need for hospitalisation. At Saturday’s meeting, the national task force determined there is no need to change treatment strategies for the UK variant. But health officials consider early detection and containment of the variant as critical to prevent large-scale spread within India. The Covid-19 epidemic in India has steadily shrunk since mid-September with around 280,000 active patients on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik bats for 33% women’s quota ||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday targeted the national parties for their failure to take steps for women empowerment and asserted that his party will fight on every conceivable platform for reservation of seats for women in Lok Sabha and legislative Assemblies. However, Naveen’s statement has been criticised by both the Congress and the BJP who have accused the chief minister of playing the women card for the sake of votes ahead of the urban polls scheduled next year. They also claimed that the Naveen government wanted to divert public attention from its failure on various fronts, particularly on the issue of safety and security of women. Addressing the 24th foundation day function of the BJD, Naveen said: “National parties remember women empowerment during elections and make commitments  in their manifestoes only to conveniently forget about it after winning the elections. BJD will keep reminding the national parties about this forgotten promise.” The chief minister said that henceforth BJD will raise the issue of women empowerment in every session of Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and in the legislative assembly to remind national parties of their promises in this regard. Naveen also maintained that his government was providing 50 per cent reservation to women in urban and rural bodies. “ Now it's fighting to give 33 per cent reservation to women in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The BJD is the only party in the country which gave tickets to 33 per cent women in the last general elections,” Naveen said. At present in the 147 members Odisha Assembly, there are 15 women members. Stating that the BJD has become a social movement and women are the soul of this social movement, Naveen said, “No household, no state, no country has progressed without empowering its women. We cannot deprive half of our population of their rights. They must have their rightful place in the political space of our country.” In fact, Naveen has done even better than his late father and former chief minister Biju Patnaik as far as providing reservation to women is concerned. While Biju was the first leader to introduce 33 per cent reservation for women in panchayat and urban bodies in 1992, Naveen enhanced this quota to 50 per cent. Reacting to the chief minister’s stand on women empowerment, state BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The state government has totally failed in providing security to women. Now they are raising the issue only to divert the attention of the people from their failures.” In the other hand, state congress Mahila Morcha (Women wing) president Bandita Parida said, “While Naveen Babu is raising the issue of respect for Maa and Matti (mother and motherland) women are being tortured in the state every day. The mother of the five-year-old girl Pari, who was murdered in July, is yet to get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||‘Mild’ Covid-19 mutations spotted in Kerala||Genome sequence studies have shown “mild” mutations in the Covid-19 virus circulating in Kerala although scientists have not clarified yet how similar it is to the fast-spreading variant in Britain. Kerala health minister K.K. Shailaja on Saturday told reporters that a research conducted by the health department has found that the coronavirus has undergone mutations in the state. “We could see a mild mutation in the research conducted in Kozhikode… we are conducting similar research in every d0.istrict,” said Shailaja. She said the mutant samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and the results were awaited. “Whatever it is, everyone needs to be very careful… some viruses could get less dangerous once they undergo mutation, but others could get more dangerous,” she said. The discovery of the mutation came amid eight passengers who arrived from the UK testing positive for Covid-19. “It is reported that the mutant virus found in Britain spreads very fast and is more contagious. Right now we have only these reports and no first hand experience. But scientists have urged extreme caution,” she said. “We called a meeting to discuss the precautions to be followed the moment we got to know about the new strain in Britain and heightened vigilance at our four international airports,” she said. As a precautionary measure the Kerala health department has also started monitoring all those who arrived from European countries shortly before Britain reported the mutation. Scientists have underlined that the coronavirus has a tendency to develop mutations over time. The purpose of cataloguing mutations is to determine whether some mutations might affect the behaviour of the virus and whether they might impact vaccine efficacy. The discovery of the “mild” mutation in the state came at a time when Kerala was bracing for an increase in the caseload as a direct aftermath of the recent local body polls. Although the state government and the election commission had urged political parties and candidates to strictly follow safety guidelines in view of Covid-19, health authorities fear a considerable rise in new cases. The first state to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January, Kerala has since had a full-blown second wave with daily cases going beyond the 10,000 mark on several days during September to October. After winning accolades for flattening the curve, Kerala saw a steep spike after the Onam celebrations in August coupled with Opposition protests against the government on a slew of issues ranging from a gold smuggling in which a senior bureaucrat was later arrested. The daily reported cases have since come down to around 5,000 with the state witnessing a slow recovery. The state reported 5,397 new cases and 4,506 recoveries on Friday taking the number of active cases to 64,028.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||JDU sees BJP ‘treachery’ in Arunachal Pradesh defections||The Janata Dal United reacted with shock and anger at the defection of six of its seven Arunachal Pradesh MLAs to the BJP, calling it an act of treachery by the ally and seeing in the move an attempt by the BJP to assert who is more powerful in Bihar. At the JDU’s two-day national executive meeting that began in Patna on Saturday, the focus remained firmly on the switchovers as leader after leader expressed disbelief at Thursday’s developments. JDU leaders from all over the country were supposed to discuss various issues pertaining to the party, including participating in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, but the Arunachal Pradesh setback took centre-stage with the party viewing it as not only back-stabbing by the BJP but also as a threat. The Bihar Opposition predicted the doom of the JDU and suggested party chief and chief minister Nitish Kumar to look for new allies to stay afloat. “This is treachery. We have been allies and yet the BJP did not give it importance. Moreover, it was in a comfortable position in Arunachal Pradesh and there was no need to do this. We were not even kept in the loop about the development,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity before attending the national executive session. Another JDU leader pointed out that although an “insignificant” development in Arunachal politics, “the defections are like a message to our party in Bihar or an attempt to show who is more powerful”. The JDU and the BJP are not allies in Arunachal Pradesh. The JDU provides outside support to the BJP government in the northeastern state. JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi expressed displeasure over the developments, saying the action by the BJP was “against the spirit of coalition politics.” Several senior JDU leaders, including Nitish, who is the party’s national president, have either kept mum or skirted questions on the Arunachal defections, indicating the sense of helplessness in the party and a realisation about the consequences of being the junior partner in the ruling combine in Bihar. Asked about his views on the defections, Nitish said: “There is nothing like this. We have our meeting and conference now. They (the Arunachal Pradesh legislators) have separated from us.” The development has come just 45 days after the JDU was reduced to being a junior partner of the BJP in Bihar following the Assembly elections. While the BJP won 74 seats, the JDU bagged just 43. The BJP had played second fiddle to Nitish and his JDU from 2005 to 2020. JDU sources said the Arunachal blow would be discussed at the meeting though the party may not issue an official statement on it. The BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh operation coincided with the party’s two deputy chief ministers in Bihar — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday. Sources in the BJP said Modi and Shah instructed the two leaders to ensure that the party’s participation in the welfare and development projects in Bihar is clearly visible, and that it gets the credit for better work done by the state government. The BJP said the JDU MLAs had switched sides on their own. “They followed their wish. What could we have done if they wanted to join our party? However, it is not going to have any impact in Bihar,” deputy chief minister Renu Devi said on Saturday. The Opposition parties in Bihar rubbed their hands with glee over the latest developments and predicted that the BJP would repeat the Arunachal feat in Bihar. “The JDU is completely finished due to Nitish Kumar’s wrong decision (to go with the BJP). It has destroyed itself. The party has started to break into pieces and very soon it would be wiped out in Bihar too,” Hasanpur MLA and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav said. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury, in a series of tweets, cautioned Nitish about the BJP and asked him to explore new options on the political front. “Dear Nitish Kumar ji, beware of the BJP, they are well adept and highly skillful in poaching operations like the notorious wild animal poachers of the Northeastern region. They believe in exclusive political ‘atmanirbhar’. Construction of only BJP and destruction of all non-BJPs is the mantra of the saffron brigade,” Adhir tweeted. “Before being torn into pieces and to be withered away by the same machination as you are now experiencing in Arunachal Pradesh, Nitish ji, explore new ideas which may include keeping in touch with the Opposition in Bihar as an antidote to withstand the Arunachal syndrome. Under the sun, the thirst of the BJP party’s wholesale aggression cannot be quenched,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Congress takes on BJP on cow & nationalism||The Congress, which took out a “save-the-cow” march in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, has asked its state units to organise “Tiranga Yatras” across the country on the occasion of its foundation day on December 28, finally waking up to the challenge posed by the RSS-BJP’s perceived monopoly on these symbols of nationalism. The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, had instructed the state leadership to take out a “Gai Bachao-Kisan Bachao Yatra (Save the cow, save the farmer)” in the wake of reports of the deaths of a large number of cows in government shelters in the state. The issue was linked to the farmers apparently for greater legitimacy as the agitation against the new farm laws has caught the national attention. The march was stopped by police and over 100 Congress leaders and workers, including state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and former Union minister Pradeep Jain, were taken into custody. While the Congress’s emphasis on cows raised eyebrows in certain secular circles, particularly on social media, and triggered allegations of being a BJP copycat, the Opposition party’s general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, wrote to the state units to take out Tiranga Yatras on the party’s foundation day. He went a step farther, asking leaders, office-bearers and workers to take selfies with the Tricolour and post the pictures on social media as part of the campaign run by the Congress’s central unit on its foundation day. The BJP has been taking out Tiranga Yatras across the country for the past few years. Congress leaders, however, fiercely contest the charge that the party was following the footsteps of the Sangh parivar, dismissing the debate as ill-informed and motivated. The Congress leaders insist that the BJP had exploited these symbols to further its majoritarian agenda and used it as tools of divisive politics and it would be foolish to let them go unchallenged. There seems to be a realisation among Congress leaders that the secular parties have vacated the space that has now been occupied by the Sangh parivar that has projected itself as nationalistic despite the fact that its politics is antithetical to the constitutional scheme and its track record during the freedom movement had been questionable. The BJP leadership has not only been successful in capturing the so-called nationalist space but also in painting its rivals and critics as “anti-national”. Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said: “Why should there be questions about Congress leaders taking selfies with the national flag and the campaign to protect the cow? Congress leaders have always been seen with the Tiranga, that is the defining image of the freedom movement. It is the RSS that opposed the Tricolour and even refused to hoist it at its headquarters. The Congress doesn’t need sermons on nationalism from anybody; we led the freedom movement and after that nationalism meant nation-building. And cows need to be protected but cow protection can’t be a tool of divisive politics.” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told The Telegraph: “What is nationalism? Is it persecution of religious minorities? Is it lynching innocent people in the name of cow and Ram? Is it using national symbols to divide the society, to terrorise opponents and critics? Can wanton violations of the constitutional scheme be called nationalism? It is unfortunate that the RSS-BJP’s formulations on nationalism and patriotism have not been scrutinised seriously by the mainstream media.” Vallabh added: “The BJP’s pseudo-nationalism rests on falsehood. If (former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister) Mehbooba Mufti forms the government with them, she is a nationalist. If the alliance breaks, she becomes anti-national. This fraudulent debate has been accepted by a section of the media. “Our nationalism has been enunciated by Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and other stalwarts of the freedom struggle. Our nationalism is farmers getting the right price for their crop, women getting respect and security, youths getting employment. Our nationalism is protection of rights and freedom of all citizens.” Nehru had forcefully articulated this position both before and after Independence, saying: “Who is Bharat Mata? The mountains and the rivers of India, and the forests and the broad fields, which gave us food, water, were all dear to us, but what counted ultimately were the people of India… who were spread out all over this vast land. Bharat Mata was essentially these millions of people and victory to her meant victory of these people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Poll shock  for BJP in Jammu ||The BJP has lost a seat on the home turf of Ravinder Raina, Hindutva hardliner and the party’s face in Jammu and Kashmir, prompting rivals to claim the constituency’s predominantly Hindu voters had rejected his brand of “communal politics”. While the BJP is celebrating its 3 victories from the Kashmir valley’s 140 seats in the District Development Council elections, it has lost ground in Jammu, losing in nearly half the seats. The party won just 72 of Jammu province’s 140 seats, after bagging 25 of its 37 seats — more than two-thirds — in the 2014 Assembly polls. The BJP had won both of Jammu’s Lok Sabha seats in the last two general elections. Perhaps the most embarrassing among the BJP’s losses this time came in Raina’s home constituency of Nowshera in Rajouri, where People’s Democratic Party candidate Manohar Singh emerged the surprise winner over BJP rival Mohinder Singh by nearly 3,000 votes. Nowshera has three DDC seats, and the BJP won the other two. Across Rajouri, however, the party lost more than half the 14 seats. “Around 98 per cent of voters in my constituency are Hindus, and it’s they who made our win possible,” PDP general secretary Surinder Chowdhary, who led the campaign in the area, told The Telegraph. “They (BJP) played the communal card but we sought votes in the name of Hindu-Muslim amity and development.” While the Congress has won no seat from Hindu majority areas in Jammu, the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for restoration of Article 370 and includes the PDP, has done so from a few constituencies after fielding non-Muslim candidates. Raina, the state BJP chief, has been one of the strongest supporters of the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. Chowdhary said his party had sought votes for secularism, development, restoration of the special status and India-Pakistan talks. He said Manohar’s victory in Nowshera was a rebuff to Raina’s “communal politics”. “That man talks about India versus Pakistan, Hindu (versus) Muslim 24 hours a day. But people in the area have rejected his politics,” he said. “People want peace, development and employment.” Raina, seen as a loose cannon, had triggered controversy a couple of months ago by saying he would get former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Ghulam Nabi Azad to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and wear tilaks. The BJP claims the PDP – with which it ran a coalition government till June 2018 -- is “anti-national”, an allegation the PDP denies. A BJP leader, Ashwani Chrungoo, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission in October seeking de-recognition of the PDP. The Gupkar alliance has won 26 seats in Jammu while the Congress has bagged 17. The rest have gone to smaller parties and Independents. Across Jammu and Kashmir, the alliance has won 112 of the 280 seats and the BJP has won 75. BJP state general secretary Ashok Koul attributed Manohar’s victory to “gunda gardi” (hooliganism) and alleged Chowdhary had roughed up a shopkeeper in the area during his victory rally on Friday. He said the BJP had done “very well” in six districts of Jammu and “registered our presence” in the rest. “We have emerged as the largest single party and have the highest vote share. We have made a beginning in Kashmir, where they say we don’t exist…. In future, we will go to the people and remove their misconceptions,” Koul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||National Conference leader switches to 'BJP’s B team' after winning DDC elections||A National Conference leader has switched to a party close to the BJP soon after winning the District Development Council election, prompting former chief minister Omar Abdullah to allege that money, muscle, threats and coercion were being used to facilitate horse-trading and defections. Omar’s National Conference is part of the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which has won the highest number of seats in the DDC elections — 110 out of 280. The alliance is in a position to take control of 13 of the 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir, at some places with Congress help. Rival BJP, which has bagged 75 seats, can take control of six districts while Independents hold sway in Srinagar district. Omar on Friday tweeted pictures of Altaf Bukhari, the president of the Apni Party, seen as the “BJP’s B team”, welcoming NC winner from Shopian Yasmeen Jan into the party fold. Yasmeen had polled 193 votes in a low-turnout election in Shopian’s Imam Sahib area, defeating her rival Independent candidate by 128 votes. Omar said the government had put NC leaders from Shopian under “preventive arrest” and the defection explains why it was done. “J&K police & the administration are facilitating horse trading & defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested & won elections on a NC mandate,” he tweeted. “Shame on this administration for playing partisan politics to curry favour with the ruling party & their stooges. These parties couldn’t win seats so now they are using money/muscle/threats & government coercion to make up the numbers. So much for ‘democracy has won’!” Omar added. On Saturday, Omar claimed two of his leaders, Shabir Kullay and Showkat Ganai, have been put under preventive detention in Shopian, allegedly to facilitate horse-trading and ensure that the BJP and the Apni Party take control of district councils. Instances of horse-trading, which have become common in several parts of India and often the BJP has been accused of indulging in it, are rare in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Alliance, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, has put up an impressive show in the elections despite considerable odds. Its candidates were “locked up” on the ruse of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of the elections, arrested or put under house arrest on one pretext or the other. The allegation of horse-trading has added another dimension to one of the most controversial elections in Jammu and Kashmir’s history. On Wednesday, former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti had tweeted a post of Choudhary Abdul Aziz, the son of victorious Independent candidate from Shopian Abdul Hamied Sheikh, alleging that Sheikh had been abducted by “goons of Zaffar Iqbal Manhas”, a member of the Apni Party. “BJP & its proxies are sore losers & have resorted to abducting Independents who won DDC elections. They are shamelessly using all means to increase their tally. This isn’t dance but death of democracy in J&K,” Mehbooba had tweeted. Aziz, however, later deleted the post and has switched off his phone. Manhas had denied the allegations. Apni Party leader Abdul Rahim Rather said their rivals were levelling baseless allegations against them. “Earlier, they accused us of being the B team of the BJP, but people have now realised that it is not true. If somebody on his or her own comes to join us, we cannot stop them,” Rather said. The Apni Party was floated last year following the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The party is believed to have the Centre’s blessings and aims to be an alternative to traditional parties. The Centre is seen as having engineered a split in Mehbooba’s People’s Democratic Party to create the Apni Party, which has a few leaders from other parties as well. The Apni Party, however, has failed to live up to the expectations of the Centre, winning only 12 of the 280 seats in the DDC elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||BJP-ruled Goa and Karnataka in a beef conundrum||Two neighbouring states ruled by the BJP are in a beef conundrum, with one trying to ensure fresh supplies for the festive season while the other pulling all stops to curtail cattle slaughter and illegal transport of the animals. While Goa doesn’t dare to plug supplies to beef consumers in the state, Karnataka is set to tighten control with its new bill that would severely restrict cattle slaughter and availability of the meat. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier this month assured meat traders in his state, who wrote to him about the crisis caused by the stoppage of supplies from Karnataka, that arrangements were being made to sort out the issue. But the state government is determined to notify the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which prohibits slaughter of any cattle, even if it means taking the ordinance route. After clearing the Assembly, the bill was recently stalled in the Legislative Council where the BJP doesn’t have majority. Former Goa chief minister Churchill Alemao told The Telegraph on December 18 that he had told Sawant to find a solution by getting fresh stocks of cattle. “It’s a very difficult situation as beef shortage has led to the closure of lots of shops. I have requested the chief minister to do everything to ensure adequate supplies since this is the festive season and beef is a staple for us,” Alemao said. Asked how his state would manage with the supply of slaughter animals from Karnataka thinning, Alemao said: “Do you think only Karnataka has cattle? We can source from Maharashtra.” Commissioner in Karnataka’s department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, H. Basavarajendra, told this newspaper that he had no idea about the beef shortage in neighbouring Goa. “We have not received any request from Goa. Even if we do, we don’t have a beef market ready to cater to the needs of any state,” said the official. A major supplier of slaughter animals to states like Goa and Kerala, Karnataka has officially slaughtered some 2.3 lakh heads of cattle in 2019 alone. “Illegal slaughter is rampant because the old law doesn’t have teeth,” he said. “There was a lot of illegal slaughter and transport of cattle to other states. We are trying to bring everything under a tight control,” said Basavarajendra. The existing law prohibits slaughter of cows, she-buffaloes and calves. Only oxen, bulls and he-buffaloes over 12 years old and certified as unfit for even tilling farmland can be slaughtered. Once the new law is notified, only buffaloes above 13 years and certified unfit for any utility would be available for slaughter in Karnataka. The bill also seeks to increase the punishment for illegal slaughter of cattle to seven years in jail, up from a maximum of six months enshrined in the existing law. Although the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, is still in force, things have changed after the Assembly voted in favour of the new law against stiff opposition from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular. “Everyone in our community is scared and no one wants to take any risk as we all know the sentiments around beef,” said beef trader Khasim Suhaib. Karnataka has witnessed innumerable attacks on beef traders and cattle transporters from Sangh parivar organisations over the years. The new law would severely restrict the availability of beef since only about 35,000 of the 2.3 lakh cattle slaughtered in 2019 were buffaloes. Suhaib Ur Rehman, who owns an online meat retailer business, dwelt on the problems of allowing only slaughter of buffaloes. “Unlike the north, south India does not have too many buffaloes. This would mean that lakhs of people who eke out their livelihood in the meat industry would be left unemployed,” Rehman told this newspaper. “Most of the people engaged in this line of business are from very poor background with little education. So they don’t even understand the impact of the new law,” he said, adding that the meat traders would challenge the new law once it comes into force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
