28-12-2020||India||Telangana: one more UK returnee tests positive||One more United Kingdom (UK) returnee has tested positive for coronavirus infection, thereby taking the total number of people, who have tested positive, to 21 since December 9. Observing that the Telangana health department is alert in the wake of new strain of coronavirus surfacing, state Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said government is following a policy of tracing, testing and treating to prevent the spread of the virus, according to an official release on Monday. Meanwhile, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said people should take all precautions instead of panicking over the new strain of COVID-19 which was found to be spreading fast abroad. Soundararajan, a medical doctor, advised people to be extra cautious and follow all precautionary measures like maintaining physical distancing, washing hands and wearing a face mask to prevent the spread of new strain of the coronavirus, a Raj Bhavan press commmunique stated. The Governor was responding to a series of queries on twitter as part of an interaction ‑ #AskDrTamilisaiGuv ‑ held by her today. Responding to a query, she said reports on genome sequencing with regard to new strain of the virus from the UK-returnees (to Telangana) were awaited. “I salute the Indian government and our scientists for making the vaccine possible. Vaccine is only to prevent the spread. It will develop the antibodies. Even those who have got affected earlier need to take the vaccine. Vaccine trial dry runs have begun in as many as four states,” the release quoted her as saying. The interaction was undertaken to create awareness among people and to “prepare them fully to guard themselves from the new strain,” she said. The Governor said it is a matter of pride that Hyderabad was taking a lead in vaccine research. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to city-based Bharat Biotech in November has also motivated the scientists who are working for developing the vaccine, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
28-12-2020||India||Want to turn India into a superpower, says Rajnath Singh||India has the potential to become a superpower and it needs significant achievements in the fields of education, health and industry to make the cut, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday as he mentioned the country's glorious history including major discoveries by ancient scientists like Aryabhata ahead of their western counterparts. In an online address at the convocation of IIM Ranchi, Singh delved into India's rich contribution in the field of scientific research in the classical age of Indian mathematics and astronomy and noted that "Aryabhata confirmed the round shape of the Earth and its rotation on its axis about 1,000 years before famous German astronomer Copernicus did". "We want to make India a superpower. To make the country a superpower, we need even bigger achievements in the fields of education, health and industry, etc. The potential in these areas is within our country. It is not yet fully utilised," Singh said. "When we talk about making India a superpower, then we also have to take care of the development potential in all the states of the country," he added. The defence minister said the youth of the country has the ability to face any challenge and can turn them into opportunities with the help of "invention, innovation and ideas". Encouraging students to play a key role in making of a 'New India', Singh said modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country's glorious history, adding it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. "Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God," Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: "He said 'an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God'". Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister cited the contributions of renowned ancient Indian scientists and said: "no success is final and no failure is fatal". "India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.," said Singh. "Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason," Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the 'Pythagoras theorem' years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. "Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century," said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India's achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration. "Today, when we are all working for the creation of New India, it is important for all of us to understand our heritage," he said. Talking about the coronavirus pandemic, Singh said India effectively confronted the crisis despite having limited resources and that the country turned the disaster into an "opportunity" under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asking students to work hard to achieve their goals, Singh said, "We have to understand that the road to success often passes through the streets of failure. There will be no successful person in the world who has never faced failure."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
28-12-2020||India||AR Rahman's mother Kareema Begum passes away||Oscar-winning music composer AR Rahman's mother, Kareema Begum, died here on Monday, sources close to the family said. Rahman uploaded a picture of his mother on his official Twitter page, without a caption. Condoling her death, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami posted on Twitter, "Sad to know that Kareema Begum, mother of music great A R Rahman died of illness." DMK President M K Stalin also extended his condolences. "He said she played a "big role" in Rahman's musical journey from Tamil cinema to across the globe," he tweeted. Composer-singer Salim Merchant said, "Very sorry for your loss AR. We pray that Amma gets Jannat-Ul-Firdaus." Rahman's frequent collaborator, singer Shreya Ghoshal said Begum was one of the most affectionate people she came across. "Deeply saddened by this news Rahman sir. She was one of the most gentle affectionate person I have met. Praying for her departed soul." Filmmaker Shekhar Kapur tweeted, "Your heart is broken, I know. But your mother left you with inner strength, inner resilience and belief .. that I have seen and admired for long. Stay strong, my friend." Music composers Thaman, Devi Sri Prasad and many others also paid tributes to Begum. Rahman, who started his film music journey with Mani Ratnam's "Roja" (1992) and went on to become a globally acclaimed artiste in the coming decade with an Academy Award, Grammy, BAFTA and Golden Globe wins, has always credited his mother for being constant support as well as an inspiration throughout his musical journey. During the 81st Academy Awards ceremony Rahman, after winning the Oscar for his work on "Slumdog Millionaire", paid tribute to his mother. "There is a Hindi dialogue, mere paas ma hai, which means 'I have nothing but I have a mother'. So my mother is here, her blessings are there with me. I'm grateful for her to have come all the way," he had said. In an interview with PTI in September this year, the music maestro had said that it was his mother's faith in him that pushed him to become the person he is now. "My mother's faith in me...I think that built my character and where I am today, in a way," Rahman had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Govt invites farmers' unions for talks on Wednesday ||The government on Monday invited 40 protesting farmer unions for the next round of talks on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a "logical solution" to the current impasse over the three new farm laws. The government's invite followed a proposal made by unions last week to hold the talks on December 29. In a letter to the unions, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal has invited them for holding talks at 2 pm on December 30 at Vigyan Bhavan in the national capital. So far, five rounds of formal talks held between the Centre and 40 protesting farmer unions remained inconclusive. Taking note of the unions' offer to resume talks, Aggarwal said, "The government is also committed to finding a logical solution on all relevant issues with a clear intention and an open mind." It's been over a month now that thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping at Delhi borders seeking repeal of the three farm laws. They have threatened to intensify their stir in the coming days if their demands are not fulfilled. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said a "wall of lies" has been spread in a "planned manner" among farmers against the new farm laws, but it will not last long and protesting peasants will soon realise the truth. The minister reiterated he remains hopeful to find an early solution to end the impasse. "Soon, some way out will emerge and we will reach towards the solution. Everyone knows that the wall of lies is never strong. Truth is truth. There is going to be a time when people will start accepting the truth," Tomar said addressing a virtual event organised by Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI). Expressing regret that some have created "misconception in a planned manner" in the hearts of protesting farmers on these farm laws, the Minister said however the government is constantly engaging with such farmer unions. He said the benefits of the new farm laws have started reaching farmers. Many peasants are "thinking positive" of these legislations, but there is "confusion" in some sections of the farmers. "I am hopeful we will be successful in clearing their concerns," he noted. Further, Tomar said the government was and will always be ready for talks because, in a democratic setup, the government believes that dialogue is the only weapon for resolving the issues. "We are stressing on this," he said. Stating that discussions on reforming the farm sector were going on since long after economic liberation in 1990s, the minister said many committees were set up and consultations were held across the country. Even the previous governments had debated and reached a consensus but somehow could not implement them. But the Modi government took the initiative and enacted the three agri-laws, which were passed in Parliament after discussion for 4 hours in both the Houses, he said. "I am happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought revolutionary changes through farm laws keeping future in mind. I am confident that these laws will benefit poor, small and marginal farmers across the country," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan speaks out in support of protesting farmers ||Backing the farmers protesting against the contentious Central farm laws outside Delhi, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said any country that "does not respect agriculture will fall." Farmers were "annadaata", Haasan, who earlier deputed a party delegation to express solidarity with the agitating farmers near the national capital, told reporters here. "A country that does not respect agriculture will fall. I believe that should not happen to our country. They (farmers) are the annadata (providers of food)," Haasan said. He was responding to a question on the more than a month-long farmers' protest in Delhi, where ryots mainly from Punjab and Haryana have held ground demanding repealing of Centre's three farm laws. To a question on actor Rajinikanth, who was discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, Haasan wished him good health, saying that was more important. Asked if the superstar, who is slated to launch his political party next month, will come forward to join hands with him, Haasan only said "we have done so forty years ago," in an apparent reference to their working together in many movies. Haasan added "it is not necessary that friendship should go away" if they entered politics. Earlier, the two had hinted at working together in the field of politics. To a question, he indicated his party might lead a 'third front' in the state for the 2021 Assembly elections, likely to be held in April-May next year. Matters like chief ministerial candidate have to be discussed with other probable partners, he added. When asked about the actor highlighting late chief minister and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in his election speeches, ruffling the feathers of the ruling party, and if he will also recall others like the late DMK president M Karunanidhi, the actor-politician said he will "do so at the appropriate time." The MNM chief also released what he claimed was a "bribe list" to be paid for various government services in the state such as providing birth certificate and driving licence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Space for debate is shrinking, says Amartya Sen||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has voiced anguish over the "shrinking space" for debate and dissent in the country where people are jailed without trial through the arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition. The BJP, which is often the butt of criticism by the economist, rubbished the accusation as baseless. In an e-mail interview with PTI, the 87-year-old Harvard University professor backed the farmers' protests against three agricultural laws, insisting there was a "strong case" for a substantial review of the legislation. "A person whom the government does not like may be declared by the government to be a terrorist and imprisoned. Many opportunities of public protest and free discussion have been curtailed or closed. "The space for dissent and debate is shrinking. People are jailed without trial through arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition," he alleged. The celebrated economist deplored that young activists like Kanhaiya Kumar, Shehla Rashid and Umar Khalid were often treated as enemies. "Rather than treating young and visionary leaders, committed to peaceful and non-violent ways like Kanhaiya or Khalid or Shehla Rashid as political assets who should be given the opportunity to pursue their pro-poor initiatives in a peaceful way they are often treated as enemies to be suppressed," he claimed. Reacting sharply to Sen's views on allegedly shrinking space for debate and dissent, BJP's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh said his contention was baseless. "The allegations are baseless. If he wants to see what intolerance is then he should visit West Bengal where none of the opposition parties has the democratic right to conduct their programmes," Ghosh said. When asked for his views about the BJP-led government that were often interpreted as pro-opposition, Sen said," When a government makes a mistake that harms people, it is not only permissible to speak up, it is actually necessary. Democracy demands that!" Sen said there is a strong case for a substantial review of the three contentious farm laws which have sparked protests by agriculturists. "There is certainly a strong case for revising the legislations substantially. But the first necessity is a proper discussion rather than making allegedly big concessions that actually make very little real concession," said Sen. Sen's comments come in the backdrop of thousands of farmers protesting at Delhi's borders for a month demanding repeal of three agricultural laws enacted in September and a legal guarantee on minimum support price. While the government insists these laws constitute major reforms to help farmers, protesting unions have maintained these will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening mandis and the MSP regime. Responding to Sen's position on farm protests, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the government has made all efforts to address the issues and concerns raised by the farmers' unions. Sen also said there are big gaps in the treatment of disadvantaged communities in India. "Perhaps the biggest lacuna is a combination of policies that have led to such a terrible expansion of child undernourishment. To reverse that, we need different policies in many distinct fronts." On the country's efforts in battling Covid-19, Sen said India was right to see the necessity of physical distancing but was wrong in imposing the lockdown with almost no notice. "It was also mistaken in ignoring the need for poor labourers to earn an income," he said, referring to the lockdown that rendered crores of people jobless and triggered a massive migration of labourers, arguably the biggest since Partition. Stressing on the need for "more intelligent reasoning and a humane touch" in implementing the COVID-19 strategy, Sen said India had got some ideas right, but "messed up" its response by overlooking the country's reality of extensive inequality. The presence of huge inequality should influence every aspect of India's policymaking, he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Arun Jaitley's statue at DDCA inaugurated by Amit Shah||A controversial build-up notwithstanding, the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) on Monday unveiled the statue of its former president Arun Jaitley at its premises in the memory of the late administrator and political figure. Union Home Minister Amit Shah unveiled Jaitley's life-size statue, prepared by 96-year-old renowned sculptor Ram Sutar, the man behind the making of the iconic Statue of Unity in Gujarat. Former India cricketer Bishen Singh Bedi had severely criticised the DDCA for choosing to install the statue of an administrator instead of an inspirational cricketer and even demanded that his name be removed from one the stands at the Feroze Shah Kotla ground. BCCI President and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, India opener Shikhar Dhawan, ex India opener Gautam Gambhir, who is also a BJP MP from Delhi, BCCI Vice President Rajeev Shukla and Union Minister Hardeep Puri attended the unveiling ceremony along with a number of DDCA officials. "Arun was like an elder brother to me. He was known for his sportsmanship spirit in political circle. He remained aggressive in his speeches but never lowered the dignity of the Parliament," Shah said in his tribute to Jaitley, who remained DDCA President for 13 years. "Arun always put his own interest at the back, never sought publicity and rose during the Emergency days when he spent 19 months in jail. His political journey started then. He was multi-talented and fulfilled a range of responsibilities." Ganguly said Jaitley's contribution was immense in the development of cricket in Delhi, though the DDCA has been in "turmoil" for some time. "When we play and get 100, it gets recognition but lot of people work behind the scene and help the cricketers. He was a cricketer's person. that is the role of an administrator," he said. "I remember a phone call (he) made during the 2003 World Cup in South Africa. We had lost the first game and the whole country went berserk but he (Jaitley) said that association supports you and you play well. These small things matter, he was a great human being," said Ganguly. "This is a remarkably talented state which has produced so many players, Virat Kohli, Ishant Sharma, Rishabh Pant now and many in the past. A settled DDCA is good thing for Indian cricket and hopefully they can do it." Gambhir said the installation of Jailtely's statue is a perfect tribute to him. "We won the Ranji trophy during his tenure and the stadium was also built. Honesty, (being) intellectual and absolute transparency are important for any administrator and he had that," said Gambhir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||11 UK returnees found Covid positive in Mumbai since Nov 25||A total of 11 out of about 2,200 passengers who returned to Mumbai from the United Kingdom since November 25 have been found coronavirus positive, the civic body officials said on Monday. Of these 11 passengers, five passengers had arrived last week, while the six others had returned before December 22, Dr Managala Gomare, executive health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), told PTI. Another official said samples of these 11 passengers have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing to find if they are infected with a new strain of the coronavirus. "Currently, 187 of the 590 passengers who returned from the UK last week are placed under institutional quarantine at various hotels," Dr Gomare said. She said the state government had handed over to the civic body two lists of more than 2,000 passengers, who arrived from England between November 25 and December 22. She said all of them are not yet contacted. "Our teams are trying to trace all of them. Meanwhile, six of them who reached Mumbai before December 22 have been found positive for coronavirus," said Dr Gomare. In view of the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the UK, the Mumbai civic body on Sunday issued revised guidelines to ensure the compulsory quarantine for 14 days for all passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, and the Middle East. As per the amended Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), travellers will be kept under institutional quarantine after arrival and RT-PCR test will be conducted on the seventh day from the arrival at the respective hotels, institutional facilities at their own coast. "If the report of the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after seven days with the advice of seven days mandatory home quarantine. A total of 14 days quarantine is to be ensured," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had said. As per the guidelines, home quarantine stamp will be put and undertaking will be taken from the travellers that they will abide to be in home quarantine. If the test result is found positive, the passenger will be shifted to designated Covid-19 hospital like Seven Hills for UK and GT hospital for travellers from other countries for further evaluation and treatment, the civic body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul skip Congress Foundation Day event||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday gave the party's 136th Foundation Day event a miss with senior party leader A K Antony unfurling the flag at the AICC headquarters here. A number of senior party functionaries were present at the meeting, including AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Others present included some of the "letter-writers" like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, who had sought an organisational overhaul in the party, besides Sachin Pilot who revolted against the Congress government in Rajasthan sometime ago. While Sonia Gandhi has been avoiding attending public events, Rahul Gandhi left on a short personal visit abroad only on Sunday. Later speaking to reporters, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government should listen to the voice of farmers and should not dub the agitation as a "political conspiracy". Thousands of farmers are camping on Delhi's borders to press for the repeal of three new central agriculture laws. "To say that this is a political conspiracy is wrong. I feel that the words being used for farmers are a sin. The government is answerable to the farmers and the government should talk to the farmers and take back the laws," she said. She said the jawans protecting the country's borders are the sons of farmers and the government should understand that the farmers are the 'annadatas' (food givers) of the country. She did not answer queries on Rahul Gandhi's absence. Rahul Gandhi left for abroad on Sunday afternoon on a short personal visit and would be away for a few days. The party has not disclosed the location where Gandhi is travelling, but according to sources he has left for Milan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Modi inaugurates India's first-ever driverless metro operations in Delhi||Inaugurating India's first-ever driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro's Magenta Line on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government unlike its predecessors has taken growing urbanisation as an opportunity and asserted that metro train services will be extended to 25 cities by 2025 from the current 18. In his address via video-conferencing, he said the launch of the driverless train and start of the National Common Mobility Card, also inaugurated by him on Monday, at the Airport Express Line of the Delhi Metro are an attempt to make urban development future-ready. He lamented that when urbanisation gathered pace a few decades ago, not much attention was given to the needs of the future with "half-hearted" efforts being made and confusion persisting while the gap between the existing infrastructure and needs grew. Noting that urbanisation should not be seen as a challenge but used as an opportunity to build better infrastructure and enhance people's ease of living, he highlighted his government's works towards this, saying the number of cities with metro rail has grown from five to 18 now. By 2025, this is going to be extended to more than 25 cities. "In 2014, only 248 km of metro lines were operational in the country and today it is about three times, more than 700 km. By the year 2025, we are working to expand it to 1,700 km," he said. The prime minister asserted these figures are proof of ease of living in the lives of crores of Indians and evidence of the fulfilment of the aspirations of the citizens. Metro Rail is a great way to reduce pollution and has taken thousands of vehicles off roads, he said, adding his government has formulated metro policy as per the needs of a city and its working population. The government formulated the metro policy for the first time and implemented it with an all-round strategy, he said. The Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) between Delhi and Meerut will reduce the distance between the two cities to less than an hour, he said, adding that for cities with fewer passenger numbers, work is being done on the MetroLite version. MetroLite version would cost 40 per cent less than the normal metro while Metro Neo is being developed in cities with less ridership. This would be built at the cost of 25 per cent of the normal metro, he said, adding that water metro would be an out of the box thinking for cities with large water bodies. This will provide last-mile connectivity to the people near the islands. Modi also emphasised on the importance of 'Make in India', a reference to domestic manufacturing, in laying out metro services, saying this reduces costs, saves foreign exchange and generates more employment to people. He said standardization of rolling stock has reduced the cost of every coach from Rs 12 crore to Rs eight crore now. Four big companies are now manufacturing metro coaches in the country and dozens of companies are engaged in the manufacture of metro components, he said, adding that this is helping the campaign for self-reliant India. With the launch of driverless metro train, India has now joined a select group of countries of the world where the facility is available, Modi said. Touching on the National Common Mobility Card, he said this will give integrated access to commuters wherever they travel and whichever public transport they take. His government has been working to offer integrated services to citizens in different fields so as to save their time and simplify complicated exercises, he said and referred to measures like FASTag cards, one nation one gas grid, seamless gas connectivity, GST and one nation one ration card. The driverless trains will be fully automated, which will eliminate the possibility of human error, the government has said, adding that after the start of driverless services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) of Delhi Metro is expected to have driverless operations by mid-2021. The Prime Minister's Office has said these innovations will herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility. The National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to travel on the route using it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare threatens to go on a hunger strike for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Central government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his "last protest". Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said had been holding protests for cultivators since the last three years, but the government has done nothing to resolve the issues. "The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government)...Let's see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my hunger strike protest. This would be my last protest," the 83-year-old said. On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee's recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agri laws. Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Modi, Shah pay tributes to Jaitley on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to his former cabinet colleague and late BJP leader Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversary and said his warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. Other BJP leaders also remembered the former finance minister who for many years remained the most articulate party voice on a gamut of issues and was considered one of its sharpest political minds. Born in 1952, Jaitley died in August last year. "Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary. His warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. He worked tirelessly for India's progress," Modi tweeted. In his tributes, Home Minister Amit Shah said Jaitley was an outstanding parliamentarian whose knowledge and insights had very few parallels. "He made a lasting contribution to Indian polity and served the nation with great passion & devotion. My heartfelt tributes," he said. BJP president J P Nadda said Jaitley will be remembered as an articulate orator and capable strategist. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said remembering Jaitley's contribution to India's public life and his role in strengthening the party will always be remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Delhi braces for cold wave in run-up to New Year||A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather department officials said on Monday. The minimum temperature in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius as against 6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department said the mercury may drop to three degrees Celsius on New Year's Eve. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next four days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a Western Disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The wind system has withdrawn. Now, cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas will bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius, he said. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, UP and north Rajasthan. Ground frost and dense fog are likely in isolated pockets in the region," the IMD added. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. On Sunday last, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.2 crore mark with more than 20,000 fresh cases||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,02,07,871 with 20,021 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 97.82 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,47,901 with 279 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,82,669, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.83 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. There are 2,77,301 active coronavirus infections in the country, which comprise 2.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,88,18,054 samples have been tested up to December 27 with 7,15,397 samples being tested on Sunday. The 279 new fatalities include 66 from Maharashtra, 29 from West Bengal and 25 from Kerala. The 1,47,901 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,255 from Maharashtra followed by 12,069 from Tamil Nadu, 12,062 from Karnataka, 10,453 from Delhi, 9,598 from West Bengal, 8,306 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,094 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,299 from Punjab. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Corporate hand in Uttar Pradesh anganwadi upgrade||The Anil Agarwal Foundation, run by Vedanta, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have announced a project in partnership with the Centre to upgrade 500 anganwadi centres in Uttar Pradesh, stirring concerns about the fate of the key welfare programme. Anganwadis provide supplementary nutrition and several health services to children aged 3 to 6 and their mothers apart from informal pre-school education. The Anil Agarwal Foundation is the philanthropic arm of mining company Vedanta Ltd, which tried to allay the apprehensions that are being fuelled by a perceived lack of transparency. Compounding the perception challenge is the Narendra Modi government’s ham-handed approach towards privatisation in general, which has made it a controversial subject and source of mistrust. A stated reason for a corporate role is the government’s inability to provide adequate funds for the welfare programme but it is not clear yet how much money the foundations will invest in the upgrade programme. Vedanta told The Telegraph the upgraded anganwadi centres would continue to be managed by the staff engaged under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) of the ministry of women and child development (MoWCD). “In collaboration with MoWCD, both the foundations have taken up the mantle of modernisation of the anganwadis with state-of-the-art infrastructure and services to the last mile for women and children,” a Vedanta spokesperson said in an email. Vedanta added: “Both the foundations are jointly working towards building model anganwadis that can be piloted and replicated. The anganwadi centres are upgraded with infrastructure and amenities and continue to be run by the anganwadi staff of ICDS, MoWCD, for creating greater impact in lives of the women and child beneficiaries.” The spokesperson said the idea was to upgrade the anganwadis to the level of the Nand Ghars --- child care centres run by Vedanta as a corporate social responsibility. The Vedanta website says it has opened 1,700 Nand Ghars across the country since 2015. “These anganwadis are being developed as per the MoU between Nand Ghar and MoWCD. The idea behind Nand Ghars is to develop modernised anganwadis that be used as a model for replication across all anganwadis by the Govt,” the email said. “Global philanthropic institutions like BMGF (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) have also offered a helping hand to this initiative. Niti Aayog is doing a study on how the model can be replicated and integrated across the country.” The Left parties have described the initiative as a move towards privatisation of the anganwadi centres. “And now, Modi government pushed privatisation of anganwadis after handing over food grains procurement to his corporate friends,” the CPM tweeted on Tuesday. The CPI said the partnership was part of a government plan to reduce funds for public welfare schemes and gradually withdraw from them. “The ICDS scheme provides nutrition and early childhood education and care to crores of poor children. Its facilities may not be great but it is running,” A.R. Sindhu, general secretary of CPM labour arm Citu, said. “There is scope for improvement. But by involving the private companies, the government wants to wash off its role. Ultimately, the welfare scheme will suffer.” Amarjeet Kaur of CPI workers’ wing Aituc said the government was underfunding the ICDS. “The government is preparing the ground for privatisation. As of now, it’s unable to give adequate funding. So, many anganwadi centres have a dearth of facilities,” she said. “After sometime, the government will say the Nand Ghar model is doing well and all the government facilities are redundant. They will close the anganwadis.” Kaur referred to the recently approved National Education Policy (NEP), which recommends the creation of school complexes that would absorb the anganwadis. India’s 13.79 lakh anganwadi centres, mostly set up in the rural areas, now operate independently, away from primary schools. The NEP says that spending on teachers and resources for small, one-off schools has become economically unviable. It suggests “the establishment of a grouping structure called the school complex, consisting of one secondary school together with all other schools offering lower grades in its neighbourhood including anganwadis, in a radius of 5 to 10km”. Apart from such an arrangement increasing the distance between homes and the anganwadis (and primary schools), activists and Left parties fear the government will hand over the new anganwadis at the complexes to private parties. Ashok Rao, a social activist associated with the NGO Swami Sivananda Memorial Institute that supplies food to anganwadi centres in Delhi, opposed the closure or privatisation of anganwadi centres. He said the private sector can be brought in only to help train anganwadi staff or enhance the infrastructure at these centres. A parliamentary standing committee has highlighted the poor funding for women and children’s welfare. Its report on the women and child development ministry’s demand for grants for 2020-21 says the overall allocation for the ministry has remained unchanged at around one per cent of the budget for the past five years although women and children make up 67.7 per cent of the population. It calls this “a cause of serious concern and introspection”. In Uttar Pradesh, 1.88 lakh anganwadis out of a sanctioned 1.9 lakh are operating. Some sanctioned centres are inoperative in a few other states too. The parliamentary committee has recommended that the ministry take the matter up with the states and try and remove any bottlenecks. It has stressed the need to have more anganwadi centres in urban areas. An email sent to the woman and child development ministry on Wednesday has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Maharashtra cultivators travel 1440km to Delhi||The tent seemed more spacious and the winter didn’t bite as much. After spending four days on the road in a cramped tempo with 14 others, Chhagan Chaudhari, 60, extended his legs and wrapped himself with a thick blanket as he prepared to sleep on December 25 night in Shahjahanpur. “The journey was backbreaking,” Chaudhuri said. “The tempo is open from the rear end. There is no protection from the chilly winds. Even when we stopped at night to sleep at a maidan, I hardly had enough layers on me to feel warm.” An Adivasi farmer from the village of Pochada in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, Chaudhari had started his four-day road trip towards Delhi with a torn blanket, a worn-out sweater and an unshaken resolve. “We need a farmer-friendly government,” he said. Ever since the Narendra Modi government rammed through three farm bills in mid-September, farmers and farm leaders have staged sit-in protests at various locations in and around Delhi. One of the protest sites is at Shahjahanpur, on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, along the highway to Delhi. The farm bills have paved the way for privatisation, encouraging large corporations to enter the field of agriculture while overriding the state-regulated mandis or wholesale markets. Farmers demanding the withdrawal of the bills say the private sector, solely interested in its own profits, will end up exploiting farmers in the absence of any regulation. This could jeopardise the government-decided minimum support price, which is enforced extremely well in Punjab and Haryana, which explains why the protesters have largely consisted of farmers from Punjab and Haryana apart from Rajasthan. However, on December 21, farmers from Maharashtra decided to join them to show that the protests were a national issue. Mobilised by the CPM-affiliated All India Kisan Sabha, about 2,000 of them embarked on an ambitious, 1,400km vehicular march towards Delhi from Nashik district. Chaudhari was one of them. The farmers chanted slogans, played traditional instruments, sang and danced their way to Shahjahanpur. After they reached Shahjahanpur, more tents were put up along the national highway to accommodate them. Arrangements for better blankets had been made too. “We wanted to make a point,” Chaudhari said, wearing a monkey cap. “The protests are not limited to certain states. Farmers in Maharashtra are upset with the farm laws too.” One of the laws, which talks about contract farming, has particularly riled Shivanand Jhalke, 40, a farmer from Mandrup in Solapur district. “In our area, contract farming of bamboo, chandan (sandalwood) and safed musli (a herb) happens at a substantial level,” he said. “Almost every time, the large companies that enter into a contract with the farmers pledge certain returns and then go back on their word. They give reasons like ‘the quality is not good’ or ‘the market is not conducive’. The farmers have no option but to put up with it.” For the farmers, already caught in an exploitative trade, the bills introduced by the Modi government make it even more difficult for them to have any mechanism for redress. “Farmers in any case have little agency,” Jhalke said. “We do not have the resources to take on large companies. After being duped, farmers have to choose between fighting a legal battle and running their household. They mostly choose the latter.” A large segment of the protesters who travelled from Maharashtra to Shahjahanpur are Adivasis fighting for their land titles under the Forest Rights Act, 2006. Jijabai Gayakwad, 70, who has been tilling a patch of two acres in the village of Sindhwad in Nasik, said that contract farming could turn farmers into bonded labourers. “They would own the farmland on paper but, effectively, they will be slaves on their own land,” she said. “I have been fighting for my land rights. Even though I have been tilling my land for decades, it comes under the forest department. I know what it is like to have your land and still not have control over it.” In March 2018, Jijabai had participated in a weeklong farmers’ march that covered 180km on foot from Nashik to Mumbai demanding better enforcement of the Forest Rights Act. “I won’t be coming to Delhi,” she said. “The Nashik-Mumbai march broke my back. I will come up to the Madhya Pradesh border and head back home. But I wanted to mark my presence at a rally that condemns these bills.” The critics of the farm protests claim that the farmers do not know what they are protesting against. However, the farmers from Maharashtra know exactly how the bills would affect their lives. Narayan Gayakwad, 73, a sugarcane farmer from Jambhli village of Kolhapur, said the fourth bill, which is in the works, would hurt him the most. “That bill aims to privatise electricity,” he said. “I grow sugarcane, which requires a lot of water. I need power to apply the water pump. If I lose the subsidy that I get on electricity, I’m done. It would increase my production cost to the extent that I would never be able to make any profits.” Among those affected by the farmers’ declining purchasing power are the landless agricultural labourers. Chaudhari, who also works as a labourer, said that if the farmers don’t make profits, they will not employ labourers. “It’s simple,” he said. “The well-being of farmers is important to the well-being of the rural economy. The current farm bills do not consider the well-being of farmers.” Chaudhari earns Rs 200 as a day labourer. The time he is spending away from his village, protesting, is costing him the opportunity to earn his bread and butter. “I will be camping in Shahjahanpur for three days,” he said. “Then I will return home. I wanted to make a point, which I did by coming here. But I also have a family to feed.” Parth M.N. is a Mumbai-based journalist who accompanied the vehicular march from Maharashtra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Dance historian Sunil Kothari no more||Dance historian and critic Sunil Kothari passed away on Sunday morning at a Delhi hospital after he suffered a cardiac arrest a month after testing positive for the coronavirus. He was 87. “He had tested positive for Covid-19 almost a month back and was not in a good condition,” Vidha Lal, a family friend and herself a dancer, said. Born on December 20, 1933, in Mumbai, Kothari qualified as a chartered accountant before turning to the study of Indian dance forms. He authored more than 20 books on Indian dance forms, including Sattriya Dances of Assam and New Directions in Indian Dance, and also on Bharatanatayam, Odissi, Chhau, Kathak, Kuchipudi, and photo biographies of Uday Shankar and Rukmini Devi Arundale. The dance scholar held the Uday Shankar Chair at Rabindra Bharati University, and taught in the dance department of New York University as a Fulbright Professor. He had received the Padma Shri. Kothari was among the 27 artistes who were served a notice in November to leave their government-allotted homes by December 31. The dance historian had said he felt “humiliated” on being served the “get out” notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||Superstar Rajinikanth was on Sunday discharged from a hospital here, where he was treated for blood pressure fluctuation, authorities said. “His blood pressure has been stabilised and he is feeling much better. In view of his improved medical condition, he has been discharged from the hospital today,” a bulletin from Apollo Hospitals said. The 70-year-old actor was admitted to the hospital here on December 25 with severe hypertension and exhaustion, it said. He was kept under medical supervision and treated by a team of doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||CPM picks youngest Kerala panchayat president||The CPM has given Kerala its youngest village panchayat president, days after picking the state’s youngest mayor. Reshma Mariam Roy, who turned 21 just a day before she filed her nomination papers on November 19, will head the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district. On Friday, the party had chosen Arya Rajendran, a 21-year-old BSc mathematics student, as mayor of Thiruvananthapuram. Twenty-one is the minimum age to contest elections. Reshma, a graduate in business administration from V.N.S. College in Konni, Pathanamthitta, won from the Congress stronghold of Ward 11. The Left Democratic Front has won the panchayat after two decades, having lost to the Congress-led United Democratic Front by one seat in 2015. “I’d like to be known as the best panchayat president and not just the youngest,” Reshma told The Telegraph on Sunday, trying to shift the focus from her feat to the challenge ahead. She said she had never expected to be made panchayat president. “I have already said that I was surprised when my party asked me to contest the elections. Now I’m doubly surprised,” she said. “This is a massive recognition for the youth. The LDF has won this panchayat after 20 years. This places added responsibility on us — we have to meet the expectations of the people who elected us.” Reshma, who takes charge on Wednesday, has already done her homework on what she needs to do. “New road projects have to be taken up. We need new anganwadis (child care centres) and enhance all the basic amenities,” she said. She has plans for herself too: “I will continue my studies through distance education. I’m confident about taking it forward.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||JDU lesson to BJP on coalition dharma ||The JDU on Sunday intensified its criticism of partner BJP for the alleged poaching of its MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh and also lambasted the ploy to foster hatred in the name of “love jihad”, increasing the disquiet in the Bihar alliance. Chief minister Nitish Kumar abdicated the post of JDU national president in favour of party leader R.C.P. Singh, signalling that he would focus on national politics at a time the party finds itself hemmed in by the BJP. “Our party has expressed deep anguish over the developments in Arunachal Pradesh in which six of our (seven) MLAs have joined the BJP. It is not a good sign for coalition politics. We are deeply hurt. We express our sadness, pain, objection, opposition and anger,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said. Talking to journalists after the conclusion of the two-day national executive of the party, Tyagi said the JDU had requested Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda to include its Arunachal MLAs in the cabinet. The JDU and the BJP are not in an alliance in the northeastern state. “It is a sorry thing that instead of including (the JDU) in the cabinet, they (the BJP) included it in their party. This is against the basic spirit of coalition dharma. It should not have done this. Love, brotherhood and harmony are the basis of coalition politics,” Tyagi added. “The alliance was at its zenith during the tenure of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. His was the atal dharma (unwavering ethics) of coalition politics. Twenty-three parties were a part of it, but there was no contradiction among them,” Tyagi said. The JDU also attacked the BJP over the recent “love jihad” politics and framing of laws against it in BJP-ruled states. “An atmosphere of hatred is being created in the country on the issue of love jihad. Our Constitution allows two adults to choose their life partners irrespective of caste, creed, religion, or region,” Tyagi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Call to reclaim Gandhian institutions from socialists and Sanghis||The Indian National Congress, which celebrates its 136th foundation day on Monday, is struggling to preserve its legacy at a time it is getting battered every day even on the question of its patriotism despite being born out of the freedom movement. The Congress leadership’s indifference to the party’s legacy is best reflected in its failure to prevent the systemic infiltration of Gandhian institutions by the RSS over the decades. The crisis is so deep that the party was denied permission to hold the Congress Working Committee meeting at the Sevagram Ashram in Wardha, Maharashtra, on October 2, 2018 — the beginning of the Mahatma’s 150th year — despite the current leadership’s best efforts. Eventually, the meeting was held in Wardha but outside Sevagram. The party would not have suffered this humiliation but for its lack of clout in the Sarva Seva Sangh, the umbrella organisation that looked after the ashram and was dominated by socialists whose dislike of the Congress trumped their ideological aversion to the RSS. Now, after attaining power in Maharashtra last year, the Congress has — perhaps without the knowledge of its high command — played a role in a change of leadership at the Sarva Seva Sangh. The Sarva Seva Sangh, an allIndia organisation, was established in 1948 after the Mahatma’s assassination to guide the various Gandhian institutions involved in social work. Senior Congress leaders including then President Rajendra Prasad and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had attended the 1948 meeting where Vinoba Bhave was tasked with carrying on the work according to the philosophy of Sarvodaya. Nehru ensured that these institutions received government funds, and their Congress association continued in terms of both ideology and membership. The scene changed dramatically in the 1970s during the movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan against Indira Gandhi. The socialists captured the Sarva Seva Sangh, with many Congress members and Gandhians crossing over to the other side. The JP movement’s association with the RSS enabled the Rightwing outfit’s men to infiltrate the organisation and the Sarvodaya Samaj. The trend continued with successive Congress governments in Maharashtra and the Centre showing no interest in reclaiming the space. Anil Sinha, who is writing a book on the history of socialist movements and has observed the developments in the Sarva Seva Sangh closely as a journalist, said: “The success of the RSS in infiltrating and ultimately controlling some of the Gandhian institutions has historical roots. It has to do with ideology as well.” Sinha added: “It’s well known that during the Independence struggle many Congress leaders were soft on Hindu communalism. However, Gandhi’s murder by a Hindutva activist resulted in a complete break. But the JP movement helped the RSS gain respectability and his antiIndira alliance with the Hindutva brigade gave it the opportunity to associate with Gandhian institutions. “The silent supporters of Hindu communalism among the Sarvodaya workers were now free to join them. Some former Lohiaites too have joined them. The influence of the Sangh parivar is not limited to physically controlling institutions: many former socialists are involved in the ideological expansion of the Sangh parivar as well.” The control of RSS sympathisers was strengthened after the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014. “The Sarvodaya Samaj was supposed to be apolitical without any connection with State power, but political interference has increased in the last few years,” senior Sarva Seva Sangh committee member Avinash Kapre told The Telegraph from Wardha. “AntiCongressism has been so dominant that the concerns about democracy and communalism have got diluted. There has been a clear tilt towards the RSS.” Kapre added: “Mahadev Vidrohi, who was elected Sarva Seva Sangh president in 2014, wanted to continue even after completing two terms and began sacking opponents. Gandhians who had spent three or four decades with the organisation were removed. Elections were due in March 2020 but hurdles were created by Vidrohi who wanted to plant his own nominee. “But that was the critical stage when the guardian minister of Wardha, the Congress’s Sunil Kedar, helped. He got deeply engaged in the matter and helped us elect a working president, the Calcuttabased Chandan Pal. This would not have been possible without political help as Vidrohi had created a lot of trouble in the previous election.” Asked whether the Congress intervention was preplanned, as a revenge for the denial of space for the CWC meeting in 2018, Kedar, a minister in the Uddhav Thackeray government, said the matter “should not be seen as the Congress agenda”. “Both the Sarva Seva Sangh and the Sevagram Ashram are supposed to be apolitical. It’s true that socialists facilitated the entry of RSS sympathisers and they have controlled many institutions across the country. My intervention should not be seen as the Congress agenda,” he said. “My interest, as the guardian minister of this district, was only to help them conduct the election peacefully. I’m also involved in rejuvenation and reconstruction of the ashram. There is no such thing as Congress control.” Some Congress members, however, rue the absence of a robust response by Gandhian institutions, including the Sarva Seva Sangh, to the onslaught of communal forces on democracy and Gandhian values and want them to take a political line that is clearly antiRSS. “There is no question of political interference, or of RSS or Congress control,” Chandan Pal, the new Sarva Seva Sangh president, told this newspaper from Calcutta. “Our objective is to unite the Sarvodaya activists and work for the restoration of Gandhian values in the country.” Insiders, however, believe that the Congress leadership needs to work out a detailed plan to reclaim Gandhian institutions from socialists and Sanghis to ensure they work for secular and progressive ideals. They feel the Congress’s lack of interest in such organisations, at a time the RSS has countless apparent and hidden outfits working to propagate its ideology, has been a prime reason for its political decimation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: Modi hails Sikh gurus, portrays Mughals as 'tyrants'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the sacrifices of Guru Gobind Singh and Guru Tegh Bahadur had helped keep the country’s “culture” safe, as he hailed the Sikh gurus and portrayed the Mughals as “tyrants” in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. Modi had the previous Sunday visited the Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi to mark Guru Tegh Bahadur’s martyrdom, continuing his outreach to the Sikh community even as he ignores lakhs of Punjab’s farmers sitting outside Delhi in the severe cold for a month as they lead the protest against the new farm laws. “On this day, the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, were immured alive (inside a wall),” Modi said. Both Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh, as well as the Sahibzade, had died at the hands of the Mughals. Modi said the Sikh gurus’ sacrifice had helped protect the country’s “civilisation and culture” from “tyrants” and “tormentors”. “The tyrants wanted Sahibzade to renounce their faith, abandon the teachings of the great Guru tradition,” he said. “During the immurement, as the stones began piling up, gradually raising the height of the wall... (with) death staring them in the face... they did not budge even a bit.” Modi added that Sunday was also the anniversary of the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s mother, Mata Gujari. “During this month, inspired by Shri Guru Gobind Singhji, many people sleep on the floor.... This martyrdom served towards the great deed of protecting our civilisation... and keeping the present fabric of the country intact,” he said. “About a week ago, it was the Martyrdom Day of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadurji too. Here in Delhi, I was blessed with the opportunity to visit Gurdwara Rakab Ganj to pay my obeisance.” It had been Modi’s first visit to a gurdwara in Delhi since becoming Prime Minister in May 2014. Modi has been using religious symbolism to woo the protesting Sikh farmers, aware of the community’s reputation for grit and valour in battle. Modi had paid extensive homage to Guru Nanak on his birthday last month, and the government recently brought out a booklet to highlight his “special relationship” with the Sikh community. Critics have questioned Modi’s wooing of Sikhs at a time his government has been stonewalling the protesters’ demands to repeal the new farm laws and his party  colleagues have been maligning the protesters as “Khalistanis”. Kashmir outreach In his last radio address of 2020, Modi sought to connect with the people of Kashmir. He hailed the quality of “kesar” (saffron) grown in the Valley, urged Indians to buy only Kashmiri saffron, and flagged the GI (geographical indication) tag for the spice. He used the example to iterate his “vocal for local” and “Self-reliant India” slogans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
