29-12-2020||India||Gehlot writes to PM demanding waiver of outstanding farm loans||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday demanding a waiver of the outstanding loans taken by farmers from nationalised and Bhoomi Vikas banks. According to an RTI reply, the Modi government, in its first tenure, had waived loans amounting to Rs 7.95 lakh crore of industrialists, but had not done anything for farmers, Gehlot said in a statement. After the formation of the Congress government in Rajasthan in 2018, the loans of 20.56 lakh people worth Rs 8,000 crore were waived in the state, he added. “I had to write a letter again to the prime minister to remind him about waiving the loans of farmers as the PM, during a rally in Madhya Pradesh on December 18, said the farmers of Rajasthan were waiting for a loan waiver. It is not a reality. No farmer, who had taken a loan from a cooperative bank, is waiting for a waiver,” Gehlot said. He said only those farmers, who had taken loans from nationalised and commercial banks that are under the Centre’s purview, are waiting for a waiver. The chief minister said the previous Congress-led UPA government at the Centre had waived loans worth Rs 72,000 crore of farmers taken from nationalised banks. He alleged that BJP leaders are provoking farmers by misleading them while farmers are protesting against laws passed by the Centre for the last one month. Gehlot said such a situation would not have arrived if the Centre had established a dialogue with the protesting farmers’ organisations. The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had promised to double the income of farmers, but it seems to be a distant reality, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj, two other accused seek access to books in jail||Three accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case have moved a court here seeking access to books and newspapers in prison. Activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha and Delhi University professor Hany Babu have filed separate pleas through their lawyer Chandni Chawla in the special NIA court. Chawla told the court on Tuesday that when lawyers tried to deliver books to their clients, it was not allowed, and the books sent by post were also not given to the applicants. Prison authorities sought a court order for handing over books, she claimed. Special judge D E Kothalikar noted that Rule 13 of the Maharashtra Prison Manual allows prison superintendents to decide such matters. Before passing an order, the court, however, asked advocate Chawla to file an affidavit stating that she had approached the prison authorities but they refused to accept books. The hearing was adjourned to January 12. Babu and Navlakha are lodged in Taloja Jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, while Bharadwaj is in Byculla Women’s Jail in the city. Earlier, co-accused Stan Swamy, 83, had moved the court to get a straw and sipper in prison, saying his hands shake while drinking water because of Parkinson’s disease. Jail authorities later agreed to provide him these items. The NIA court, meanwhile, on Tuesday allowed Bharadwaj’s application seeking untruncated copy of witnesses’ statement. The statement should be provided to her without disclosing the identities or addresses of witnesses, the judge said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Copies of farm laws burnt as BKU’s Bhanu, Lok Shakti factions stay put in Noida||Farmers burnt copies of the three new agri-marketing laws at the Delhi-Noida border on Tuesday, even as they remained resolved in their demand for withdrawal of the contentious legislations for the 29th day. At the Chilla border, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) supporters, hailing from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh, also practised march-past, saying they are preparing to hold a parade on the Republic Day if their protest extends till January 26. The Delhi-Noida Link Road via Chilla remained partially closed due to the farmers’ agitation, according to a police official. The Delhi to Noida carriageway is open but the other side on the road is closed, the official said. After burning a copy of the new laws, Yogesh Pratap Singh, the UP unit chief of the farmers’ union, said, BKU Bhanu members are resolved to stay put in protest until the legislations are repealed by the Centre. At nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal, scores of BKU (Lok Shakti) supporters too demonstrated against the government's anti-farmer policies. BKU (Lok Shakti) chief Sheoraj Singh is camping at the spot along with supporters since December 2, the faction's spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. BKU (Bhanu) and BKU (Lok Shakti) are not part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers unions, which are leading the charge at Delhi’s border points in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, but have extended their support to the protest. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Ordinances against religious conversions in BJP ruled states violate Constitution: Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday hit out at BJP governments for bringing ordinances against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, claiming these violated the fundamental rights under the Constitution. He also described the Centre’s agri-marketing acts as ‘draconian’ and dared the Narendra Modi government to come out with laws on providing minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers, employment and unemployment dole. Owaisi said that an adult can marry anyone they want and alleged the intention of the BJP in bringing such laws against religious conversions was to make a mockery of the Constitution. He was referring to recent promulgation of an ordinance by the Uttar Pradesh government against forcible or ‘dishonest’ religious conversions and the Madhya Pradesh cabinet giving its nod for a similar measure on Tuesday. “These laws and ordinances issued and given nod by some BJP ruled states are against the Constitution and the BJP is creating an atmosphere of hate for the Muslim community,” the Hyderabad MP told reporters here. He claimed that such laws were a blatant violation of Article 14,21and 25 of the Constitution related to right to equality, right to life and personal liberty and right to freedom of religion respectively. “I challenge the BJP that why don’t you make a law on providing MSP to the farmers that is the need of the hour. For so many weeks thousands of farmers are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the draconian laws passed by the Modi government,” he said. Instead of doing it, they (the BJP) were bringing these ordinances against religious conversions, he claimed. Owaisi welcomed the Allahabad High Court order quashing an FIR against a Muslim man over a marriage with a Hindu woman and ruling that she had a right to live her life on her own terms. The court has clearly reiterated that no government has any role to play in the personal life of an Indian citizen, he said, adding the Supreme Court had also given a similar ruling. Replying to a question, Owaisi said his party will fight elections be it local body polls in Madhya Pradesh or in Gujarat or other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Covaxin can work against mutated coronavirus: Bharat Biotech||Covaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by Bharat Biotech for COVID-19, can offer protection against mutations of coronavirus, Chairman and Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker Krishna Ella said on Tuesday. Ella said the company has approached regulatory authorities seeking approval for an emergency license to use the vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology and now undergoing phase 3 trials. “It (coronavirus) is expected to have a lot of mutation and you can be rest assured this vaccine will also protect against that (mutated) virus because of two hypotheses... “So you have these two components in the inactivated vaccine. It will also take care of those mutations,” Ella said during a virtual programme organised by CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology. He said while replying to a query posed on the new strain of coronavirus that was detected in the United Kingdom recently. Ella said mutation was not unexpected and the virus mutates on its own to reach more number of people as it is a non-living organism. The executive said Covaxin, now undergoing Phase 3 trials involving about 20,000 volunteers, balances both safety and efficacy. The news raises hope, especially when reports of newer strain of virus being detected is making it to the headlines. Six people who returned to India from the UK have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The presence of the new UK variant of the coronavirus has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Free WiFi hotspots for protesting farmers at Singhu border||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said free WiFi hotspots will be set up at Singhu border for the farmers who have been camping there for over a month protesting the three Central farm laws. Addressing a press conference, he said the decision has been taken by "farmers' 'sevadar Arvind Kejriwal". "We want the farmers to stay in touch with their family. We have identified a few spots to install the WiFi hotspots. This is an initiative of (Chief Minister) Arvind Kejriwal and the party," Chadha said. He said the first hotspot will be installed within a day or two and more such facilities will be set up depending on the demand. "Each WiFi hotspot will cover a radius of 100 metre. The initiative has been taken after the farmers complained of limited availability of Internet in the area," the AAP leader said. "We are starting with the Singhu border. But as and when demand arises we will expand it to other border points too (where farmers are protesting) and install more such hotspots," Chadha added. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now to demand repeal of the three agri laws which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, he had visited Singhu border sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the AAP-led city government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Days after Shah’s rally, Mamata hits out at BJP in Bolpur||Referring to the BJP as a “party of outsiders” yet again, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that the land of Rabindranath Tagore will never allow hate politics to gain victory over secularism. In a rally at Bolpur, Mamata branded Viswa-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty as a “BJP man”, saying that he is planning to wreck the revered institution by “importing divisive and communal politics inside its campus”. The Chief Minister’s own roadshow comes days after Union Minister Amit Shah visited Bolpur, often referred to as Tagore’s land, ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls scheduled for the coming year. “Those who don't respect Mahatma Gandhi and other icons of the country are talking of building ‘Sonar Bangla’ (Golden Bengal). Rabindranath Tagore has already created ‘'Sonar Bangla’ several decades ago, all we need to do is to protect the place from the communal onslaught of the BJP,” the Chief Minister said in her address to a few thousands at Jambuni, after a four-kilometre road show in the town. Lashing out at the Viswa-Bharati vice-chancellor, the feisty Trinamul Congress supremo said, “Attempts to destroy Tagore's cultural abode have to be resisted with all might.” “I feel bad when I see efforts are on to pursue communal politics at Visva-Bharati. The VC there is a BJP man, he is trying to tarnish the heritage of this institution by practising communal politics,” Mamata claimed. Talking about the recent defections in the TMC, she said, “You can buy a few MLAs, but you can't buy TMC. Few MLAs leaving the party would not matter, people are with us.” During Shah’s visit to the state, several TMC leaders, including party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, switched to the saffron party. The Chief Minister also invited folk singer Basudeb Das Baul to sing on the stage for the crowd gathered at her rally. Earlier this month, Shah had visited his residence, ‘Manohardham Kuti’', in Ratanpally area of Santiniketan in Birbhum district, to have his lunch. “The Bengal elections are coming up and every week there is a five-star feast happening. They are trying to show they are eating at some Adivasi bhai's place. No one can insult our Adivasi brothers,” the TMC supremo was quoted as saying by NDTV. On Monday, Mamata had said she will walk two “extra” kilometres beyond her planned road show route on Tuesday to pay her “tribute” to a statue of Rabindranath Tagore in Bolpur. Her Tuesday rally was earlier meant to cover 1.4 kilometers, but ultimately covered nearly four kilometers. The Chief Minister marched from Tourist Lodge crossing some 500 metres off Dak Bungalow grounds and ended at Tagore’s statue at Jambuni via Chowrasta, where she addressed the public. Bengal, which is headed for the Assembly polls in April-May next year, has been witnessing a rise in the feud between the ruling and the saffron parties, with the latter hoping to bring down the Mamata Banerjee government from its position. Heavyweight ministers including Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda, have visited the state during the past month. However, the TMC has claimed that no ‘outsider’ can harm the party in any way, or unseat them from their chair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers defer proposed tractor march ahead of talks||Protesting farmer unions have deferred to Thursday their proposed tractor march against the contentious agriculture laws, so that the rally does not clash with their talks with the government on Wednesday. The unions have agreed to hold the next round of talks with the Central government on Wednesday, but insist the agenda of the meeting should include discussing modalities for repealing the three legislations. Earlier this week, Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of 40 unions leading protests at Delhi border points --- had announced a tractor march from the Singhu and the Tikri borders to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Highway on December 30. "In view of our talks with the government (on December 30), we have decided to defer our tractor march. The farmers will hold a march with their tractors on December 31," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Morcha, told PTI. He said that as farmer leaders would have a meeting with Central ministers on Wednesday, the protesting unions have decided to defer their proposed tractor march. Thousands of protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri --- for the last 31 days, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for minimum support price. On Monday, farmer leaders agreed to a government proposal for holding the next round of talks on the new agricultural laws on December 30, but remained firm on their agenda of scrapping the laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Puri: slight extension in suspension of UK flights possible||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said there might be a slight extension of temporary suspension of passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom, where a mutated variant of the coronavirus has been detected. Last week, the Civil Aviation Ministry had suspended all flights between the UK and India from December 23 to December 31 over the new variant of the virus. “I foresee a slight extension of temporary suspension of India-UK flights,” the minister said at a press conference. “In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” he added. Meanwhile, six persons who had returned from the country to India have tested positive for the mutated variant of the coronavirus the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. “All these persons have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine,” the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon, Pakistan and Singapore, so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Farm law protesters lathi-charged in Patna||Several people were injured here on Tuesday in a lathi charge at a busy crossing in the heart of the city when police personnel tried to stop a procession, taken out in protest against the farm laws from heading towards the Raj Bhavan. Traffic was thrown out of gear as thousands of protestors, comprising members of various farmers organizations and pro-Left outfits, marched through Frazer Road before they were thwarted at the Dak Bungalow crossing. According to police, the crackdown at Dak Bungalow crossing was preceded by skirmishes between the demonstrators and police and administrative officials at the Gandhi Maidan, the starting point of the rally, where agitators took exception to their entry being allowed inside the sprawling public ground only through one of the many gates. Police sources said the restriction was put in place to avoid a stampede-like situation while the demonstrators alleged that it was an attempt to suppress their voice. Later, when they reached the Dak Bungalow crossing, about a kilometre and a half away, officials deployed there told the demonstrators that their march could not be allowed beyond that point. As the demonstrators insisted on walking right up to the Raj Bhavan, some three km away, the police used force to prevent their march towards the restricted VIP area. An unspecified number of injured protestors were taken to hospitals for treatment while a few were rounded up, the police said. There was heavy deployment of force at Dak Bungalow crossing, where some of the demonstrators sought to stand their ground raising slogans, the police added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Former Union minister Mansukh Vasava quits BJP||Gujarat BJP MP and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava, who has been vocal on tribal issues, on Tuesday quit the party and said he would resign from Lok Sabha in the budget session of Parliament. Vasava had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week seeking withdrawal of a Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notification declaring 121 villages of Narmada district as eco-sensitive zone. A six-term MP from Bharuch, Vasava in his letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil said, "I am resigning so that the image of the party is not damaged because of my mistakes. I have been a loyal worker of the party, so please forgive me." In the letter to Paatil dated December 28, Vasava said he will resign as Bharuch MP after meeting the Lok Sabha Speaker during the budget session of Parliament. Vasava said he tried his best to be loyal to the party and assimilate the party's values in his life, adding he is human and prone to mistakes. "I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I resign from the party, whose forgiveness I seek," the tribal leader said in the letter to Paatil. BJP state spokesperson Bharat Pandya said the party has received the resignation letter through social media. "Paatil has spoken to him and assured him that any issue he has will be resolved. Vasava is a senior MP from Gujarat and we will resolve all his issues," Pandya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Modi attacks previous govts for delaying freight corridor project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday attacked the previous governments for delaying and not implementing the Dedicated Freight Corridor project of the Railways, saying his administration held talks with stakeholders to speed up the work. “The project was given permission in 2006 but it was only on paper as the then government lacked the seriousness and urgency with which it had to take it up with the states,” Modi said as he inaugurated the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor through video conferencing. “Till 2014 not a single kilometre track of the project was laid and the funds sanctioned could not be spent properly. After 2014 ,it was restarted and officials asked to take it forward and by then the budget had gone up by 11 times,” he said. The prime minister also inaugurated the EDFC’s operation centre at Prayagraj and flagged off the first 1.5 kilometre-long goods trains. The prime minister said that on coming to power, he personally monitored the project and held a dialogue with the stakeholders and got new technology as a result of which about 1100 km work will be completed in next few months. “Imagine, not a single kilometre in eight years and 1,100 kilometres in six years," he said in an attack on the Congress-led UPA government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth does U-turn, says no to launch of political party||Days after his discharge from the hospital, superstar Rajinikanth announced he will not take the political plunge and start a party, citing health reasons. Discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, the top actor expressed fears over those accompanying him in his possible political journey facing “mental and economic” problems in the due course. Rajinikanth had earlier this month announced that he is going to launch his own political party in January, details on which were to be disclosed on December 31. However, on Friday, he indicated he did not want to sound chivalrous by saying he will join politics despite his severe health concerns and that he did not want to “make a victim” of his supporters now. “Therefore, I inform with great regret that I am unable to come to politics by floating a political party. Only I know the pain behind making this announcement,” the 70-year-old said in a statement, days after he said he will float his own outfit in January and face the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. He, however, said he will serve people in whatever ways he can without entering electoral politics. “Without entering electoral politics, I will serve the people. This decision of mine will disappoint my fans and people but please forgive me,” he said. Rajinikanth’s announcement of launching the party had ended years of speculations among fans regarding the matter. The superstar, reassuring his brand of spiritual politics, had said categorically that his party will fight the Assembly elections in 2021 and “emerge victorious”. Rajinikanth's elder brother on Tuesday backed the Tamil superstar's move to withdraw his decision to launch a political party. The 77-year-old R Sathyanarayana Rao said it's his brother's wish and one can't force him to change his mind. When pointed to "a lot of expectations" that people had on Rajinikanth's planned political debut, Rao said: "We too believed that (he would launch the party)". "He (Rajinikanth) has cited health reasons. So, we can't force him. It's his wish (not to launch party). Whatever decision he has taken, that's definitely right", Rao told news agency PTI. He said he spoke to Rajinikanth on Monday inquiring about his health. Earlier this month, Rajinikanth paid a visit to his brother in Bengaluru, where he grew up. The 70-year-old had sought the blessings of his brother, who wished him good health and long life. "He (Rajinikanth) is a man of his word. He definitely does what he says. He always keeps his word," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Six UK returnees test positive for new mutated strain of Covid||Six persons who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said. "Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far. The ministry said that from November 25 to December 23 midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states and UTs to RT-PCR tests. So far 114 have been found positive for COVID-19. These positive samples have been sent to 10 INSACOG labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, CCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi, NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing. "A total of 6 samples of 6 UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome," the ministry said. The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of the virus reported from UK and put in place a pro-active and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant. This strategy included the temporary suspension of all flights coming from UK with effect from the midnight of 23rd December 2020 till 31st December 2020 and mandatory testing of all UK returnee air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test to be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs. Also, a meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on COVID-19 was held on December 26 to consider and recommend testing, treatment, surveillance and containment strategy. Besides, a standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22. The entire issue was examined at length by the NTF on December 26 and the NTF concluded that there is no need to change either the existing National Treatment Protocol or existing testing protocols in view of the mutant variant. The NTF also recommended that in addition to the existing surveillance strategy, it is critical to conduct enhanced genomic surveillance, the ministry said. Over the last few weeks, the United Kingdom has faced a rapid increase in COVID-19 cases in South East England, leading to enhanced epidemiological and virological investigations, the ministry had said. Analysis of viral genome sequence data identified that a large proportion of cases belonged to a new single phylogenetic cluster. The new variant is defined by multiple spike protein mutations present as well as mutations in the other genomic regions. While it is known and expected that viruses constantly change through mutations leading to the emergence of new variants, preliminary analysis (based on epidemiological and mathematical model) in the UK suggests that this variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated potential to increase the reproductive number (R) by 0.4 or greater with estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70 per cent. "However, there is no experimental evidence or indication at this point of increased infection severity associated with the aforementioned new variant," the ministry has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Kanpur post office issues stamps featuring gangsters Chhota Rajan, Munna Bajrangi||The Kanpur postal department has ordered an inquiry after stamps featuring underworld don Chhota Rajan and slain gangster Munna Bajrangi were issued by the main post office in the city, officials said on Tuesday. Twelve stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed under the 'My Stamp' scheme, which was launched by the department a few years back, an official added. Calling it was a lapse by the person manning the 'My Stamp' desk, Postmaster General V K Varma said, "A probe has been launched." It has been found that the request for these stamps having face value of Rs 5 was made anonymously by a person who paid Rs 600 for them, he added. Without asking for identification papers, which is essential, the person manning the 'My Stamp' desk released 12 stamps each with the pictures, Varma said. Philately department in-charge Rajneesh Kumar, who was prima facie found guilty, has been placed under suspension, he said. "We have also issued show-cause notices to some other employees in this regard," the postmaster general said. "Efforts are on to zero in on the person who got the photographs of the criminals printed under the 'My stamp' scheme," he added. It has been decided to take strict measures in the future to ensure such errors are not repeated, Varma said. Under the 'My Stamp' scheme, anyone paying Rs 300 can get stamps with their photos or that of their family members printed and released. Rajan is currently in a Mumbai prison, and Bajrangi was murdered in UP's Baghpat prison in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Fresh Covid cases below 20,000 for third time this month||The daily new coronavirus infections in India dipped below 20,000 for the third time this month taking the COVID-19 caseload to 1,02,24,303, while the recoveries crossed 98 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 16,432 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in little over six months, while the death toll increased to 1,48,153 with 252 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,07,569 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.92 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 2,68,581 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.63 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,98,01,749 samples have been tested up to December 28 with 9,83,695 samples being tested on Monday. The 252 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra,27 from West Bengal, 26 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Delhi. A total of 1,48,153 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,305 from Maharashtra followed by 12,080 from Tamil Nadu, 12,070 from Karnataka, 10,474 from Delhi, 9,625 from West Bengal, 8,322 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,098 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,312 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Delhi shivers under cold wave||Delhi reeled under a cold wave on Tuesday as icy winds sweeping through the city brought the minimum temperature down to 3.6 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a low of 3.6 degrees Celsius as against 5.6 degrees Celsius on Monday. The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius and 2.7 degrees Celsius respectively, it added. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The IDM said the mercury may drop further by New Year's Eve. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next three days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a western disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, he said. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Tuesday morning. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 237 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 253 on Monday, 396 on Sunday, 337 on Saturday, 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday and 433 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at IMD said favourable wind speed, up to 15 kmph, aided in the dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Centre invites protesters for meeting on Wednesday||The Centre, which offered talks on a day and time of the farmers’ choosing, has invited them to a meeting on Wednesday instead of Tuesday as mooted by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha last week. As for the agenda, all that the letter from the Centre states is that issues relating to the three farm laws, procurement under minimum support price, the ordinance on stubble burning and the electricity bill will be discussed. The letter was attributed to the secretary in the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare in the Union agriculture ministry, Sanjay Agarwal. Reacting to the invitation, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the ongoing agitation is being conducted — said: “The letter of the Government of India indicates that it is being clever with words and not willing to discuss the agenda proposed by farmers’ organisations; this exposes the double-speak of the government.” The farmers, while suggesting a meeting on Tuesday at 11am, had drawn up the following agenda: modalities for repeal of the three laws; mechanisms to be adopted to make the remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission) into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers for all agriculture commodities; amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the air quality management ordinance; and changes to the electricity bill to protect their interests. As of now, the farmers plan to go to the meeting. But the government’s decision to ignore the schedule suggested by the farmers is for them added proof of the insincerity with which the administration has dealt with the demands of the farming community. “Not once but twice the government asked us to suggest a day and time of our choosing for a meeting. But, when we sent our proposal, they shot it down and suggested a time of their own. That too, on a day we called for a tractor rally between Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border and Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border,” a union leader said. Keeping its end of the bargain, the core group of the Kisan Morcha believes that the tractor rally should be deferred to December 31 “since we had said that we would do this if the next round of talks made no progress”, said Hannan Mollah. This will be put up for further discussion before the 40 main organisations collectively decide on the course of action. These 40 organisations are also the ones participating in the negotiations with the government. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) – the umbrella organisation of 500 farmer unions and collectives that gave the “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27 — has rejected defence minister Rajnath Singh’s suggestion that they try out the new farm laws for two years with the assurance that changes can be made after that if necessary. “His appeal to allow the farm laws to play out for two years is an unfortunate statement from a senior politician. If these laws are allowed to be implemented, there will be nothing to discuss after two years — agriculture, agri-produce marketing and food chain of the nation will by then be firmly in the clutches of crony capitalists and monopolists,” the committee said. With the farmers convinced that they are being sacrificed for the benefit of corporate groups, the campaign against Jio has taken on a life of its own. According to a PTI report, more than 1,500 cell towers — some of them common ones used by other service providers too — in Punjab have become non-functional because of the campaign despite appeals by chief minister Amarinder Singh to people not to disrupt the state’s telecom services by targeting the company’s infrastructure. Member organisations of the Kisan Morcha are issuing appeals to the people to stop forcibly shutting down operations in cell towers, fearing the vandalism could come in handy for the government to discredit and malign the movement. “Our call was only to boycott Jio products; not force anyone to give up any service. Look how peacefully the farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for a month now. We do not approve of the vandalism,” Mollah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Malayalam film on students’ protest blocked||The Kerala regional office of the Central Board of Film Certification has withheld clearance to a Malayalam film on a students’ protest, apparently after at least one pro-BJP board member linked the movie to JNU and dubbed it “anti-national”. V. Sandeep Kumar, board member and state vice-president of the BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha, later posted a tweet attributing his objections also to Varthamanam (The Present) being produced and written by Aryadan Shoukath, a Congress politician and filmmaker. Kumar later deleted the tweet. Shoukath said the CBFC had in a notice conveyed that the film, directed by Siddarth Siva, had been referred to its reviewing committee but not stated any reason or any date. “As a member of the censor board (CBFC) I watched the film Varthamanam today,” Kumar’s now-deleted Malayalam tweet, posted on Thursday, said. “The topic is the attack on Muslims and Dalits in JNU. I objected to it because the scriptwriter and producer is Aryadan Shoukath. The film’s content is definitely anti-national.” The film portrays a Delhi institution but does not name JNU. Shoukath expressed shock at the board’s decision and at his film on communal harmony being labelled “anti-national”. He suggested the objections were linked to his religion. Shoukath is a Muslim. “Is a film certified based on the scriptwriter’s race and lineage? How can a students’ agitation on a Delhi campus and democratic struggles become anti-national?” Shoukath wrote on Facebook. “He (Kumar) is openly declaring that the film relates to attacks on Dalits and Muslims at JNU and that he objected because its scriptwriter and producer is Aryadan Shoukath. We are still living in democratic, secular, socialist India.” Varthamanam revolves round a Muslim student from north Kerala, played by Parvathy Thiruvothu, who goes to a Delhi college to research freedom fighter Mohammed Abdurahiman Sahib who served as president of the Congress’s Malabar unit in 1939. The film does not name JNU. Roshan Mathew and Dain Davis play pivotal roles in the film, shot in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Kerala. “I can’t imagine this film about communal harmony being portrayed as anti-national. I have information that two of the four members raised objections while the other two backed the film,” Shoukath told The Telegraph on Monday. “It’s based on the theme of communal harmony and decries both Hindu and Muslim fundamentalism. It focuses on the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose.” Shoukath added: “Abdurrahiman Sahib was a true nationalist who dissuaded those Muslims who wanted to go to Pakistan. The film is about the values upheld by a man like him, based on the secular-democratic principles of the founding fathers.” This newspaper could not contact Kumar for his comments since the state BJP office in Thiruvananthapuram said it didn’t have his phone number. Actor and filmmaker Murali Gopi condemned the CBFC decision and called for an end to the board’s being used to further the ruling party’s agenda. “Censorship is the crutch of dictatorship. If that has become the practice in a democracy, it can only mean that democracy has failed,” Murali, son of the legendary Malayalam actor Gopi, said in a Facebook post on Monday. “Patriotism and nationalism are not words that should be limited to the vocabulary of a particular group. Since this is the reality, every artiste has the responsibility to raise their voice against such a tendency.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Delhi riots: outcry after raid on case lawyer office ||Several Bar associations on Monday condemned Delhi police’s raid on the office of advocate Mahmood Pracha, who is representing victims of the February riots, and seizure of confidential client-attorney data. Such “unheard of” police action is “worse than crime(s) committed by any hardened criminal” and will have a “chilling effect” on clients, said advocates’ bodies such as the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the Bar Association of India (BAI) and the regulatory Bar Council of India (BCI). They cautioned that incidents like the December 24 raid erode the relationship of trust and confidentiality between lawyers and clients and undermine the justice delivery system. BCI chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra announced the council would convene a virtual meeting with all the state Bar councils within three to four days to decide a course of action. “Similarly, incidents were witnessed in West Bengal, Bihar and almost all states,” the statement said, without citing details. “Such actions of the police (are) rather worse than crime(s) committed by any hardened criminal/s.” The BAI said: “The issuing of a search warrant in respect of a lawyer’s communication and correspondence is a grave violation of client-attorney privilege, and can cause a chilling effect in clients providing true and complete disclosures to their lawyers, and would impede the administration of justice.” The police defended the raid –- which allegedly lasted nearly 15 hours and led to the seizure of computers and other digital devices --- citing the search warrant issued by a judicial magistrate. But they did not say why they had sought the warrant or what they were looking for. An SCBA statement on behalf of its president and senior advocate Dushyant Dave expressed “shock, deep concern and dismay” at the “arbitrary, illegal and brazen exercise of brute power by the police and action taken against advocates”. It mentioned the raid on Pracha as well as the “brutal assault of a lawyer in the district of Etah in Uttar Pradesh by the local police”. It said the Etah police “entered the house of the lawyer, mercilessly and brutally assaulted him and then lodged him and his entire family in jail”. According to the Etah police, the lawyer fired at them, injuring a passer-by, when cops arrived at his home on December 21 to investigate a property dispute involving him. The lawyer and three other male members of the family remain in custody while three women members have been granted bail. “Such actions are intimidatory and designed to abuse the due process by coercing an advocate to succumb to police threats and methods unheard of in legal annals. Such a search/ seizure is in the teeth of specific provisions of law which recognise the client-lawyer relationship and protects all correspondence between the advocate and his client,” the SCBA said. “This encroachment on the rights of an advocate by the police violates the rights of the accused to a fair trial guaranteed under Article 21 and the protection against self-incrimination guaranteed under Article 20(3) of the Constitution....” The statement frowned on the grant of a warrant to search a lawyer’s office in a routine manner, and urged punishment of the police personnel involved in the raid. The BAI said “the warrant appears to have been issued without a reference to the importance of protecting the attorney-client privilege”. It expressed concern “that the Delhi police appears to have gone beyond the permission to conduct the ‘search’ authorised by the warrant, by seeking to seize and copy data off concerned advocate’s personal computer and other personal digital devices”. The BAI referred to Articles 16, 17 and 22 of the United Nations that urge governments to ensure that lawyers can perform all their professional functions without intimidation, hindrance, harassment or interference. It flagged the protections offered to privileged communication between attorneys and their clients under the Indian Evidence Act and the Bar Council of India Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Two Dalit youths lynched allegedly over love affair||A violent mob killed two Dalit youths in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district on Monday after they were caught by villagers while allegedly roaming in suspicious conditions. Police officials said that the lynching could be an outcome of a love affair. At least six persons have been lynched in the state since the new NDA government came to power last month after the Assembly elections. The Monday’s incident occurred at Chakki Mayurwa village under Sonbarsa police station and the youths have been identified as Sonu Kumar and Suraj Kumar hailing from two different villages under the same police station. Police officials said that both were of around 24 to 25 years of age. Sonbarsa station house officer Gaurishankar Baitha said that the investigations so far indicated the killings to be “related to an affair with some girl of the village”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Union health ministry proposes regular surveillance for leprosy||The Union health ministry has proposed regular surveillance for leprosy, concerned that more than 100,000 new patients are detected annually despite India having statistically “eliminated” the disease 15 years ago. The ministry on Monday released operational guidelines that propose yearly or twice-a-year screening in select areas depending on the leprosy prevalence rates there. The guidelines also propose financial incentives for public health workers to detect cases. The ministry had in 2005 declared leprosy “eliminated”, defining the threshold as when the country’s prevalence rate fell below one per 10,000 population. Public health experts have often underlined since then that tens of thousands of new patients emerge every year. The new guidelines seek to widen the effort for case detection through regular household screening, citing high prevalence in certain pockets in several states and the challenge of diagnosing leprosy among the urban poor. Screening has been proposed once a year in areas with prevalence rates lower than one per 10,000, and twice a year in areas with prevalence rates higher than one per 10,000. Any area with even a single child patient will be subject to two screenings a year. Public health workers tasked with case detection will receive an incentive of Rs 1,000 for the screening rounds. Villages that have not recorded any leprosy cases for three years or longer will not be included in the screening. But the health workers there will receive incentives of up to Rs 250 for the detection of a leprosy case and up to Rs 600 to ensure the patient completes the treatment. “I think this is a well-intentioned move and hope it’ll help further reduce incidence,” said Jai Prakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and one of the experts critical of the government’s declaration of “elimination”. “But active case detection will hinge on the capacity of the health system to pick up cases early — it will require expertise for diagnosis. It’s not difficult, but needs special training,” Muliyil said. The health ministry has over the past decade reported between 133,000 and 120,000 new leprosy cases every year. Health experts say that in many states, the infection has been disproportionately high among specific segments of disadvantaged populations such as tribal and Dalit communities. Oommen Kurian, head of health initiatives at the non-government Observer Research Foundation, had in a report last year noted that India’s challenges in battling leprosy include “low detection, high level of concentration of the disease in already marginalised population groups, and patchy implementation of detection and treatment programmes”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Karnataka BJP govt takes ordinance route for cattle bill||Karnataka’s BJP government on Monday decided on the ordinance route to enforce a contentious bill against cattle slaughter after twice being thwarted from tabling it in the legislative council by its Congress chairman. The ordinance, which widens the slaughter ban to cover bulls and oxen and stiffens the punishment, is expected to be sent for the governor’s assent in a couple of days. While the government had passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020 with hardly any discussion in the Assembly on December 9, Council chairman Pratapchandra Shetty had adjourned his House before it could be tabled. After the government convened a one-day session of the Council on December 15, BJP members first tried to pass a no-confidence motion against Shetty, triggering mayhem. Amid the chaos, Shetty adjourned the House again, denying the government a chance to table the bill. The government lacks the numbers in the Council, anyway. The new law will replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, which prohibits the slaughter of cows, female buffalo and calves of both species and sexes as well as import and sale of their meat. The new law prohibits the slaughter of cows, oxen, bulls and all calves and bans import and sale of their meat. It, however, allows the slaughter of both male and female buffalo if certified to be older than 13 — a point law minister J.C. Madhuswamy flagged to claim there would not be a total “ban on beef”. The definition of “beef” in standard dictionaries covers the meat of cows, bulls and oxen but not that of buffalo. However, buffalo meat is “beef” in common parlance in Karnataka and many other parts of the country. Meat traders have already cited the shortage of buffalo in the southern states, unlike the north where they are rampant. The new law provides for jail terms of three to seven years, a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh, or both for the first offence. Subsequent offences can bring jail for up to seven years, a fine between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, or both. The existing law prescribes a jail term of up to six months, a fine of up to Rs 1,000, or both. Animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan cited a 2019 cattle census to argue the new law had become necessary. He said 662 heads of cattle were being slaughtered every day in Karnataka “and a day won’t be far away when we’ll read about cows only in books”. Before tabling the bill in the Assembly, Chauhan had travelled to Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, two BJP-ruled states where similar laws are in force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Veteran of three wars fights his fourth ||Just like the times he had fought with China and Pakistan half a century ago, Amarjeet Singh is again standing at his post, determined never to abandon it. Except that the retired army subedar and veteran of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars is 85 years old now. And if he’s facing no bullets this time, sleeping in a tractor-trolley in the biting winter is doing the old bones no good. But the winner of four army medals, who left his village in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district on December 14, says he will not return home until the government repeals the three new farm laws. “If the laws are not repealed, it will finish the farmers and farming. What will you eat in Delhi?” Amarjeet, who retired from the army in 1974, told The Telegraph on Saturday. His village of Nainokot, which has 1,200 votes, had sent 15 people to fight the “just cause”. Apart from Amarjeet, the rest would go back on December 28, the old soldier said. But another batch of 15 would arrive to pick up the baton, helping sustain the movement and their village’s honour. If resolve such as Amarjeet’s is the fuel that ignited the month-old protest by a diverse group of farmers, their tactic of relay participation is the oxygen that is keeping the flame burning. Kulwant Singh, sarpanch of the Balyali gram panchayat in Mohali district of Punjab and a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), explained the pass-the-baton system. About 1,000 people from seven Mohali villages — Karala, Jangpura, Barri, Shyaau, Matran, Shekhar Mazra and Khanpur Bangar — are at the protest site, he said. They came in tractor-trolleys loaded with food, mattresses, blankets, medicines and clothes. “Every week, a new group of volunteers will arrive with food and other materials. Those among the earlier arrivals who want to return home will do so,” Kulwant said. “This rotational participation is unique for a protest and can help sustain it for months.” Some have come alone, like Balveer Kaur of Ghagha village near Patiala whose family owns four acres of farmland. When she found her husband dilly-dallying about joining the protest, the 64-year-old packed her bag and came over by bus to stand with her “brothers”. “I told my husband, who has four acres of farmland, to come but he was delaying matters. So I decided to come by myself,” she said. “I didn’t want to miss the opportunity to be part of this historic protest.” Women make up about 10 per cent of the estimated 10,000 to 15,000 protesters at the Singhu border between Punjab and Haryana, an agitator said. Protesters are also massed at Delhi’s Tikri and Ghazipur borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, 118km from Delhi. Most of the farmers are from Punjab and Haryana. They present a motley group. There’s MA (economics) student Satnam Singh from Karnal in Haryana and Mumbai-based businessman Gurjan Singh, who have arrived in solidarity. Then there’s marginal farmer Sukhjeet Singh from Chamkor Sahib village in Ropar, Punjab, and “medium-size” farmer Gurupratap Singh from Barri village in Mohali. Bills of fear Lakhminder Singh, who grows paddy, wheat and potato on his eight acres at Karala village in Mohali and supports a family of 10, explained his fears. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act allows farmers to sell their produce outside the government mandis (wholesale markets), run by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees, where they are assured a government-decided minimum support price (MSP). The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act creates avenues for contract farming, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act removes the limit on the stockpiling of several commodities. “The government says the private mandis are for the benefit of the farmers. I have seen what happened to government schools and government hospitals after the expansion of private schools and private hospitals,” he said. “Are you sending your children to government schools? The way the government schools deteriorated after the expansion of private schools, the same thing will happen to the government mandis.” Once government procurement of farm produce stops, the private mandis will no longer pay the MSP, Lakhminder believes. “When the MSP is not paid, farming will be destroyed. Every category of famer will face the problem,” he said. Punjab’s farmers tend to have larger landholdings than their peers elsewhere. While the average landholding in India is 1.08 hectares (2.67 acres) among farmers, according to the Agriculture Census 2015-16, the figure is 3.62 hectares (8.94 acres) in Punjab, second only to Nagaland’s 5.06 hectares (12.5 acres). A farmer with an operational holding of less than one hectare is a marginal farmer while one who has between one and two hectares is a small farmer. Bill of fare In the cold nights, the farmers sleep under makeshift polythene roofs in the thousands of tractor trolleys parked on both sides of the highway, where the protest stretches for kilometres towards Karnal on the Haryana side. They spend the days chanting slogans or playing loud Punjabi songs from their tractors, which they drive up and down the protest venue so everybody feels entertained. For those with somewhat different musical tastes, a rough-and-ready wooden stage has been erected at one end — right beside the barricades on the Delhi border. Here, troupe after troupe from Punjab belts out kirtans all day long as hundreds sit enthralled on the patch of ground around the dais. Like the food in the langars (community kitchens) and the RO water they supply, the music is free. Not everyone sleeps in tractors. Some of the richer farmers come in SUVs like Cretas, Innovas and Fortuners. They stay on for two or three days, spending the nights in the climbers’ sleeping bags handed out from a big tent that has a board saying “Tent City”. In between the tractors have mushroomed hundreds of temporary langars, even medical camps and a blood-donation camp. Some of the langars are within 20 metres of each other, run by either a farmers’ group or a gurdwara. They serve whoever comes. Around 11.30am on Saturday, a group of women were busy making rotis at a langar run by a farmers’ body. The sabzi, rice and sweets had already been prepared. A queue of about 20 people waited to be served. A short distance away, on the opposite side of the road, a langar run by the Delhi Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee extended an open invitation to all. The chef, Balveer Singh, said the kitchen stayed open from 10am to 4am. Satnam, the MA student from Panjab University, Chandigarh, said the Nirmal Kutia Gurdwara’s langar served quality food. The menu is missi roti, saag, puri and a dish of assorted vegetables for lunch. In the evening, the kitchen serves milk mixed with honey and ghee. “My father’s a farmer. We have land at Rawal village in Karnal district. My family survives on farming. So I’ve come to help. When I go back, my cousin will come,” Satnam said. Behind the kirtan stage is a blood donation camp organised by the Bhai Ghaniya Ji Mission Seva Society of Punjab. One of the organisers said that every day, about 200 people donated blood, which was sent to local hospitals. The medical camps also do blood tests for various diseases, and the leftover blood in the syringes is used to write letters of protest to dignitaries such as the President and Prime Minister. Gurjan, the young businessman from Mumbai, donated blood on Saturday. “I have my business in Mumbai. We are originally from Patiala. I came here to support the protest,” he said. Some among the young find time to play cards. Jaspreet Singh, a small farmer from Beherampur Zimmidari in Ropar district, said 35 people had come from his village. “All my friends are sloganeering or helping out people. We have some time, so we are playing the card game Bhabhi,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||British era protests were successful with political support: Historian||An eminent historian on Monday suggested it was “legitimate” for political parties to participate in farmer movements and that past agitations similar to the current one had achieved success through association with political activists and organisations. Mridula Mukherjee’s comments come at a time the central government has tried to discredit the ongoing agitation against the three new farm laws by saying it is backed by political parties and is therefore not a genuine movement of farmers. Mukherjee was delivering the S.C. Mishra Memorial Lecture on “Punjab Kisan Protests: A Legacy of Heroic Non-Violent Resistance” at a webinar organised by the Indian History Congress. She said that farmers of Punjab, who are leading the current protest, had a century ago staged a series of agitations against the British in association with political parties of the time, and on a similar issue as the present one. “The current protest resonates with the past,” Mukherjee said. In 1907, Punjab had witnessed the “Pagdi Sambhal Jatta” (Preserve your self-respect, farmer) movement against three measures by the British government, including the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill introduced in 1906. All three measures had sought to reduce farmers to contract workers on their own land — which the farmers now agitating near the Delhi border fear the new farm laws will do. The British government had earlier dug canals to take water from the River Chenab to Lyallpur, which is now in Pakistan, and persuaded peasants from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur to settle there by offering them free land. After the peasants began settling in Lyallpur and its neighbourhood and turned the land cultivable, the Raj enacted these three laws to declare itself master of the land and deny ownership to the farmers. This led to the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta, which intensified with the involvement of then Congress leader Lala Lajpat Rai and Ajit Singh, the uncle of Bhagat Singh, Mukherjee said. “The meetings were marked by a sharp tone against the government. The government also realised the movement was being organised by urban nationalists to overthrow it,” she said. Eventually, the British withdrew the three laws. “The success of a movement depends on what kind of support you can garner from others, including political parties,” Mukherjee said. “The government is keen to say political parties are involved in the current movement. Somehow, the peasants are wary of this. But in the entire history of peasant movements, political parties have been in the thick of the struggle. This is a legitimate field for political parties.” Punjab also witnessed the Akali movement between 1920 and 1925, when peasants demanded that gurdwaras be managed by popularly elected representatives and not by feudal lords and government-appointed managers. The Akali Party supported the agitation, which was successful. “Political demand has been part of peasants’ movements. Political parties have also been part of the movements,” Mukherjee said. She cited how the protesting farmers had surprised their critics by coming over to Delhi’s borders with their tractor trolleys in tens of thousands, setting up numerous roadside langars and continuing their agitation in the bitter cold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi's ‘short personal visits’ raise commitment questions ||Rahul Gandhi’s vacationing whim is no longer news; the nonchalance with which he embraces the habit may yet be. His outings appear to take scant notice of either the Congress’ dwindled fortunes or to widened sense of commitment deficits to party and to public life. The former and will-be-will-be-not president of the Congress departed for Italy just ahead of the party’s 136th foundation day, underlining yet again that the political is still struggling to get precedence over what is personal to Rahul. He was vacationing while Delhi burned at the beginning of the year and wasn’t around to attend a key CWC meeting on the issue. He went vacationing in the middle of the battle for Bihar, and was slammed by RJD allies for making light of the contest, leaving his party to punch above its weight. He was abroad for his mother’s treatment while the contentious farm bills were being hurried through Parliament. Official word from the Congress on the face of the party has come differently worded as “out on a short personal visit” or “gone to see his grandmother”. Neither version is quite able to erase the perception, or allegation, that Rahul has flown to take the year-end off while, of all concerns that should keep him in harness, an extraordinary farmer tumult, endorsed by him, rages on the doorsteps of Delhi. The farmers’ stir is merely the tip of what many in the Congress believe should have prompted Rahul to forsake his prized break and stay the course. “Everybody is entitled to personal time,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, “But Rahul Gandhi is not everybody. No matter what spin you keep putting on personal time, these breaks serve to mar his image and the future of our party. He should know better than most that we are grappling with ourselves when we should have been battle-ready for a government that has performed abjectly. That we cannot build momentum around it may be our collective failure, but that we are not led is an issue burning at Rahul’s doorstep.” Now more than ever, many in the Congress would add, with Ahmed Patel gone, and nothing demonstrable having come off confabulations to close ranks between the old guard and the new crop, between those who bait Rahul and those who bat for him. Often, the explanation put by loyalists on Rahul’s routine furloughs is that he is merely one of several party MPs, that he has no organisational position or role, that to hold him to responsibilities not defined by the party is to be unfair to him. That explanation is shot through with subterfuge, rigged to allow Rahul the privileges he feels entitled to. The truth may be closer to this: Rahul Gandhi is the Congress MP from Wayanad in Kerala but he is not only the Congress MP from Wayanad. Rahul Gandhi may not be anybody in the hierarchy of the Congress party, but he cannot be nobody in the hierarchy of the Congress party. He stands at the core of the Congress, its crisis and its resolution, one way or another. He is, for all purposes, the leader of the party, its chief spokesman and campaigner, and, for the better part, its chief arbiter. If the critical issue of the formal leadership of the party — to be decided at an election whose dates remain undecided but cannot be forever put off — lies unresolved, it is also because Rahul Gandhi has chosen not to resolve it. He will not categorically say he is prepared to lead the party, he will not categorically say he will not. The question many in the Congress have been asking, with growing urgency and unease, is whether Rahul has time for the party. “We have been in deep and consistent decline for nearly a decade now, we need leadership and direction, and for that we need a leader who is seen to be leading every day, every hour. That’s what Narendra Modi is able to do. But that never was the case with Rahul Gandhi, even when he was Congress president,” lamented a senior partyman. A former aide who worked closely with him post 2015, said this of Rahul: “He is impatient, he is inconsistent, he is excited by an idea one day and he has forgotten about it the next. He was right to feel frustrated by the so-called old guard, but he was party president for two years, enough time to have restructured. He either did not have the will, or failed at it, or merely let things drift because he did not want the responsibilities of taking full grip. Rahul Gandhi, he never completes the circle…” In flying off to Italy, he may have delayed the rounding off yet again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Arnab Goswami’s ‘lakhs’ in TRP manipulation||Mumbai police on Monday told a local court that Partho Dasgupta, the arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc), in connivance with a colleague and Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami, had manipulated the television rating points (TRP) of Republic TV. “Dasgupta misused his official position and manipulated TRP of specific news channels broadcast by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd such as Republic Bharat Hindi and Republic TV English,” the police said in its remand note submitted in a magistrate’s court. The note said Goswami had given “payment in lakhs” to Dasgupta from time to time. The magistrate extended the police custody of Dasgupta till December 30. Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Congress vows to protect citizens’ rights from 'dictatorial forces'||The Congress on Monday took a pledge to protect the rights of all citizens as well as democratic institutions from “dictatorial forces” as it celebrated its 136th foundation day, stressing that nationalism cannot be delinked from the freedom and welfare of the people. Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a video message to party workers argued that the situation today was comparable to the difficult days of pre-Independence period, saying, “Citizens’ rights are being trampled. Democratic and constitutional institutions are being demolished. Unemployment rate is at its peak. Agriculture is under unprecedented attack. Charo ore tanashahi ka aalam hai (Dictatorial tendencies are visible everywhere).” She added: “The history of Congress is of patriotism, fearlessness and commitment to unity and social harmony. We suffered British oppression and bullets. It is our responsibility to protect the country from authoritarian forces. We will have to unite to preserve the glory and dignity of the Tricolour, under which we fought to achieve our Independence. We take a vow to protect our Constitution, democracy and rights of every citizen.” Congress leaders, who took out a Tiranga Yatra across the country on Monday besides conducting a social media campaign — selfie with Tricolor — highlighted two issues in their messages. While the emphasis was clearly on rights and equality of all citizens, irrespective of identity markers such as religion, caste, region or language, all of them tried to project the gravity of the crisis by dwelling on the Narendra Modi government’s treatment of farmers who are protesting against the three new laws. They all portrayed the government’s attitude as dictatorial. After the ceremony to hoist the party flag on the foundation day, Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The parent organisation (RSS) of the current rulers were sitting in the lap of the British when the Congress was fighting them. The present government behaves like Company Sarkar, much like the British East India Company behaved with Indians. Lakhs of farmers are sitting on the road for over a month to seek justice. Forty-five farmers are already dead. How can an elected government be so  insensitive?” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also said: “We have been saying that the government should listen to the farmers. It is a sin to malign the farmers, to say that it is a political conspiracy. Our soldiers defending the borders are sons of farmers. The government should pay heed to the farmers’ demand and withdraw the three laws.” She walked away when questions about Rahul Gandhi’s absence from today’s function started raining on her. Apart from a section of the media and BJP leaders who taunted Rahul for going abroad and skipping the party’s foundation day, many Congress leaders privately expressed dismay over his absence. But Surjewala said: “One of his family members is seriously ill and Rahulji had to go to Italy to meet him. I don’t think people of India will have any problem in him attending a family crisis. He hasn’t gone on vacation. He is not the party president and he dutifully undertakes whatever responsibility is assigned to him by the party.” Surjewala added, “The question today is not who has gone where. The question is the miseries lakhs of farmers are facing and who is standing with them. Why has no central minister visited the farmers sitting at Delhi border in this chill? Why has the Prime Minister been so intoxicated with power? He should directly talk to the anguished farmers with an open mind and clear heart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
