30-12-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh shooter inducted to BJP, thrown out hours later||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday admitted into its fold Kapil Gujjar -- the man who had allegedly opened fire in the air during the anti-CAA protests at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, during the early months of this year. However, hours later, the party cancelled his membership, as soon as the senior leaders came to know of his induction into the party, UP BJP's general secretary J P S Rathore told PTI. “Local leaders had processed the induction. However, as soon as the state leadership got information about it, his membership was cancelled,” Rathore said on being asked about Gujjar’s entry into the saffron party. “Today (on Wednesday), some youths from the BSP joined the BJP. Kapil Gujjar was also there among them. We did not have information about his (Kapil Gujjar's) controversial past about Shaheen Bagh,” said BJP’s Ghaziabad Mahanagar unit president Sanjeev Sharma earlier in a statement. “As soon as we got information about the entire incident, the party's state unit leadership cancelled his membership with immediate effect,” he added. A man had allegedly fired two shots in the air on February 1 at Shaheen Bagh area in Delhi's Jamia Nagar, where an anti-CAA protest was on. He was taken into custody soon after he opened fire in the air, eyewitnesses had said. No one was injured in the incident which occurred at around 5 pm. According to eyewitnesses, the man, who identified himself as Kapil Gujjar, opened fire close to the police barricades, nearly 250 metres behind the stage. He was overpowered by police personnel and taken into custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Some agreements, but talks deadlocked on farm law repeal, MSP||The government and farm unions reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. After nearly five hours of the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4 at 2 PM. He also hoped that the new year will herald new solutions and asserted that the Modi government has always been sensitive to farmers’ issues. “Discussions on the three farm laws and MSP are not complete and will continue in the next round of talks... We are hopeful that consensus would be reached for resolving the two remaining issues also,” Tomar told reporters after the meeting, which saw the two sides breaking the bread but not much ice. While the three ministers joined the farmer leaders to share their langar (community kitchen) food during the lunch break, the union representatives accepted the beverage offered by the government during the evening tea break. For the last few meetings, farmer leaders have been arranging their own food and beverages but had so far refused to accept even water offered by the government. Farmer leaders said the government agreed to their demands for dropping the penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law. However, there was no concrete movement on their main demands for repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP, union leaders said. The unions, however, have decided to postpone their proposed tractor rally, earlier scheduled for Thursday, till the next round of talks on January 4. Tomar said talks were held in a cordial atmosphere and the two sides reached an agreement on two issues -- one relating to the proposed electricity law and the other about an ordinance on penal provisions for stubble burning. He hailed the unions for maintaining peace and discipline during their protest but urged them to send the elderly, women and children back to their homes due to the extreme cold weather. Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the Acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers. On farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP), the minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance. “Talks will continue on these two issues,” said Tomar, who was accompanied by Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash at the meeting. Later, an official statement said the government offered to set up two committees -- one to ensure parity between the MSP and the market price and the other on finding alternatives to the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three laws while upholding the constitutional values. After the meeting, union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu said Wednesday’s talks mostly focussed on electricity and stubble burning, while the next meeting on January 4 would focus on the MSP guarantee and the three farm laws. Another union leader Prem Singh Bhangu said the tractor rally has been postponed and the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere. “They had langar food with us and we also had tea with them,” he said. All India Kisan Sabha leader and CPI(M) polit bureau member Hannan Mollah said, “The discussion has not broken, it is on. Out of four issues on the agenda, two have been addressed and the remaining two -- MSP legalisation and repeal of three laws -- are to be resolved.” The government during the discussion offered to set up a committee to discuss ways to legalise the MSP and amendments to the three new laws, but we rejected that, he said. “The government's attitude was soft (sarkar ka ravaiya naram tha). The government said it has agreed to two demands and there are complexities in the rest two. They asked us to send a fresh proposal based on today’s discussion,” he said. Asked what would be farmer unions’ next proposal, Mollah said, “There is no individual proposal. We will together decide at Singhu border on January 2.” “The tractor march has been postponed till January 4. If the next meeting fails, then we will plan the next course of action,” he added. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh's national spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar said, "The discussion happened in a positive atmosphere. The third and fourth demands have been accepted. But nothing concrete happened on the major two demands, although discussion happened on those issues." The government asked us to give alternative options but farmers demanded the repeal of the three laws, he said. "On the MSP issue, Agriculture Minister said it is financially not feasible to make MSP guaranteed legally. However, we told that in 2018 in Madhya Pradesh government versus Anndata Samithi Case, the High Court had ordered that the first auction price placed should be above the MSP. "We told the government that there has been a loss of Rs 45,000 crore in the last 17 years. There was a long discussion but no consensus could be reached," Kohar said. During the meeting, the government is believed to have offered to set up a committee for better implementation of the MSP procurement system, but the proposal did not find any favour with the union leaders. The government had hoped it would be a decisive meeting and the protesting farmers would return from Delhi borders to their respective homes to celebrate the New Year, but farmer leaders insisted they are prepared to continue their agitation till the government agrees to their demands, including repeal of the laws. Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa said the government was not agreeing to give legal backing for the MSP procurement and has rather offered to set up a committee on options for proper implementation of MSP, but the proposal was rejected. He further said the government has offered to withdraw the electricity amendment bill and to amend the ordinance to remove the penal provision on farmers in stubble burning cases. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait also said the government has agreed not to implement the proposed electricity amendment bill and also the ordinance relating to air pollution due to stubble burning. Farmer leaders also offered 'ardaas' (prayers) at the meeting venue after the tea break, before resuming the talks. Before the meeting, Parkash, himself an MP from Punjab, had said he was hopeful that it would be a decisive meeting and the government wanted the protesting farmers to return to their respective homes to celebrate the new year. Previously, Tomar had also said he was hopeful that a solution would emerge before the year 2020 ends. Some union leaders, however, said that farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Former Indian captain Azharuddin escapes unhurt in car accident in Rajasthan ||Former Indian cricket team skipper Mohammad Azharuddin escaped unhurt on Wednesday when an SUV in which he was travelling along with three other people overturned in Sawai Madhopur district, said police. “Three other passengers travelling with him in the same vehicle also escaped unhurt. However, an employee of an eatery near which the SUV overturned received minor injuries,”said SHO Chandrabhan Singh of Soorwal police station. According to Singh the vehicle overturned into the adjoining field when the driver, while navigating near the roadside eatery got too close to the edge of the road and got disbalanced. The accident occurred barely six kilometers away from Ranthambore, the SHO added. He said, “After the accident Azharuddin and his co-passengers along with the eatery staffer were taken to a hospital from where the former cricketer-cum-Lok Sabha MP and his three companions were discharged.” The eatery staffer was also released after receiving first aid, the SHO said, adding that Azharuddin later resumed his journey in another vehicle and reached his destination safely. Later in the evening the former skipper took on to Twitter to thank his well-wishers and state that he was safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Sivasankar's bail plea dismissed in gold smuggling case||A court here on Wednesday dismissed the bail plea of suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar, an accused in the case pertaining to gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel in Kerala. The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, dismissed his bail plea, considering the argument of the Special Prosecutor of Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate that the petitioner was likely to tamper with evidence, influence witnesses in the event of granting bail. "Considering the unprecedented nature of offence having international ramifications, he is likely to make use of the help of 'big shots' with whom he has close nexus, to shatter the investigation", Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (EO) said in the order. Sivasankar was arrested by the Customs on November 24 in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Customs has arrested around 15 people, including Swapna Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair, over the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Enforcement Directorate and Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate, surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||SAD, Congress say farmers should talk to PM to solve impasse||The Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday urged the farmers protesting against the three agri laws to hold talks with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi directly, saying that dialogues will not yield results otherwise. Reacting to the farmers’ unions’ meeting with the three central ministers on Wednesday, former Union minister and SAD MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal said they shouldn't fall into the trap of extended meetings, which yield nothing. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also spoke in favour of holding direct talks with the PM, asserting that the involvement of the prime minister or Union home minister is a must for a successful dialogue. “Our farmers are on the cusp of victory. I appeal to them to hold direct talks with the PM to get these agri laws repealed,” Badal tweeted. “They shouldn't fall into the trap of extended meetings which yield nothing,” she added. She appealed to the PM not to prolong the woes of the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. “People's will is supreme in a democracy,” the Bathinda MP said in another tweet, tagging Narendra Modi's Twitter handle. Badal, whose party had quit the BJP-led NDA due to differences over the issue earlier this year, said had the Centre paid attention to her warnings about repercussions of the laws, things could not have come to such an impasse. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said for talks to be successful, involvement of PM Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah is a must. “After Amit Shah's intervention failing to resolve the issue, the next level of talks should have been with the PM. Strangely these have been downgraded to previous levels. For talks to be successful, involvement of the PM or HM is a must. Otherwise it's a futile exercise,” Jakhar said in a tweet. The protesting farmers and three central ministers began their sixth round of talks on Wednesday afternoon to solve the over one-month impasse regarding the three new agri-marketing laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Sixth round of talks between farmers and Centre underway||The protesting farmers and three central ministers began their sixth round of talks on Wednesday afternoon to solve the over one-month impasse regarding the three new agri-marketing laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. The sixth round of talks are being held after a long gap, with the last one being held 25 days ago on December 5. Following an informal meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, the sixth round of talks stood cancelled earlier on December 9. The protesting farmer unions are sticking to their hardline position that the discussions will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. On Monday, the Centre invited the unions for the meeting on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a “logical solution” with “open mind”, to the prolonged deadlock over the three new agri laws that were enacted in September. But in its letter on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation which represents the farmer unions, said the modalities for repealing the three contentious laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) must be part of the agenda. The Centre, following the cancellation of the December 9 talks, had sent a draft proposal to the farmer unions in which it had suggested seven to eight amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers agitating against the three new central agriculture laws stayed put at their agitation venues near Delhi, which is going through a harsh spell of winter, unrelenting in their demand of withdrawal of the legislations. On Wednesday, a cold wave swept Delhi as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, the India Meteorological Department predicted, as dry and icy winds barrelled through the plains. Three union ministers joined farm leaders on Wednesday to share 'langar' food arranged by protesting farmers during their sixth round of talks to resolve the deadlock over new farm laws. The 'langar' (community kitchen) food arrived in a van at the meeting venue, Vigyan Bhawan, after around two hours of discussions had taken place and the two sides took a break for tea and snacks. Sources present at the venue said that Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash joined the farmer leaders to share their langar food during the break. Farmer leaders said that the talks were continuing and they were going 'agenda wise'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Health ministry asks all states to keep vigil on New Year festivities||The Union Health Ministry has asked all states to keep a strict vigil on New Year celebrations that could be potential Covid-19 super-spreader events and also to curb crowding as a precautionary measure during the winter season. In a letter to states and Union Territories, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated that the number of active COVID-19 cases has been declining steadily in the country for the last three-and-half months. Keeping in view the fresh surge of coronavirus cases in Europe and the Americas, there was still a need for maintaining comprehensive precaution and strict surveillance within India, he underlined. "You will appreciate that in the wake of New Year and various celebratory events associated with it as well as ongoing winter season, strict vigil is required to be maintained to curb all potential 'super spreader' events and places where crowds may gather," Bhushan said in the letter. The recent advice and guidance to the states by the Home Ministry has also been reiterated by the Health Secretary. The Ministry of Home Affairs has mandated that states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, with a view to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Home Ministry has also stipulated that there shall be no restriction on interstate and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Drawing attention to this, the Union health secretary has urged the states to "promptly assess the local situation and consider the imposition of appropriate restrictions on December 30 and 31, as well as on January 1, 2021."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Mansukh Vasava not quitting BJP||A day after tendering his resignation from the BJP, Lok Sabha member and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava on Wednesday said he has dropped the idea of quitting the party following talks with its senior leaders. Vasava, a six-time MP from tribal-dominated Bharuch in Gujarat, had on Tuesday said he was quitting the BJP only due to health problems and had no issues with the government or the party. Talking to reporters after meeting Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani in Gandhinagar on Wednesday morning, he said, "Senior party leaders told me that I will get free treatment for my back pain and neck pain only if I continue to be an MP. This is not possible if I resign as an MP. Party leaders asked me to take rest and assured that a system will be put in place wherein local party workers will do work on my behalf." "The only reason why I had decided to resign from the party and as an MP was my health issues. I also discussed the same with the CM today. Now, after getting assurance from the senior BJP leaders, I have decided to withdraw my resignation. I will continue to serve my people as an MP," Vasava said. The tribal leader claimed that it was a misconception that he was upset with the government or the ruling BJP over some issues pertaining to tribals of Narmada district, particularly about the inclusion of 121 villages in the Eco Sensitive Zone. "The governments in the state and at the Centre are putting all their efforts into resolving the issues related to the Eco Sensitive Zone. I have no issues with the party or the government. On the contrary, I firmly believe that tribals benefited more under the BJP rule than under any previous governments," he said. On Tuesday, Vasava had resigned from the party and also claimed that he will resign as MP after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker during the upcoming Budget Session of the Parliament. Vasava had tendered his resignation in the form of a letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil. In the letter, Vasava, an outspoken and straightforward tribal leader, said although he had tried his best to be loyal to the party and also tried to assimilate the party's values in his life, he is ultimately a human and prone to commit "mistakes". "I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I hereby resign from the party, and I seek forgiveness from the party for it," he had said in the letter. Paatil had told reporters on Tuesday that Vasava was particularly unhappy about the declaration of the Eco-Sensitive Zone in his constituency. "The main issue is the declaration of an Eco-Sensitive Zone by the Centre in his constituency. Now, it appears that some people are misguiding locals over the issue after the Collector had made some entries about the land parcels. We are trying to convince Vasava and I am confident that a solution will arrive soon," the state BJP chief had said. Vasava was inducted into the Cabinet as the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2014. However, he was abruptly dropped in July 2016. On December 20, he had dashed off a letter to the PM demanding the withdrawal of the Eco Sensitive Zone from 121 villages of Narmada district. He claimed that local tribals were angry because of the "unnecessary interference" by the officials after those 121 tribal-dominated villages were included in the Eco-Sensitive Zone. Later in the afternoon, Vasava claimed that it was his health, not Eco Sensitive Zone, which forced him to take the decision. "I am having no issues at all with the BJP or the government. The only thing is that I remain unwell most of the time and the doctors have advised me to take rest now, Though I am an MP, I could not travel much and be with my people due to this back pain, which has now started affecting the functioning of my brain," Vasava had told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Flights to and from UK suspended till January 7||Passenger flights between the UK and India would remain suspended till January 7 and they will resume in a "strictly regulated" manner thereafter, Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The Civil Aviation Ministry had last week suspended all flights between the European country and India from December 23 to December 31 as a mutated variant of the coronavirus was detected there. Puri said on Twitter: "Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021." "Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly." he said. Puri on Tuesday hinted that there might be a slight extension of temporary suspension of passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom, where a mutated variant of the coronavirus has been detected. “I foresee a slight extension of temporary suspension of India-UK flights,” the minister had said at a press conference. “In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh completes 20 years of formation||The Congress-led government in Chhattisgarh coped with coronavirus and naxal menace during the year, consolidating rural economy with a slew of financial relief and employment-oriented measures in a bid to buck the post-pandemic trend in the country. Chhattisgarh, carved out of Madhya Pradesh, completed 20 years of its formation, while the Bhupesh Baghel-led regime completed two years in office during the year. Two schemes, Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna and Godhan Nyay Yojna, along with mass job creation in the rural pockets through MGNREGA and minor forest produce procurement were identified as leading factors in driving the state's economy during the pandemic. "The first thing we did when the nationwide lockdown was announced was to provide free ration to the poor for three months," the chief minister said. Over 2.77 lakh people in the state have tested Covid- 19 positive and 3,336 lost their lives due to the coronavirus so far and the numbers are continuing to climb. Chhattisgarh also remained in news this year due to the killing of 17 security personnel by naxals, Income Tax departments raids on the premises linked to state government officials and others, deaths of elephants and killings of civilians by Maoists in south Bastar. The death of political stalwart Ajit Jogi also shocked the state. After the state reported its first case of coronavirus on March 18, the state government immediately imposed section 144 of CrPC in all urban areas, banning assembly of people and sealed its borders to check the spread of infection. The state initially witnessed few cases but later saw a sharp rise in numbers with massive influx of migrants. Over seven lakh migrant workers returned to the state during the lockdown, for which 21,000 quarantine centres were set up by the state government. In September and October, the state saw a peak and reported over 1.50 lakh cases in the two months. After lockdown curbs were relaxed, industries in the state resumed operations and the job creation started through MGNREGA and minor forest produce collection, an official said. Around 51 lakh labourers from 27 lakh families have been provided works under MGNREGA so far this year and Rs 2305 crore were paid to them. In May, the state government launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, aimed at ensuring a better return to farmers for their produce and encouraging crop production. Under the scheme, farmers have so far been given Rs 4500 crore in three instalments as input support for the cultivation in the Kharif season 2019-20. Another major scheme was Gordhan Nyay Yojna under which the state government has been procuring cow dung at Rs 2 per kg from cattle rearers for production of vermicompost at gauthans, a dedicated area in villages where cattle are housed. Since the inception of the scheme in July, around 1.40 lakh dung sellers have been paid Rs 64.20 crore. There was a surge in automobile sales and purchase of jewellery and land registration during the year, which the Baghel government claimed were indicators of the states economic growth during the pandemic. The year saw the Congress government engaged in warding off the opposition BJP's attack over farmers issues, handling of the pandemic and law and order situation. The BJP claimed that around 255 cultivators committed suicide during the year. It also alleged mismanagement at quarantine centres after 26 people died in such facilities. In February, the Income Tax department raided premises linked to some Chhattisgarh government officials and others. Baghel then accused the Centre of weakening the federal structure and trying to destabilise the Congress government. The chief minister and his cabinet colleagues met Governor Anusuiya Uikey seeking her intervention. In October, Uikey's refusal to allow a special session of the Assembly triggered another confrontation with the Congress government. Accusing the BJP of backdoor politics, Baghel had said the Raj Bhawan should not be turned into a political arena. The state government had sent a proposal to her to hold the session to introduce a farm Bill that would circumvent the three agriculture Bills passed in Parliament. Uikey questioned the need for a special session, saying the monsoon session had concluded 58 days earlier.
In September she had expressed her displeasure over the government's decision to redesignate Marwahi in the new district of Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi from a gram panchayat to a nagar panchayat. She had also written a letter to Baghel over the transfer of IAS officers attached to the Raj Bhavan. Ajit Jogi, the first chief minister of the state and president of Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) party floated by him, died in May after health complications. His death necessitated a bypoll to Marwahi assembly seat, which was being represented by him. The Jogi family suffered a jolt after nomination papers of Amit Jogi, Ajit Jogis son, and his wife Richa Jogi were cancelled by election authority stating that their caste certificates were invalid. Amit Jogi alleged that he was ousted from the fray at the behest of Baghel and extended support to BJPs nominee in the bypoll held in November. The ruling Congress defeated the BJP in Marwahi, taking its tally to 70 in the 90-member Assembly. The Congress also put up a good show in panchayat elections held earlier. In March, Naxals dealt a heavy blow to security forces in Chhattisgarh killing 17 police personnel during an ambush in the Bastar region of the state. The attack, in Sukma district of the Naxal-hit state, was one of the deadliest in the region against the security forces. It came almost two years after another deadly attack by the Naxals in the same area in July 2018 led to the death of 24 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel. The March attack came as a setback for the government which had claimed to have 'controlled' the naxal menace with development-oriented initiatives. During the year, 38 naxals were killed in as many as 104 encounters with security forces, while 386 were arrested and 331 surrendered till December 22 in the insurgency-hit Bastar division comprising seven districts. Security forces also recovered 78 firearms, 268 IEDs and 576 detonators during anti-naxal operations in the region. In October, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) claimed responsibility for killing 25 people, including some of its members, for allegedly acting as police informers, in separate incidents in the insurgency-hit Bijapur district. The state government announced the development of Ram Van Gaman Path as a tourist destination. Some believe that Lord Ram traversed through 75 places in Chhattisgarh during his exile from Ayodhya, and may have stayed at 51 locations for some time. Eight spots on this forested route mentioned in mythology will be developed into tourist destinations in the first phase. Congress stalwart and former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh Motilal Vora died at 92 on December 21. He was cremated with full state honours on the banks of the Shivnath river in his hometown Durg in Chhattisgarh. Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar shared a video of a differently-abled boy from Chhattisgarh's naxal-hit Dantewada district on social media in January, showing 12-year-old Madda Ram Kawasi hitting the ball and crawling to complete a run using his right hand while holding the bat with the left. A Raipur couple naming their newborn twins as Corona and Covid, Naxals hit as lockdown disrupted their supply chain of essentials and a cop providing ration and other essentials to kin of security personnel killed in naxal violence kept the state in the news during the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||India records more than 20,000 cases, 286 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,02,44,852 with 20,549 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.34 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,48,439 with 286 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,34,141 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 2,62,272 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,09,22,030 samples have been tested up to December 29 with 11,20,281 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 286 new fatalities include 68 from Maharashtra, 30 from West Bengal, 28 from Delhi and 24 from Kerala. A total of 1,48,43 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,373 from Maharashtra followed by 12,092 from Tamil Nadu, 12,074 from Karnataka, 10,502 from Delhi, 9,655 from West Bengal, 8,340 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,100 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,322 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Biting cold grips Delhi, no respite for next two days||A cold wave swept Delhi on Wednesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, it predicted, as dry and icy winds barrelled though the plains. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.5 degrees Celsius as against 3.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The weather stations at Jafarpur and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, it said. During nighttime, "dense" fog reduced visibility to 50 metres in the Palam area. However, it improved to 400 metres by 9 am. The visibility at Safdarjung was 500 metres. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next two days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down. According to the IMD, a cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year so far is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Sceptical protesters to take part in govt talks||Protesting farmers are not optimistic about Wednesday’s meeting with the government but have decided to participate nonetheless, spelling out again the agenda for the discussions in a letter to the agriculture ministry: the modalities for the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of MSP. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmers are resisting the three “black laws” — wrote to the ministry on Tuesday to make it clear that they are coming to talk about the issues on the agenda they had sent to the government over the weekend. The letter, addressed to secretary in the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers welfare, Sanjay Agarwal, lists the agenda again: ⚫ Modalities for repeal of the three laws ⚫ Mechanisms to make remunerative MSP, recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission), a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities; ⚫ Amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020; and ⚫ Withdrawal of the Electricity Bill. The Kisan Morcha had spelt out the agenda and even the sequence of discussion in the letter it wrote on Saturday to the ministry accepting its offer to resume talks, but the government made no mention of it while fixing the date and time for the meeting. In Tuesday’s letter, the Morcha wrote: “It is necessary to follow our agenda to arrive at a ‘logical solution’.” The phrase “logical solution” is borrowed from a December 24 letter from the same department to the Kisan Morcha that said the government is ready to find a “logical solution”. With the agitation gathering steam not just at Delhi’s borders but elsewhere in the country – Patna on Tuesday saw a sizeable protest under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the original call for “Dilli Chalo” – the farmers are in no mood to relent. Going back is not an option as the three new laws would disrupt the farming sector and reduce them all to labourers, the farmers say. In an interview to PTI, former agriculture minister and NCP leader Sharad Pawar said the Opposition parties would take a call on the future course of action on the farm bills if the government fails to resolve the issue at Wednesday’s meeting. The Opposition has extended solidarity to the protests and supported the Bharat Bandh called by the Kisan Morcha earlier this month but kept a distance in deference to the wishes of the farmers, who have refused to allow any political party to use their platform. The NCP leader also sought to address the criticism of the government and the BJP that the Opposition was being hypocritical in supporting the agitation when many of the parties had in the past wanted similar reforms. “I and Manmohan Singh also wanted to bring some reforms in the agriculture sector but not in the same way as the current dispensation did. That time the agriculture ministry held long deliberations on the proposed reforms with agriculture ministers of all states and experts of the sector,’’ Pawar said, criticising the government for forcing the laws on the country without even consulting the state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Six UK coronavirus variant cases detected in India||Health authorities in India have detected the fast-spreading variant of the novel coronavirus disease in six people who have returned from the UK amid concerns whether its emergence might alter or even reverse the course of India’s steadily shrinking epidemic. The Union health ministry on Tuesday said six people who had returned from the UK were found infected with the UK variant marked by an unusual set of mutations that appear to make the virus more transmissible than earlier circulating variants. The ministry said three cases were detected by a lab in Bangalore, two by a lab in Hyderabad and one by a lab in Pune. The ministry did not disclose the actual locations of any of the six cases. All six persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health facilities. Their close contacts have also been placed under quarantine, and disease surveillance staff have launched “comprehensive contact tracing” to identify their co-travellers, family contacts and others who could have been potentially exposed to the variant, the ministry said. Genome sequencing on dozens of other viral samples from people who have returned from the UK since November 25 and were found infected with the coronavirus are underway. Health authorities also plan to sequence five per cent of positive samples across the country. “We have to be very, very careful — we still have a large pool of susceptible population. This virus may have its own run,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national task force on Covid-19 and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Health authorities fear that the variant, mainly reported in the UK, but also in smaller numbers from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, South Africa, Japan and some other countries, has genetic mutations that allow it to spread easier from person to person and could trigger fresh spurts in cases. “When a new type of virus enters, it is easier to suppress it in the beginning when there are few cases and few chains of transmission,” Paul said. Health officials and experts are concerned that any spurt in cases might increase the number of people requiring intensive care, and deaths. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk steadily since its peak of over 90,000 new cases daily in mid-September to less than 17,000 cases on Tuesday. There is uncertainty about how the epidemic might change if the UK variant begins to spread in India. “One good sign is that there is no evidence that this strain is contributing to more severe disease or to more deaths,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, one of the labs assigned to sequence the coronavirus genomes. Some clinical virologists also believe that India’s steadily falling numbers could be the result of large proportions of people already infected and thus no longer susceptible. “The virus seems to be running out of people to infect,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Under such a scenario, this variant could trigger local spurts but is unlikely to significantly change the course of the nationwide epidemic,” John said. However, others underline concerns that even local spurts could pose severe challenges. “If the numbers of infections increase dramatically, given the infection patterns we’ve seen thus far, the demand for intensive care too could increase,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: At Singhu, ‘Godi media’ is enemy||At the farmers’ protest, the media is an antagonistic force, like the Modi government and corporate houses. The slogans are loud here: “Desh ki ekta (unity) zindabad, kisan ekta zindabad, Modi sarkar murdabad, boycott Ambani-Adani, Godi media murdabad…” “Godi media” is a term used by critics to refer to a brand of pliant journalism that has taken shape over the past few years, unquestioningly toeing the line of the government and running vitriolic campaigns against those who speak up against the administration. The farmers’ anger at the coverage by sections of the media of their protest is palpable. When a journalist reaches out to the farmers, many of them prefer either not to speak or to question why they are being portrayed as Khalistanis, terrorists and Maoists. The farmers’ lack of trust in the media can be gauged from the experience this correspondent and photojournalist Prem Singh had on Saturday. Several groups of farmers at different places at the dharna site not only grill us about the negative coverage in sections of the media, but some of them also snatch our camera and accreditation cards. When a protester sees “Government of India” written on my accreditation card, he snatches my notes and tears them. For many of the agitating farmers, media means a single entity. Some of them lose patience when this correspondent asks them about their mode of protest and their objections to the farm laws. Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Chamkor Sahib village in Rupnagar district of Punjab, is seen holding a poster on which is written: ‘#Godi media: We are farmers, stop showing us as terrorists.” “We have sacrificed our lives for the country. Now our family members are fighting on the country’s borders. Whenever there is a flood or any other calamity, they help civilians. Your media is calling us terrorists,” Sukhjeet says. He refers to the holy teachings of Sikh Gurus on sacrifice and fighting for truth and justice. He explains that “sacha sauda (true business)” means helping the needy, which can be learnt from Guru Nanak’s life. Manveer Singh, who has come from Machwada Sahib village in Ludhiana district of Punjab, says the media is acting on behalf of the government. “There is no difference between the media, the government and the corporates. We had to face water cannons and tear gas while coming here. The media did not show our difficulties but is interested in showing the SUVs (in which some farmers have come), in showing somebody having a pizza. You do not show the lack of sanitation facilities here and the difficulties faced by women supporters. You do not show the difficulties of life inside a trolley,” Manveer says. Most of the farmers here sleep inside tractor-trollies and tents. Inside a blood-donation camp, three youngsters have just donated blood. Gurjan Singh, a donor, asks that the media show the “good activities” carried out at the protest site. “At least do not show us as Khalistanis,” he says. The farmers are sitting on the road for several kilometres. But most journalists are gathered at the entry points of the dharna where police personnel are deployed. For the farmers, Modi is entirely responsible for the three new farm laws. The slogans mainly target him among politicians. “Only one person is rigid about these laws. He is the Prime Minister. But we are also not going back until the laws are repealed,” says Gurban Singh, a 67-year-old protester. Some of the protesters are wearing T-shirts in which is written: “Boycott Adani products.” For them, Adani and Ambani represent the corporate face and the beneficiaries of the three farm laws. “The corporates will make us tenants on our own land. Contract farming will remove us from our own land,” one of them says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Panel to suggest vaccination terms for people below 50 years||The Centre has asked a 12-member medical panel to set clinical criteria to determine who among people with comorbidities, or underlying chronic health disorders, would be eligible to receive vaccines against the coronavirus disease on priority. The National Expert Group on Covid-19 vaccination strategies that has recommended vaccines on priority for four categories of people will rely on the panel’s suggestions to assign vaccines to people with underlying health disorders aged below 50 years. The expert group had earlier this month recommended that around 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, and an estimated 270 million people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with comorbidities should be prioritised for the vaccines. The medical panel that includes specialists in cancer, cardiovascular, kidney disease and other chronic disorders has been tasked with formulating clinical criteria and guidelines that would allow people with comorbidities to register for the vaccination campaigns. “We’re expecting their report within the next few days,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination, said on Tuesday. The panel has been asked to take into account the severity of the underlying illness and its likely impact on the course of the Covid-19 infection. “Mild hypertension (high blood pressure) which is prevalent in about 30 per cent of adults may or may not be a case for (vaccine) entitlement, but severe hypertension would be,” Paul said. The criteria would seek to ensure those at high risk of severe Covid-19 or death are prioritised for early vaccination. A senior epidemiologist guiding the Centre’s vaccination strategy told The Telegraph that the four priority groups have been chosen on the basis of either their occupational risk of exposure to Covid-19 or their risk of developing severe disease or dying from Covid-19. Studies worldwide have found Covid-19 patients with comorbidities at high risk of severe disease. “I think all people with combinations of certain comorbidities such as a combination of high blood pressure, obesity and diabetes would need to be included in the priority group,” said Ambrish Mithal, a senior endocrinologist in New Delhi, who is not part of the medical panel. Mithal and his colleagues who analysed the clinical outcomes of 401 hospitalised Covid-19 patients in Delhi found that high blood pressure was the most common shared comorbidity in patients with diabetes and 12 out of 15 patients who died had diabetes. India’s drug regulatory authority is currently evaluating applications for the emergency use authorisation of three Covid-19 vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech and Pfizer’s vaccine. Some health experts have predicted that at least one of these vaccines is likely to be approved within days and the immunisation campaign would be launched in January. The Union health ministry has already conducted mock vaccination drills in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat as part of efforts to prepare local health staff for the immunisation campaign. Operational guidelines for the vaccination campaign list multiple sub-categories of healthcare workers and frontline workers. Healthcare workers would include nurses, doctors, paramedical, support and sanitary staff, students and researchers in healthcare institutions, while frontline workers would include defence, central and state police, and all sub-categories of municipal workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Sonia's meeting with senior Cong leaders makes little headway||Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with senior leaders earlier this month to resolve the internal crisis of the Congress appears to have made little headway and there are no signs of reconciliation so far. Although no leader from either side — the so-called group of dissenters or the staunch loyalists — is willing to talk on record, sources indicate there is a growing sense of dissatisfaction with the arbitration process. General secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal and veteran Ambika Soni were assigned by Sonia to negotiate with Ghulam Nabi Azad, perceived to be the leader of the dissenters, but the talks are leading nowhere. The choice of Ambika Soni and Venugopal itself failed to inspire confidence in the other side, which sees this arbitration as a futile exercise. The two leaders have held meetings with Azad, but the distrust and the questions about the party’s functioning have not abated. Some leaders believe Sonia should directly discuss the contentious issues with them or depute “well-meaning” negotiators at the earliest. The uncertainties mean a delay in the AICC session for the election of a new party president and the working committee, which was earlier supposed to have been held in January. The dates cannot be finalised unless there is a broad agreement on the leadership structure and most leaders admit there is no clarity on “any issue” so far, as Rahul Gandhi has given no hint of his readiness to return anytime soon. If he finally refuses to return, the complexities will multiply because the dissenters will not accept a “puppet” as the next president. Leaders from both sides meanwhile continue to trade charges in private conversations, even questioning the choice of spokespersons on the farmers’ movement. After the eruption of the letter controversy, those from the Group of 23 who signed the missive to Sonia have not been assigned to brief the media. Former Union ministers Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, who were the most prominent faces of the party in the media, had signed the letter. One leader said: “Sonia’s role is critical at this juncture if the dangerous drift in the party has to be checked. What is needed is honest advice, not blind sycophancy, because the party’s plight is truly miserable. After Bihar elections, we are in for a pathetic performance in Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Nobody is confident about Assam either. We have wasted more than 18 months after the parliamentary election, which could have been used to set the house in order.” While 2020 has been a wasted year for the Congress, which failed to cash in on the government’s failures on the economy, the pandemic and the Chinese intrusion, the next year may be far more tumultuous for the party that is expected to play the pivotal role in building a robust Opposition. As the year ends, the majority of Congress leaders are clueless about the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth cites God, calls off political plunge ||Superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced his decision not to join politics, two days before he was to float a political party, citing his frail health and his vulnerability to Covid-19 and seeing in them a “warning from God”. Rajinikanth, 70, who underwent a renal transplant a few years ago and was last week admitted to hospital following a health scare, issued a three-page statement saying: “Forgive me; I know my decision will disappoint thousands of my fans, members of the (fan club) Rajini Makkal Mandram and the people at large.” The actor was expected to launch a political party on December 31 and contest all 234 seats in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections next year. After the kidney transplant a few years ago, health issues continued to dog Rajinikanth. His resolve to set the political ball rolling from December 31 had pushed him to try to complete his film assignment — the big-budget Annathai — at the earliest. But four members of the 120-strong crew, shooting at Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad, tested positive for Covid-19 on December 23 despite a bio-bubble. Rajinikanth immediately isolated himself and later got admitted to Apollo Hospitals for tests. Though he tested negative for Covid-19, the actor was kept under close examination for three days as his blood pressure fluctuated. He was discharged on Sunday after his health improved. Doctors advised him “complete bed rest” and to avoid stress that could aggravate his post-renal transplant complications. Rajinikanth in his statement recalled these issues, stating that his doctors had told him that his blood pressure should not be allowed to fluctuate under any circumstances. “Kalanidhi Maran (of Sun Pictures, producing Annathai), considering my health condition, had earlier postponed the remaining shoot of ‘Annathai’, but it entailed job losses to the crew and financial losses to the tune of several crore of rupees.” Underscoring that all this was “due to my health”, Rajinikanth said he read the latest episode as a “warning from God”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Modi wades into church property dispute in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has intervened to mediate in a century-old dispute between two Kerala Christian denominations, strengthening suspicion that the BJP is reviving its plan to lure the crucial minority vote bank in the state that has consistently rejected the party. A property dispute between two powerful churches has been dragged to the Prime Minister’s Office, that too by a governor who is supposed to be apolitical. Mizoram governor P. Sreedharan Pillai, who is the immediate past president of the BJP in Kerala, was instrumental in mobilising bishops to meet Modi over three days. While representatives of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church met the Prime Minister in Delhi on Monday, bishops from the rival Jacobite Syrian Christian Church did so on Tuesday. Catholic bishops will meet Modi on Wednesday. Rev. Sleeba Paul, trustee of the priests of the Jacobite Church, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that it was Pillai who had taken the initiative for the discussions with Modi. “Although we are more in number, our churches are being taken over, leaving us with no place to pray or even bury our dead,” Paul said, referring to a 2017 Supreme Court judgment that ordered over 1,064 of the 1,700 churches to be given to the rival Orthodox church. So far, 52 churches have been transferred. The dispute dates back more than a century when the Malankara church split in 1912 into Jacobite and Orthodox groups. While they were brought together in 1959, the unity lasted only till 1972. This led to one of the longest-standing disputes between two powerful church groups. While the Jacobites are numerically stronger, the Orthodox church comprises some of the elites of Kerala society. Scholar and political commentator M.N. Karassery slammed Pillai for misusing his gubernatorial office by acting as an intermediary between the Prime Minister and the Church. “He shouldn’t have taken to such mediation since he occupies a major constitutional position. Also, it’s not the Prime Minister’s job to intervene in what is strictly a property dispute between two churches. All of this means that this exercise is part of the larger RSS agenda to lure Kerala’s Christians,” Karassery told this newspaper on Tuesday. The BJP has been struggling to get a toehold in Kerala, a state where Christians form about 20 per cent and Muslims about 30 per cent of the 3.5 crore population. “The Prime Minister is trying to make it look like an international issue to portray himself as the protector of the Christian faith. This is sheer mockery of democracy,” Karassery said. He questioned the rationale of seeking the Prime Minister’s help even if the churches wanted an out-of-court settlement. “They should have gone to the court and not the Prime Minister. This means those who organised this are interfering in the affairs of the judiciary for political gains,” Karassery alleged. Reformists who have been fighting to implement a bill that would transfer much of the powers from the bishops to the laity also came out against Modi’s intervention. Felix J Pulludan, chairman of the Joint Christian Council, accused the BJP of trying to lure upper caste Christians. “Since the BJP is an upper caste party, many savarna (upper caste) Christians have often stood with the savarna politics of the RSS and the BJP. The BJP is banking heavily on that caste feeling among Christians to lure them,” Pulludan said. He called on the churches to join hands and get the state government to pass the Kerala Properties and Institutions Trust Bill, 2019, instead of going to the Prime Minister to solve a property dispute. “The Church Bill provides effective solutions to end such property disputes by handing much of the power to the laity. But the bishops don’t want to lose control of money and property,” Pulludan said. The bishops of each diocese enjoy the rights on church properties. “Disputes will get sorted out once the power shifts to the laity,” he said. While the draft bill mooted by the Kerala Law Reforms Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice K.T. Thomas seeks to make things more transparent, it has not gone down well with the clergy who suspect it is a state government plan to take over churches. The Left government headed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had put the bill on the back burner as it did not want to take on the powerful clergy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Citu call for labour law repeal ||CPM labour arm Citu has demanded that the government repeal four newly passed labour laws, at a time farmers are protesting against new farm laws and have called for their scrapping. Citu will organise a protest at work sites on Wednesday to demand that the Code on Wages, Code on Industrial Relations, Code on Social Security and the Code on Occupational Safety be repealed. Citu general secretary A.R. Sindhu described the labour laws as draconian. “We have extended our support to the farmers on their demand to repeal the farm laws. We are also demanding the repeal of the four labour laws,” she said. Citu will hold another round of protest on January 8 in front of the office of district magistrates. Sindhu demanded the expansion of employment guarantee, universal free health, social security for all, and enhanced minimum wage. She said the labour codes would help corporates and marginalise workers. The Industrial Relations Code has a provision to allow easy hire-and-fire, while there is no clear-cut condition for social security funds in the codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Police lathicharge on Bihar farmers||Several farmers were injured in the Bihar capital on Tuesday when police resorted to a lathicharge to stop a massive march to Raj Bhavan against the three controversial farm laws. Over 10,000 farmers from different parts of Bihar had assembled at the Gandhi Maidan in Patna on the call of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti (ABKSSS). The Opposition, including the Left parties, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, as well as several organisations of farmers and farm labourers, had professed their support to the protest march. With plans to protest outside Raj Bhavan to demand the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support price, the farmers had started their march in the afternoon amid heavy police deployment that also had anti-riot vehicles and water cannons. They walked for around 2km before being stopped by the police at the Dak Bungalow crossing and asked to disperse. The protesters were determined to push ahead and it led to an altercation with the police, who then lathicharged and dispersed them. At least 35 people from different organisations were injured in the police action and were taken to various dispensaries in the city. The incident also threw traffic in Patna haywire and normality could be restored only after around three hours. One of the injured farmers, Rakesh Kumar of Nalanda district, said: “The blows of the lathi are nothing in comparison to what we have to face by selling paddy at Rs 900 to Rs 1,100 per quintal when the MSP is Rs 1,868. The government has declared them (farm laws) without making proper arrangements for purchasing paddy. We are ruined.” Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawle, who participated in the march, said the farmers’ agitation in Bihar would become stronger. “We appeal to the farmers and the common people of Bihar to join this struggle to ensure that the country and its people win against the pro-corporate, anti-poor, anti-farmer laws brought by the Centre,” Dhawle said. ABKSSS Bihar-Jharkhand in-charge and Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Mahasabha general secretary Rajaram Singh condemned the police action and asked chief minister Nitish Kumar not to use force to quell the agitation of farmers. “Over 10,000 farmers from different parts of Bihar had come with their legitimate demands and wanted to submit a memorandum to governor Phagu Chauhan in a peaceful manner but the police lathicharged them. The administration showed insensitivity instead of understanding their problem. Nitish Kumar should desist from trying to subdue the farmers by the use of force,” Singh said. Singh added that this was “just a trailer shown by the farmers of Bihar. If the situation demands, they will travel to Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Gujarat MP, Mansukh Vasava, backs tribals, quits BJP ||One of the seniormost BJP MPs and tribal leaders, Mansukh Vasava, on Tuesday resigned from the party, days after writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest a government notification that would harm the interests of tribals and farmers in his constituency. Vasava, who has represented the tribal-dominated Bharuch Lok Sabha constituency in Gujarat since 1998, had written to Modi last week, seeking withdrawal of an environment ministry notification declaring 121 villages in Narmada district as “eco-sensitive zone” where farming and forest activities would be restricted. The Vajpayee-Advani era leader had said the classification would harm the interests of local tribals and farmers. He had highlighted the harassment of tribals and farmers by government officials after the notification and sought Modi’s intervention to get it withdrawn. The 121 villages are located in the Narmada river basin around Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s “Statue of Unity”, a dream project of Modi. Crores have been spent to build the world’s tallest statue and the Prime Minister is now seeking to develop the area into an international tourist spot. “In the name of the notification of the MoECC (environment ministry), government officials have begun interfering in the private properties of tribal people,” the six-time MP had written to Modi. Tribal people were “extremely angry” at not being taken into confidence and were preparing for a “mass protest”, he wrote. He stressed that tribals were dependent on forest produce for their sustenance and were now being denied. The letter sought the Prime Minister’s intervention and “immediate withdrawal” of the notification. The environment ministry’s notification and the subsequent actions of the local administration have triggered a tribal uprising in Narmada district. Tribals in Narmada district are using traditional “gram sabhas” to pass resolutions against the government order and preparing to launch a massive protest. Under pressure, a local BJP MLA, Motilal Vasava, recently wrote letters to tribal village heads supporting the move to pass resolutions against the environment ministry’s order. The tribal villagers have claimed “complete hold” on their land, citing provisions of the Panchayat (Extension of Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996. Popularly known as Pesa, the central law was enacted for ensuring self-governance through gram sabhas for people living in scheduled areas. On Tuesday, Vasava sent his resignation letter to Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil after no action was taken on his letter. Though he didn’t refer to this as a reason, people close to him said the inaction had prompted him to resign. “I am resigning so that the image of the party is not damaged because of my mistakes,” Vasava wrote in Gujarati and thanked the party’s leadership for giving him “opportunities beyond my capacity”. He didn’t clarify what he meant by “because of my mistakes”.Vasava said he would resign from the Lok Sabha during the upcoming budget session. “I am tendering my resignation. Please forgive me. I will also submit my resignation as MP to the honourable Lok Sabha Speaker during the upcoming budget session,” he said in the letter. The six-term MP was not available for comment but BJP leaders close to him said he was under “extreme pressure” from his tribal voters and had resigned to try to compel the central government to withdraw the notification. Vasava has been vocal about the rights of tribals and had been junior tribal affairs minister at the Centre. Coming at a time the farmers’ protest is raging, the resignation of the tribal leader spread concern and senior BJP functionaries in Gujarat were learnt to be trying to persuade Vasava to change his decision. Party leaders fear the development would embolden the Opposition to accuse the Modi government of being anti-tribals and anti-farmer. “We have learnt about the resignation from social media. Mansukhbhai has been a loyal party leader and he will surely take back his resignation,” a Gujarat BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Govt school alumni quota for Odisha engineering and medical colleges||The Naveen Patnaik government will reserve a certain percentage of seats in engineering and medical colleges of the state for students passing out of government high schools. The decision was taken at the meeting of the state cabinet on Monday. A press release issued by the government said: “After introduction of centralised exams like NEET and JEE for medical and engineering courses, it is observed that the number of meritorious students from government high schools and colleges in Odisha, eligible for admission in these institutions, has been coming down over the years. This is not due to lack of meritorious students but a deeper divide in access to coaching classes, which is missing in rural areas. “ Admitting that competitive exams require special skill sets which are imparted mainly through the coaching centres and online coaching classes the government said, “Due to such centres being limited to mostly urban pockets and the high economic cost of access to such facilities, thousands of meritorious students from the government school system are at a disadvantage and therefore, fare lower than their potential in the entrance exams. This is unfair competition for the vast majority of children in Odisha.” The government wishes to correct this imbalance and provide a level playing field to the students of government-run schools so that they are able to realise their dreams of becoming doctors and engineers. “The state government has decided to provide reservation to eligible government school and college students of Odisha in Medical and Engineering Colleges admissions in the state. This will be applicable from the next academic year,” the release said. In order to implement this decision properly, the government has decided to constitute a high-powered committee under a retired high court judge. Eminent educationists of the state and eminent people from other walks of life will be included in the committee. “The committee will be asked to send its recommendations within three months. The recommendations of the committee will facilitate the implementation of the reservation policy,” said a senior government official. Reacting to the government’s decision, BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The government is yet to implement the reservation policy for the socio economically weaker sections of the society. Now it is talking of reservations in medical and engineering colleges for students. It should clarify what prompted it to announce these reservations.” She said government-run schools are yet to be upgraded with quality infrastructure. In yet another decision, the state government has decided all the public representatives from sarpanch to chief minister will submit their property lists annually. This will be mandatory. The property lists will also be sent to the Lokayukta for reference. Similarly the property lists of government employees starting from entry level to the rank of chief secretary will also be displayed in the public domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||SDF seeks judicial probe into cop arrest||The opposition Si­kk­im Democratic Front has ur­ged governor Ganga Prasad to constitute a judicial inquiry into the recent arrest of a police officer for his alleged involvement in the smuggling of prescription drugs in the state. In a memorandum submit­t­­ed to the governor on Mond­ay, the SDF alleged the involvement of the police officer in drug smuggling and other instances of laxity in policing were a reflection of the deteriorating law and order in the state since the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha had come to power in May 2019. “We would like to request your Excellency to kindly initiate an independent judicial enquiry into this matter,” said the SDF memorandum, which also listed the incidents of illegal entry of some people into the state during the lockdown and the arrest of SDF activists for their Facebook posts as instances of the breakdown of law and order and “politicisation” of the police force. On December 17, the police had seized huge amount of prescription drugs and small quantity of brown sugar from a taxi driven by an assistant sub-inspector in uniform at To­pakhani on NH10 and a ho­u­se in Samdung village in East Sikkim. The overall value of the seized drugs was estimated to be about Rs 14 lakh. M.K. Subba, the chief sp­o­kesperson for the SDF, said the memorandum also voiced the party’s concern at the ma­nner in which Covid-19 was being handled by the SKM government. “We have demanded that a special medical team from the Centre be assigned to the state to help the local authorities deal with the pandemic,” he told The Telegraph. Subba said Sikkim worryingly had higher percentages of Covid infection and fatality than the national average. “We have also urged the governor to ask the government to put a system in place for the vaccination of our entire people against Covid as and when the vaccines become available,” he added. Contacted, Jacob Khaling, the political secretary to chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) and SKM spokesman, said his party would prefer not to react to such baseless charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
