31-12-2020||India||GoAir to launch new flights to Sharjah||Budget flight operator GoAir on Thursday announced that it is set to expand its services to the United Arab Emirates with the launch of a new fleet to Sharjah from Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi and Kannur. The operations will start from Friday, it said. At present, flights to the UAE are being operated under an Air Bubble Agreement as international flights to and from India have been suspended since March 23 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. GoAir currently operates flights in Dubai. The budget carrier is commencing scheduled direct flights to and from Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi, and Kannur to Sharjah under the Air Bubble Agreement effective January 1, it said in a release. The flight schedule on India-Sharjah route is designed to provide convenience and flexibility to the passengers, it added. “We have seen an enthusiastic response from our passengers travelling between India and the UAE, and there is immense pent-up demand on the said route. This has encouraged us to strengthen the network by adding these services between India and Sharjah,” the airline's CEO Kaushik Khona said. The airline is offering a special introductory return fare, starting at Rs 11,560 for the flights on India Sharjah sector. Special international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under ‘Air Bubble Agreement’ with select countries from July. So far, India has such agreements with more than 22 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||Efforts on to economically rehabilitate people who lost jobs during lockdown: Bihar CM ||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday asserted that efforts were being made to economically rehabilitate those who have returned to their homes in the state, having lost jobs elsewhere in the wake of the COVID19-induced lockdowns. Kumar made averments to the effect during a tour of a town in West Champaran district, more than 200 km from here, where he also inspected a “start up zone” set up as part of district industrial innovation scheme. Products made by artisans who have come back from places like Delhi, Punjab, Gujarat and foreign countries like Qatar were on display. “It has been our resolve to ensure that livelihood concerns do not compel our people to migrate again. Of course, if anybody does so of his or her own accord, it is a matter of personal choice,” Kumar told reporters on the occasion. The CM also said that a “new industrial policy” was in place that sought to provide artisans with platforms where they could sell their products to buyers from other parts of the country and abroad. “Many such manufacturing centres will start functioning in other districts in the days to come. All facilities will be provided. Use of new technology, which reduces the cost of production, will be encouraged,” he added. Among others, Kumar was accompanied by his deputy Renu Devi and cabinet colleague Vijay Kumar Chaudhary. The delegation also visited the site of construction of a road that seeks to improve connectivity to Valmiki Nagar, a famous tourist spot in the district named after the ancient sage who is said to have composed the original Ramayana. “It is our endeavour to develop Valmiki Nagar as an eco tourism hub. We would love to see children coming to this place and experience communion with nature. The road will be of enormous help in achieving the objective,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||BJP hosts webinars to push ‘one nation, one election’||In a series of webinars, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pushed the idea of ‘one nation, one election’ by highlighting the “drawbacks” of frequent polls and the fact that India, till 1960s used to have simultaneous Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. In Thursday’s webinar, BJP chief spokesperson Anil Baluni mentioned that most of the time the code of conduct is in place in some parts of the country due to state or local body polls, hampering development works and costing a lot of public money. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often spoken about the need for simultaneous Lok Sabha, state and local body polls, he noted, adding that the ruling party wants a consensus to evolve on the matter. Echoing his view, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi added that the concept of ‘one nation, one election’ has nothing to do with partisan politics and it falls in the same bracket as do programmes like ‘Swachh Bharat’. He said that extremely competitive nature of electoral politics results in caste and communal passions often stoked by rivals, thereby harming the social fabric. This is also a reason for not favouring frequent elections, he said. Trivedi also rejected concerns that holding simultaneous elections will result in the domination of national parties at the cost of regional players as he cited several examples of the same set of voters preferring different parties in Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in a state. In another webinar, BJP’s Tom Vadakkan claimed that simultaneous polls have “advantages” like saving government expenditure and speedy development activities. Senior lawyer Rakesh Gosain said the idea of ‘one nation, one election’ is not against the Constitution and can be achieved with minor amendments. India has elections every few months and the drain on funds can be saved if there is ‘one nation, one election’, he said, according to a statement. Most of the opposition parties, including the Congress, have opposed any move to facilitate simultaneous elections, with some of them calling it undemocratic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||CBSE board exams from May 4 to June 10 in 2021||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct classes 10 and 12 exams from May 4 to June 10 next year, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Thursday. Practical examinations will be conducted from March 1. The results of the board exams will be announced by July 15, he added. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams are being delayed this session in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. "The board exams for class 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10. Schools will be allowed to conduct practical exams from March 1. Date sheet for both the classes will be issued soon. The results will be declared by July 15," Pokhriyal announced. Several schools have already conducted pre-board exams online to keep the students prepared. The CBSE had earlier this month announced that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of COVID-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. However, a few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections. The board exams this year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||India, China contemplating ninth round of talks on border situation||China and India are in consultations to hold the ninth round of Corps Commander-level meeting to discuss the disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Sr. Colonel Tan Kefei said on Thursday. Since the eighth round of Corps Commander-level talks between the armies of China and India, the two sides have maintained consultations on disengagement of frontline troops and strengthened management of border troops, Tan told an online media briefing. The situation in the border areas is generally stable, he said, according to a transcript posted on the Chinese Defence Ministry website. China is willing to maintain communication with India through military and diplomatic channels, he said. India is expected to work with China towards the same goal, implement the consensus reached at the Corps Commander-level meetings, and take pragmatic measures to further abate the tension in border areas, Tan said. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military-level to resolve the standoff that erupted in early May. At the latest round of foreign ministry-level talks on December 18, the two sides said that they have agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting also decided to hold the next round of military dialogue at an early date. In the midst of the eastern Ladakh standoff, Chinese President Xi Jinping on December 19 appointed a new General as the Commander of the People's Liberation Army's Western Theatre Command which oversees the China-India border. Xi, who heads the Central Military Commission (CMC), the overall high-command of the two million-strong People's Liberation Army (PLA), appointed Gen. Zhang Xudong as the Commander of the Western Theatre Command. Gen. Zhang succeeds 65-year-old Gen. Zhao Zongqi who headed the Western Theatre Command during the 2017 Doklam standoff where the Indian Army stood up against the PLA's plan of laying a road close to the Indian border in an area claimed by Bhutan. The Ladakh standoff also happened under the watch of Gen Zhao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||Farmers at Singhu border to welcome 2021 sans celebrations||Thousands of farmers, protesting against the three contentious agri-marketing laws of the Centre at the Singhu, will witness the onset of 2021 on Friday sans any celebration. “There is no New Year for us until the government accepts our demands,” Harjinder Singh from Punjab’s Ropar said on Thursday. Singh has been camping at the protest site since November 25. On Wednesday, the government addressed the farmers’ concerns over the increasing power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, during the sixth round of talks between the two sides. However, that was not reason enough to celebrate yet, the farmers said. Among the issues that continue to remain unresolved are the revocation of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price for their crops. “Both the demands that they have agreed to were not laws yet. Their impact was yet to be felt. And we went to the government with the demands with clarity. They cannot pick and choose what suits them. They have to listen to all our demands,” said Harmesh Singh, a farmer from Punjab's Hoshiarpur. “If the government wants to see our strength, we will show them. People like us who are used to living in ‘kothis’ (bungalows) are now sleeping on the road. We have been protesting peacefully for a month, we can keep protesting for a year too,” echoed Bhupinder Singh, also from Hoshiarpur. Most of the protesters will be welcoming the New Year away from their close ones, but they have not complaints. “Yes, we have a family back home and we are missing them, but this is also our family. All these farmers are our brothers, and uncles,” Harjinder said. Gurpreet Hayer from Jalandhar and Pratap Singh from Bhatinda have decided to do ‘sewa’ in the New Year as they had done in the past. Gurpreet said he will be working with Gursikh Sewa Society to put up a "turban langar" for all the farmers on Friday. “We will celebrate the New Year by doing sewa. There are many farmers who don't know how to tie a turban, or don't have a fresh turban. We will give them that,” he said. Pratap said he would pay a visit to the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara here on the first day of the year. “Every New Year we go to pay our respects at gurudwara and do sewa at langar. This year too, I will do the same here,” he said. Among the bare minimum celebrations, the Working People's Charter has called upon people from across the country to usher in the New Year with the farmers. “These laws are not just anti-farmer but also anti-poor. And we want all the people who go out to celebrate New Year to come and celebrate with the farmers, with the aim of demanding social justice for them. There will be bonfire, good conversations and songs of revolution,” said Nirmal Agni from Working People's Charter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||2021 will be about rollout of Covid vaccines  ||The Union Health Ministry has released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India, something the Drug Controller General said on Thursday was likely to happen in the New Year. The strategy, unveiled on Thursday, seeks to disseminate accurate information by alleviating apprehensions and ensuring the vaccine’ acceptance. The 88-page document details information to guide national, state and district level communication activities to enable information about COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country. "The communication strategy that supports the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions, ensure acceptance and encourage uptake," it said. The communication strategy was released on a day the Drug Controller General of India, V.G. Somani, offered the first hint of a timeline regarding the availability of the vaccine. Speaking at a webinar, Somani said the most important thing was that industry and research organisations have stood the test of time. He said vaccine candidates have got the funding and also talked about the efforts made by the Department of Biotechnology. "...and probably we will have a very happy New Year with something in hand. That's what I can hint at," he said. The Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates and are awaiting approval. Somani said the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. "There has been no compromise on the safety or efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data," he said. An expert panel in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday to consider emergency use authorisation applications by SII for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' will reconvene on January 1 to further deliberate on the matter. According to the health ministry, the strategy document aims at managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or “eagerness” amongst people, and addressing vaccine “hesitancy” that could arise because of apprehensions around safety, efficacy or misconceptions. It also aims to provide information on potential risks and mitigate unintended crisis during the introduction and rollout. “The strategy also seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine amongst all people by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it," it said. The Health Ministry intends to achieve this in three ways. Firstly, using the social influence or endorsements from experts and official voices to spell out the process of immunisation (where, how, who, when date and time); emphasise on the safety and efficacy of vaccines and explain the decision to conduct the drive in a phased manner. Secondly, the ministry intends to establish a National Media Rapid Response Cell (NMRRC) under its ambit to ensure preparedness through media monitoring and social listening to respond in real-time. It will also unfold media and public discourse through extensive monitoring of print, electronic and digital media. Thirdly, this will be achieved by involving community mobilisers and frontline workers to engage with the community at various levels through community consultations, faith leaders and religious meetings, engaging youth, civil-society organisations, self-help groups, panchayats and other community-based platforms. The four key areas that will be addressed as part of interventions under the strategy are -- giving information on COVID-19 vaccines, addressing vaccine hesitancy, building vaccine eagerness along with maintaining and sustaining COVID appropriate behaviours. In case of any adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), the strategy emphasises on supporting the mobilisers and health workforce in managing crisis situations by appealing to the community to stay calm while waiting for a proper diagnosis and prevent aggressive behaviour against health||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||Health ministry releases SOP for Covid vaccine rollout||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India that seeks to disseminate accurate and transparent information by alleviating apprehensions and ensuring its acceptance. The 88-page document details information to guide national, state and district level communication activities to enable information about COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country. "The communication strategy that supports the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions about the vaccine, ensure its acceptance and encourage uptake," it said. According to the document, the strategy aims at managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or 'eagerness' amongst people and addressing vaccine 'hesitancy' that could arise because of apprehensions around vaccine safety, efficacy apart from any other myths and misconceptions. It also aims to provide information on potential risks and mitigate unintended crisis during the introduction and rollout. "The strategy also seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine amongst all people by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it," it said. The Health Ministry intends to achieve this in three ways. Firstly, using the social influence or endorsements from experts and official voices to spell out the process of immunisation (where, how, who, when date and time); emphasise on the safety and efficacy of vaccines and explain the decision to conduct the drive in a phased manner. Secondly, the ministry intends to establish a National Media Rapid Response Cell (NMRRC) under its ambit to ensure preparedness through media monitoring and social listening to respond in real-time. It will also unfold media and public discourse through extensive monitoring of print, electronic and digital media. Thirdly, this will be achieved by involving community mobilisers and frontline workers to engage with the community at various levels through community consultations, faith leaders and religious meetings, engaging youth, civil-society organisations, self-help groups, panchayats and other community-based platforms. The four key areas that will be addressed as part of interventions under the strategy are -- giving information on COVID-19 vaccines, addressing vaccine hesitancy, building vaccine eagerness along with maintaining and sustaining COVID appropriate behaviours. In case of any adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), the strategy emphasises on supporting the mobilisers and health workforce in managing crisis situations by appealing to the community to stay calm while waiting for a proper diagnosis and prevent aggressive behaviour against health workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||India may have a Covid vaccine in New Year, hints Drug Controller||India is likely to have a Covid-19 vaccine in the New Year, Drug Controller General of India V G Somani hinted on Thursday. Speaking at a webinar, Somani said the most important thing is that the industry and research organisations have stood the test of time. He said vaccine candidates have got the funding and also talked about the efforts made by the Department of Biotechnology. "...and probably we will have a very happy New Year with something in hand. That's what I can hint at," Somnai said. The Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates and are awaiting approval. Somani said the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. "There has been no compromise on the safety or efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data," he said. An expert panel in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday to consider emergency use authorisation applications by SII for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' will reconvene on January 1 to further deliberate on the matter. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 on Wednesday deliberated and analysed the additional data and information submitted by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||Yediyurappa rules out change in leadership, to complete term as CM||Ruling out leadership change, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa on Thursday asserted he will remain in the post for the remaining over two year period and complete the term, and there was no confusion regarding this within the ruling BJP. Suggesting that the last one year had been like a "trial by fire" for his administration with natural disasters and COVID pandemic, he said his government's desire was to take Karnataka to the first place on the development map of the country, as he also referred to financial constraints faced by the state. "In the last one-and-half years of my administration even for a day I did not bother about it, I was focused on my work and development. These things have in no way impacted," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on talks about leadership change and its impact on the administration. Speaking to reporters here, he said, after BJP General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh made it clear that there are no issues for the next two-and-half years and Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister, such questions do not arise at all. "There is no confusion among our ministers or legislators, also people. If there is confusion, it is among media friends. If you cooperate everything will be fine," he said. There has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa's age (77 years). Though the state BJP has rejected outright such speculation, it refuses to die down, with some within the party like senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements. Asked about BJP legislators making open statements and writing letters expressing disgruntlement, Yediyurappa said out of so many legislators one or two of them might have given certain statements. "..to address their concerns, I will be holding a division wise meeting with all our legislators," he said. Referring to the impact of Covid on the state and its economy, the Chief Minister, who also handles the finance portfolio said, "we may face a fiscal setback of Rs 25,000 to 30,000 crore and we may have to face this problem in the next budget as well." Despite this, efforts will be on placing emphasis on the development of the state including the welfare of farmers, farm labourers, SC/ST community and backward communities, among others, he said. Noticing that his desire and dream was to take Karnataka to the first place in the development map of the country, Yediyurappa said all his cabinet collogues were collectively working towards achieving the goal. "It was a kind of trial by fire with drought, floods, COVID and all of this led to the fiscal setback, but despite all this, all efforts are on to fulfil promises made in the budget and I'm confident we will be successful in this," he said. Stating that BJP is strengthening its base across the country including Karnataka, the Chief Minister claimed in the recent Gram Panchayat polls, for which counting took place on Wednesday, more than 60 per cent of BJP candidates won and created history. According to information, of 5,728 Gram Panchayats, BJP backed candidates have won in majority in around 3,800 panchayats, he said, as he gave credit to collective leadership for the achievement, while acknowledging efforts of district in-charge ministers, MLAs and party workers. Though the Gram Panchayat polls don't take place on party symbols, all political parties had put in efforts to ensure that the candidate supported by them wins, so as to have their hold on grassroots level politics, which may prove advantageous for them in taluk or Zilla panchayat and even assembly polls whenever it happens. Also citing BJP winning 12 out of 15 assembly seats that went for bypolls in December 2019 and the win in the Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira segments earlier this year, Yediyurappa said these results show that the party has made inroads to the stronghold of opposition parties. Highlighting his government's management of Covid crisis while also supporting distressed communities, he said, it also ensured that development works continued despite the pandemic. "Our government has topped in attracting FDI even during Covid pandemic.As many as 95 proposals worth Rs 1.54 lakh crore have been received," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Four UK retuness tested positive for mutant strain in Delhi, says health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said four persons who have returned from the United Kingdom to the national capital have been found positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19. Talking to media persons, Jain said a total of 38 people have been found positive since coming to Delhi from the UK recently, and kept in a separate institutional isolation unit in the LNJP Hospital premises. “Four such patients have been found infected with the new UK strain of COVID-19. The persons who came in contact have been also traced and tested, and it's not in them. So, only these four cases of new strain in Delhi so far,” he said. “Flights have been stopped and those who came before are being traced and tested rigorously,” the minister added. The state authorities said that Delhi recorded 677 new cases of coronavirus and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.8 per cent. “Positivity rate has dropped to 0.8 per cent from 15.26 per cent on November 7. About 85 per cent beds are vacant, so the situation has improved a lot. And, so, it had been decided to make LNJP Hospital and GTB Hospital partial Covid-19 facilities now. All services, including the OPD will be soon resumed gradually,” Jain said. Talking about the preparedness for the vaccination, he said, work is on to set up 1,000 vaccination centres. Jain said the night curfew has been imposed as the situation is under control right now, but huge gatherings could spell trouble again. The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. A formal order stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. On Covid-biowaste generation, he said, it is the responsibility of the civic bodies and they are doing it. Amid mounting concerns over the new variant of the Covid-19, the Delhi government had earlier said that people who had arrived here recently from that country, are being traced and tested, while an institutional quarantine facility has been set up separately for positive cases at the LNJP Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Vaccine preparation process in final stages, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said preparations for inoculating citizens with the Covid-19 vaccine are in their last stages, just a day after the Centre-appointed expert team assessed the emergency applications filed by three vaccine makers. Laying the foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Gujarat’s Rajkot, he said, “Preparations are in the last stages for the vaccination programme against COVID-19. People will get vaccines manufactured in India.” Modi said the number of new coronavirus cases are decreasing in the country, while warning that people should not let their guard down and strictly abide by coronavirus preventive norms even after vaccination. “I used to say 'jab tak davai nahi dhilai nahi' but now our mantra for 2021 should be: Davai bhi, kadaai bhi (yes to medicine and yes to caution),” the prime minister said. The PM also warned the general public about against believing in rumours and unfounded claims regarding the vaccine, claiming some have already started spreading such lies. "In 2020, there was an atmosphere of disappointment and dismay due to the infection. There were doubts everywhere. But 2021 brings a ray of hope in terms of its treatment. "Preparations are in full swing for the vaccination drive in India. Efforts to make a 'Made in India' vaccine available to every eligible beneficiary are in its last stage. We are fully prepared to launch the world's biggest vaccination drive," Modi said. Modi also paid tributes to healthcare and frontline workers, scientists and good samaritans for their sacrifices and services to the society during the pandemic. India has turned into the nerve-centre of global health, Modi said. "We are working on mission mode to improve medical education in India. After the formation of the National Medical Commission, the quality and quantity of health education will improve," he added. Over Rs 30,000 crore of poor people's money has been saved due to the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Modi said. “Jan Ausadhi Kendras are also a friend of poor people during illness. Over 7,000 such kendras all over the country provide 90 per cent cheaper medicines to people. Over 3.5 lakh poor patients use these kendras on a daily basis,” he said. “In the last six years we began work on 10 new AIIMS and some of them are operational. Twenty super speciality hospitals are also being built in the country,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly passes resolution against central farm laws||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the scrapping of the three contentious central farm laws, against which farmers were agitating in Delhi, saying they were 'anti-farmer' and 'pro-corporate.' The resolution was passed in a special session convened in compliance with COVID-19 protocols to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. The members of the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-headed UDF supported the resolution whole-heartedly. Though the lone BJP member in the state assembly, O. Rajagopal raised objections against some references in the resolution, he did not object to it. Moving the resolution, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged the central farm laws have been amended to help the corporates. "The three contentious agriculture laws were passed even without sending them to the standing committee of the Parliament. If this agitation continues, it will severely affect Kerala, which is a consumer state," he said. After the nearly two-hour-long discussion, Speaker P Sreeramakrishan put the resolution for a voice vote and said it has been passed. "Passing of the resolution reflects the sentiments of the House towards the farmers' cause," the Speaker said. In a surprise move, the BJP’s lone member in the Kerala Assembly O. Rajagopal supported the scrapping of the three laws. “The resolution was passed unanimously. I have told my views... with regard to some matters (in the resolution) there was a difference of opinion, which I had pointed out in the House”, he told media persons after the session. “I fully support the resolution”, he said. When pointed out that the resolution was for scrapping the three central farm laws, Rajagopal said he supported it (resolution). “I supported the resolution and the central government should withdraw the three farm laws,” the senior BJP leader said, adding he agreed with the general consensus in the House. “That is the democratic spirit,” he further said. When told he was going against his party’s views, Rajagopal said, “ In a democratic system, we need to go as per consensus.” While speaking during the session, Rajagopal had said the new laws will protect farmers interests and middlemen will be avoided. Those opposing the laws were standing against farmers, he said adding the new laws would double the income of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Dense fog shrouds Delhi as mercury dips to season's lowest||Dense fog over Delhi reduced visibility to just 50 metres, as the minimum temperature in the city dipped to 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the season's lowest so far, the India Meteorological Department said. It is also the third consecutive "cold wave" day in the city, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. "Cold day" conditions are likely as the maximum temperature is predicted to settle below 16 degrees Celsius, Srivastava said. The Lodhi Road weather station registered a minimum of 3.1 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on December 20. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, it recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said "dense" fog accumulated over Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh, lowering visibility to 50 metres at many places. Visibility levels at Safdarjung and Palam dropped to 100 metres and 50 metres, respectively, due to dense fog, he said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". The cold wave is likely to continue on Friday as well. Thereafter, the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" Western Disturbance (WD) which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6, Srivastava said. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to eight degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the WD from January 3 to January 5. The WD will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Thursday. The city's air quality index (AQI) at 10 am was 331. The 24-hour average AQI was 290 on Wednesday, 265 on Tuesday, 253 on Monday and 396 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||India logs 21,822 Covid cases, 299 deaths in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,02,66,674 with 21,822 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.60 lakh pushing the national recovery rate over 96 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,48,738 with 299 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,60,280 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.04 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the tenth consecutive day. There are 2,57,656 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.51 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,20,49,274 samples have been tested up to December 30 with 11,27,244 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 299 new fatalities include 90 from Maharashtra, 28 each from Bengal and Kerala, and 21 from Delhi. A total of 1,48,738 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,463 from Maharashtra followed by 12,109 from Tamil Nadu, 12,081 from Karnataka,10,523 from Delhi, 9,683 from West Bengal, 8,352 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,104 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,331 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Night curfew imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1||The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. The night curfew will be imposed from 11 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, and again from 11 pm on January 1 to 6 am on January 2, said an order issued on Wednesday by Vijay Dev, Delhi Chief Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). It stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. However, there will be no restriction on the interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods during night curfew in Delhi, the chief secretary said in the order. "A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 and after observing local incidents of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, it is apprehended that the gatherings, congregations and public celebrations of the new year pose a considerable threat of the spread of the virus and may cause a setback to appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi," the order said. The Ministry of Home Affairs in its advisory on December 28 had advised states and Union Territories that they can impose local restrictions, including night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation to contain the spread of COVID-19. All the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police in Delhi will ensure strict compliance of the night curfew restriction. A total of 33 people, including 20 UK returnees and their contacts, all of whom have tested positive for the coronavirus, are admitted to a special ward at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) in the national capital. Genome sequencing report has shown seven of them so far are infected with the mutant UK strain. The Delhi government is carrying out a district-level contact-tracing and testing drive for people who returned from the UK from November 25 onwards, and their contacts. According to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government, the city recorded 677 fresh COVID-19 cases and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, bringing the infection tally to over 6.24 lakh and the death toll to 10,523.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Pro-Jagan transfer of judges pains Andhra Pradesh High Court||Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday made unprecedented comments on the Supreme Court collegium’s decision to transfer two high court chief justices while they were hearing corruption cases against chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who has been warming up to the Narendra Modi government. The collegium headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had shifted Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari to Sikkim High Court and Telangana High Court Chief Justice R.S. Chouhan to Uttarakhand High Court on December 14. The neighbouring Andhra and Telangana high courts have been hearing cases against Jagan. The bench of Andhra Pradesh high court’s Justices Rakesh Kumar and D. Ramesh noted that the chief minister had not only shown the audacity to get some of the 30-odd corruption/ money-laundering cases against him closed but had created an impression that Justice Maheshwari had been transferred out of the state on a complaint from him to the Chief Justice of India. Writing the judgment, Justice Rakesh Kumar noted that Jagan seemed to have been emboldened by his no-holds-barred attack on the Supreme Court’s second senior-most judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, Justice Maheshwari and several Andhra Pradesh High Court judges at a media conference held by an official. The media conference was held by Jagan’s principal secretary, Ajey Kallam, on October 10, days after a bench headed by Justice Ramana had passed orders for completion of the trial against all lawmakers in the country within a year. Kallam had made public a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India by Jagan, accusing Justice Ramana of interfering in the functioning of Andhra Pradesh High Court. The Andhra Pradesh High Court bench said: “Whether by this act of sending the unceremonious letter to the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India, the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh will get final relief or not, fact remains that he succeeded in getting undue advantage at the present moment. “People may draw an inference as if after the so-called letter of Hon’ble Chief Minister, the two Chief Justices, i.e., Chief Justice of High Court for the State of Telangana and Chief Justice of High Court of AP, have been transferred. By the said transfer, naturally, the cases pending in the Court of Special Judge for CBI cases in Hyderabad against Sri Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, present Chief Minister, and others may be delayed and monitoring by the Hon’ble Supreme Court… may hamper for the time being.” Justice Kumar noted: “Similarly, by the transfer of Chief Justice of AP High Court, the Government of Andhra Pradesh is bound to get undue benefit. It is an open fact that the issue of three capitals in the State of Andhra Pradesh is the brainchild of the present Chief Minister.” The Andhra high court made the scathing observations while dealing with a batch of petitions challenging the state government’s decision to transfer government land to private individuals through auctions. Justice Kumar added: “I am not raising any question on the transfer of the Hon’ble Chief Justices, either of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh or of the High Court for the State of Telangana, but, at the same time, I am constrained to observe that transfer of High Court Judges or its Chief Justices may reflect some transparency and for betterment or uplift of the administration of justice. After all, they are also holding constitutional posts like members of Hon’ble Supreme Court collegium.” The court noted that on a single day in September, Andhra police had filed closure reports (mentioning as “false”) in more than seven or eight criminal cases in which Jagan was an accused and where investigation had been pending for several years. In a veiled attack on judges aspiring to post-retirement sinecure jobs, the presiding high court judge observed: “I am of the opinion that for a situation, which is prevailing, today in which impartiality, integrity, honesty, unbiased… in judicial system is being raised, to some extent we are also responsible. Several instances we have noticed that immediately after demitting the office of judge, the judges are provided with a new assignment. “If we start to restrict our expectation of reassignment/ re-employment at least for a period of one year after retirement, I don’t think that any political party, even a party in power, can undermine the independence of judiciary and we may be in a position to uphold the majesty of law without being influenced by anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Centre accepts two lesser demands at meet||The Centre on Wednesday continued to resist the farmers’ call to repeal the new farm laws and enact legislation guaranteeing a minimum support price but accepted their lesser two demands at a meeting where the ministers appeared less patronising and more accommodating. Although the government’s ecosystem sought to project the development as a breakthrough, the farmer union leaders were more circumspect, underlining the lack of progress on the two main demands. Still, as acknowledgement of a change in the government’s attitude, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to defer Thursday’s planned tractor rally on the KMP Expressway till January 4, when the next meeting has been scheduled. The protests at Delhi’s borders will continue, the farmer leaders said. They attributed the change in the government’s attitude to their movement’s increased strength and spread. “There is no question of backing down as our main demands have not been met yet,” said Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a member of the SKM. What the government has agreed to can be described as targeting low-hanging fruits: keep farmers outside the ambit of the penalty clause for stubble burning in the ordinance on air quality management in the National Capital Region, and hold back the Electricity (Amendment) Bill that would reduce power subsidies. There has been no meeting point on the farmers’ main demand for repeal of the three new farm laws. However, Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, an SKM member, said the government had not tried to push the amendments it had been offering for a while now. “The government has asked us to come up with an alternative to repeal,” she said. The Centre’s move has given the farmer leaders the impression that the matter has become a point of prestige for the Narendra Modi government. As for a law guaranteeing an MSP for all crops, Kavita and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said the government refused to be buttonholed into saying it agreed to the guarantee in principle. The government cited the financial implications and laid stress on the need to work out the details, although this has been a longstanding demand. Asked what the government had conceded, both union leaders said the two concessions had already been offered in some measure in the written communication sent to the SKM on December 9. This time, the government had agreed fully to these two “minor demands” from the farmers, they said. Asked whether the government agreeing to these two demands could be termed a victory for the farmers, Hannan Mollah said: “It is an advancement, not a victory.” Kavita underlined that the two demands the government had granted did not come under the ministers conducting the negotiations — agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, his junior Kailash Chaudhury, food minister Piyush Goyal and the minister of state for commerce and industry, Som Prakash. This suggests the government had come prepared to concede the lesser demands while holding its ground on the two main issues that have brought the farmers out on the streets. Ahead of the meeting and through its duration, the union leaders had witnessed a concerted effort by the government to change the optics that had dominated the earlier five rounds of talks. The ministers were more willing to listen and backed off when they were requested not to repeat their regular spiel about the three laws. Also, the ministers joined the farmers for food from the langar of the Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, which has been providing the meals and tea for the union leaders through the various rounds of discussions. The union leaders have repeatedly refused the hospitality offered by the government on the ground that they could not be eating in luxury when their fellow protesters were out on the roads. The government had begun working on the optics from the morning, with defence minister Rajnath Singh frowning on the allegations levelled against the farmers by the BJP’s ecosystem, including some ministers. The accusations range from a Khalistani role to a Maoist influence on the protest. In an interview to ANI, Rajnath said: “These allegations should not be made by anyone against farmers. We express our deepest respect towards our farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers question Narendra Modi||The agitating farmers have a question for Prime Minister Narendra Modi: What are the disadvantages of withdrawing the new farm laws and who stands to lose if they are withdrawn? “There is no need for a debate. Let the Prime Minister honestly answer: What are the disadvantages of withdrawing the new farm laws?” Harjit Singh, one of the farmers at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, told The Telegraph. “What will the government lose? Who stands to lose except Adani-Ambani and, perhaps, Lala Ramdev? How will India’s interests get hurt through the withdrawal of these laws?” While the government insists these laws will benefit the farmers, the protesters say they will only help big companies like those of Ambani and Adani make profits at the expense of the farmers. The English-speaking Harjit, an educated young man from Suar in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh, said he had opted for farming while his brother, an engineer, had chosen to live in a city. Harjit said: “We are being told that India needs these reforms, that farmers’ lives will be better with these laws. If we don’t want this windfall from Modiji, why is he thrusting it down our throats?” “He didn’t consult the farmers’ unions before bringing in these laws but Adani-Ambani were busy building giant silos and acquiring agri-businesses. Now the farmers don’t want them (the new laws). Who wants them? What will these laws fill: the national exchequer or private coffers?” Harjinder Singh Sodhi, who had come from Nagaria Khurd in Rampur, picked up from where Harjit had left off. “Modi is saying these laws will transform our lives. How do we believe him? Have we forgotten his bold assertions on note-bandi — that it would end corruption, black money, terrorism, counterfeit currency?” he said. “Experts had disputed his claims from the outset and they were proved right. The demonetisation ruined our economy and destroyed the lives of millions of small traders and industries. Modi never mentions the miseries suffered by Indians during that period.” Sodhi added: “Which of Modi’s 2014 promises has been fulfilled? Six years are a long time — even the most gullible can now see through his deceptions. He says the Congress instigated us; his ministers talk nonsense about Khalistan and Maoists. “Jab raja jhoot bolega toh praja kya kare (When the king lies, what will the public do)? Protest, surely. We are doing that. Nobody should presume we’d get tired after some time and return home. We’ll be here until the laws are scrapped. We’ll sit here for three-and-a-half years more to see Modi off in 2024.” Asked whether the protesters’ families pressed them to return, Sodhi said they did not. “Even the children tell us not to come back home without winning this battle. This is not about the MSP (minimum support price); this is about our existence, our identity as farmers, about democracy. Instead of responding to the farmers’ call, the government has resorted to a ghatiya (cheap) discourse of maligning us, and to attempts to break our unity,” he said. “Slowly, the scope (of the protest and the participation) will widen as the farmers are also thinking about this regime (as a whole). Whatever was built over the last 70 years is being sold — all the PSUs. If this movement doesn’t end soon, it will acquire a bigger dimension and the whole of India will rise against the RSS-BJP.” The Delhi-Ghaziabad border is occupied mainly by farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, both BJP-ruled states, challenging the claim that only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are against the new laws. Thousands of farmers are staying here in makeshift tents and tractor trolleys. Although the presence here is not as massive as at the Singhu and Tikri borders (between Delhi and Haryana), hundreds are joining every day and systems being set up for efficient supply of food and other essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||India two days away from granting emergency use authorisation to Covid vaccine||India appears to be only two days away from granting emergency use authorisation to a vaccine against the coronavirus disease, experts said on Wednesday after the UK’s regulatory authority approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The Oxford version is expected to become the “vaccine for the world” as it is cheaper and easier to store than others. India’s regulatory expert panel met on Wednesday afternoon and examined data on the AstraZeneca vaccine and a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech but called another meeting on January 1, the Union health ministry said. The panel tasked to examine Covid-19 vaccine applications has sought additional information from both Bharat Biotech and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the company manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India. Earlier on Wednesday, the UK government had announced that Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) had approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for use across the UK after a “detailed scientific review” of the clinical trial data. The agency has approved the vaccine for use on people 18 years or older in two doses, with the second dose administered four to 12 weeks after the first dose. The vaccine can be kept at temperatures of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius, similar to standard refrigerators, for up to six months. India’s expert panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, had weeks ago received three emergency use authorisation applications — from the US-based Pfizer, Serum and Bharat. Pfizer has sought more time to make presentations. Medical experts tracking the vaccine development process said they expected the CDSCO panel to approve the AstraZeneca vaccine first because it had already demonstrated its protective efficacy while the Bharat Biotech vaccine was still undergoing efficacy trials. Experts had predicted that the CDSCO panel would likely approve the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for India only after the UK MHRA had approved it in its country of origin. “We now expect that emergency use authorisation for this product in India will come through at Friday’s meeting,” one expert said. A senior vaccine science specialist said India was “entirely relying” on efficacy data for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine from foreign trials. Serum’s clinical trial with the AstraZeneca vaccine has involved establishing only that it is safe and generates an immune response in the vaccinated volunteers. Serum has indicated to the government that it has stockpiled and could supply 50 million doses of the vaccine in early January and deliver around 100 million doses per month from February or March. An expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy had earlier this month recommended that four categories of people should receive the vaccines on priority — healthcare and frontline workers at high risk of occupational exposure to the coronavirus, people aged above 50 years, and those below 50 years with co-morbidities that put them at high risk of severe disease or deaths from Covid-19. The group estimates that the four categories would make up 300 million people, for whom the government will require 600 million doses of vaccines. The Centre is yet to outline the operational details of how the vaccine doses will be rolled out across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||‘Mala fide’ label on RTI panel selection||An NGO has described as “mala fide” last month’s selection of a chief information commissioner and three information commissioners by a Prime Minister-headed selection panel, questioning the short-listing of a non-applicant at an earlier stage by a search committee and its failure to explain its recommendations. The Satark Nagrik Sangathan has flagged how Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha and a member of the selection panel, had submitted a six-page dissent note on the search and selection process. The selection process works this way: the department of personnel and training advertises the vacant posts; a search committee goes through all the applications received and shortlists candidates; the three-member selection panel makes the final choices. In a statement on Wednesday, Anjali Bhardwaj, founder of the NGO, said that while 355 applications had been received, the minutes of the search committee’s meeting revealed it had also considered non-applicants recommended by its members. The search committee was headed by the Union cabinet secretary. “Not only is this beyond the explicit mandate for which the search committee was constituted, it vitiates the whole appointment process by allowing it to be manipulated arbitrarily and opens it up to external influence,” the NGO said. “The minutes do not document what criteria (were) used to consider names from outside the list of applicants and (are) also silent on who were considered.” According to the NGO, the search committee shortlisted seven names for six vacancies. It said that one of the seven, Uday Mahurkar, had not applied and that it wasn’t clear how the committee had learnt about his interest in the job. The selection committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi eventually picked Mahurkar as an information commissioner despite Chowdhury’s dissent note, it added. While Chowdhury was on the committee in his capacity as leader of the largest Opposition party in the Lok Sabha (in the absence of a designated leader of the Opposition), the third member was home minister Amit Shah. Bhardwaj said the Supreme Court had in a February 2019 judgment directed that it would be “appropriate for the search committee to make the criteria for short-listing the candidates public, so that it is ensured that short-listing is done on the basis of objective and rational criteria”. However, neither the minutes of the search committee meeting nor any other official document contains a record of the reasons or criteria behind the short-listing, the NGO said. The minutes, according to the NGO, merely say: “After taking into consideration the overall experience profile as well as suitability for the post, the search committee shortlisted the following panel....” Further, the NGO said, the selection committee failed to fill all the six vacancies. While the posts of the chief information commissioner and five information commissioners were vacant originally, the committee picked an incumbent commissioner, Y.K. Sinha, as the chief, which means six commissioners’ posts now remained to be filled. Yet the selection committee only chose three commissioners despite the huge backlog of appeals and complaints with the Central Information Commission, the NGO said. As of December 30, it said, more than 38,000 appeals and complaints were pending with the commission, and it took around two years for a matter to come up for hearing. In December 2019, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had directed the appointment process for information commissioners to be completed within three months, the NGO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh backs ‘love jihad’ law||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday asked “why should there be conversion”, as he backed the controversial anti-conversion law enacted by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh to crack down on interfaith unions that the BJP besmirches as “love jihad”. That Rajnath, known to be a relatively moderate face in the current regime, has backed the anti-conversion law, being embraced by several other BJP-ruled states as well although it is widely considered regressive and discriminatory, shows that it has wide acceptability in the central leadership. Appearing unmindful of reports of couples being harassed and even jailed under the new law in Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow MP Rajnath told news agency ANI when asked if the “love jihad” law was being misused: “Hamara toh yeh kehna hai ki, conversion hona hi kyon chahiye (I want to ask why should there be conversion)?” Told that the Constitution allows religious conversions, Rajnath intervened. “Nahi, nahi (No, no). I see reports of mass conversions taking place in the country. This should stop,” the minister said. Rajnath claimed that Muslims are not permitted by their religion to marry someone from another faith. “So, conversion for marriage, I personally don’t approve of it,” he said. Asked if an individual does not have the right to marry outside his or her religion if he or she is willing to, Rajnath interjected once again before the question could be completed. “You may have seen that in many cases, forcibly, and even allurement is offered for conversion. There is a huge difference between natural marriage and forcible conversion for marriage,” he said, defending the state governments enacting the anti-conversion law. “I think the governments that have made these laws have considered all these things,” Rajnath said. The defence of the law came against the backdrop of 104 retired civil servants writing to chief minister Adityanath on Tuesday, demanded the withdrawal of the anti-conversion ordinance, saying it was being used to “victimise Indian men who are Muslim and women who dare to exercise their freedom of choice”. The signatories to the letter included former foreign secretary Nirupama Rao and ex-national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, among others. The letter said Uttar Pradesh had become the “epicentre of the politics of hate, division and bigotry” and the institutions of governance were “steeped in communal poison”. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday approved an ordinance against what it said were “forcible religious conversions”. Some other BJP-ruled states too have started the process of enacting a law similar to what Adityanath has done in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Lawyers in Delhi High Court on ‘ugly raids’ ||A group of 21 lawyers have sought Delhi High Court’s immediate intervention to stop the “ugly raids” against two advocates representing Muslim victims of the February Delhi riots and “restrain the police from proceeding with its uncontrolled vindictive campaign”. According to the lawyers, the raids on the offices of Mehmood Pracha and Javed Ali and the manner in which they were conducted were a matter of grave concern for the entire lawyers’ community in particular and litigants in general. “The shocking fact is that after procuring a search warrant from the court, the police raided the offices of the advocates and seized computers, confidential data and electronic digital devices which contain professional as well as personal data,” the 21 lawyers have said in a letter to the Delhi High Court Bar Association, beseeching it to take up the matter with the high court. “An advocate enjoys special attorney-client privilege. The police cannot raid a lawyer’s office in this manner and look into privileged communication. The two advocates are handling sensitive cases relating to the recent Delhi violence… in which the role of Delhi police is already questionable,” the letter said. “Several advocates, including Mehmood Pracha and Javed Ali, have been able to expose the serious flaws in the motivated role of Delhi police and even a court had to remark that the investigation of the police seems to be one-sided. “In such a scenario, it can be assumed that the raid on the two offices of the advocates is purposely designed to intimidate and deter the advocates from pursuing the cases on behalf of victims of the Delhi violence. It is not only a question of client-attorney privilege, but an assault by Delhi police on the justice delivery system of our democracy,” the lawyers added. The 21 legal professionals, assembled under the banner of “Lawyers for Democracy”, sent the letter to the Bar association on Tuesday night. The letter regretted the fact that unlike Allahabad High Court, which last week intervened in the case of a brutal assault on an Etah lawyer by the police, Delhi High Court has so far not taken any action against Delhi police. “Faced with such a deplorable situation, advocates look upon the Bar associations for protection of their rights and privileges. The incidents in question are not merely the personal issues of advocates Mahmood Pracha and Javed Ali, but raise issues which concern the entire legal fraternity. The raids constitute a serious threat to the legal profession and must be dealt with firmly,” the letter said. “In a similar matter, Allahabad High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident of Etah in UP on the representation of the Allahabad High Court Bar Association. Delhi High Court needs to be moved. “We therefore request you to take up the issues of the raids with the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and see to it that the vindictive spree of Delhi police is restrained and guilty officials are duly punished,” the letter added. The lawyers’ forum expressed satisfaction with the fact that in general the Bar had raised its voice and issued several condemnations of the “brutal act of the police”. “But the police seem to be unmindful of the reaction of the Bar and continue to keep itself busy in pursuing its nefarious designs. After the unlawful raid, it has filed an FIR against Mehmood Pracha and his associates… for allegedly resisting seizure and search. “The magistrate who issued the search warrant seems to have acted without application of mind in not realising that such a warrant was going to pollute the attorney-client privilege and would have a chilling effect on the clients who would think twice in furnishing true disclosure of facts to their advocates,” the letter said. It termed as “disturbing aspect” the fact that Delhi High Court had so far not taken any action on the complaint lodged by advocate Javed Ali on December 24. The complaint was lodged on the day of the raid itself with the Bar Council of Delhi, which had forwarded it to the registrar of the high court. “We hope and urge Delhi High Court to urgently look into the matter of these ugly raids, restrain the police from proceeding with its uncontrolled vindictive campaign and make suitable inquiries into the conduct of the police. The guilty police officials should be taken to task,” the letter said. “We hope and urge the members of the Bar to be vigilant and respond in unity against the increasing atrocious conduct of the police, which poses a serious threat to the legal profession and the rule of law,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir families cry fake encounter||A purported gunfight in Srinagar in which security forces claimed to have killed three militants has come under question with some wailing families saying they were innocent and had been taken out in a fake encounter. The families, protesting outside the police control room, said one of the three had left home to apply for admission in a university while another was a Class XI student. The allegations come days after police filed a chargesheet in the Shopian chief judicial magistrate’s court against an officer, Captain Bhoopendra Singh of 62 Rashtriya Rifles, for allegedly staging an “encounter” in July in which three men from Jammu’s Rajouri looking for jobs in Shopian were killed in cold blood after being branded militants. The chargesheet accuses the officer of staging the gunfight to claim the Rs 20 lakh reward placed on the heads of certain militants. On Wednesday, security forces claimed to have killed three militants in an overnight gunfight in Srinagar’s outskirts at Hokersar off the Srinagar-Baramulla highway. Major General H.S. Sahi, general officer commanding of the counter-insurgency Kilo Force, said the “three militants” were killed in a gunfight that started on Tuesday evening following inputs about the presence of insurgents in the area. Sahi said the three were carrying a lot of ammunition, which suggested they were planning a big terror strike on the highway. “We were getting continuous inputs that terrorists were planning a big terror activity. All agencies and security forces were building up inputs. When reports came yesterday, the building was cordoned off and the terrorists were asked to surrender,” the officer told a media conference. “After appealing for long, one terrorist tried to come out of the building but the moment he did so, his associates opened fire and lobbed grenades and called him in.” Sahi said the operation was suspended during the night but a tight cordon remained in place. The three were allegedly killed in the gunfight that resumed in the morning and ended by 11.30am, he added. The officer said the police were trying to ascertain the identities of the trio. In a few hours, some families from Pulwama and Shopian arrived at the police control room in Srinagar, crying and accusing the forces of killing innocent youths. “He was not a mujahid (militant). He was just studying in Class XI. Oh my God, what will I do?” wailed a woman who identified herself as the mother of Athar Mushtaq, the youngest of the three. A sister of Aijaz Ahmad, who is among the dead, said he had left home to fill up forms for university admission. “At 3.01pm (on Tuesday), he called us up to say that he might stay the night (in Srinagar city) as it would take time to write some exams. We could not contact him through the night,” she said. “Today, my papa, who is in the police, called us up to say that Aijaz has been martyred.” Another relative said Aijaz had stepped out of home on Tuesday for the first time in two months as he had been ill. The third person killed was identified by relatives as Zubair Ahmad. The families said there were no FIRs registered against them, suggesting they were not militants. “They have extinguished the lamp of my house. Oh God, where will I get justice?” a man was heard crying aloud near the police control room. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said the authorities should come clean on the encounter. “Worrying that in the past few months after the Shopian fake encounter other families too in J&K have alleged that their sons were innocent & killed in staged encounters. Authorities need to come clean on this,” Mehbooba tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Bihar: RJD claims 17 JDU MLAs were in touch with them||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar claimed on Wednesday that 17 MLAs of the Janata Dal United were in touch with it, insinuating that the NDA government in the state could slip into minority any time. The claim triggered a political storm, with chief minister Nitish Kumar himself coming out to say that baseless assertions were being made. RJD leader Shyam Rajak had said in a video statement: “Altogether 17 MLAs of the JDU are in contact with us. They are not only willing, but are impatient to join our party. They are miffed with the BJP over the way it is behaving, imposing itself and throwing a spanner in the government’s work.” He added: “We are holding the JDU MLAs back. They want to join the RJD immediately, but we want to do this under the ambit of the anti-defection law. For that we need around 25 to 26 MLAs. Besides, we want only those legislators who conform to our socialist ideology. I am not putting any date to it, but very soon the JDU legislators would join our party.” The anti-defection law enacted as the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution stipulates that switchovers from a political party would be valid only when two-thirds of its legislators or parliamentarians break away. Else, the defectors could lose their position as elected representatives. Twenty-nine legislators from the JDU would have to break away to make the defection legitimate. Rajak claimed that the way the BJP had “gobbled up” six of the seven JDU MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh, was taking assertive decisions in Bihar and was trying to overshadow Nitish had disenchanted several JDU legislators and they were “determined not to allow it (the BJP) to dominate the government. They want to go with the secular parties”. A minister in Nitish’s previous cabinet, Rajak quit the JDU in the run-up to the Assembly elections and returned to the RJD. He could not contest the polls because his seat Phulwari went to Grand Alliance partner CPI-ML. He is considered close to RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Nitish reacted sharply to Rajak’s comments. “Anybody who is claiming anything is baseless. Such claims have no strength. There is no such thing,” he told journalists. Rajak’s statement came at a time when differences have cropped up between allies JDU and BJP over the defection of the Arunachal MLAs. A few days ago, RJD vice-president Shivanand Tiwary and former Assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Chaudhary had cautioned Nitish against the alleged designs of the BJP and suggested that he would be welcome in the Grand Alliance fold. Chaudhary had gone further and said that Nitish should give the chief minister’s chair to RJD leader and Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and concentrate on the Prime Minister’s post and politics at the Centre. The NDA formed the government in Bihar in November with a thin majority. It has 125 seats in the 243-member House and claims the support of an Independent. The Opposition Grand Alliance has 110 seats, with the RJD being the largest party in the Assembly with 75 members. The remaining eight seats belong to parties like the AIMIM, BSP and the LJP. In this situation, a swing of a few MLAs could easily change the political equations. Spokespersons of JDU and ally Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) pounced on Rajak for his claims. JDU spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said: “Shyam Rajak has lost his place in Bihar politics. He is making such wild claims to remain in the limelight.” HAMS spokesperson Danish Rizwan asserted that it would become clear whose MLAs were going where after January 14 when the month-long inauspicious period would end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Eminent historians call for scientific approach to history ||Eminent historians on Wednesday highlighted the syncretism and inclusiveness ingrained in Indian civilisation, seeking to challenge the RSS-BJP stand about the subcontinent having a monolithic culture. At a webinar on “Indian Civilisation: Historical Perspectives” organised by the Indian History Congress (IHC), Irfan Habib spoke of India’s rich and long civilisational history. He stressed the importance of scientific and evidence-based research on history. “One of the common refrains in the presentations was that the approach to the study of history should not be influenced by the official line of the present government, which tries to belittle the national movement led by Gandhi and Nehru or projects the culture in its own way. One should be scientific and academic while approaching academic issues,” Habib told The Telegraph. According to an IHC media release, Shireen Moosvi told the webinar that Emperor Akbar’s principle of sulh-i-kul or universal peace was an inclusive policy premised on an understanding of, and respect for, India’s diverse traditions. Syed Ali Nadeem Rezavi from Aligarh Muslim University said medieval Indian architecture was an amalgamation of indigenous and Persianate traditions. He highlighted Mughla-era buildings that had images of Jesus, Mary and Hindu gods. Aditya Mukherjee spoke of the freedom struggle and underlined its leaders’ efforts to promote civilisational values without any form of sectarianism. Deepak Kumar, a JNU professor, stressed the cultivation of the scientific temper as an important civilisational virtue. IHC president-elect Kesavan Veluthat told this newspaper that he hoped young historians would pursue evidence-based research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Army to restore defaced Jamia grave of war hero ||The army has decided to restore the vandalised grave of war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman, the highest-ranked officer killed in the first Pakistan war of 1947-48, who had after Independence turned down the chance to become Pakistan’s army chief. Several veterans had condemned the dishonour to the memory of a Mahavir Chakra winner who is said to have declined a request from Muhammad Ali Jinnah and chosen to stay back in India. The veterans had urged the army brass to restore the grave, located on the Jamia Millia Islamia university campus. Photos of the defaced headstone have triggered outrage on social media. It’s not clear when the vandalism happened — located at a corner of the campus, the grave had remained unfrequented during the pandemic. The vandals remain unidentified and their motive unknown. “We are deeply anguished at the damage to the grave and have decided to restore it soon,” an army official said. Brigadier Usman, known as “Naushera ka Sher (Lion of Naushera)”, was commissioned into the 5/10 Baluch Regiment and served it till Independence, the epitaph on his grave says. “During Partition, he was given the option to join the Pakistan Army as army chief. A true patriot that he was, he declined and chose to serve the country of his birth, an epitome of patriotism and secularism,” the epitaph goes on. “Brigadier Usman took over command of 50(I) of Para Brigade in December 1947 at Naushera (J&K). Under his command, the brigade halted the advance of Pakistani tribals at Naushera against all odds. He then led the brigade to recapture Jhangar, thereby turning the tide on the raiders.” An army veteran said Jinnah had personally requested Brigadier Usman to move to Pakistan after Partition. “He fought the Pakistani invasion in Kashmir, was the senior-most officer killed in action in July 1948, and was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra for his gallantry,” he said. Sources said the army had contacted the Jamia Millia authorities on Tuesday to discuss the grave’s restoration. The university administration is responsible for the maintenance and security of the grave but its custody belongs to the defence ministry. “Every year a wreath is laid by the army on Brigadier Usman’s grave on his death anniversary. The wreath-laying could not take place this year because of the Covid crisis,” a university official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Congress points fraud finger at PM farmer scheme ||The Congress on Wednesday alleged massive fraud in the Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna, saying a survey of two villages in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar had exposed fake beneficiaries and brazen loot. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said at a news conference in Delhi: “The survey found that at least 185 beneficiaries of the scheme in two villages were fake. While several people who got the Rs 2,000 dole didn’t own any land, many others could not be located and identified, suggesting forgery. Some beneficiaries were government employees. You can imagine the extent of fraud nationwide if loot is happening on this scale in two villages.” The Prime Minister had held a big event last week for the transfer of the latest instalment in farmers’ accounts under the scheme to project his concern for farmers. Pritam Singh said the three new farm laws were aimed at helping the corporates and asked why the Essential Commodities Act was amended to allow hoarding. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, who also addressed the news conference, said: “It is sad that the government is holding negotiations merely as time-buying tactics to tire out the farmers. The year 2020 has been very bad for Indians because of corona and economic recession. We request the Prime Minister to make a new beginning by scrapping the three laws in the new year.” Selja said: “The government should start thinking of the poor instead of helping the rich and the corporate. It is not the government’s job to facilitate profiteering. Take steps to help the farmers, to stop hoarding, to ensure that the poor doesn’t suffer. How can the Government announce that the Prime Minister won’t come under pressure and still hold negotiations? How can the Government declare that there won’t be any rollback if the firman is made once. That’s not how we work in democracy.” In a tweet, Rahul Gandhi posed a question and gave four options: “Modi is refusing to repeal the anti-farmer laws because he is: 1. Anti-Farmer 2. Run by crony-capitalists 3. Arrogant 4. All of the above.” Rahul also highlighted the Prime Minister’s track record with this tweet: “Rs ‘15 lakh in every bank account & two crore jobs every year’, ‘Give me 50 days time, else...’ ‘We will win war against Corona in 21 days’, ‘Neither has anyone intruded into our territory nor took over any post’. Farmers don’t trust Modi ji due to his long history of ‘asatyagraha’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Slugfest over Odisha govt's college reservation decision||The Naveen Patnaik government’s decision to provide reservation to students passing out from government run schools in government engineering and medical colleges has sparked a controversy with the two major political parties questioning the intention behind the move. Both the BJP and Congress have asked the government to clarify why it felt the need for reservation. The two major Opposition parties have asked the government to implement the all-India reservation policy in jobs and the education sector in the state. On the other hand, educationists feel that the government should focus on building quality infrastructure for education instead of taking populist measures such as reservation. BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The Centre has made 27 per cent reservation for OBC (Other Backward Class) and 10 per cent reservation for SEBC (Socially and Economically Backward Class). But the Odisha government is yet to implement it. Had the Odisha government implemented the reservation policy, nearly 37 per cent OBC and SEBC students would have benefited as most of the students in the government-run high schools fall into OBC and SEBC categories.” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said, “The government has no rights to go for reservation in medical and engineering colleges. Instead of reservation policy, Odisha should focus on improving the infrastructure in the government high schools.” Nearly 45,000 teachers’ posts are lying vacant in the 48,000 schools starting from primary to high schools. “Steps should be taken to fill up these posts first,” said Routray. Former Union minister Srikant Jena told The Telegraph, “As per the census, Odisha has 38.5 per cent SC and ST population and SEBC and OBC constitute around 54 per cent. Why has the Mandal commission recommendation not been implemented here? Why is Naveen Patnaik government not implementing OBC (27 per cent) and SC and ST (38.5 per cent) quota?” BJD spokesperson Elina Dash said, “We are surprised that the BJP is opposing such a historic and pro-student step of chief minister Naveen Patnaik to provide reservation for students studying in government schools. Dash said, “The entire country, including the BJP-ruled states, will follow this historic pro-poor and pro-students decision of the Naveen Patnaik in the coming days.” Stating that the BJP is actually unnerved by the popularity of Naveen, Dash maintained, “They are not able to digest the huge acceptance the decision of the chief minister has got from people across the state.” Prof (retired) of political science, Utkal University, Surjya Narayan Mishra said, “This is an act of populism. It’s an attempt by the government to save its own institutions from collapsing. Instead of focusing on reservation, the government should try to develop good infrastructure.” Odisha Private Engineering College Association (OPECA) president Binod Dash told The Telegraph that students have to clear the NEET and JEE examinations to enrol themselves in the medical and engineering colleges. “Unless they clear the examination, they would not be able to take advantage of the reservation scheme. Now the seats are lying vacant and the government has to go for dereservation of the seats.” He said, “At present, out of 100 seats, 15 per cent seats are reserved for India quota. Besides, there is 33 per cent reservation for women. Then there is reservation for SC, ST, green card holders and military quota. If we take all into consideration, the number of reservation seats would touch to 50 per cent. At this point, instead of focusing on the reservation issue, we should strengthen the education system in government run high schools.” Dash said the government should ask its officials to enrol their children in government schools. “Once they do it, the education system will improve. And there will be no need for reservation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
