01-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga
||Rumours trigger panic buying of essential items in Amritsar||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 30 Fearing imposition of the lockdown following continuous surge in the Covid-19 cases, residents have resorted to panic buying of essentials, including grocery and medicines. Confirming the trend, Kuldeep Rai Gupta, former chief of the Amritsar Retail Karyana Association, said, “Sale of cereals, pulses, spices, edible oils and other grocery items more than doubled from normal days today.” He said rumours related to extension of the weekend lockdown were such that locals bought in huge quantity of essentials.  People rushed to grocery stores and grain market to hoard food items and other daily-used material. Sabzi mandi also witnessed increased turnout of people who were seen buying vegetables in bulk. Serpentine queues of people outside consumer stores, including DMart, Metro, Best Price and Big Bazaar amog others were visible. In the walled city, people were flocking grocery stores. Dimple, who is a teacher and a mother of two kids, said “People are expecting the lockdown since positive cases are daily hovering around 500 and death toll is also high in the district.” Bikram Singh, a chemist, said there was a spurt in sale of medicines as people already on medication preferred to stock medicines for a month, expecting imposition of the lockdown. Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said, “The district administration appeals to the public not to panic as essential services, including chemist, grocery and vegetable shops, LPG and petrol pumps will continue to work as usual. In any case, their functioning will not be affected.” He said each citizen should practise social distancing at public places and markets. “The administration has warned rumour-mongers not to spread disinformation on social media. Cases will be registered against such persons,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rumours-trigger-panic-buying-of-essential-items-in-amritsar-246730
01-05-2021||---||Sikh activists burn copies of HC verdict on Kotkapura firing||Amritsar, April 30Opposing the Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict on SIT report related to Kotkapura firing incident, Sikh Youth of Punjab, led by Paramjit Singh Mand, on Friday burnt copies of the judgment terming it political and flawed.The call to burn the copies of the judgment was given by panthic groups led by former Akal Takht Jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh. The Sikh youth gathered at Canal Chowk near Dal Khalsa office and raised slogans denouncing the judgement. They were carrying placards to convey the message that judiciary was biased and the government could not deliver justice to Sikhs in sacrilege related cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-activists-burn-copies-of-hc-verdict-on-kotkapura-firing-246731
01-05-2021||---||Students from J&K, Ladakh welcomed in Amritsar's DAV College||Amritsar, April 30DAV College welcomed a batch of students from Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, who are covered under the Prime Minister Scholarship Scheme, to study at the college here. The Centre-funded scholarship is offered to students from the remotest and economically backward pockets of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to study in the institutions of their choice. The students, who chose DAV College as their centre of study were today welcomed by princpal, Dr Rajesh Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-from-jk-ladakh-welcomed-in-amritsars-dav-college-246732
01-05-2021||Amritsar||Green Champion Award for BBK DAV College for Women||BBK DAV College for Women has been conferred with Green Champion Award by Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India for its contribution to Swachhta Education and Practice.  The awards, given to only one institution per district, were announced on the occasion of Earth Day this year. As many as  1,000 higher educational institutions participated in the ‘One District One Green Champion’ awards organised by MGNCRE.  MGNCRE, as part of its Swachhta Action Plan, has been associated with the college earlier in August 2020. Online workshops, in the areas of knowledge sharing, namely, Swachhta in Campus, Campus Jal Shakti (Water Conservation in the Campus) and Campus Post- Covid 19 Sanitation Plan, have consistently been conducted in the college.  Swachhta Action Plan (SAP) Committee was constituted and swachhta activities were conducted. Finally, Swachhta and Jal Shakti Evaluation Sheet was filled for assessment and evaluation of the Swachhta and Jal Shakti standards of the campus, on the basis of which the Ministry of Education has recognised BBK DAV as the Green Champion in the district of Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-champion-award-for-bbk-dav-college-for-women-246733
01-05-2021||---||Cop falls asleep, accused flees from lock-up in Khilchian police station||Amritsar, April 30A man arrested under the Arms Act escaped from the police lock-up by breaking its wall at Khilchian police station here on Wednesday. Though, he was rearrested, the police have booked constable Ravinder Singh for dereliction of duty which led to his escape.Assistant Sub-Inspector Kulwant Singh stated that on April 28 he was deputed as duty officer in the police station. The police have nabbed Prabhdeep Singh of Beriana village falling under Tarsikka for allegedly possessing country-made weapon. As his corona report was awaited, he was lodged in the police lockup. He said that at around 4 am on Thursday when he woke up he found a big hole in the wall of police lock-up which was adjoining to the bathroom.He found constable Ravinder Singh, who was on duty at time, sleeping in the room adjoining to the entrance gate when the accused fled from the police lock-up. However, he was rearrested by the police on Thursday evening.The police have registered a case under Sections 223 and 224 of the IPC against Prabhdeep Singh and contable Ravinder Singh who was yet to be arrested in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-falls-asleep-accused-flees-from-lock-up-in-khilchian-police-station-246734
01-05-2021||Tarn Taran||History-sheeter arrested||The city police on Friday arrested gangster Veera Sharma, a resident of local Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar locality, who was involved in number of criminal cases. Her son Munish Kumar, who too was involved in the criminal cases, escaped the naka installed by the police on the outskirts of the town. The police also seized a Fortuner vehicle they were travelling in and used in committing the crimes.  The other members of the gang were her husband Darshan Kumar, who died a few months back, two sons, two daughters-in-law and a number of other persons.  The gang members were allegedly involved in more than 10 cases of loot, attempt to murder and other heinous crimes.   The gang members lured innocent persons into committing sexual activities at their house in Tarn Taran and then used recording of such clips to blackmail them.  On March 13 , 2021, Harjinder Singh from Ludhiana came to purchase their Fortuner vehicle. By following the same activities they looted Rs 6.45 lakh from him. The  police have registered a case. —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/history-sheeter-arrested-246735
01-05-2021||---||Cheques for Rs 24.5 lakh deposited to pay property tax dishonoured||Amritsar, April 30  Though the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar has yet to recover payments from those residents whose cheques, presented to pay property tax, were bounced during the last three years, several cheques for Rs 24.5 lakh deposited during March 2021 have been dishonoured.  Even as the MC Commissioner had instructed the zonal superintendents to not get the payment of property tax through cheques, tax payers managed to deposit cheques which were later dishonoured.  Earlier during the last fiscal, around 150 cheques for Rs 16 lakh were dishonoured. At present, the number of cheque bounce cases stands at 162.  Following this, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal authorised MC Secretary Sushant Bhatia to exercise all powers to take legal action against defaulters.  Bhatia said, “The Commissioner instructed us to issue legal notices to property owners and occupants (whose cheques were dishonoured) under Section 138-C of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Komal asked us to maintain a record of property tax and ask for report about the recovery of dishonoured cheques. The superintendents concerned would be responsible for the recovery.”  The Nodal officer for property tax on Friday issued 16 notices to those property owners whose cheques were dishonoured. The MC asked the property owners to respond to the notice within three working days otherwise further action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cheques-for-rs-24-5-lakh-deposited-to-pay-property-tax-dishonoured-246736
01-05-2021||---||NSUI hands over 15 ambulances to Amritsar admn||Amritsar, April 30To augment the state government’s fight against the raging pandemic, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) president Akshay Sharma on Friday handed over 15 Covid-19 ambulances, equipped with oxygen cylinders, masks, gloves and PPE kits to the district administration.He said the Covid-19 ambulances were being operationalised in Amritsar and Ludhiana on the directions of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.“Launched under the Congress ‘Covid Task Force Mission’, these ambulances will have a driver and ward boy round the clock. Ever since onset of this ferocious second wave, the NSUI have been on the forefront to provide bed, medicines and food to patients. The service will soon be launched in Jallandhar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur,” he said.Akshay urged people to stay indoors and follow the health guidelines to tackle the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-hands-over-15-ambulances-to-amritsar-admn-246737
01-05-2021||---||Tainted Tarn Taran cop dismissed from service||Amritsar, April 30The Punjab Police have dismissed a tainted cop, Inspector Baljit Singh, from his service for letting off two drug peddlers after taking bribe earlier this month.Baljit Singh, along with head constable Devinder Singh, was booked by the police under different Sections of the NDPS Act, Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the same. While head constable was arrested, Baljit Singh was still on the run.They had allegedly let off Malkit Singh and Baoo Singh on March 31. Jasbir Singh of Guruwali village had mediated between accused cops and drug peddlers. They allegedly took a bribe of Rs 35 lakh for letting them off. They neither registered a case nor seized the contraband. In fact they returned the same to be sold elsewhere. DSP Patti Kuljinder Singh had probed the matter.SSP Dhurman Nimbale said that Baljit Singh had misused his power and also put a blot on the police department. Taking serious cognisance of this, he had recommended his dismissal from the service to DIG HS Mann. Following this, he had dismissed him from the service.6 Mobiles, intoxicants seized from jail inmates Amritsar, April 30The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated six mobile phones and intoxicant substances from prisoners lodged in different barracks in jail complex.On the complaint submitted by jail authorities, the police have booked four prisoners in two separate cases. Those booked were identified as Anoop Singh, Karandeep Singh, Hapreet Singh, aka Harparatap Singh, and Parampal Singh.According to information, during surprise checking, jail staff confiscated a keypad phone, 320 intoxicant tablets and 10 gm of narcotic substance from Anoop Singh, while 140 sedative pills were seized from Karandeep Singh. The staff seized a smart phone from Harpreet Singh.Similarly, during checking in barrack number 7, the staff seized one mobile from Parampal Singh, while three other mobile phones were found abandoned from different parts, including de-addiction centre in the jail complex.Two separate cases under the Prisons Act have been registered while police stated that investigations are on to ascertain how the prohibited material sneaked inside the high security jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tainted-tarn-taran-cop-dismissed-from-service-246740
01-05-2021||---||Rural police offer free 24X7 cab service to vax centres||Amritsar, April 30The Amritsar rural police have launched a free cab service to Covid vaccination centres and RT-PCR testing. Police authorities in a statement issued here on Friday stated that those who could not go own their own for the testing or vaccination they can contact at control room number 9780003387 or 8054104837.They said the cab would be available 24X7 in a week. The police officials urged the people to get them vaccinated and also tested whenever they found the symptoms in their body. SSP Dhruv Dahiya today flagged off the service from his office.Meanwhile, Rural police have registered 32 FIRs and booked 35 persons here today regarding violation of Covid appropriate behaviour and guidelines issued by the government. Among those booked including dhaba owner and a liquor vend owner.SSP distributes masks in Tarn TaranSSP Dhruman H Nimbale after finishing his office work kept masks in his official vehicle and left for distribution to the needy. In the evening he saw a man standing near a chemist shop and gave him 10 masks. He then moved to a local park where he gave masks to children and appealed them to wear masks as it was the only way to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-police-offer-free-24x7-cab-service-to-vax-centres-246741
01-05-2021||Pallavi Thakur (pic)||You educate a woman, you educate a generation||This Congman is ready to take on Babbu challengePolitical analysts claim the Sujanpur assembly seat is a BJP stronghold just because of one reason. That is the social connect enjoyed by three-time sitting legislator and former deputy Speaker Dinesh Singh Babbu. He gets up early in the morning and manages to meet half a dozen sarpanches before he comes back home for lunch. The afternoons are spent discussing ways and means with administration officials to usher in developmental works in what arguably is one of Punjab’s most backward assembly seats. It is not for nothing that even dyed-in-the-wool Congressmen fear to tread into Babbu’s area of jurisdiction. With nobody willing to take him on, some youngsters have come onto the scene to challenge his might. One such youngster is Bhanu Partap Singh (pic), Indian Youth Congress’s media cell in-charge for Punjab. He has been appointed as the chairman of the Pathankot Market Committee. This is a coveted post for any youngster aspiring to make it big in the political firmament because it provides him a good platform to display his political skills. The ceremony to appoint Bhanu Partap, a known loyalist of PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar, was held on Thursday in Pathankot. Among others, it was attended by Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Amit Vij and other prominent Congressmen. Observers say the next “politically logical” step for Bhanu is to try and get the party ticket. “Age is on his side. The scramble for the party nominations has already begun and Bhanu is surely one of the contenders. A big factor that goes in his favour is that he is a Rajput and a majority of voters in Sujanpur belong to this community,” said a MLA. What remains in the realms of speculation is whether Jakhar will give his blessings to the youngster when it comes to separating the contenders from the pretenders.Finally, Pathankot civic body gets a MayorAfter a long and agonising wait, the Pathankot Municipal Corporation had a Mayor. Pathankot is a Hindu dominated assembly seat and caste based politics surfaces more often than not. MLA Amit Vij was faced with the daunting choice of “appointing the right man with the right credentials with the right caste.” He had to walk the political tightrope with the finesse of a trapeze artist. Finally, after numerous meetings, a majority of them which were held clandestinely, the name of Panna Lal Bhatia (pic), a five-time councillor, emerged as the leading contender. The legislator’s choice of appointing a four-time councillor Vikram Mahajan to the post of senior deputy mayor, too, has gone down well with the party rank and file. And by adjusting Ajay Kumar, an SC, as the deputy mayor, Vij had played his aces to near perfection. With elections staring at him within eight months, the MLA needed to play his moves on the political chess board with utmost care and caution. And, guided by his brother Ashish Vij, that is what he has done.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/you-educate-a-woman-you-educate-a-generation-246747
01-05-2021||---||No respite: 17 succumb, 518 test +ve in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 30The district recorded 17 more deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 962. The health authorities reported 518 new cases, pushing the tally to 32,508. The new cases include 387 influenza-like illness cases and 131 contacts of positive patients.ADC Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, District Nodal Officer for Covid-19, said: “The death rate certainly increased today. But we are monitoring each fatality and most of these occurred due to late reporting. We are putting in more efforts in five containment zones and 28 micro-containment zones to check the spread of the virus.”The deceased have been identified as Rajbir (63) of Majitha; Mohinder Kaur (65) of Raniya village in Ajnala sub-division; Rajinder Kumar (64) of Hindustani Basti area; Usha (62) of Fateh Singh Nagar; Kailash Kumar (65) of Chowk Baba Sahib; Bakhshish Singh (68) of Chheharta; Sheela Rani (81) of Islamabad; Ram Prasad (60) of Abadi Sundar Nagar; Kanta Devi (69) of Lahori Gate; Vishvanaath Sharma (67) of Chheharta area; Dyal Singh (55) of Lopoke area; Guljar Singh (50); Vipan Khanna (74) of Varindavan garden; Narinder Singh (37) of Majitha area; Jagmohan (72) of Sultanwind Road; Sanjogita Sharma (58) of Goyal Nagar; and Bimla (55) of Krishna Nagar.With the recovery of 345 patients, the recovery tally reached 26,356. There were 5,190 active cases in the border district.Meanwhile, during the ongoing vaccination drive, 3,727 people were vaccinated on Friday, taking the tally of those vaccinated to 2,80,201 (both first and second doses). The vaccination drive is being carried out from 356 health installations — 235 government, 76 private and 45 empanelled. Those who were given both the jabs included 12,674 healthcare workers (HCWs) who form 34.58 per cent; 12,025 frontline workers (FLWs) who form 29.25 per cent; and 23,892 people above 45 years of age, who form 12.94 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-17-succumb-518-test-ve-in-amritsar-246726
01-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||SMO held taking bribe from doctor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 30The Vigilance Bureau on Friday caught Dr Raju Chohan, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Primary Health Centre, Thariyewal village here, red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 from a fellow doctor.The Vigilance Bureau alleged that the accused had demanded a monthly bribe of Rs 4,000 from community health officers working in Primary Health Centres threatening that he would make their adverse report which could lead to the termination of their services. He was booked following a complaint by Dr Gurbakshish Singh, Community Health Officer at Health and Wellness Centre in Abdal village. He was working there under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM).Considered close to a local MLA and senior Congress leader, Chohan earlier remained posted as health officer in the Municipal Corporation Amritsar and as district epidemiologist at the Civil Surgeon’s office here. He was recently promoted to the rank of SMO and this was his first posting.In his complaint, Dr Gurbakshish Singh said Dr Chohan had convened a meeting on April wherein he had threatened all CHOs working under him that their annual audit was forthcoming and it was in his hands to terminate or save their jobs and whether to pay them an incentive of Rs 15,000 or not.He said Dr Raju threatened them that if they wanted to continue with their jobs and get Rs 15,000 per month, they would have to pay him a monthly bribe of Rs 4,000 otherwise he would make their lives hell. If anyone dared open his mouth, he would be terminated. Thereafter Dr Raju Chohan stopped the incentive of Rs 15,000 for the month of March of all CHOs working under him, which has not been released till date.He said many of them paid Rs 2,000 as monthly bribe to the SMO while a doctor paid a bribe of Rs 4,000 to Dr Chohan.He said when the accused demanded Rs 4,000 from him, he lodged a complaint with the Vigilance Bureau.Parampal Singh, SSP, Vigilance, said Dr Chohan was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 from the complainant by the investigating officer in the presence of the official independent witnesses on Friday. Subsequently, a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smo-held-taking-bribe-from-doctor-246727
01-05-2021||---||Who cares about weekend lockdown norms?||Amritsar, April 30The weekend lockdown, announced by the state government, was imposed in the district from 5 pm on Friday and it would remain in force till 5 am on Monday.Even as there was scorching heat outside, residents were seen purchasing goods at the marketplaces in the afternoon. There was a huge rush outside grocery shops, medical stores and flour mills. The wholesale markets of pulses and daily needs, such as Rambagh and Dhab Khatikan, witnessed traffic jams. Besides city residents, people from periphery towns and villages were seen buying items in the city.Though the police announced the closing of shops at 5 pm in all major markets, shops in inner streets and outer areas were seen open after 5 pm. There were crowds of people on roads till 7 pm. Every person on the street was in hurry to collect items of daily use.The government has allowed some essential services during the lockdown, including chemist shops and sale of other essential items such as milk and vegetables. Farmers involved in wheat procurement and animal husbandry are also exempt.The police only seemed vigilant to enforce the weekend lockdown orders, but did not take any strict action against violators. Vendors selling perishable commodities were present on streets till 7 pm as they would return to marketplaces on Monday.As the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and other religious organisations are celebrating the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Guru Ka Mehal in the walled city area, a large number of residents were seen attending the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/who-cares-about-weekend-lockdown-norms-246728
01-05-2021||---||Prices of oxygen cylinders escalate in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 30 After demand of oxygen shot up in healthcare sector due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the district, its prices have also increased manifold in the district. A cylinder containing seven cubic meter of oxygen, which used to cost around Rs 150 a month ago, now costs between Rs 400 and Rs 500.  There are five units producing oxygen in the city. Proprietor of one of these establishments, Pankaj Kohli, said, “Supply of oxygen to industrial units has been stopped. So, factory output in steel and iron industry is badly hit.” He said price of a cylinder was hovering around Rs 400 after touching Rs 600. He elaborated that oxygen was required at every step of manufacturing and maintainance of machines. Besides goldsmiths also require oxygen. Ajit Singh Bhullar, who supplies oxygen to industry and healthcare sector, said between 2,000 and 2,500 cylinders were being produced before the second wave hit. “The demand from healthcare sector used to stay between 1,100 and 1,700 cylinders daily and the rest were for industrial purpose. Now, all these cylinders have been diverted to hospitals. Besides 200 to 300 cylinders are daily arriving from outside, yet the demand is not being fully met,” said Bhullar. He said scarcity of liquid oxygen needed to be addressed at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-oxygen-cylinders-escalate-in-amritsar-246729
01-05-2021||Amritsar||Deep Sidhu pays obeisance at Golden Temple||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and said the sate needed a regional party which could address the local issues.He said following the protocol set for Covid prevention, the Centre Government should initiate a dialogue with the farmers to break the deadlock.“I believe that the Centre failed to analyse the significance of farmers’ agitation. The need of the hour is that the government should resolve the issue instantly amid the raging pandemic,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deep-sidhu-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-246396
01-05-2021||---||Nagar kirtan to mark Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur||Amritsar, April 30A “nagar kirtan” was taken out from Akal Takht Sahib to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal to mark the 400th Prakash Purb (birth centenary) of Guru Teg Bahadur.Besides SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the attendees included head priest of Golden Temple Giani Jagtar Singh, officiating jathedar, Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, and jathedar,Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Giani Raghbir Singh.Following prayers, head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh performed the service of Chaur Sahib of Guru Granth Sahib. The “gatka” and band parties also displayed their best during the occasion.The participation of the sangat was low due to Covid-19 restrictions. Meanwhile, a "kavi darbar" was held where the life history of Guru Teg Bahadur was introduced to the sangat through poems. The hazuri ragi groups of the Golden Temple performed Gurbani kirtan at Gurdwara Sahib. The ongoing events of the SGPC were telecast live through various channels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-to-mark-prakash-purb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-246400
01-05-2021||---||HSGPC honours ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh at Golden Temple||Amritsar, April 30Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was honoured with a specially crafted gold medal and “siropa” by Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal on behalf of other organisation representatives at the entrance plaza of the Golden Temple today.Kunwar had led the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases. After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, he said, “I have no regrets about losing the job while doing ‘sewa’ for Guru Granth Sahib as I was already prepared for it when I took to probing. Though I reserve my comments on HC orders, I failed to understand how it could reach the HC which had pronounced its decision without going through the report,” he said.On the other hand, Bandi Sikh Riyai Morcha led by Bhai Jung Singh and his supporters lodged their protest against this programme. Raising slogans against Daduwal and others, they also burnt the effigies amid deployment of heavy police force to avoid any untoward incident. They stated that Kunwar was a puppet at the hands of the Congress and prepared a probe report with a view to gain political mileage for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hsgpc-honours-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-singh-at-golden-temple-246405
01-05-2021||Amritsar||Sukhbir Badal not allowed to attend SGPC function||In a statement here, party spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said it was unfortunate that the local administration denied permission to the SAD president to participate in a function at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal tomorrow despite the fact that the SGPC had scaled down the event in order to adhere to Covid protocols. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sukhbir-badal-not-allowed-to-attend-sgpc-function-246410
