02-05-2021||Amritsar||Of total, 30 pc deaths seen in April alone||The district witnessed 35 per cent of the total cases — the biggest-ever spike in a month since the outbreak of the pandemic — reported so far in the month of April.Of the 32,508 cases reported till Friday (the first case was recorded on March 22 last year), a whopping 11,498 cases were reported in April alone this year. The number of cases, reported till the peak of the first wave in September last year, has almost doubled in this month.In September last year, the district had reported 5,939 positive cases and 203 deaths.In April, there was an alarming rise in the number of casualties which account for nearly 30 per cent of the total deaths. Of the 962 deaths reported till April 30 in the district, 286 alone were recorded in the month of April.The district saw the spurt in positive cases during the second wave which was first noticed in the month of March this year. With 383 cases and 9.5 deaths recorded on a daily basis in April, things seem difficult for health staff to handle as the number of active cases has crossed the 5000 mark.“The number of daily cases is still growing. For the last few days, more than 500 positive cases are reported daily. The situation is worsening with each passing day and it is time for those who are not taking the disease seriously to introspect,” said a health official, adding that people should follow the Covid protocols religiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-total-30-pc-deaths-seen-in-april-alone-247115
02-05-2021||Amritsar||Eight deaths, 229 new cases surface in Amritsar||With eight more deaths due to Covid-19 reported on Saturday, the death toll increased to 970.The district health authorities reported 229 fresh cases in the last 24 hours with which the total count reached 32,737.The deceased have been identified as Parminder Singh (64) of Islamabad, Malkit Singh (87) of White Avenue, Manjit Kaur (62) of Aanngarh, Manjit Kaur (65) of Rajataal village, Pooja (54) of Katra Ahluwalia, Raj Kumar (55) of Gheo Mandi, Ashwani (60) of Shri Guru Ramdas Avenu and Manju Sharma (45) of Moole Chak village.The new cases include 155 influenza like illness cases and 74 contacts of positive patients. The district has also reported recovery of 270 patients, with which the total count increased to 26,626. At present, the district has 5,041 active cases.The district administration has constituted a committee to check hoarding and black marketing of essential items, including medicines and food. The committee includes representatives of the Commissionerate of Police, Civil Surgeon, Legal Meteorology and Department of Food and Civil Supplies.The health authorities said a total of 9,391 residents were inoculated on Saturday. Out of them, 5,904 received their first dose and 3,487 were administered the second shot.The first dose receivers included 131 healthcare workers, 1,072 frontline workers and 4,701 beneficiaries above 45 years. A total of 484 healthcare workers, 464 frontline workers and 2,534 residents above 45 years were jabbed for the second time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-deaths-229-new-cases-surface-in-amritsar-247120
02-05-2021||Amritsar||Property dispute claims  30-yr-old’s life, 10 booked||Hardeep Singh (30) of Chhiddan village was shot dead by armed persons here on Saturday. A dispute over property is stated to be the reason.Karam Singh, his father, said accused Nirvail Singh used to forcibly pass through their land. He said this had led to a quarrel a few days ago. He said on Saturday the accused and several armed persons barged into his house and started quarrelling while abusing them.He said hearing the noise, his son Hardeep came out. On seeing him, they shot at him leaving him critically injured. He was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said Nirvail shot at his son with his 12 bore double barrel gun.Manjit Singh, brother of the deceased, also fired gun shots. He told the police that he fired shot in self-defence after the armed assailants led by Nirvail attacked them.Besides Nirvail, the police have booked Paramjit Singh, Parvej Singh, Robinpreet Singh, Jobanpreet Singh, Gurdeep Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Sajjan Singh and two unknown persons. They were booked for murder and under the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-dispute-claims-30-yr-olds-life-10-booked-247124
02-05-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||ASI nabbed for taking Rs 10K bribe in Bhikhiwind||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Friday arrested an Assistant Sub-Inspector while taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 from Mangal Singh, a social worker, in Bhikhiwind.The accused has been identified as Lakhwinder Singh, who was deputed as a driver at the CIA Staff. Three women associates of the accused were on the run.The VB officials said the complainant, Mangal Singh, had approached Raj Kaur Prabh and sought her support to resolve property dispute with his neighbour.After receiving repeated calls from Raj, Mangal went to her residence on Thursday and the former forced him to hug her. The incident was recorded in a camera.Later, Raj called Lakhwinder on the spot who threatened to book Mangal under rape charges. The ASI who was accompanied with another woman demanded Rs 1 lakh to settle the issue. The ASI snatched his purse, which contained more than Rs 8,000 and also took his Aadhaar Card, registration card of his motorcycle and other documents.The ASI asked Mangal to pay remaining amount on Friday at the residence of Raj.Mangal approached the VB that laid a trap and nabbed the ASI red-handed while taking Rs10,000 as bribe from the complainant. A case under Section 7 of the PCA 1988 and Sections 389 and 120-B of the IPC was registered. The ASI was produced before the court today, which sent him to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-nabbed-for-taking-rs-10k-bribe-in-bhikhiwind-247126
02-05-2021||Amritsar||4.38 lakh MT wheat purchased in Amritsar||With the arrival of 4.63 lakh metric tonne of wheat crop in the grain markets, nearly 80 per cent of harvesting is complete. The district administration officials said the remaining produce would arrive in the markets within a week.The mandi board officials said 4,38,864 MT of the crop has been purchased by the government agencies, while merely 442 MT has been purchased by private players.Of the government agencies, Pungrain has procured a maximum of 1,20,807 MT, Punsup 1,08,301 MT, Markfed 1,00,849 MT, Punjab warehouse 54,484 MT and FCI has purchased 54,423 MT.The mandi board officials said in Tarn Taran district, a total of 5,78,845 MT crop has arrived in the market of which 5,55,365 MT has been procured. Deputy Commissioner Tarn Taran Kulwant Singh said around Rs729 crore has been disbursed to farmers for the purchase of their crop.He said the government was committed to buy each and every grain, which is brought to the market. He also appealed to farmers to not burn wheat stubble in fields in view of the health hazards and soil health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-38-lakh-mt-wheat-purchased-in-amritsar-247127
02-05-2021||Amritsar||Acting tough on those who deface Amritsar||The advertisement wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) has become quite active right from the beginning of the new fiscal.Reason: Shortfall in revenue generation during previous financial year. The MC has been facing criticism over the defacement of the holy city from residents.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal appointed Sushant Bhatia as the in-charge of the advertisement wing who came with an agenda to enhance revenue and come down hard upon those who deface the city.Bhatia said, “There was total violation of the advertisement policy. Everyone freely displayed their advertisements on roads and buildings, which led to defacement. The MC was witnessing massive financial losses from this sector, which actually has good potential of revenue. Implementation of the advertisement policy is our agenda for 2021.”Last year, the MC had a target of Rs12 crore for the advertisement wing, but only Rs1.45 crore could be collected.Focusing on the third party advertisement, the advertisement wing has issued notices to mobile and telecommunication firms, IELTS centres, travel agents, beverage companies and shopping malls to provide details of their advertisements displayed in the city.Bhatia said all these entities have to pay tax for displaying billboards in the city. Otherwise, there’s a provision to register an FIR under the Public Property Act, he said.A large number of quacks and astrologers were spreading irrational and superstitious thoughts among masses through advertisements on walls. Recently, the MC had blackened a large number of such advertisements and asked violators to stop this nuisance or be ready to to face the music.“There was no penalty for defacement in the city. We are making efforts to fix the accountability (painters, printers along with owners) for defacing the city. We will also implement rules for display boards outside shops. Similar rule of 3-ft width will be implemented for third party advertisement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/acting-tough-on-those-who-deface-amritsar-247136
02-05-2021||---||Tributes paid to Chicago martyrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 1Despite the weekend lockdown, the Left parties observed Labour Day at three different areas in the city. Red flags were hoisted at party offices in Chheharta, Haripura and Batala Road. The leaders paid tributes to the Chicago martyrs and threw light on the struggle of labourers.Com Amrajit Singh Ansal said the labourers were now more united against the anti-labour policies of the Centre. “The BJP-led Central government has eliminated the labour laws, which were enacted with a long struggle. Now, the government proposed to implement four labour codes. In the wake of pandemic, the government is giving the control of the nation to corporate house. Lakhs of workers will lose their employment,” said Ansal.Other speakers criticised the Central government for agri-laws and other policies.Meanwhile, activists of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) from the West constituency led by Punjab Trade Wing secretary Rajinder Palah distributed masks to workers in different areas. Palah said the entire world was suffering from the coronavirus. “Aam Aadmi Party team distributed masks in different chowks and provided sanitisers,” said Palah. Block president Moti Lal, youth secretary Varun Rana, Circle president Pritpal Singh, senior leader Raghu Raj, Raghar Dayal, Arvinder Singh, Karan Kumar Vansh, Sajan were also present.Labour Day in Tarn TaranVarious employees, farmers, labourers and other sections of society paid rich tributes to Chicago martyrs during different functions held on International Labour Day in Tarn Taran on Saturday. Workers condemned the three farm laws. The CPI and Punjab Istri Sabha activists organised a joint function at Chabal where men women workers participated in large numbers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-chicago-martyrs-247138
02-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Man succumbs to accident injuries||Textile material destroyed in fireAmritsar: Textile material worth lakhs was gutted in the fire that broke out at Shanker Printing Mills in Pandori Waraich village here on Friday. It took several hours for the firefighters to douse the fire. Short-circuit is said to be the reason behind the incident. The fire first broke out at the finished goods godown where goods was kept after processing. TNSBody found on railway trackTarn Taran: A team of the Government Railway Police (GRP) found a body from the Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib railway track here on Saturday. ASI Pal Kumar, in-charge of the police post, said the victim was clean-shaven and in his late 20s. He said the body was found from the outskirts of the town near Green Fields Public School. It has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. OCTimings of sewa kendras changedAmritsar: DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the timing of sewa kendras have been re-scheduled from 9 am to 4 pm. He said this was done keeping in view the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the district. He said no service would be provided to applicants at these centres without securing appointment. He said all kinds of fee would now be digitally paid. “No staff member can join without vaccination certificate.” TNSPhotographer in Canadian bookAmritsar: City-based photographer Raminder Pal Singh has featured in a book ‘Ramgarhia Virasat’ by Indo-Canadian writer and scholar Jaiteg Singh. The book is a coffee-table documentation on the legacy of prominent personalities from the Ramgarhia Sikh community, who have contributed immensely to society. From the historical legendary warriors to the great artists and to the famous sports personalities, the author has extensively compiled data and presented it in the form of this coffee-table book. Raminder Pal Singh has a career spanning over 18 years as a photographer. TNSMissing saroops: Petition filedAmritsar: Seven leaders of the SAD (Amritsar) filed a petition in the Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission here on Saturday, seeking intervention in disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib from the SGPC. The petition has been filed against 17 persons seeking action against former SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, former Chief Secretary Dr Roop Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-succumbs-to-accident-injuries-247147
02-05-2021||Though a number of heritage structures and monuments still cry for attention||Restoring the past  glory of Amritsar||Restoration of historic gatesThere are 12 historic gates around the walled city. Out of these only seven gates exist and the renovation was held under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana. Public libraries and open discussion platforms were constructed under this project, but in the absence of any policy, infrastructure developed by spending crores is gathering dust.Ramgharia GateIt’s popularly known as Chatiwind Gate. The Ramgharia Gate was demolished by the Britishers after they annexed Punjab. Qila Ram Rauni used to exist inside the gate, which was restored by the All India Sardar Jassa Singh Ramgarhia Federation. The total height of the gate is 50 feet with both sides having 15’x45’ size pillars.Heritage StreetThe 800-m walkway from Town Hall to the Golden Temple was developed at a cost of Rs250 crore in 2016. Once a congested stretch, it is now a no-vehicle zone in the walled city area. Red-stone facade of all shops helps in bringing uniformity. Wooden balconies and traditional houses have also been restored.Gobindgarh FortThe fort was built during the Sikh Misl period and previously known as Bhangian Da Qila. It was restored by the state government in 2016 at a cost of Rs50 crore. The fort is open for visitors and is operated by a private firm.Katra AhluwaliaA planned residential locality was developed by Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia in 1760 near the Golden Temple. Wooden facades and balconies are a centre of attraction. The Centre restored Qila Ahluwalia and Katra Ahluwalia market under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana.Durgiana Temple plazaThe Rs115-crore beautification project of Durgiana Temple plaza commenced in 2016. In the first phase, the government proposed construction of modern plaza, landscaping, musical fountains and an open-air theatre. In 2018, the MC announced to develop a heritage walk from Hathi Gate to Durgiana Temple.Hall Bazaar It was the first broad carpeted road from Town Hall to Hall Gate constructed by the British in 1875. A shopping centre was developed on both sides of the road. The state government has renovated facades of shops to maintain its old glory. The project has been extended to Katra Jaimal Singh Road.Ram Bagh DeorhiThe historic deorhi built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh was restored in 2019. Ironically, the MC, which executed the project, failed to open it for public. After spending lakhs on restoration of the building, the government did not bother about publicising places among tourists. Besides, one can see carts parked haphazardly outside the gate.Circular RoadThe government is developing heritage trails alongside the historic wall along with parking spaces on the Circular Road. However, there are several hiccups in the execution of the project due to rampant encroachments and political interference. The red stone walls and grills are being installed.Jallianwala BaghA historic garden, where 379 people killed on April13, 1919. The Ministry of Culture carried out restoration work and allied services worth Rs19.36 crore, supervised by the Archaeological Survey of India. The bagh is ready for inauguration, but due to the Covid-19 restrictions, it has been closed for general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restoring-the-past-glory-of-amritsar-247173
