03-05-2021||---||Tax payment through cheques? No more!||Amritsar, May 2After several cheques were dishonored, the Municipal Corporation has decided not to accept payment of property tax through cheques.However, some months ago, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal had already instructed zonal superintendents not to accept payment of tax through cheques. But under pressure of recovering tax, superintendents accepted cheques of several tax payers till March 31. According to information, cheques amounting to Rs24.5 lakh were again dishonored. Earlier, around 150 cheques were dishonored last year.Now, the MC has decided to curb the practice and restrict tax payment through cheques.MC secretary Sushant Bhatia said: “As per the directions of the MC Commissioner, the employees at citizen facilitation centre (CFC) have been asked not to accept any payment of tax through cheques. In some special cases, the superintendents were asked to get permission from the commissioner. There are several other modes of payments. The online payment is easy and hassle-free. We are motivating taxpayers to adopt the online payment mode to avoid any inconvenience.”The nodal officer for property tax issued 16 notices to those property owners, whose cheques were dishonoured on Friday. The MC has asked property owners to respond to the notice within three working days otherwise further action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tax-payment-through-cheques-no-more-247385
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven-year-old boy ‘denied’ treatment, dies||Tarn Taran, May 2Jugrajpreet Singh, a 7-year-old boy of Kajikot Road, died reportedly due to the lack of proper medical treatment during the wee hours on Sunday.His uncle Angrej Singh said around 12 am Jugrajpreet complained of severe headache. He said the child was rushed to a nearby private hospital and somehow managed to get treatment from a lady doctor who asked them to visit again in the morning. He said as Jugrajpreet didn’t got any relief, they again went to the private hospital, but their staff denied entry to them.Angrej said they rushed the child to the Civil Hospital where Jugrajpreet was put on oxygen, but he succumbed.Family members of the deceased demanded probe in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-year-old-boy-denied-treatment-dies-247386
03-05-2021||---||District reports 15 deaths, 394 new infections||Amritsar, May 2With 15 more deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, the district death toll reached 985 on Sunday. The district health authorities have also reported 344 fresh positive cases with which the total count increased to 33,081.The new cases include 246 influenza-like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 460 patients, the recovery count increased to 27,086. The district, at present, has a total of 5,010 active cases.The district health authorities reported that a total of 2,505 residents were given injections on Sunday. The officials said 24,023 healthcare workers, 38,402 frontline workers and 1,76,762 residents above 45 years have been given the first dose till date. Meanwhile, 13,281 healthcare workers, 13,994 frontline workers and 25,635 residents above 45 years have been given the second dose.4 die, 38 +ve in Tarn TaranFour Covid-19 infected persons died in the district taking the death toll to 220. The Health Department said 38 persons tested positive in the district on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases to 949 in the district. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 693 persons were given the jab today with which the number of total vaccinated persons had gone to 95,791. — OCWarriors who lost their battle to CovidThe deceased have been identified as Kailash Devi (65), a resident of Panj Peer area; Manju (35) of Chungi Mandir (Sultanwind Road); Surinder Kumar (69) of New Jawahar Nagar; Suresh Kumar (67) of Gopal Nagar; Renu (50) of Bhagtanwala; Pushpa Rani (60) of Chabhal Road; Raj Rani (60) of Indira Colony; Pritpal Singh (73) of Albert Road; Ram Gopal (76) of Shashtri Nagar; Lachman Singh (55) of Akal Sahai Avenue; Sheetal (33) of Old Jail Road (Ranjit Avenue); Balbir Singh (61) of Friends Avenue; Kanta (64) of Vijay Nagar; Balwinder Kaur (62) of Harkrishan Nagar and Satish Kumar (50) of Ram Avenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-reports-15-deaths-394-new-infections-247387
03-05-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Panic-stricken, residents now following all rules||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 2Contrary to last year’s lockdown, residents are taking the weekend lockdown more seriously in the city now.Reason: High death toll during the second wave of Covid-19, which has made people more conscious about the pandemic and they are following restrictions without police surveillance in the city.It has been observed that most of time, there was no police movement on most of the roads, but markets were closed and roads were deserted. During a visit to various areas of the city, it has been observed that the residents preferred staying inside.From Golden Gate to Putlighar Chowk, there was no barricading or police checkpoint till Sunday afternoon, but only a few people, who were involved in some essential services, were out on roads.Scorching heat is also one of the reasons that residents were not seen going out, but the higher number of casualties, shortage of oxygen cylinders and non-availability of vaccination has also caused panic among residents about the pandemic.Jatin Kumar, a delivery boy with a food chain, said: “Last year, the police used force to keep people inside. Now, they seem lenient but the public is more conscious about their health. It is panic of the second wave of Covid-19 that people are avoiding sitting in restaurants and organising parties. It is good for society as the health system of the country is already unable to tackle the pandemic.”“People don’t dread the virus but the poor health system. The oxygen is a basic thing which should be available to everyone, but hundreds of people have lost their lives owing to non-availability of oxygen support. The government postponed its vaccination drive due to its shortage. So, people are preferring staying indoors rather than struggling to get a hospital bed,” said Kuljeet Singh, a resident.However, the government has also exempted several services from the weekend lockdown and the construction and industrial labourers were allowed to work.Gurpreet, a painter, said: “People from low economic groups are major victims of weekend lockdown. They lose their daily wages due to restrictions. Otherwise, the middle class, service class, businessmen and well-off people enjoy the weekend during lockdown. Daily income is a major concern for workers for their livelihood. The government can’t impose more restrictions without showing concern for the livelihood of poor people. Everyone fears Covid but the circumstances don’t allow every person to stay at home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panic-stricken-residents-now-following-all-rules-247389
03-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Rickshaw pullers, three-wheeler drivers struggling to make both ends meet||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 2The income of rickshaw pullers and auto drivers has drastically come down due to the weekend lockdown and daily imposition of curfew from 6 pm. They said they were struggling hard to make both ends meet in these extremely tough circumstances.Yog Raj, a rickshaw puller, says they wait for customers amid scorching heat as very few people are out. “Customers prefer going out in the evening, but all of us have to return home around 5:30 pm. Our visibility on roads after 6 pm will immediately earn the ire of constables’ batons.” In this situation, he returns home with a meagre earning.“These days we are taking home only Rs100 or Rs120 every day, which is not enough. Many of us do not even own rickshaws, so we hire one on rent for Rs30 per day. Hence, we have to shell out that amount as well from our daily earnings, which hardly leaves anything for us,” he said.Gurmukh Singh, a 43-year-old three-wheeler driver, said; “There are already limited customers out on roads. This is the longest dry season for three-wheeler and rickshaw pullers, which started from the lockdown imposed in March last year. This lean season is continuing for us. Unlocking of the lockdown may have provided relief to other professions, but not for these two labour-oriented professions.”Giving reason, he pointed out that all educational institutes whether schools and colleges, continue to remain closed. A big chunk of customers come from these. Those with paying capacity are not ready to share and those who are ready to travel are reluctant to pay increased tariff. This, despite the fact that the diesel rate is extremely high. It has become difficult to arrange even two square meals a day after paying EMIs of financed autos, filling fuel and maintenance cost, he rues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rickshaw-pullers-three-wheeler-drivers-struggling-to-make-both-ends-meet-247391
03-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Marriage biz drawing a blank||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 2People associated with marriage business said they have once again drawn a blank from the promising marriage season, which began on April 18 and will conclude on May 15. Thanks to intensive restrictions such as no gathering above 20 persons, imposition of daily curfew at 6 pm and two-day weekend curfew imposed in the wake of the rising positive cases.A rough estimate suggests that the business amounting to crores was not taking place and thousands of daily wagers associated with the wedding industry have exhausted their earnings as well. A wedding offers employment to 100 to 150 people such as band players, waiters, electricians, photographers, videographers, DJ, florists, decorators, security guards, caterers, cooks and taxi operators among others. It is that time when vegetables, fruits, dairy products, poultry, spices and other eatables are bought in bulk, giving the much needed boost to the sales and impetus in the market.Happy Narula, president of the Amritsar Tent Association, said: “At least 5,000 marriages were scheduled during the undergoing wedding season and 90 per cent of these are being performed in a simple way and being attended by 20 persons as per the directions of the government.”He said a major portion of these marriages were originally scheduled last year. However, due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown and restrictions thereof, these were postponed. Finally, these were held in a simple way denying earning opportunities to over 30 professions associated with the wedding business and hundreds of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled daily wagers.Ranjit Singh, a resort owner, said: “After harvesting of crops, marriage functions propel the economic activity ensuring sales across segments such as jewellery, clothing, cosmetics, different wares, domestic and electrical gadgets apart from a plethora of things.”Ranjit, who is also the president of Amritsar Resorts’ Welfare Association, said the city-based wedding industry suffered a loss of around Rs150 crore with the cancellation and simple marriages this time. He sought that the government must allow gatherings as per the area of a resort and one-rule-for-all like 20 people in a wedding was not justified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/marriage-biz-drawing-a-blank-247392
03-05-2021||---||Major haul: 390-litre illicit liquor seized, 5 held||Amritsar, May 2In yet another major haul of illicit liquor, the Amritsar rural police on Sunday busted eight illegal working stills. The police nabbed five bootleggers, identified as Sarwan Singh, Angrez Singh, Sanjay, Avtar Singh and Resham Singh, all residents of Boparai Khurd village falling under the Lopoke police station here.The police confiscated 1.18 lakh kg of lahan (raw material for brewing illicit liquor) besides 390 litres of illicit liquor during the raid. The police also seized 95 drums of 50 litre capacity each, four LPG gas cylinders and 20 tarpaulins from the spot. This is the seventh illicit liquor bust in the past two months.SSP Amritsar rural Dhruv Dahiya said that there were specific inputs regarding illegal manufacturing of liquor in the village. “After recce, police teams led by ASP Majitha Abhimanyu Rana and DSP Gurinder Nagra, DSP Sukhraj Singh and DSP Gupartap Singh Sahota, raided the village and during six hour long operation, it unearthed large scale illegal manufacturing,” he said.“The police undertook detailed geographical mapping exercise of the production and supply chains of all illicit liquor units busted by the police in past two months while we are also scrutinising the assets of the accused persons to establish their network of financial flows in order to smash the entire network,” the SSP said.He added the police were investigating the case from various angles and more such illegal liquor making units were expected to be unearthed soon. A case under Sections 61, 78 (2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act at the Lopoke police station and the process to forfeit the properties of the accused persons, as per the legal provisions, is underway.7th unit bustedThis is the 7th such illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted by the Amritsar rural police in the last two months, which led to the arrest of as many as 38 bootleggers so far. The police have seized 7,54,100-kg lahan, 4061.25 litres of illicit liquor, 57 working stills, 1,830 kg jaggery, 297 drums, 78 tarpaulins, 43 gas cylinders, four water tanks, 62 cans and six motorcycles in these seven operations since March 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/major-haul-390-litre-illicit-liquor-seized-5-held-247394
03-05-2021||---||Rural police freeze Rs 98.37L drug money||Amritsar, May 2The Amritsar rural police have frozen drug money worth Rs98.37 lakh seized from four drug peddlers over two months ago.The police have confiscated Rs7.54 lakh from Gurjant Singh of Nathupur village, Rs80.38 lakh from Mehal Singh, Rs2.5 lakh from Tehal Singh of Lodhi Gujjar village and Rs7.95 lakh from Sukhjinder Singh of Khiala Kalan village in February 24.Initially, the police have seized Rs29 lakh along with a China-made pistol, two magazines and 25 rounds, besides 12 mobile phones and two foreign SIM cards from their possession. According to the police, their villages were located near Indo-Pak border and they had contacts with Pakistan-based anti-national elements, including smugglers. They had also smuggled 6-kg heroin, which was confiscated by the Border Security Force from near Kakkar village.Gurpartal Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said during further course of investigations it was found that they had smuggled over 20-kg heroin in the past. He said their properties were being identified which would be also frozen in the near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-police-freeze-rs-98-37l-drug-money-247396
03-05-2021||---||Cheque bounce: Scheduled Castes panel to write to Home Department against erring cops||Amritsar, May 2Taking serious note of ignoring the instructions of Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission and decided to write to Home Department for necessary action against the cops in this connection.Resham Singh of Kohali village, the complainant had approached the commission member Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka in this regard. In his complaint he accused Kapil Kaushal, SHO Lopoke police station and ASI Gurmit Singh of favouring the suspects and misusing their position. He said the local court had issued an arrest warrant of Ritu Bala of IndusInd bank in a cheque bounce case on March 25.He said that SHO Kapil Kaushal deputed ASI Gurmit Singh for arresting her. He said when the ASI went with him and raided the residence of Ritu Bala, he allegedly did not arrest her. He alleged later the ASI said that he was leaving her on his responsibility and he would get his money returned after striking a compromise.Dr Sialka said when the complainant approached the commission, it directed DSP and SHO twice over phone to intervene in the matter. However, SHO ignored the commission’s instructions so far. Therefore, the commission would write to Home Department for necessary action against the accused cops.Meanwhile, the commission expressed its displeasure over the functioning of the Punjab Police for ignoring the complaints of Dalit and people. He warned the police and asked them to mend their ways. He said it was brought in their notice that when the commission intervenes and ask the cops to act against the perpetrators, the police register false cases against the complainants. He said a list of accused cops would be prepared and send to the Chief Minister in this connection.Thrashing case: panel visits 2 villages Tarn Taran: Raj Kumar Hans and Deepak Kumar, members of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, visited Koharka and Sarhali village to inquire the facts of the complaints lodged by the SC community members against upper caste families. The commission members instructed the respective police station to submit report regarding the incident to its Chandigarh office on May 6. Charanjit Singh of Koharka in his complaint had alleged that his brother Jagroop Singh was tied and beaten up by seven persons, including sarpanch and lambardar of the village. Jaspal Singh of Sarhali had alleged that he was beaten up by seven persons of the upper caste community. They also passed derogatory remarks against him. The commission instructed to deal the complaint under the SC/ST Act. Officials from the other departments, too, were present during the visit of the commission members. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cheque-bounce-scheduled-castes-panel-to-write-to-home-department-against-erring-cops-247398
03-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Man booked for impersonation||Farmer dies of heart attackAmritsar: Gurmel Singh (75) of Tolaenagal village, near Rajasansi, suffered a heart attack while coming back from the ongoing agitation at Singhu border on Sunday. Associated with the Kirti Kisan Union, Gurmel was heading back from the Delhi border. Dhanwant Singh Khatraikalan, district chief, KKU, said, “Earlier, Gurmel was a part of the jatha that had reached Delhi on November 26 and he came back after spending two months. It was his second visit.” Dhanwant said Gurmel had called his family on May 1 and expressed his wish to return citing uneasiness. “He started from Singhu at 4 am on Sunday and suffered a cardiac arrest when he reached near Rajasansi and passed away,” said Dhanwant. The farm union expressed grief over hsi demise. TNSCheating plaint against wifeTarn Taran: A resident of Jhander Mahapurkhan village has lodged a complaint against his wife. The accused has been identified as Navpreet Kaur, presently residing in Ontario (Canada), who originally belongs to Devidaspur village in Amritsar. Complainant, Tegbir Singh of Jhander Mahanpurkhan village, got married to Navpreet on December 23, 2015. Tegbir and Navpreet both wanted to settle abroad. Navpreet did her IELTS after marriage and went to Canada. Tegbir said she used to communicate with him after going to Canada but denied to establish contact with him during the last five years. Tegbir said she was to invite him to Canada after settling there. Tegbir said he paid Rs8.5 lakh to his wife for clearing IELTS and to settle in Canada. The Goindwal Sahib police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC. OCConstable loses job, courtesy momTarn Taran: Constable Gurjinder Kaur, daughter of former SAD leader Jaswinder Kaur Jassi, was removed from her service by the district police on Sunday. Jaswinder was arrested by the STF, Ludhiana range, from her home in Chambal village with 1.2 kg heroin nearly two weeks ago. Gurjinder’s father had died a few years ago. The police took serious note of the incident as residing with her mother in Chambal village, Gurjinder was well aware of her mother’s activities. She was posted at Chohla Sahib police station. After Jaswinder’s arrest, the district police had sent her to the Police Lines and initiated departmental inquiry. On the findings, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale removed Gurjinder from her services from Sunday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-impersonation-247399
03-05-2021||---||West Bengal election: Farmers’ agitation played a key role in BJP’s defeat||Amritsar, May 2Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leaders claimed that farmers’ agitation at Delhi played a vital role in the defeat of BJP in West Bengal.Reacting on the results of the assembly elections of five states, Sawaran Singh Pandher, general secretary of the committee said we called the farmers and labourers of the country to oppose the BJP as the three farm laws would hand over the agrarian sector to corporate houses. We wanted a minimum support price for all crops in the country. The people of West Bengal gave verdict against the Centre’s anti-farmer policies. We congratulate the people for this achievement.They said the BJP should learn a lesson from West Bengal and address the issues of farmers. “A large number of farmers will join the agitation in Delhi on May 5. Hundreds of tractor-trailers will leave for Delhi from Beas. We are deeply concerned by the alarming rise of Covid cases but the government can avoid the gathering of farmers by repealing the agri laws,” Pandher said.Chhina hails BJP’s victory in Assam, PuducherrySenior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina on Sunday hailed party’s landslide victory in Assam and Puducherry and ‘good performance’ in West Bengal. He said of the total five states that went to poll, the party showed a major presence in three as it retained power in Assam and registered victory in Puducherry.While congratulating the PM, Home Minister and party’s national president, he said the party had just three MLAs in West Bengal and party’s voters’ mass base has increased manifold. “The party’s leadership and the Centre’s pro-poor and reformatory measures have elicited a positive response,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/west-bengal-election-farmers-agitation-played-a-key-role-in-bjps-defeat-247401
03-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Shortage of vaccine likely to throw a spanner in the drive||Existing Stock may run outThe government is set to begin vaccination for all above the age of 18 years from May 1. It is feared that heavy rush might cause shortage of the vaccine on Day 1 itself. In a nation like India, there isn’t a shortage of any product in actual but there is an artificial cut of supply in the markets, made to increase its demand and then sell the same at exorbitant prices in black market. According to the recent prices, Covaxin manufacturers had set the price at Rs150 per dose for the Centre, Rs600 per dose for state governments and that of Rs1,200 per dose for private hospitals, but the actual price of manufacturing a shot is not known. Amid the raging pandemic, it will be shameful for the manufacturers if they are thinking of earning huge profits from the sale of the vaccine at the time of national crisis, when a foreign firm such as Pfizer is offering its vaccine at no-profit price. Also, why should the state governments and private hospitals be burdened with the cost of vaccine when the Centre already made a provision of Rs35,000 crore for vaccination in the current Budget? Pumping in funds from the PM Cares Fund, they can easily buy enough doses for the nation’s population.Naresh JoharCentre must boost the vax driveThe state governments of Rajasthan and Punjab had said they didn’t have enough stock of vaccine to start the drive for all above the age of 18 years. It is for the Central Government to arrange the stocks and bear the cost of the vaccine as they had made a provision of Rs35,000 crore in the Budget for the same. The main reason behind the shortage is mismanagement of the situation by the Central Government. They should come forward and boost the vaccination drive in the whole nation to prevent people from the raging pandemic which is claiming the lives of thousands of people. Vaccination for all is the only method to beat the virus and save lives.Harsh N JoharHelp from the US will ease burdenThe government’s decision to open vaccination drive to everyone above the age of 18 years from May 1 is laudable. But as being highlighted in print and electronic media, many states are facing shortage of vaccine stocks. Around 18 per cent of the beneficiaries who visited various vaccination centres to get inoculated could not find a vaccine dose when they went for vaccination in April. India is facing two of its worst possible crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, firstly record spike in daily cases of Covid-19, and secondly shortage of vaccine against the viral disease. Several states have reached out to the Centre for assistance as many claimed that their stocks are diminishing. But the Health Minister assured that the country has enough doses and urged state governments to put an end to “fear mongering”. Indian authorities have also restricted export of the vaccine to other countries. The US decided to provide India with the crucial raw materials needed for the vaccine production. With this and the government’s financial aid to the two Indian vaccine manufacturers, these companies shall be able to produce enough doses to vaccinate a large number of citizens.Dr KS ManchandaStocks exhausting, precautions mustThe second wave of Covid is at its peak in Punjab. The government is taking every possible measure to control the surge but to no avail. Vaccinating the entire population or at least the youth aged above 18 years seems to be impossible as the state is already flagging its concern over shortage of vaccine stocks. It is better to follow other corrective and preventive measures like wearing face mask, maintenance of physical distance in public places and curbing large public gatherings to avoid contracting the virus.TS BhattiStates dependent on Central govtNo, the state government will not be able to meet the requirement and vaccine shortage will certainly hit the drive. The reason behind this problem is that out state is Congress-ruled and non-cooperative BJP government at the Centre is being biased in vaccine supplies. The stocks are provided by the Centre and the state government is dependent on them. This irresponsible and insensitive behavior of the government will be costing lives of several innocent citizens who had voted them to power.Sanjay ChawlaSeek aid from foreign nationsThe government is set to open the vaccination drive for all above 18 years on May 1, which would add approximately 36 per cent of the citizens to the list of allowed beneficiaries. But, the present situation about vaccine shortage is very grim. A judicious approach in procurement of vaccine is the need of the hour. Injection manufacturing companies need to bolster up the production and the government should support and provide aid to these companies in all possible ways, including ramping up the process of manufacturing vaccine. The government must sign with the diplomats of other countries to send vaccine doses or raw materials for its manufacture to the earliest. Emergency approval to companies producing vaccines should be given. The infrastructure and man power for the success of inoculation drive needs to be reviewed and managed astutely. Lest there can be a chaos and utmost failure to deal with the avalanche of masses coming for the jab. Every hospital with adequate facilities and other centres with proper provisions need to be roped in to cope up with the huge rush. Indeed it’s the need of the hour to vaccinate as much of the populace as early as possible as the deadly virus is on bloodbath. Vaccine definitely protects from the progression of disease. One shouldn’t shirk from the shot. Don’t vaccilate - Vaccinate!Dr Raman GuptaDwindling stock cause for concernAmid the second wave of Covid, it is coming to the fore that the proportion of youth among the infected persons is comparatively more than the previous wave. Ultimately, the government opened up the vaccination drive to all adults over the age of 18 years. Also, to make the drive a success, the state’s health ministry has ordered 30 lakh doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India. For poor and needy persons, the CM relief fund would be considered as a major tool. Dwindling stocks of vaccine are a cause for concern and pose as a major roadblock in the mission to vaccine all above the age of 18 to prevent a major chunk of our population. Owing to the rise in number of infections at an alarming rate, people are more concerned in getting vaccinated soon but the government needs to ensure that there are enough doses with the state to administer to its residents. The government also needs to keep a check that there is no vaccine wastage at this crucial time. The third phase of vaccination starting from May 1 will increase the demand significantly without a clear pathway to increasing the supply. Finally, the Centre has to play its role in providing the states with the required number of doses.Parampreet KaurNo arrangements made by GovernmentThe government realised the gravity of the situation too late and should have made efforts to check the spread of the pandemic much earlier. Still, the state government is not in the state to open the vaccination drive for persons above 18 from May 1, as the Health Minister says that there are not enough stocks of vaccine with the government. Also, no arrangements have been made for effective procurement of vaccine. This casual approach of the government can prove to be hazardous to its people. May 1 is just round the corner and the government must act responsibly to get most of the people inoculated to win this fight against the pandemic.Indu AuroraThose above 45 must be jabbed on a priorityCovid is spreading at an alarming rate in the nation and the positivity rate is also very high in several states and UTs. It has been observed that people who are already suffering from some disease are more prone to contract Covid as compared to healthy persons who are able to recover from the disease after minor symptoms of flu, cough and headache. According to my view, persons above 45 years should be vaccinated on priority and only after ensuring 100 per cent vaccination among them, we should start promoting immunisation process among persons between 18 to 45 years. Vaccine stock shortage is also being reported repeatedly in the state, thus senior citizens should be inoculated first as they are more vulnerable and the disease is more fatal in persons of this age group. We should also encourage persons less than 45 years to adopt healthy lifestyle, exercise regularly and eat home-cooked food and more fruits. As the vaccine just provides our body with the immunity to fight the virus, if contracted, and does not prevent us from getting infected, people should not lower their guards and keep following the government-issued guideline to keep the virus at bay.Dr VK BangaShortage will disrupt the vaccination driveAs the nation is witnessing second wave of the Covid pandemic, we are aiming to immunise over 60 per cent of the population that falls in age between 18-45 years. But, the present scenario of shortage of jabs may disrupt plans to vaccinate all adults from May 1 and prolong the health crisis. The state’s health department says that they are prepared and well equipped to vaccinate everyone above 18 years of age from May 1, but there was a shortage of shots which were to be provided by the Centre. In my opinion, the department should create a list of districts with high positivity rate and begin the drive in those districts on priority. The districts where positivity rate is more than 15 per cent should get it first, followed by those between five to 15 per cent. This would help ease the pressure on supplies. Otherwise, it would be an uphill task.Suneet KochharVaccination Drive going on full swingVaccination of all is a huge challenge for the government amid the present scenario when the state governments are flagging the shortage of supplies. Covid infections are rising at an alarming rate in the nation. However, it is heartening to note that after initial hiccups and rumours, the system is moving like a well-oiled machine. One may ask anyone among his contacts and many of them would have been partially of fully vaccinated. The problem with people who are fully vaccinated is that they lower their guard and consider them as protected from the virus which is not the case. The vaccine only boosts your immune system to fight the virus and not does prevent one from contracting virus. The importance of wearing mask and frequently washing hands with soap cannot be compromised.Mohan SinghUniform vaccination policy mustIn view of the record surge in number of cases in the nation daily, the Centre’s nod to administer vaccine to all above the age of 18 years is a welcome step. But to ensure effective implementation of the drive, the government should make sure that the states are provided with the required stocks unbiasedly, regardless of the ruling-party there. It will strengthen our fight against the virus. Amid the ongoing second wave, several non-BJP ruled states have been alleging the Centre of sending them lesser stocks. The Centre must chalk out a clean vaccination policy, under which the doses must be distributed to various states and UTs. Recently, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s sharp response to Maharashtra’s demand of more vaccine by the blaming the state for insufficient containment measures, was unhelpful. Various states, such as Punjab and Maharashtra, where the fatality and positivity rates are alarming, they should be provided with enough doses to get most of their residents inoculated. The government’s statement of administering vaccine to those who need it and not to those who want it was not persuasive amid the second wave when a large number of youths were contracting the virus and facing difficulties. Bureaucrats should be given the duty to ration the stocks to end the biased approach in distribution of the doses among the states on political grounds. Punjab being a non-BJP ruled state might have to find a way to acquire its stocks, by convincing the Centre about its urgent requirement and also dealing with the manufacturers directly.LJ SinghImport more jabs to meet demandTarsem S BumrahQUESTIONWith shortage of ICU beds in hospitals, Covid drugs and oxygen, how can the administration deal with the increasing coronavirus cases in the districtSuggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 6).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-vaccine-likely-to-throw-a-spanner-in-the-drive-247412
