04-05-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Believing curfew’s over, traders open their establishments||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3The extension in the lockdown and changes in guidelines coupled with a flood of confusing and contradictory messages on social media added to the confusion of shopkeepers and residents alike as many of them thronged to markets believing the weekend markets would function normally from Monday onwards.While many shopkeepers, who were unaware of the new guidelines, opened their shops, the police had to use force to shut these down. The extension in the lockdown came as a jolt for many, who believed that the state government would not impose lockdown on weekdays.A shopkeeper said: “The state government had earlier stated that it would not impose a lockdown. For the government, some shops might be in essential and non-essential category but for a person whose livelihood depends on it, opening it is very essential.” He said people have not yet recovered from the losses they had suffered during the previous lockdown.The police also took out flag march in different areas of the city asking shopkeepers to comply with the new orders.What the new orders say||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/believing-curfews-over-traders-open-their-establishments-247776
04-05-2021||---||13 deaths, 421 cases surface in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 3The district reported 13 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24-hours, with which the toll reached 998 on Monday. The health authorities have also reported 421 new cases, with which the count increased to 33,502.The new cases include 300 influenza-like illness cases and 121 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of 700 patients, with which the recovery count improved to 27,786. The district at present has a total of 4,718 active cases.Beds earmarked: How to look for itWhile the number of cases, including those in the level-II and level-III categories, is increasing with each passing day, the family members of patients are making frantic calls to enquire about the availability of beds. Some complained that there was shortage of beds and private hospitals were refusing admission even if the bed-availability status released by the district administration shows that beds were available.Those who succumbed to the virusResidents who lost their battle to Covid-19 include Jaswant Singh (52), a resident of Sandhu Nangal village; Mukhtar Singh (65) of Nawa Pind; Kanta (58) of Jandiala; Santosh (60) of Shareefpura; Tarun (38) of Katra Sahib Dayal; Sohan Lal (72) of Katra Karam Singh; Tarsem Lal (45) of Majitha; Manu (36) of Namak Mandi; Ajit Kumar (58) of Nathu Colony (Majitha Road); Manjla (36) of Guru Ramdas Avenue (Majitha Road); Jannat John (78) of Mahan Singh gate; Ajit Singh (61) of Sultanwind Road; and Manohar Lal (65) of Rani ka Bagh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-deaths-421-cases-surface-in-amritsar-district-247777
04-05-2021||---||...some try to hoodwink district administration||Amritsar, May 3With new restrictions imposed by the state government to break the chain and tackle the pandemic, the police today warned people not to venture out without genuine reasons.Cops appealed to residents ‘stay home and stay safe’ as the Covid-19 cases and death toll has jumped manifold.The police personnel remained on their toes to implement new guidelines under which only shops selling essential services, including chemists and grocery stores, were allowed to open.Many shopkeepers tried to open their establishments by adding essential items in their shops. They were warned by the police officials not to resort to such tactics to befool the administration.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said, “Several mobile showroom owners set up tables in their complexes and tried to argue that they were also in business of mobile repair. We sternly told the market association not to indulge in such tactics.”He said special nakas were already in place and the police officials were asked to remain on the roads and work in close association with their subordinates to ensure strict implementation of the new guidelines.Bhandal visited different nakas and bazaars and also met with shopkeepers. He said on Sunday, our officials met with chiefs of different market associations and informed them about the new restrictions issued by the state government and sought their cooperation.Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya said there were clear instructions to impose ‘mini lockdown’ and cops were asked to implement the same in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/some-try-to-hoodwink-district-administration-247778
04-05-2021||---||Face or oxygen mask? Choice is yours||Amritsar, May 3Officials at the Community Health Centre in Kalanaur (Gurdaspur) have come up with novel billboards depicting pictorial warnings to convince people to wear masks to check the spread of Covid-19.The pictorial warning asks people to choose between face mask or oxygen mask as not wearing a face mask would require them to wear an oxygen mask if they catch the infection.SMO Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal said: “We wanted people to realise the gravity of the situation. Wearing a face mask is the simplest way to avoid infection.” He said people should understand that even if they have strong immunity, they would become a cause for posing a life threat to someone, who does not have a strong immunity or has co-morbid conditions.Block Extension Educator Naveen Kalia said: “We will install more such hoardings with pictorial warnings. A picture is equal to a 1,000 words and the boards are hitting the targeted audience.”The CHC had earlier come up with a streetplay ‘Tike nal Jit’ (victory with vaccine) which was staged in different villages to encourage people to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/face-or-oxygen-mask-choice-is-yours-247779
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran district reports 5 deaths, 69 +ve cases||Tarn Taran, May 3Five persons infected with Covid-19 died in the district on Monday, taking the death toll to 225. The teams of the Health Department took 1,259 new samples of Covid-19 to be tested. As many as 69 persons tested positive, taking the active caseload to 919.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,104 persons were given jabs against Covid-19 on Monday and the total number of persons who have been vaccinated has reached 97,895 so far.He has appealed to people to abide by the Covid-19 precautions to keep the virus at bay.Tarn taran UpdateNew cases 69New deaths 5Total deaths 225Active 919||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-district-reports-5-deaths-69-ve-cases-247780
04-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||...curbs fail to go down well with a few||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3Even as the state government ruled out imposition of curfew on April 30, yet imposition of fresh guidelines reminded the traders of the last year’s complete shutdown and the losses faced by them.All kinds of business establishments, markets and general stores remained closed following imposition of the new norms. Police parties roamed around the city roads to enforce the closure and barricaded several roads.Barring those shops selling essential commodities, all other commercial establishments were closed. Police personnel issued challans to those vehicles which violated the Covid-19 norms.Piara Lal Seth, President of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said all work related activities were closed and people without work were allowed to move freely on roads. Unemployment is at its peak and thefts are rampantly taking place daily, pointing to the deplorable state of the society. “Factories have been allowed to operate and shops were stopped. How long factories can operate without trading.” Already, a large number of trains and buses were off roads. Export was closed last year after international flights were withdrawn and the situation continues to remain so.He alleged that the Covid-19 norms such as social distancing, wearing of masks and carrying sanitisers were not being complied with at the vegetable and fruit market at Vallah.All those businesses associated with IT sector hardware, software, all hospitals and medical labs, those selling poultry products were allowed to open. These establishments have been earning handsomely since the imposition of the lockdown last year, he added.He accused the government of introducing new norms to hide its weaknesses as it failed to provide enough vaccines, oxygen and other medical equipments necessary to combat Covid-19.Anil Kapoor, President of Amritsar Distributors Association, said, the new norms, which were no less than a lockdown, would cause great losses. The Capt Amarinder Singh government earned its highest ever revenue collection last April since the introduction of the GST. “It is bound to come down this month”. As a direct fallout of the lockdown, most of the traders were not clearing their pending dues of the last month. As per the rules of the FMCG business dues are cleared every month.A local resident Manjot Singh said he ordered new furniture for his home which was to be delivered on Friday as he had paid nearly 75 percent in advance. However, the new norms shattered entire plans of his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curbs-fail-to-go-down-well-with-a-few-247781
04-05-2021||---||Prisoners attack fellow inmate at Central Jail||Amritsar, May 3An inmate at the Central Jail identified as Sukhwant Singh, alias Sukha, was injured when three fellow prisoners attacked him inside a barrack over an old enmity on Sunday.The jail staff have recovered a sharp weapon and an iron rod from the accused.Bahadur Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said prisoners identified as Karanbir Singh, alias Baba; Arshpreet Singh and Satnam Singh attacked Sukhwant Singh in the jail leaving him seriously injured. He sustained serious head injury and therefore was rushed to the jail hospital for treatment. The jail medical officer on seeing his injury referred him to the Civil Hospital, where the victim is under treatment. He said during search, the jail staff found an iron piece and sharp-edged weapon from the accused.Following the complaint, the Islamabad police have registered a case under Section 52 of the Prisons Act and Section 34 of the IPC against the three inmates.Jail inmate ends his lifeMeanwhile, an inmate identified as Gurpreet Singh allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the bathroom. He was recently shifted to Amritsar Central Jail from Patti sub-jail. He was lodged in the jail in January this year on murder bid charge. According to the police, he was not keeping well. The police have started inquest proceedings in the case, while further investigations were under progress to ascertain the cause of death. “The body was handed over to the family members of the deceased and its report is awaited for further action,” the police said. The family members, however, have raised questions over his death and accused that he was killed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoners-attack-fellow-inmate-at-central-jail-247782
04-05-2021||---||NCC as core subject: Decision hailed||Amritsar, May 3The decision to include NCC as a General Elective Credit Course in Universities by UGC has been welcomed by the NCC units across the state. Brigadier Rohit Kumar, NCC Group Commander, Amritsar, has hailed the move and said that concerted efforts will be made for its implementation.According to UGC’s directions, NCC will now be a part of the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) as envisioned in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. All students who enroll for NCC, including those under Border/ Coastal expansion scheme, will benefit immensely by obtaining academic credits for NCC training, in addition to acquiring NCC ‘B’/ ‘C’ certificates, thus enhancing their employment opportunities.The UGC has issued an advisory to the Vice-Chancellors of all universities to include NCC training as General Elective Credit Course. The proposal, which is planned for implementation from the forthcoming academic session, will have far reaching ramifications and aligns with the NEP 2020, wherein students can select their choice of subjects rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions.The NCC syllabus for B and C Certificates are designed as per the CBCS of NEP 2020, which grants twenty-four credit points covering six semesters, out of which a student can accrue four credits in the first two semesters and ten credits in the third and fourth semester, and similarly ten credits in the fifth and sixth semester.Brigadier Rohit Kumar said that NCC as a Credit Course is designed with an intent to transform training into a curricular activity from an extra-curricular thereby providing academic credits to students undergoing NCC training along with other attended advantages to the cadets in the college/ university.24 credit points granted to ncc trainingThe UGC has issued an advisory to the VCs of all universities to include NCC training as General Elective Credit Course. The proposal will have far reaching ramifications and aligns with the NEP 2020, wherein students can select their choice of subjects rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions. The NCC syllabus for B and C certificates are designed as per the CBCS of NEP 2020, which grants 24 credit points covering six semesters, of which a student can accrue four credits in the first two semesters and 10 in the third and fourth semester, and similarly 10 credits in the fifth and sixth semester.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ncc-as-core-subject-decision-hailed-247783
04-05-2021||---||Have to harvest resilience each season, says this young farmer||Amritsar, May 3Having finished the harvesting of wheat crop recently, the next few weeks until the transplantation of paddy starts next month are very crucial for a farmer as much depend on things beyond their control.A young farmer Jaspreet Singh said farmers these days were busy making hay from wheat stubble. “The hay made during these days would be used for animals till next year. The process has become easier due to availability of machines but it is still a tough task,” he said.Jaspreet says he wakes up early in the morning and tends to buffaloes and cows. He said he is also preparing fields for planting nursery of paddy. “The paddy transplantation usually is allowed after June 10 but last year due to shortage of labour, the government had given relaxation,” he said.Jaspreet said with not much time left till transplanting, he just has two days to plant the nursery. “If the nursery is late, the transplantation would be late which would directly impact the yield,” he added.However his biggest worry is shortage of labour. “We are still uncertain if we would be helped by the labour from UP and Bihar. With pandemic going on, the chances are very dim.” He said last year too, he had to spend a hefty amount for paddy transplantation.“Some of us are in touch with labour contractors in Bihar. We are planning to send a bus or truck to bring labour. But it is tough to seek permission from the government,” he said. In the meantime, he is mostly busy tilling his fields so that they are ready when it is time for paddy transplantation. “A field needs to tilled at least thrice before it is ready for puddling,” he said adding that paddy cultivation is lot more tougher than wheat as it is more labour intensive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/have-to-harvest-resilience-each-season-says-this-young-farmer-247785
04-05-2021||---||Now, no transfer certificate required to shift school||Amritsar, May 3In a decision last year, in its move to facilitate students seeking a shift to government school from private school, the Education Department had removed the restriction of transfer certificate, which was earlier required at the time of admission.Now, expanding the decision, in a recent move, to private schools and easing out procedure of shifting schools for parents and students, the Education Department has lifted the requirement for a school leaving certificate for all government and private, non-aided schools.DEO Satinderbir Singh, said that the decision has been taken to save parents and students from harassment at the hands of schools under the guise of issuing school leaving certificate.“Over a year, we have had many parents coming to us with complaints regarding schools asking for exorbitant fees in lieu of releasing school leaving certificate. To tackle the issue of harassment and ease out admission procedure for parents seeking shift for their wards to other school due to any reason, the Education Department has permanently waived off the condition of transfer certificate,” informed Satinderbir Singh. The rule is applicable for students seeking admission for all classes including primary to higher secondary.Instead of the transfer certificate, now only a self-attested declaration will be obtained from parents detailing the previous academic information of their ward.Incidentally, post-pandemic, a lot of parents have been shifting their wards from private schools to government schools due to the economic hit and private schools’ demand for fee regardless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-no-transfer-certificate-required-to-shift-school-247786
04-05-2021||Amritsar||Murder attempt: Two arrested||The police have arrested two persons, including an alleged gangster Amarjit Singh, alias Sona, of Kotla Majha village in connection with an attempt to murder case registered in August last year.His accomplice Ajaypal Singh, alias Ghuggi, of Hamja village was also held. A country made weapon was seized from them. The police said they had allegedly shot at Sukhbir Singh of Tarpai at Jijeani village on August 5 last year. He had gone at his friend Amritpal Singh’s meat shop, where he had a quarrel with the accused over money for meat. Sona along with his accomplices including Ajaypal shot at Sukhbir at his residence in Taipai village. He narrowly escaped in the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-attempt-two-arrested-247787
04-05-2021||Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal said vaccination and early isolation after feeling mild symptoms was the key to tackling the virus and stopping it from spreading among family members and colleagues. He shares his experience...||‘Vax, early isolation key to tackling virus’||“I felt mild cold on April 22 and immediately isolated myself from family and staff. The next day when I got up, I lost my sense of smell and decided to get myself tested. The report came out positive the same day. I got a lot of queries that how come one can test positive after being administered the vaccine?“I clarified that it's not necessary that one cannot get infected after being inoculated.“As I contracted the virus, there was mild cold and cough, besides bodyache. I started medication, including multi-vitamin and zinc, which I got under the 'Fateh kit' provided by the state government to every patient. I also took steam and did gargles.“I remained quarantined at home and regularly checked my oxygen level. On the third day, I recovered considerably. My taste senses came back on day four. I kept following the protocol.“Being a public servant, I have a lot of public dealing. After contracting the virus, I asked my family and staff to get tested and fortunately they tested negative.“Due to the vaccination, viral load was less. Therefore, no contacts of mine got infected,” he said.He also appealed to residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in order to fight the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-early-isolation-key-to-tackling-virus-247788
04-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Motorcyclist dies in accident||Man shot at, four bookedTarn Taran: Jagjit Singh, a resident of Assal Uttar village, was crticially injured when four persons of Machhike village fired at him on Saturday. The injured was admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar where his condition was stated to be critical. The Valtoha police said the accused had been identified as Pritam Singh, his two sons Satnam Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Prabhjit Singh, who wanted to grab land of Jagjit. The police said when Jagjit resisted them, the accused fired at him and one bullet hit his stomach and another his hand. OCMan threatens suicide, bookedTarn Taran: A Khalra village resident was booked for threatening to end his life at the house of the girl he liked who was about to get married to someone else. ASI Sahib Singh of the Khalra police said Nirmal Singh liked a girl of the same village, but her parents had arranged her marriage somewhere else. The accused went to her residence and threatened to kill himself with a sharp weapon or consume some poisonous substance. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the police after which the accused was booked under Sections 309 and 506 of the IPC. He is still at large, the police said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motorcyclist-dies-in-accident-247789
