05-05-2021||Amritsar||Man booked for culpable homicide||SGPC hires 24 firms for auditAmritsar: To bring transparency in affairs of its gurdwaras and educational institutions, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has hired services of 24 chartered accountancy (CA) firms. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said these firms have been assigned the task of auditing financial transactions for the year 2021-2022. She said the SGPC would pay around Rs 49 lakh to these firms. "Every firm has been directed to submit its report by 10th of each month. In addition to their audit services, these companies would also train staffers in accountancy detailing," she said. TNSBurglars strike at govt schoolAmritsar: Burglars struck at Government Middle School in Kaler Mangat village on the intervening night of May 2-3, and decamped with inverter and battery by breaking open the window of the school, said Manjinder Singh, headmaster of the school, in a complaint to Majitha police. This was the second incident of theft in two months. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-culpable-homicide-248411
05-05-2021||---||16 more succumb to virus, toll tops 1,000 in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 4The district reported 16 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, with which the toll reached 1,014 on Tuesday. The health authorities have also reported 674 new cases, with which the count increased to 34,176.The new cases include 511 influenza-like illness cases and 163 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of 370 patients, with which the recovery count improved to 28,156. The district at present has a total of 5,006 active cases.Four die, 71 test positive in Tarn TaranThe death toll reached 229 in the district after four more persons succumbed to the virus on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 71 new positive cases were also reported with which the active caseload reached 852.Of these active cases, 524 persons were isolated at their respective homes. In the district, 99,161 persons have been given the vaccination against the pandemic.Those who lost their livesResidents who lost their battle to Covid-19 include Ashok Kumar, 69, a resident of Sundar Nagar; Kusum Mishra, 56, of Ramdass Nagar on Sultanwind Road; Balwinder Kaur, 40, of Parariwal; Surjit Singh, 45, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar; Nirmal Khanna, 65, of Anand Avenue; Atul Kapoor, 43, of Green Avenue; Kuldeep Singh, 58, of Gurmaan Nagar on Sultanwind Road; Tripta Bhalla, 75, of Rishi Vihar on Majitha Road; Patwinder Singh, 56, of Jaspal Nagar on Sultanwind Road; Hajoor Singh, 62, on Majitha Rad; Radha Sharma, 42, Aman Avenue; Baljit Kaur, 42, on Majitha Road, Darshan Singh, 55, on Majitha Road; Ischa Devi, 66, of Guru Nanak Pura; Amrit Singh, 56, Aman Avenue Khandwala and Madhu, 61, of Basant Nagar on Majitha Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-more-succumb-to-virus-toll-tops-1-000-in-amritsar-248399
05-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga
||Covid-19 guidelines go for a toss outside banks||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 4 People scrambling for space outside bank branches sent the lockdown advisory of social distancing for a toss on Tuesday. They blamed this on reduction in working hours for the public.  Those visiting the banks had to not only stand in long queues, but also go through several checkpoints on their way due to the curfew. Avneet Kaur, who has a savings account with a nationalised bank outside Guru Nanak Dev University, said: “The norm of social distancing was tough to follow as officials of the bank branch were not allowing customers inside. Without deploying any staff members outside, they expect account holders to make a queue and comply with all norms. It is expecting too much, isn’t it?” she asked.  While some banks made sure that customers maintain social distance while standing in queues, others ignored it totally. Though two cops were deployed outside all banks, they proved helpless in managing the huge rush of customers.  Inderpreet Singh, a senior citizen, standing outside the branch of another bank on GT Road, said there was one queue for all. An employee of a bank comes at the entrance and inquires for the kind of work from a customer standing in front. Then, he goes inside with the documents and after some time returns and hands over the documents to the person concerned. This process is repeated every time. This exercise consumes a lot of time.  Another customer Abhit said the duration for public dealing from 10 am to 2 pm is insufficient. He said he approached the bank for accessing the locker between 2 pm and 4 pm, which was denied. Over a fortnight ago, he had approached the branch during the same time and it was found convenient as a few people were available in the main branch inside the Hall Gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-guidelines-go-for-a-toss-outside-banks-248400
05-05-2021||---||Tarn Taran dist to get 500 PSA Oxygen plant soon||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-dist-to-get-500-psa-oxygen-plant-soon-248401
05-05-2021||---||Surge in cases boosts Sale of masks, sanitisers||Amritsar: The sale of masks and sanitisers is once again in full swing following the surge in positive cases during the second wave of the Covid-19. Surinder Duggal, a wholesale chemist, said the demand of face coverings and sanitisers increased manifold in comparison to last month. Their demand had been slackening for the past some months. It gained momentum after the resurgence in positive cases in the middle of the last month when more positive cases were daily being detected in the district, he observed.  Prof Mohan Singh said: “It is important to have cotton masks. It must remain dipped in detergent for a few minutes. It must be dried in the sun. One must avoid mixing of masks at home. While removing it for the night, its infected surface (outer one) should be turned inside out.” Gunbir Singh, a vigilant citizen, said, the importance of frequent hand-washing and the need to keep a pocket bottle of sanitiser should not be ignored at any cost. Naresh Goel, a sanitiser manufacturer, said, two kinds of liquid hand sanitisers — ethanol and isopropyl alcohol (IPA) — were available. He suggested that citizens must prefer IPA-made sanitiser as it was suitable on almost all kinds of skins. “There are nearly a dozen licenced sanitiser-preparing units in the city. However, unapproved units cannot be ruled out.” He said one should not compromise with the quality of sanitiser at any cost. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surge-in-cases-boosts-sale-of-masks-sanitisers-248402
05-05-2021||---||IMA urges DC to cap prices of Oxygen cylinders||Amritsar: IMA Amritsar presented a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner to cap the rates of oxygen cylinders. A delegation led by president, IMA, Amritsar, Dr Amandeep and secretary Dr JS Grover said keeping in mind the shortage of oxygen being reported from elsewhere and even the city, the request has been put forth.  “Although the administration is doing a good job in ensuring smooth supply, the hike in rates by vendors has irked private hospitals dealing with Covid patients. We also urged the administration to scrap GST on oxygen in this pandemic,” said Dr Amandeep. He said rise in price means more expenses in dealing with Covid patients. “Since there is capping on charges by government, capping should also be done on cylinder prices,” he said.  The DC assured the delegation of prompt action and capping. He also ensured uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals in city.  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-urges-dc-to-cap-prices-of-oxygen-cylinders-248403
05-05-2021||---||NHM staff go on strike||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-staff-go-on-strike-248404
05-05-2021||Neha Saini||Theatre artistes seek financial relief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 4Gagandeep Singh, a 30-year-old theatre actor, has appeared in many Punjab Natshala’s acclaimed plays such as Saka Jallianwala Bagh and Daughter of The Bin. He has travelled to several celebrated theatre festivals across the country performing folk theatre and working under noted theatre directors. As an artist, he believes in overcoming every challenge, but the last one-and-a-half year has been nothing but a waiting game for him. With no live events happening, he has been forced to take up a private job to earn his living.A lot of other theatre artists from Amritsar, the hub of art and theatre in Punjab, suffer the same. With theatre as their only source of income now suspended, most have either switched to private jobs or other creative outlets.“As a working theatre actor, there was no dearth of work before the pandemic hit. We used to perform every week, sometimes travel for months with our group to theatre festivals. I used to work behind the stage as well. The kind of recognition and money theatre brought was encouraging. But suddenly, everything was put on hold and now, even if live performances revive, it will take a long time before we get that kind of money or audience,” shares Gagan. Currently working in a marketing job, he waits to get under the spotlight again.Ravinder Sharma, another theatre artiste who is working as a language coach for an IELTS company online, too, shares a similar story. “Theatre artistes were never out of work. There was so much happening in terms of work, experimentation and recognition. They were getting work in TV, OTT platform and even films before the lockdown impacted the entire industry and everything came to a grinding halt. Luckily, those who had enough reserves could get through, but folk artistes and behind the scenes crew have to take up other jobs for survival,” he says.The biggest tragedy of it all remains that despite suffering from financial and talent loss, no relief has come in the way of theatre fraternity. “It’s a tragedy that devoted theatre artistes, who have given 20-30 years to stage and had no other source of income, were put out of work due to the lockdown. And we cannot even help them sail through this difficult time. Not just livlihood, but theatre artistes have also suffered through mental blocks due to this pandemic,” said Manchpreet, a noted theatre director and playwright.Sajan Kapoor, another theatre actor, is among the few lucky ones to have found an alternative platform to work. “A lot of theatre actors found work in upcoming Punjabi OTT platforms working in web series or web content that has lately been in demand. But with productions and release of few projects on hold, there is just hope that things will improve soon,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theatre-artistes-seek-financial-relief-248405
05-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Using waste bottles as planters is her hobby||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 4The lockdown period last year kindled an interest within Harjinder Kaur who used every waste plastic bottle in her household as a planter.She used that lockdown period to hone her skills in gardening by watching different gardening channels on YouTube. “My husband says I have green fingers and I can grow anything,” she quipped.Though I wanted to do gardening since my childhood days, I could not spare much time due to household chores. Earlier, I did not have pots and started growing small plants in pots made from waste plastic bottles. When I succeeded in doing so, my husband Kulwinder Singh bought around 50 pots and soil for me so that I could take on gardening as a hobby. Now I have a good collection of plants. Besides, I also grow vegetables on our terrace.She believed that every person should do gardening even if they had small spaces in their houses. “We should grow maximum trees in view of losing the green cover to the fast growing concrete jungle around us,” she pointed out.“I bought some fruit and vegetable crates for growing vegetables,” she said, adding that she grew cauliflower, tomato, parsley, potato and capsicum. She also has dracaena, spider plant, croton, coleus, marigold, syngonium, baby sun rose, etc.I love all kind of plants. I even grew many plants by rooting stem cuttings. I never hesitated in cutting shoots of plants on road dividers and roadsides during my morning walk and fortunately 90 per cent of them grew.“I used only organic fertilisers for my plants. I would dry the green kitchen waste and then mix it in soil for making a potting mix,” she said. She also made liquid fertilisers from fruit peels which gave a boost to flowering in the plants.She gave her husband Kulwinder Singh, who runs a tent house, credit for her gardening skills. He, along with children, encouraged me to do gardening, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/using-waste-bottles-as-planters-is-her-hobby-248406
05-05-2021||---||Rs100-cr grant for GNDU research, entrepreneurship||Amritsar, May 4Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday made a series of announcements and launched several education development programmes. In the same direction, GNDU has been granted Rs100 crore for research, innovation, quality improvement and entrepreneurship purposes under the second phase of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan, which is a Centrally-sponsored scheme with 60 per cent GOI’s share and 40 per cent state share. Of this, GNDU has been provided Rs41.67 crore till date. Under this scheme, Rs3.5 crore has also been released to GNDU out of the total sanctioned amount of Rs7 crore for undertaking faculty development programmes and preparation of content for e-tutorials. GNDU has been organising several national-level faculty development webinars and programmes throughout the lockdown period, in line with goals of the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan.The CM has also constituted a committee of vice chancellors to work out examination reforms and review curriculums, to scale up the quality of higher education in the state in line with the advances taking place across the world. The committee, under the chairmanship of Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, GNDU Vice-Chancellor, will also look into introduction of new courses and digital education and will submit its report within 60 days. VC HEADS panelThe CM has constituted a committee of vice-chancellors to work out examination reforms and review curriculums, to scale up the quality of higher education in the state. The committee, under the chairmanship of Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, GNDU Vice-Chancellor, will also look into the introduction of new courses and digital education and submit its report within 60 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs100-cr-grant-for-gndu-research-entrepreneurship-248407
05-05-2021||---||Education Dept announces a series of competitions for school children||Amritsar, May 4The state government has been organising a series of events throughout the year to mark the 400th birth centenary of Guru Teg Bahadur. Under the supervision of Jagtar Singh, Director, State Council of Education Research and Training, four educational competitions will be conducted at various schools across the state.The competitions will be conducted online under two categories i.e. for students of Class VI to VIII and Class IX to XII. Giving details, District Education Officer (Sec) Satinderbir Singh and District Education Officer (elementary) Sushil Kumar Tuli jointly said the competitions would be held at block, district and state level.Explaining the outline of these competitions, District Nodal Officer Adarsh Sharma said in the first round, school-level essay writing competition will be held till May 31, while poetry recitation competition will be held from June 1 to 30, slogan writing competition from July 1 to 31 and speech competitions will be held from August 1 to 31.As part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, the Education Department would organise 11 competitions for students of Class I to XII from school to state level. The first round of school-level speech competitions on the freedom struggle would be held till May 10 while on block level it will be held from May 11 to 20 and on tehsil level from May 21 to 31. District-level educational competitions will be held from August 2 to 5 and state-level educational competitions will be held from August 12 to 15. From May to August||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-dept-announces-a-series-of-competitions-for-school-children-248408
05-05-2021||Amritsar||1 held, eight booked for murder bid||The police have arrested Chand Arora, a resident of Hussainpura area, and booked around eight persons on the charge of attempt to murder in connection with a firing incident near Sangam Cinema hall near Inter State Bus Terminus here on Monday evening. Those booked included Balram of Majitha Road, Ashok Kumar, alias Pappu, Sodhi of Green Avenue, Saurav Haryanvi and three unidentified persons. The complainant, Kamaldeep Singh, said he, along with his two sons had set up a counter, Simran Tour and Travel, and would do bookings of private buses near Sangam Cinema hall. He said the accused, Chand Arora and Balram, came there and demanded Rs 5,000 cash for setting up the counter. He said they refused their illegitimate demand. He said on Tuesday, the accused along with their accomplices came to his counter and entered into an argument. He said the culprits assaulted his son and also opened fire on them. He said when they were later nabbed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-eight-booked-for-murder-bid-248409
05-05-2021||---||Street vendors protest Covid-19 restrictions||Amritsar, May 4Auto-rickshaw drivers and vendors staged a protest against the Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the state government on Tuesday.The demonstrators, led by Mahesh Verma, president, Street Vendors’ Union, said, “The government is not worried about the poor situation of vendors. The fruit and vegetable sellers buy fruit from market but are not able to sell it due to lockdown restrictions. The government should relax the norms for perishable commodities. Moreover, the restriction of two passengers on auto- rickshaw is impractical. The diesel-run auto-rickshaws can’t be viable without five passengers.”The vendors collected donation for Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and sent it to him in protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/street-vendors-protest-covid-19-restrictions-248410
