06-05-2021||---||Dept fails to provide basic maintenance to Metro buses||Amritsar, May 5 The Department of Local Government, which took over the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) last year, seems to have failed in providing basic maintenance to buses and Metro stations. The digital displays of Metro buses being run under the BRTS project are lying defunct and staff of Metro Bus Service have pasted “print-out papers” on buses,  mentioning the routes. The staff claim that they have informed the office about the defunct digital display screens. There are separate firms for maintenance of digital media, buses and infrastructure on station, which reportedly causes delay in maintenance.        The service is being operated by hiring several private firms which take care of maintenance, security and operation. The delay in the communication and lack of coordination between various firms leads to the delay in the maintenance of buses, corridor and stations. A large number of grills and traffic signs are missing from the corridor. Anil Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, said: “We have written to the company concerned hired for maintenance. We will also write to the local bodies for the same. The issue would be addressed soon.” It is worth mentioning here that the BRTS was a dream project of former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, which faced numerous challenges since its inauguration on December 16, 2016. Despite tall claims, the Congress government failed to make the project financially viable. The state government spends around Rs3 crore every month on the salaries of employees, fuel and other operating costs. And the revenue generated from the project is not enough to pay salary to staff or maintenance. The number of passengers has not increased during the last one year. Around 25,000 persons would travel daily on Metro buses before the government imposed a partial lockdown. Now the number has further dipped. This ridership is not sufficient to make the project self-sustainable. Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), a wing of the Local Government Department, had officially taken over the project from the PIDB on October 1 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dept-fails-to-provide-basic-maintenance-to-metro-buses-248849
06-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Revenue staff strikes work||The functioning at offices of the Deputy Commissioner, SDMs and other offices related to the Revenue Department in the district came to a standstill due to the agitation of employees of these departments. Sarabjit Singh, district president of the organisation, said, here today that it had been demanding the cancellation of the criminal cases registered against them and withdrawal of the chargesheets issued to them. They also demanded security and vehicle to be provided to them to perform their duties properly. He said they had been doing their departmental work regarding the attestation of the registration work, issuing of domicile certificates etc but all these works except those related to Covid-19 had been stopped from today. The ministerial staff of the office of the DC, SDMs of Tarn Taran, Patti, Khadoor Sahib and Bhikhiwind, besides employees of tehsils, sub-tehsils observed pendown strike today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revenue-staff-strikes-work-248850
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent 
||22,500-lt illicit liquor, 760-kg lahan seized||Tarn Taran, May 5  A joint team of the district police and the excise department on Wednesday raided two border-area villages. Under the operation, two working stills were seized and 760-kg lahan and 22,500-lt illicit liquor was recovered.  Excise Officer (EO) Navjot Bharti said DSP Iqbal Singh, Excise Inspector Amrik Singh and Jatinder Singh headed the teams comprising of 32 employees from both the departments. Two accused were arrested and two of their associates were absconding.  Bharti said the teams conducted raids in Mahneke and Varnala village. Besides one working still, 18,750 ml of illicit liquor and 530 kg of lahan was recovered from the house of Amarjit Singh and his brother Gurlal Singh of Mahneke village. Amarjit Singh was arrested while his brother fled the spot.  The EO added in Varnala village, the teams recovered one working still, 3,750 ml of illicit liquor and 230 kg of lahan. Among the accused, Gurcharan Singh was arrested while Major Singh was absconding.The accused had been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act by the Bhikhiwind police. The seized lahan was destroyed on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-500-lt-illicit-liquor-760-kg-lahan-seized-248851
06-05-2021||Amritsar||KMSC jatha leaves for Delhi||Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) left for Delhi to join the agitation against the three farm laws.It was the 12th jatha of the KMSC. The farmers said they were not scared of the Covid in the face of the threat to their livelihood. Most of them left for Delhi in their tractor-trailers.Sarwan Singh Pandher said that nearly 10,000 farmers, including women, were heading to the borders of Delhi to continue the agitation. The adamant attitude of the government is causing physical suffering to thousands of agitating farmers camping on the outskirts of Delhi for the past nearly six months, he said.He said people were collecting money and other resources in villages to consolidate the protest. Defeat of the Narendra Modi government in West Bengal elections was a moral victory of the farmers.Another farmer leader Gurbachan Singh Chabba said the three laws would dismantle the minimum support price system. Big corporate houses will dictate terms and farmers will end up getting less for their crops, he said.The farmers are demanding legal guarantee for the minimum support price and revocation of all three new farm laws.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-jatha-leaves-for-delhi-248852
06-05-2021||---||Agri technocrats wear black badges in protest||Amritsar, May 5  On the call of the Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee, agricultural technocrats staged a protest by wearing black badges here today.  Led by committee General Secretary Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, they announced to wear black badges at work till their demands are met. An announcement of a complete pen- down strike on May 20 and 21 was also made. “In the absence of regular departmental promotions for long, there is a wave of resentment among agriculture officers as there are a large number of vacancies at various levels in the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department. These vacant posts in the department are affecting agricultural extension services to the farmers,” said Sandhu. At present, only two out of nine officers are working in the Joint Director cadre and only 19 out of 53 are working in the Deputy Director cadre. Out of 934 posts of Agriculture Development Officers and 233 posts of Block Agriculture Officers, more than half of the posts are vacant. “As many as 141 Agriculture Development Officers (ADOs), who were selected after rigorous examination, are awaiting their appointment letters even after completion of their recruitment process. We demand immediate appointment of these officers and they should be paid according to the salary scale mentioned in the advertisement,” added Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-technocrats-wear-black-badges-in-protest-248853
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Year on, in-laws booked for 28-year-old woman’s death||Tarn Taran, May 5  Five of a family were booked by the Bhikhiwind police on Monday for the death of a newly married woman, who died under mysterious circumstances about nine months ago at her in-law’s house. The police said deceased Nainsi Rani, who was 28-year-old then, got married to Suresh Chopra on June 15, 2020, but died on July 24, 2020, under mysterious circumstances. The police on the statement of the deceased’s brother had lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC calling it a natural death. Prem Pal, mother of the deceased, in a fresh complaint to the police alleged that her daughter was killed by her in-laws as they had been harassing her for dowry and had been demanding a car. She alleged that the accused killed her daughter either by injecting something or some other way.  Besides, Suresh Chopra, husband of the deceased, his brother Pawan Kumar, father Yograj Chopra, mother Veena Rani and another relative Neeraj Malhotra of the same township Bhikhiwind were nominated as the accused. The accused have been booked under Sections 304-B and 120 of the IPC.  Investigating Officer ASI Jassa Singh said none of the accused have been arrested so far. Prem Pal has also submitted a writ in the Punjab and Haryana High Court to register a case against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/year-on-in-laws-booked-for-28-year-old-womans-death-248854
06-05-2021||Increasing number of of crime incidents by women in the district is a worrying trend. Recently||Women criminals on rise||…Covid hero: Kid donates piggy bankA two-year-old boy Mahanveer, son of Dr Brahamdeep Singh of Tarn Taran, donated his piggy bank for the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund). He handed over his contribution to SSP Dhruman H Nimbale at his office. The officer while accepting the donation said everyone should come forward and do their bit to help the needy come over the crisis caused by the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh appreciated the child’s move to donate for a cause. The DC said it was the time that people should unite and help each other in defeating the pandemic. He also called people to follow the government-issued guidelines to curb the raging virus. Dr Brahamdeep told the officials that as the impact of the virus is being discussed in every household these days, one day Mahanveer got disturbed and decided to donate his savings for the cause to be of help to others in need.…Residents go green with ‘Hariawal Lehar’Some volunteers from the town had initiated a drive named ‘Hariawal Lehar’ around three years back, which is now joined by a number of locals and NRIs. The drive was initiated with an aim to make the town eco-friendly and pollution-free. The drive which started with about 25 members, plants saplings on the roadsides and at various sites in the town. So far, more than 10,000 saplings had been planted in Tarn Taran and were also being watered. Most of the saplings had also been covered with tree guards. Initially, the members used to spend money on their own but now a large number of people have come forward for the cause and support it financially too. Under the drive, a fogging machine was also purchased for localities, particularly slums, to prevent spread of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria. Tejinderpal Singh and Bhupinder Singh, from the drive, said besides the bank of a drain Rohi in Tarn Taran, several other points had been selected to make these localities green and clean.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-criminals-on-rise-248858
06-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Property worth Rs1.64 cr freezed||int’l Immunology day observedAmritsar: Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS) today held a webinar on "Role of Immunology" as experts from across the nation deliberated upon the subject, highlighting the significance of immunology while fighting the pandemic. The webinar was dedicated to International Day of Immunology. KVAS Principal Dr PK Kapoor said Covid-19 had brought immunology into focus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-worth-rs1-64-cr-freezed-248861
06-05-2021||---||Highest spike of 932 cases recorded in Amritsar district; 18 die||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5In the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, the district reported 932 cases, with which the total count increased to 35,108. The health authorities have also reported 18 deaths with which the toll increased to 1,032 on Wednesday.The health officials attributed the increase in number of cases to extensive testing being done at various places. The officials said health employees in a joint effort with the local police are testing those who are found without a mask.In such a drive, over 300 shopkeepers and their workers were tested at Nehru shopping complex. The shopping complex on Lawrence Road has a large number of mobile repair shops that have been exempted during the lockdown.The new cases reported by the district Health Department include 615 influenza-like illness cases and 317 contacts of positive patients. The department has also reported the recovery of 550 patients with which the recovery count increased to 28,706. The district at present has a total of 5,370 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/highest-spike-of-932-cases-recorded-in-amritsar-district-18-die-248863
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||One dies, 101 positive in Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran, May 5A Covid-19 infected patient died in the district on Wednesday, taking the toll to 230. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said with the arrival of 101 more positive cases in the district, the tally of active cases had increased to 849. The 467 infected patients have been isolated in their respective homes.The Deputy Commissioner said 1,00,869 persons have been vaccinated against the pandemic.He advised people to abide by the protocols to keep Covid-19 at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-101-positive-in-tarn-taran-district-248864
06-05-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Shortage of vaccine a cause for concern||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5A complete chaos was witnessed at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital, which is the Covid-19 vaccination centre, as people exhibited complete disregard for the safety protocol and jostled with each other for their turn.The shortage of vaccines in the district coupled with a spurt in the cases and deaths has panicked residents. As a result, the number of people turning up at vaccination centres has swelled. Contrary to the high demand for vaccines, the supply has shrunk.The daily vaccination count which had reached around 9,500 doses daily has now gone down below 3,000 doses due to the shortage. The state government had also expressed its inability to start vaccination for 18 to 44 year age group due to shortage of vaccines.“People are panicking after the recent increase in cases and deaths. Now, everyone wants the injection immediately. On the other hand, the supply is slow at all places,” said a doctor at the hospital.An elderly, who arrived at the hospital for his second dose, said: “I came yesterday, too, but the supply had finished by the time my turn came. Today, I have come early.” He complained that many among those who have come for the vaccination were not even wearing masks. “What will vaccination do if we are not even ready to take precautions?” he asked.Insiders say the stock at the hospital finished yesterday even as many people were waiting in queue. The hospital resumed vaccination after getting the fresh supply in the morning. “The present supply is enough only for two-and-a-half days. The situation has created an atmosphere of uncertainty,” he said.The shortage of injections is also hitting those visiting private hospitals for the jab. The Health Department officials said the district gets its quota from the state government. They said the supply is limited as the state government is not getting enough vaccines from the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-vaccine-a-cause-for-concern-248865
06-05-2021||Amritsar||40 shopkeepers booked for violation in Ajnala||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-shopkeepers-booked-for-violation-in-ajnala-248866
06-05-2021||Amritsar||Remdesivir demand: AVM wants Hardeep Puri to intervene||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remdesivir-demand-avm-wants-hardeep-puri-to-intervene-248867
06-05-2021||Amritsar||Demand to deploy AYUSH professionals for Covid-19 gathers pace||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/demand-to-deploy-ayush-professionals-for-covid-19-gathers-pace-248868
06-05-2021||---||Reaching out to those in need||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5Coming to the rescue of women and children in distress owing to the pandemic, the Covid control room set up by the District Red Cross Society has been reaching out to people by providing medical and food relief services as district reported a record 932 more cases on Wednesday. The Covid control room of the District Red Cross society is catering to the distress calls of women, children and the elderly, in need of urgent relief.Alka Kalia, in-charge, District Red Cross Society, says apart from general distress calls, they have now been receiving calls for ambulance service, medical relief from needy families.She said a number of calls are also being received for oxygen availability. Sakhi-One Stop Centre by Ministry of Women and Child Development and Department of Social Security, too has been providing relief to pregnant women, who are one of the most vulnerable lot during the pandemic. Preeti Sharma, centre administrator, said a lot of distress calls are coming from pregnant women, seeking medical counselling and medicines. “We have been getting calls from cancer patients, expectant mothers, who seek medicines and mental counselling. We have also formed an umbrella group in collaboration with various active NGO’s in city to reach out to expectant mothers, who either have Covid-19 and are exercising home isolation and treatment or have covid 19 members on family and seek assistance and guidance.”The National Commission for Women has launched a helpline for round-the-clock medical assistance to pregnant women. Sakhi is running the helpline’s relief services in district. Preeti says that they are also offering legal and medical help to pregnant women who are victims of physical or mental violence and abuse during this time.Helpline numbers for District Red Cross Society's Covid control services: 0183-2500-398; 498; 598; 698;798) Helpline number of the National Commission for Women for pregnant women : +919354954224)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reaching-out-to-those-in-need-248869
06-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Curbing infection with gadgets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5Impacted by Covid-19, Anil Kapoor, a leading distributor of FMCG products in the district, is focusing on gadgets promising solutions to curb the infection this year.“The novel coronavirus has impacted people in one way or the other. A large number of them are ready to invest in to safeguard their installations, belongings and houses from the virus,” he said.Keeping this in mind, Philips has pressed in some products to combat the virus. For this, we want to approach commercial establishments like hospitals, hotels and families with these two gadgets. One of these is available in the shape of microwave oven.Costing in range of Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 a piece, it disinfects various commodities such as laptops, remotes, vegetables, fruits and others.Philips has pressed in another gadget which promises to provide healthier air. Called UV-C disinfection upper air, proven to inactivate 99.99 per cent Covid-19 virus costs Rs14,000 per peace.A postgraduate in economics, Anil, 62, has been in the business for the past four decades. He remained a distributor of leading companies such as Hindustan Lever, Cadbury, Reckitt and Colman, besides distributor, clearing and forwarding agent of WIMCO, a European company.Now, he is a distributor of five divisions of Philips, which includes lighting, personal care, domestic appliances, baby care, USHA, AO Smith and Anchor Panasonic.He anticipates at least 10 per cent growth this year. “If we manage to overcome the onslaught of the second surge of the Covid-19, then the quantum of growth is likely to increase,” he said.Despite last year being wrecked by the novel coronavirus and its induced lockdown, he managed to give at least 15 per cent growth to his companies from the fiscal 2019-2020.On the new restriction to contain second surge of Covid-19 being implemented this month, he said it would not damage the sale quantum of FMCG and MNC products as most of the summer sale had been met. He is president of both — Punjab Distributors’ Welfare Association and Amritsar Distributors’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curbing-infection-with-gadgets-248870
06-05-2021||---||Restrictions make dent in poultry traders’ profit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5Restricting the number of attendees in parties and stopping the dine-in facility at eating joints has made a big dent in the profit margins of those dealing in poultry products. Some of them say that despite hiking the prices of poultry feed, they have failed to get any financial gain.Restricting the number of participants in parties to 20 and stopping the dine-in facility in restaurants, hotels and resorts have led to a major fall in bulk sale of poultry products.The prices of poultry products have gone up with a kilo of broiler selling for Rs 180 and a piece of egg Rs 4.50. A kilo of mutton is being sold at Rs 550. The high costs of poultry products notwithstanding, poultry farmers are unable to gain profit.GS Bedi, president, Amritsar Poultry Association, says: “Bulk orders have evaporated from the market though the marriage season is on. The government has allowed home delivery and take-away facilities to eating joints but the move has failed to generate demand.” Usually, the demand for poultry products sees a decline of nearly 20 per cent in summer, but a surge in Covid-19 cases have jacked up its demand from the domestic side this time. Protein-rich poultry is considered good for boosting the immune system and protecting the body from the virus. Another major factor affecting the profit margins of poultry farmers is the rise in the prices of poultry feed. Even the rate of soya de oiled has almost doubled from Rs 35 per kg to Rs 68. The price of soya de oiled cake was Rs 35 per kg in February. Poultry farmers blame it on hoarding. They say the price of soyabean refined oil has also gone up in the market. The rate of major poultry feed ingredient, maize, has also increased from Rs15 per kg to Rs19. A poultry feed consists of 60 per cent maize and 25 per cent soya de oiled cake. After the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, poultry farmers had incurred losses on account of poor sale due to misplaced fear of people. It had led to a big fall in the prices of egg, meat and chicken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restrictions-make-dent-in-poultry-traders-profit-248871
