07-05-2021||Amritsar||300 workers rescued from fire at dry fruit packaging factory in Amritsar||As many as 300 labourers were evacuated from a dry fruit packaging factory here after it caught fire on Friday, police said.In the incident that took place in the Anand Vihar locality on Chabal road, flames engulfed the entire unit, which was vacated “just in time”, they said, adding no casualties were reported.“It broke out in the afternoon and the cause is being ascertained,” ACP Parvesh Chopra said.Five fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire that destroyed huge quantities of dry fruit and packaging material, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/300-workers-rescued-from-fire-at-dry-fruit-packaging-factory-in-amritsar-249527
07-05-2021||---||Shopkeepers seek rotation system for all||Amritsar, May 6Resentment prevails among shopkeepers, especially those who have not been allowed to open their shops, following the restrictions of the state government in the city. A large number of shopkeepers have been categorised for offering non-essential items and the police are not allowing them to open shops.Traders claim that they earn their livelihood through shops and it would not be wise if the government imposes restrictions on some shops by categorizing them “non-essential” for offering non-essential items. “How the government can consider something non-essential and even a shop ‘non-essential’. My shop is essential for me as I earn livelihood by selling readymade food. The government imposed a partial lockdown for 15 days. If it would continue for more 15 days, how will I pay my expenses?” asked Rajiv Joshi, an owner of a cloth shop at Katra Jaimal Singh.Meanwhile, market associations and traders are demanding from the government to adopt a rotation system instead of categorising shops for offering essential and non-essential items.A delegation of shopkeepers from Chheharta met the SHO, Chheharta police station, and demanded from MLA Raj Kumar Verka to adopt a coding system as administration adopted last year.Kawaljeet Singh, president, Chheharta Sangharsh Committee, said, “Last year, during the first wave of Covid-19, the administration gave alphabetic codes to the shops. There were three codes A, B and C. It was perfectly implemented and all shopkeepers used to get a chance to sell their goods. We have conducted a meeting with shopkeepers in the market and they all agreed that the alphabetic code system should be implemented. We urge the government to adopt some rational policy otherwise our business would be ruined.”Meanwhile, the city police conducted an awareness drive on Majitha Road and asked traders and residents to follow the guidelines.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar, said, “We are making people aware of the guidelines of the government. The shops offering grocery and dairy products are not allowed to violate the social distancing norms. Other shops offering non-essential items are not allowed to open but shopkeepers largely violate it. We have issued a warning and action will be taken against them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopkeepers-seek-rotation-system-for-all-249065
07-05-2021||---||Five +ve passengers vanish into thin air from rly station, authorities clueless||Amritsar, May 6The Health Department, on the directions of the state government, started conducting the rapid antigen tests (RAT) of passengers at the railway station on Wednesday, but slack preparations were witnessed on the very first day, as of six persons who tested positive, only one could be traced later.According to information, the Health Department conducted tests of around 80 passengers before the departure of the train for Jaynagar, of which six passengers tested positive. When the reports arrived, passengers were already aboard. Efforts were made to trace them, but since their details — such as their seat and coach numbers — were not taken, the exercise proved futile. Announcements were also made where the names of positive patients were called out, but to no avail. Later, the train left the station with five positive passengers.When the Government Railway Police were trying to locate the passengers, only one woman, who was about to board the Saryu Yamuna Express for Banaras, could be traced. Later, she also left the station without informing the health officials.The state government had decided to conduct the RAT for passengers arriving and leaving Punjab. The Railways officials said they were only responsible for the operation of trains and if the government wants to test passengers, the Health Department should make proper arrangements at the railway station. The report of rapid antigen test arrives within 30 minutes. In case someone tests positive, the health team conducts the RT-PCR test for confirmation.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh had deployed a team of Health Department at the railway station. The team is conducting tests for all passengers arriving from other states and those who are leaving the city.On Thursday, the Health Department claimed to make all arrangements. As many as 48 passengers took the RAT, of which two tested positive. As per the protocol, passengers after taking the RAT would further go for the RT-PCR test, if positive. After the report of RT-PCR comes out positive, the department will quarantine such passengers.OfficialspeakWe have made all arrangements for contact tracing of those who will test positive in the RT-PCR. We do not allow passengers to board the train. We also inform the health team of the area concerned to trace the contacts of the person and quarantine them. If someone escapes from the railway station after getting the report, doctors can’t chase them. There are several exit points at the railway station. Passengers should cooperate with the health teams to defeat the pandemic. —Dr Amarjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-ve-passengers-vanish-into-thin-air-from-rly-station-authorities-clueless-249066
07-05-2021||---||Virus takes a deadly turn, claims 25 more lives||Amritsar, May 6The numbers are swelling! The district reported 25 deaths on Thursday, which is the highest in a single day since the start of the pandemic, taking the toll to 1,057.The health authorities also reported 492 new positive cases with which the count increased to 35,600.Of the deceased, two men died at private hospitals in Jalandhar, while one woman died at Civil Hospital, Gurdaspur. The district had till Thursday reported a maximum of 18 deaths in a single day.Meanwhile, to cater to the increased demand of beds for Covid-19 patients, the district administration has allowed four more private hospitals to admit level-II and level-III patients. With this, the number of beds for level-II category patients increased by 30 and reached 866. With addition of 16 more beds for level-III patients, the total number has gone up to 526.The health authorities said 7,373 persons were given the injections for Covid-19 on Thursday. The district till date has partially vaccinated 24,421 healthcare workers, 40,344 frontline workers and 1,83,287 residents above 45 years. It has also completely vaccinated 14,006 healthcare workers, 15,241 frontline workers and 30,749 residents above 45 years.Those who succumbed to the virusThose who died fighting the disease include Kuldeep Singh (84), a resident of Sundar Nagar; Gurdeep Singh (72) of Loharka road; Kulwinder Singh (50) of Guru Ka Bagh (Ajnala); Raj Kumari (64) and Kanta (67) of Vijay Nagar Batala Road; Parminder Singh (45) of Budha The, near Baba Bakala; Dhani Ram (72) of Greenfield; Malook Singh (60) of Nangli; Sudesh Kumar (66) of Prem Nagar; Davinder Kaur (64) of Baba Sahib Chowk; Vinita Bindra (50) of Sundar Nagar; Sarwan Singh (70) of Gobind Nagar; Dilbag Singh (85) of Chheharta; Satpal Singh (62) of Azad Nagar; Pinki (44) of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar; Gurmeet Singh (59) of Putlighar; Bimla Rani (75) of Kartar Nagar; Neelam Kumari (45) Macchhiwal, near Ajnala; Manchari Lal (77) of Guru Nanak Nagar; Sanjeev Mallan (63) of Golden Avenue; Harsewak Singh (72) of Ajnala; Savita Arora (60) of Chattiwind gate; Shingara Singh (67) of Nawa Pind; Manjit Kaur (52) of Kathunangal and Cheda Lal (72) of Loha Mandi.Two die, 28 test +ve in Tarn TaranTwo persons — a woman and a man — died of Covid on Thursday, taking the toll to 232 in the district. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 28 new infections were also reported on Thursday. With the new cases, the number of active cases reached 797, of which 510 have been isolated at their respective homes. As many as 1,02,491 persons have been give the jabs in the district till Thursday. OC6 held for violating norms in Tarn Taran Tarn Taran: The district police arrested six persons for violating Covid-19 restrictions on Wednesday. The police said Rohit Arora, proprietor of Mahi Resorts, Kairon, was arrested for violating Covid-19 restrictions. A function was being organised at the resort with several people, who were not wearing masks. SDM Patti Rajesh Sharma accompanied the raiding police party at the resort. The police said the accused violated the instructions issued by the District Magistrate. They have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The police also arrested a shopkeeper Komalpreet Singh of the Muradpur locality for opening his grocery shop. Sagar of the local town, Manpreet Singh of Wan Tara Singh and Rahul of Nanaksar locality, were nabbed for not wearing a mask. In another report, Laadbir Singh of Bhathal Bhai Ke village was arrested by Goindwal Sahib police for opening his shop. Cases under Section 188 of the IPC have been registered. OCOver 200 inoculated at free vaccination camp Amritsar: A free Covid vaccination camp was held at the Indian Medical Association (IMA) house today under the aegis of the Punjab Youth Development Board’s Mission Fateh in collaboration with the Health Department and local administration. Under the camp, 200 beneficiaries above 45 years of age were inoculated. Organiser of the camp Punjab Women Council, Chamber of Trade and Industry president Priyanka Goyal said it was a part of the vaccination drive being carried out across the district to ensure vaccination of all above 45 years of age. “Keeping in mind the present scenario, when there is a lot of panic among people over shortage of vaccine, we want to facilitate vaccination for senior citizens and those waiting for the second dose. Apart from vaccination, we have also been carrying out extensive awareness campaign on Covid safety norms,” she said. Amritsar North MLA Sunil Dutti also visited the vaccination camp and interacted with people. “Frontline workers, the Health Department and the state and district agencies are making coordinated efforts to ensure that citizens get easy access to vaccine. The current shortage of vaccine for above 18 is being taken up on priority basis and we hope that soon we’ll be able to open the drive to them too,” he said. TNS College Teachers wear black badges, demand work from homeAmritsar: As per the call given by the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), the members of the local unit of DAV College, Amritsar, wore black badges to protest against the officials of the Higher Education Department regarding demands of teachers. Calling the department’s attitude ‘stubborn’, Dr BB Yadav, Area Secretary, GNDU, Amritsar, said college teachers in Punjab have been forced to come to college even when all classes were being conducted online. “It’s the indifferent and stubborn attitude of the officials of the department that has forced us to come on streets,” he said. The union has written to the CM requesting to direct the department to allow work from home to them as the situation had become very alarming in Punjab. “Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa had assured the PCCTU and subsequently instructed the officials of Higher Education Department to issue the circular to colleges for allowing work from home to teachers. Surprisingly, the bureaucrats of the department have failed to implement the directions and keep misleading them on this issue,” he said. Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, district president, Amritsar unit of PCCTU, said many teachers working in city colleges, had tested positive in the past few days. He said the agitation will intensify if there were no directions in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-takes-a-deadly-turn-claims-25-more-lives-249067
07-05-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||People still avoiding tests, delaying consultation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6While the number of deaths and positive cases in the district has increased exponentially after the recent spurt in infections, the health experts believe that many people were still not getting tested.They said many critically-sick patients seek medical help when the oxygen saturation drop too low.Take in consideration the case of a 70-year-old male patient, who had been experiencing symptoms for the last seven days. The patient was reluctant to visit a hospital and was shifted this morning after the saturation level dropped to 70.People should immediately isolate themselves on experiencing any symptom. As a next step, they should get themselves tested for Covid-19 and consult a doctor. Proper care at the earlier stage can help in fast recovery. —Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonIn another case, an elderly woman was shifted to GMC in a critical condition three days ago after her condition worsened and oxygen saturation level reading was merely 40. The medical experts said in many cases, patients avoid coming to the hospital or consulting a doctor till the condition deteriorates.They said sometimes such patients could be spreading the infection to others as proper safety protocol required for care of Covid-19 patients was not followed at homes properly and in most cases, the caregiver, too, gets infected.The doctors said getting tested for Covid-19 still seems to be a taboo as even in case of experiencing symptoms related to the viral disease, the patients were still getting chest X-ray and scans for confirmation.A doctor with a private hospital said: “We have seen patients coming when the oxygen saturation level has gone below 50. People continue to be on self-medication until the condition worsens.”Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said people should immediately isolate themselves on experiencing any symptom associated with the disease. “As a next step, they should get themselves tested for Covid-19 and consult a doctor,” he said, adding that proper care at the earlier stage can help in fast recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-still-avoiding-tests-delaying-consultation-249073
07-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Rs 40K bribe: Doc on the run||One held with 500-gram heroinTarn Taran: The CIA team led by SI Satnam Singh arrested a person from border village Bhuse on Thursday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused Lakhwinder Singh of Khehra was booked under Sections 21 and 25 of the NDPS Act by Sarai Amanat Khan police. The recovered consignment was worth Rs2.5 crore in international market, according to reports. OCProclaimed offender heldAmritsar: The police have arrested a proclaimed offender who has been identified as Karamjit Singh, alias Mana, of Loharkra Road. He had come out of jail on parole and was to return in April, however, he did not go back and the court declared him a PO. Kamboh SHO Yaadwinder Singh said Mana was convicted by the court for murder of a Kabaddi player who was killed in June 2011. He said he recently came out on parole, but failed to return. Therefore, he was arrested. TNSCops pulled up for inactionTarn Taran: Raj Kumar Hans, member of the state SC Commission, on Thursday visited Fatehbad village and ordered the Goindwal Sahib police to register a case under the SC/ST Act against the accused responsible for torturing a Dalit girl. Anu, the victim of the SC community, had alleged that she was tied with a rope and tortured by the person where she was working as a domestic help. The victim said she had lodged her complaint with the Goindwal Sahib police which took no action. Raj Kumar ordered police to register a case under the SC/ST Act and submit report on May 10 at his Chandigarh office. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-40k-bribe-doc-on-the-run-249091
