08-05-2021||Dinanagar town is known for two things. One is that it was the summer capital of Maharaja Ranjit Singh while the other is that it is a known educational hub of the border district of Gurdaspur. Among the many colleges it has||Cleanliness is next to godliness||Consider Vet inspectors as frontline workersVeterinary inspectors across the state have urged the state government to bracket them in the ‘frontline workers’ category as far as the ongoing pandemic is concerned. Punjab State Veterinary Inspectors’ Association president Bhupinder Singh Sachar (pic) said they had to travel a lot during the ongoing pandemic to treat animals. Other members of the Association — Jawinder Singh, Rajeev Malhotra, Kishen Chand Mahajan and Gurdeep Singh — said they had taken up the issue in all seriousness with Animal Husbandry minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa who had assured them to take up their demand at the highest levels. “Already many of our inspectors have got infected with Covid. We want the government to accept our demands which in any case are genuine in nature,” said Kishen Chand Mahajan.Batalvi remembered on 48th death anniversaryThe 48th death anniversary of Shiv Kumar Batalvi, noted poet, playwright and writer of Punjabi language was observed recently. Old timers say he was best known for his romantic poetry with all that heightened passion, pathos, separation and lover’s agony. Several events are organised by the Shiv Kumar Arts and Cultural Society every year to mark the day but this time due to the pandemic, the organisers, led by Gurdaspur Planning Board chairman Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, kept it a low key affair. “In 1967, Batalvi became the youngest recipient of the Sahatiya Akademy Award for penning down Loona-his epic based on the ancient legend of Bhagat Puran Singh. He also earned the sobriquet of being the John Keats of Punjabi literature for his works,” said Dr Nijjar. — Ravi DhaliwalIN A SHMBLES: Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s fort in Dinanagar is in a dilapidated condition. The six gates built during the Maharaja’s rule with Nanakshahi bricks are also in bad shape. Archaeological Survey of India officials claim that they can step in only if the double-storeyed building is declared a heritage site, which is a long-drawn-out process. Tribune photo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-is-next-to-godliness-249635
08-05-2021||Amritsar||Land grab: SC panel seeks report from Deputy Commissioner||Taking a serious note of the alleged grabbing of land belonging to a Dalit family by several persons by way of deceit, the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission on Thursday sought a report from Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira in this regard.Two residents of Maude village had approached the commission seeking its intervention while alleging that around seven acres of their land was grabbed by a farmer by forging documents.The complainants—Sukhchain Singh and Sakatar Singh—submitted a written complaint to Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka, member, PSSC Commission, while urging his intervention in getting their ancestral land back.The complainants alleged that a farmer in their village has forged documents by producing fake owner and nambardar before the revenue department and grabbed their ancestral land that falls in Attari assembly constituency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-grab-sc-panel-seeks-report-from-deputy-commissioner-249627
08-05-2021||---||Appointment of CKD chief’s daughter raises eyebrows||Amritsar, May 7The appointment of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh’s daughter as principal of a school has raised eyebrows after former CKD chief Charanjit Singh Chadha objected to it.Chadha alleged that violating the norms, Nirmal misused his position only to extend favour to his daughter.Charanjit Singh Chadha, Ex-Chief, CKDAt a time, when there was cut in salaries of employees of the CKD institutes, her pay package witnessed an unprecedented hike“The day Nirmal took charge as president of the CKD, several misappropriations came to the fore. In one such instance, he had got his daughter appointed as principal at Guru Harkrishan Public School in Attari. At a time, when there was cut in salaries of employees of the CKD institutes, her pay package witnessed an unprecedented hike. She was also given perks, including a chauffeur driven car,” said Chadha.Refuting the charges, the CKD president said as the school was located on international border, the principal’s post used to stay vacant. He claimed that the school catered to around 250 children of the border belt who were being provided free books and uniform.“Chadha is looking to re-enter the CKD. He visited our institution twice. Since we have restricted his entry, he has been levelling frivolous allegations. My daughter was selected by a selection panel on the basis of merit. She accepted the salary much less than what she was already drawing,” he said.Chadha had to quit his position after a sleazy video went viral involving him with a woman principal in 2017. After three years, Akal Takht had lifted the bar and he was free to participate or address any religious, social, political or educational events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/appointment-of-ckd-chiefs-daughter-raises-eyebrows-249628
08-05-2021||Tarn Taran||‘Fill vacant posts of pre-primary teachers’||Volunteer teachers organised a district-level meeting here on Thursday and demanded early completion of recruitment process for 8,393 posts of pre-primary teachers in the state. They also submitted a memorandum of their demand to District Education Officer (Elementary) Rajesh Kumar.Satinder Singh Kang, state leader of the organisation, urged the Education Department to fill 8,393 posts of pre-primary teachers in government primary schools. The government had published an advertisement for the recruitment of teachers in different newspapers six months back. He said no steps had been taken in this regards till date. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fill-vacant-posts-of-pre-primary-teachers-249630
08-05-2021||Amritsar||Two nabbed with narcotics in Amritsar, 1 escapes||Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police have nabbed Baljinder Singh of Udonangal village falling under the Mehta police station for allegedly possessing 140-gm heroin along with a 30 bore pistol with five live rounds.Police authorities in a statement issued here on Thursday said following specific input that Baljinder was involved in drug peddling and he was coming towards Rakhshah T point. A checkpoint was installed and the accused was intercepted. During search the police seized the contraband and the weapon from his possession.He was produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation. Investigations were on to ascertain the source of contraband and the weapon. His backward and forward links were also being found out. A case under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act has been registered against him.Meanwhile, the Lopoke police have arrested Harwinder Singh of Jhanjhia village in Gurdaspur and confiscated 1-kg opium from his possession. His accomplice Harwinder Singh of Harad village managed slip away from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-narcotics-in-amritsar-1-escapes-249631
08-05-2021||---||AAP demands financial help for traders, labourers||Amritsar, May 7The trade and industry wing of the Aam AAdami Party (AAP), led by Inderbir Singh Nijjar and Rajiv Khaira, on Monday submitted memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Amritsar and demanded from Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to exempt electricity bills and interest on bank loans of shopkeepers and provide financial aid to labourers here.“As Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh already knew that lockdown in the country last year due to the Covid-19 caused huge losses to all sections, including traders and small shopkeepers. The government has not given any relief to the traders in this period of inflation and recession. As a result, traders are in a deep financial crisis due to wages, loans, interest and other tax-related expenses. Traders, who were under financial pressure and trying to recover their businesses, have demanded relief. The government has once again declared a mini-lockdown in Punjab and stopped all businesses. Surprisingly, banks and liquor stores are open but small and medium traders and shopkeepers can not open their businesses”, said Nijjar.“We understand that the country and the state are going through difficult times but businessmen, small shopkeepers are also in deep crisis. The government should exempt electricity bills and interest on bank loans of traders and provide financial aid to the labourers,” said Rajiv Khaira.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-demands-financial-help-for-traders-labourers-249633
08-05-2021||---||Misplaced model of Jallianwala Bagh found||Amritsar, May 7City-based architect and civil engineer Raj Kumar Aggarwal, who claims to have originally prepared the model of the Jallianwala Bagh in the 1970s, has heaved a sigh of relief as officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP) have managed to locate the Jallianwala Bagh model which was misplaced during the re-construction of a part of the Amritsar railway station. It was in bad condition.After officials at the Amritsar railway station expressed their inability to find the miniature of the historic garden, the 62-year-old had approached GRP officials at the railway station.Expressing happiness over the finding of the model, he said it was the first model which he had prepared in the beginning of his career. He recalled it was a working model in which the fountains used to function properly. “I am yet to check whether the fountains still work,” he said. He has demanded that the model should now be placed at an appropriate place for the public.The model had not been spotted at the Amritsar railway station after the development and reconstruction work started there over seven years ago. It used to be placed at the entrance near the general waiting hall.He was only 20-year-old when he had prepared a working replica of the national memorial of freedom struggle — Jallianwala Bagh — from trash. The model was installed in the main waiting hall of the Amritsar railway station in 1979. “I remember that then railway minister Kamlapathi Tripathi was quite impressed with the model, which was made in the ’70s,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/misplaced-model-of-jallianwala-bagh-found-249634
08-05-2021||Amritsar||Three held for illegal mining in Amritsar||Rise in bike theft cases from courtTarn Taran: Ranbir Singh, a local resident, in his complaint to the local Sadar police said he parked his motorcycle in the district court complex on Thursday and when he came back the bike was not there. Similarly, Nishan Singh, a resident of Majitha, had complained to the police that his vehicle was stolen from the court complex on April 19. The police had registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC. ASI Vipin Kumar of the court police station said they had been receiving complaints of vehicle thefts for the last one year as the court complex was situated on the outskirts of the town and it was easy for vehicle thieves to escape with the stolen bikes. Moreover, there is no proper parking arrangement in the complex. OCEssay writing contest beginsAmritsar: As per the schedule for conducting academic competitions to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the first phase of the essay writing competitions began on Thursday across government schools in district. The online competition on essay writing/ reciting was based on the life and principles of Guru Tegh Bahadur. The school-level winners of the essay competitions that will be conducted till May 31, will take part in the block, tehsil, district and state-level competitions. The winners of each level will also be honoured by the department. TNSSophia Duleep Singh lectureAmritsar: Guru Nanak Dev University Department of History organised Princess Sophia Duleep Singh Annual lecture, initiated by Mahan Singh Dhesi family. The topic of the webinar was “Perceptions of educated women: A comparative analysis of Shraddha Ram Phillauri, Lala Devraj and Bhai Takhat Singh.” Department of History Head Prof Amandeep introduced the lecture while Prof Radha Sharma, an eminent scholar and former Professor of the Department, was the key speaker. Prof Radha compared the contribution of social reformers Shraddha Ram Phillauri, Lala Devraj and Bhai Takhat Singh in eradicating social evils and their contributions in educating women. She also said Lala Devraj had founded the first exclusive girls’ school in Jalandhar named Arya Kanya Pathshala, presently known as Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-illegal-mining-in-amritsar-249636
08-05-2021||---||Akhar relives memory of storyteller Dalbir Chetan||Amritsar, May 7The latest edition of Punjabi magazine “Akhar” was released on Thursday keeping in view the Covid guidelines. The latest issue is dedicated to eminent storyteller Dalbir Chetan whose short stories have been celebrated by generation of budding writers.Chetan was hailed for writing characters that personified with his readers. Editor of the magazine, Vishal said despite the problems caused by the pandemic, all efforts have been made to ensure “Akhar” reaches to its readers.“We are taking care of logistical challenges to ensure that quarterly edition of ‘Akhar’ is released on time. This edition is dedicated to Dalbir Chetan, considered one of the stalwarts of Punajbi short story writing. We have published features written by the late writer and his fans, including his wife, son and daughter, incorporating articles related to his life,” he said.Praveen Puri, Director, Public Relations Department (Guru Nanak Dev University), along with editorial board of “Akhar” released the magazine. Chetan’s works have been widely translated and considered powerhouse of information for Punjabi students, researchers and teachers. Chetan’s acclaimed story Mehndi Bazaar was translated into seven South-East Asian languages and many of his stories were translated into Urdu, English, Hindi, Oriya, Telugu and Gujarati; some were also dramatised for television.Mehndi Bazaar is also a part of MIT Open Course Ware[1](OCW) South Asian literature and culture coursework and was once selected among 20 stories from South Asia.Vishal said his stories proved that Punjabi literature could match world standards and find global readership. “The questions he raised through his stories Guru Dakshna, Mehndi Bazaar, will also touch minds of readers. We are trying to honour his memory through Akhar, so that young generation know about his literary legacy,” said Vishal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akhar-relives-memory-of-storyteller-dalbir-chetan-249638
08-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Illegal mining a bane of border belt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7Even as illegal extraction of sand remained a bane for border belt, especially in Ajnala and Ramdass, the consecutive governments have failed to curb the menace due to nexus between illegal sand miners, politicians and officials.Illegal excavators have become so fearful that people were afraid of raising their voice against them.SSP, Amritsar (Rural)We have registration numbers of tippers and tractor- trailers seized from the spot and raids were on to nab owners and those who absconded from the spot.Three days ago, the police unearthed illegal mining in Beas river. This is perhaps for the first time that mining was found in this area. The police arrested three persons Lakhwinder Singh of Dolenangal village, Vikramit Singh of Budha Theh and Jagjivan Singh of Bhol Bage village. Cops also seized two tippers and an earth mover (JCB) from their possession.The role of officials of the Mining Department also came under scanner following busting of the mining racket in Kassowal village in Ramdas area recently.The police had nabbed two persons, Ranjit Singh of Teja village in Gurdaspur and Daljit Singh of Bahadurgarh Jandiya village in Bathinda, from the spot and confiscated their machinery.Following preliminary probe, the police have booked three more persons — Karnail Singh, Navraj Singh of Deol village and Sandeep Singh of Janduwala in Ferozepur. Though thorough investigations were under progress, the police sources who were part of the raiding team said many heads would roll in the further course of investigations.An official on condition of anonymity said no mining official was present at the mining site. He said when the police officials led by Amritsar (Rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya contacted mining officials of the area concerned, they did not respond.As per details, contractors involved in the mining have informed the police that they had the contract for desilting. The police suspected that those involved in sand mining had forged papers. Those arrested could not produce documents regarding desilting of the river bed.“The preliminary probe hinted at a well-oiled nexus behind the illegal mining in the river belt,” said sources.When contacted, Amritsar (Rural) SSP refused to comment on the involvement of mining official. He said a through investigation was under way. “We have registeration numbers of tippers and tractor- trailers seized from the spot and raids were on to nab owners and those who absconded from the spot,” said the SSP and added that no stone would be left unturned and nobody would be spared.The police had confiscated nine trucks, four tractor- trailers, one earth mover (JCB) and a pokline from the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-mining-a-bane-of-border-belt-249637
08-05-2021||---||Dry fruit packaging unit gutted in Amirtsar||Amritsar, May 7A major fire broke out at a dry fruit packaging factory in Anand Vihar on Jhabal Road around 11.30 am on Friday. More than 200 workers, who were working inside the factory, had a narrow escape during the fire incident.No casualty was reported, but goods worth crores were reduced to ashes. Dry fruit was stored in a huge quantity at the unit.Rohit Bajaj, owner of the factory, claimed that he suferred a loss of around Rs18 crore. “All workers are safe. Initially, they tried hard to douse the flames. Later, eight fire engines of the MC, two from the Indian Air Force and one from Khanna Paper Mill, took six hours to bring fire under control,” said Bajaj.Officials claimed that they had to refill fire engines 40 times. Fire officer Raj Anthony said, “A huge quantity of packaging material was stored at the factory. Cardboard and plastic caught fire rapidly. A chemical, which they use in the factory, was highly flammable. So our firefighters worked hard to control the fire. Fortunately, the approach roads were there around the factory.”Workers claimed that a short-circuit might have led to the incident. Panic gripped the area as flames could be seen from a distance.“It will take some more time to douse the flames completely. All eight fire tenders and firefighters from four fire stations are at the spot,” said Anthony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dry-fruit-packaging-unit-gutted-in-amirtsar-249639
08-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Norms relaxed for traders in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran district administration on Friday allowed all shops and other establishments to remain open from 9 am to 1 pm on experimental basis. Earlier, only shops dealing in essential services were allowed to remain operational from 9 am to 5 pm in the wake of the Covid-19.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale held a meeting with officials and members of market associations on May 6 and decided to give certain relaxations. The authorities said shopkeepers and customers must follow the health guidelines.Shops dealing in milk products will stay open till 6 pm and chemist till 8 pm. The administration will allow a couple of chemists to remain open round the clock daily. Vendors need to get vaccinated and would be allowed to move after obtaining permission. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/norms-relaxed-for-traders-in-tarn-taran-249640
08-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Job loss, cash crunch spur another exodus of migrants||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7Migrants in the city have been returning to their native homes in the absence of work as well as non-payment of salaries.Working at a printing textile mill, Rishikesh, whose average monthly income is nearly Rs 12,000, has not received his salary for the past two months. Unable to find further work and fearing another lockdown, he along with his wife and two daughters is returning to his native village in Ayodhya district.Vijay Kumar Vishwakarma, a migrant from Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh, said he arranged Rs 2,500 to buy a ticket for himself. Assa Ram, who earns Rs 12,500 per month, is staying back on the assurance of the proprietor of a textile mill that his over two months long salary bill would be cleared by May 15. Living in a rental house along with his family with meagre resources, he has no option but to wait for the much-needed cash to return to his native place in Motihari district of Bihar. Many private buses from Delhi, UP and Bihar have been plying the migrants back to their homes.Ram Bhawan Goswami, General Secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad (UPKP), Punjab, stated that the parishad was receiving numerous calls from migrant labourers who were not getting their wages. He claimed that barring big industrial houses, 90 percent of the local industrial units were lying closed. In this scenario, labourers were heading back to their native places for want of work and not due to the Covid-19.He said the parishad was dispatching a communique to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, seeking financial package for the migrants in the lockdown. He claimed that between 8,000 to 10,000 industrial labourers had not received their wages for the past nearly two months and 90 per cent of them were out of job, hence staring at starvation.He claimed that there were nearly 2.5 lakh migrant labourers engaged in the district before March 2020. About 70,000 of these did not return after the unlock. He anticipated that many more would not return if any help is not extended to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/job-loss-cash-crunch-spur-another-exodus-of-migrants-249641
08-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers to hold protest against Covid restrictions||On a call given by the national leadership of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers would organise a protest march in Tarn Taran and other towns on Saturday in support of all shopkeepers to open their establishments for full day, ignoring the instructions of the state government.The farmers’ organisations chaired by Pargat Singh Jamarai, state leader of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, organised a meeting here on Friday in support of the shopkeepers. The representatives of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab attended the meeting.The leaders, while addressing on the occasion, said lockdown, curfew, closing of the shops and other establishment were no solution to tackle Covid-19 threat and stressed on the strengthening of health system to provide oxygen for the patients, filling the vacant posts of the medico and the para-medical staff.The leaders said the farmers, in association with shopkeepers, would organise a protest march in the district to open all shops for the whole day on Saturday. The farmers’ organisation stressed upon maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks and adopting all other precautions regarding Covid-19. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-hold-protest-against-covid-restrictions-249642
08-05-2021||Amritsar||Pingalwara sets up 20-bed Covid ward in Amritsar||The All India Pingalwara Charitable Society inaugurated a special Covid-19 ward at its premises near the bus stand on Friday. The 20-bed ward has oxygen facility for critical patients. Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, Pingalwara, said the ward has been set up to facilitate the treatment of Covid patients.“Given the reports of people losing their lives due to shortage of oxygen and unavailability of beds, we were motivated to do something. The ward will offer all services and medical treatment free of cost, including medicine.”The Khalsa Aid has donated two oxygen concentrators for the ward and the Pingalwara will also be offering free ambulance service. “Our medical team will assist people in home management and treatment of Covid-19. We are running helpline to make residents aware about home isolation and methods to cure patients with mild infection,” she said.One can contact ar 97814-01140 and 0183-2584713. Apart from this, Col Darshan Bawa, adminsitrator, Pingalwara, will also be available on 98145-35937 for any assistance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pingalwara-sets-up-20-bed-covid-ward-in-amritsar-249643
08-05-2021||---||22 succumb to virus, 502 new infections reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 7Fatalities continue to remain alarming as 22 people succumbed to the virus on Friday, which took the toll to 1,057. The health authorities reported 502 fresh cases in the district today. With this, the total count of positive cases increased to 36,102.The new cases include 371 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 131 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities reported 420 recoveries. As a result, recovered patients reached 29,526. At present, the district, has a total of 5,497 active cases.The health authorities informed that 4,450 persons were inoculated today and a total of 3,12,498 persons have been vaccinated to date.Residents who lost battle to Covid-19 include Pichora Singh (55) of Baba Bakala, Sunil Kundra (75) Chowk Chabutra, Vinod Shrivastava (30) Gate Khajana, Gurcharan Singh (75) of Shakti Nagar, Madan Lal (74) of Gurbax Nagar, Kanta (74) of Namak Mandi, Sunil Kumar (44) of Indira colony, Jai Lal (72) of Katra Charat Singh, Samyakta Devi (62) of Chehratta, Ravi Kumar (51) of Guru Nanak Pura, Narinder Singh (70) of Sultanwind road, Surinder Singh (68) of New Gurnaam Nagar, Balwinder Kaur (47) of Chehratta, Rohit Kapoor (52) of Rishi Vihar, Balwinder Kaur (50) Darshan Avenue, Krishna Devi (75) of Chowk Prag Dass, Mohan Singh (87) of Green Avenue, Gurwinder Singh (65) of Mall Mandi, Azad Singh (51) of Majitha road, Kashmir Kaur (68), Parveen Mehra (60) of Basant avenue and Puneet Malhotra (47) of Kamla Devi avenue.Meanwhile, with the death of 40-year-old Varinder Kaur of Tarn Taran on Friday, the death toll in the district reached 233. Also, 76 more Covid-positive cases reported in the district pushed the number of active cases to 652.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-succumb-to-virus-502-new-infections-reported-in-amritsar-district-249617
08-05-2021||Amritsar||Follow safety norms, SGPC urges pilgrims||Due to the second wave of Covid-19, it has now been made mandatory for pilgrims visiting the Golden Temple and other gurdwaras to follow preventive guidelines of the Health Department under which they have to wear masks, keep physical distance and sanitise their hands.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has asked for cooperation from pilgrims to curb the Covid spread. In another decision, she directed operating the SGPC offices with 50 per cent staff. “The SGPC offices will remain completely closed on Saturday and Sunday,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/follow-safety-norms-sgpc-urges-pilgrims-249632
