09-05-2021||Amritsar||Show-cause notice to 2 MC clerks||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/show-cause-notice-to-2-mc-clerks-250272
09-05-2021||Amritsar||Three booked for grabbing property||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-grabbing-property-250273
09-05-2021||---||Man arrested for extorting money||Amritsar, May 8The city police have arrested Dheeraj Kumar Kaural of Bhai Shalo Da Toba for allegedly extorting money from a local resident by posing as a cop posted in the office of the Police Commissioner.The complainant, Suraj Mahajan, of same locality stated to the police that the accused threatened to implicate him in a false case. He said earlier he transferred Rs 5,000 in his account, but the accused was harassing him again and again for extorting money.The police have registered a case under Sections 384, 385, 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused in this connection. Investigating Officer Baldev Singh said that the accused was arrested and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-arrested-for-extorting-money-250275
09-05-2021||---||Helpline for free doctor teleconsultation launched||Amritsar, May 8The FICCI FLO in collaboration with the Punjab Police and Saanjh, introduced a Covid helpline to provide free consultations by top city doctors.The initiative aims to provide help to the patients at their homes, so that they don’t have to visit hospitals which are already swamped. The helpline will provide teleconsultation with senior doctors, including the ones, who have been treating Covid patients on the frontline.While launching the helpline, FICCI FLO chairperson Manjot Dhillon said the main aim of the initiative was to help people consult doctors by being at their homes and also to educate them about measures to ensure that need for hospitalisation is minimised.“Our panel of doctors include pulmonologists, ENT specialists, gynaecologists, paediatricians, critical care specialists, cardiac surgeons and people who have been dealing with critical Covid patients. Since, there are a number of helplines and Covid warrooms managing the situation, we wanted to reach out to people giving them as many possible channels for help.”The helpline number is 77430-25434.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helpline-for-free-doctor-teleconsultation-launched-250277
09-05-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Stubble no trouble for this Mallunangal farmer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 8After attending a Kisan Mela at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in 2012, Subeg Singh, a farmer from Mallunangal village, stopped burning crop residue in fields.Within a few years, he emerged as a lighthouse for farmers in his village and in 2015 a number of farmers of Mallunangal village stopped stubble burning and adopted various methods of straw management in their fields.Subeg Singh said: “After getting enlightened about the environmental crisis and loss of soil health, I contacted experts at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Naag Kalan. I asked them to provide some alternatives to manage straw in fields. Dr Raminder Kaur from KVK helped a lot. She provided a happy seeder and motivated to cultivate wheat crop without tillage. That saved my cost on tillage and I also procured good yield. Next year, other farmers from my village got motivated and around 125 acre land was cultivated with happy seeders. The area under happy seeders and zero tillage is increasing year by year.”Singh is a graduate and took to agriculture in 1984. “I was never interested in stubble burning but there was no awareness and alternatives. Now, the government is expressing concern and the Agriculture Department provides several alternatives. There is no need to burn crop residue in fields. It not only pollutes environment, but also impacts field soil.”With the help of the Agriculture Department, farmers from Mallunangal led by Subeg Singh constituted a cooperative society and bought several machines for straw management. The government gave 80 per cent subsidy on these straw management machines including happy seeder, stubble chopper, mould board plough and zero tillage drill.“Agriculture experts and senior officers of the department from Chandigarh and Delhi often visit our fields and discuss the issues with us. PAU, KVK and the Punjab Government awarded me on various occasions. Agriculture Development Officer (ADO) Gurpreet Singh Aulakh and other officials in the district always support and motivate me,” Subeg Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-no-trouble-for-this-mallunangal-farmer-250253
09-05-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Vax stock of Amritsar replenished,18-plus construction workers to get jab first||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 8Facing shortage of Covid-19 vaccines for the past many few days, the district on Saturday received a fresh supply of vaccines, confirmed district health officials here. The district has received a total of 8,000 injections.The existing stock of the vaccines was completely exhausted on Saturday afternoon and the vaccination process had to be halted. With the fresh supply, the Health Department would be able to resume the vaccination drive.The district is also set to launch vaccination for 18-44 years of age from Monday. However, the vaccination would still not be available for all residents in the age group as the existing supply is not sufficient to sustain the drive for long.The officials stated in the beginning that the injection would be available only for high risk and vulnerable categories on priority. The health officials stated that the construction workers would be given the vaccine as a part of the drive on Monday. They stated that details of the immunisation launch for 18-44 age group are still being worked out and would be finalised soon.Residents had been complaining of shortage of Covid-19 vaccination for last almost 10 days. Huge rush of residents for the injections at vaccination centres across the district is seen almost everyday. While some manage to get the dose, others have to return without getting the injection. Even on Saturday, the existing stock at vaccination centres could last only till noon and many who were standing in the queues had to return.While the Centre had announced to start vaccination for young population from May 1, the state government had delayed the drive citing shortage of vaccines. Even now, as the government has decided to give injections to vulnerable and high risk categories, rest of the residents would have to wait.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-stock-of-amritsar-replenished-18-plus-construction-workers-to-get-jab-first-250254
09-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Blind murder case solved,1held||Tarn Taran, May 8The district police claimed to have solved the mystery of blind murder of an ASI of the Punjab Police, Gurdeep Singh, who was shot dead on October 31 near Kakka Kandiala, and arrested one person in this connection.ASI Gurdeep Singh was going to Kakka Kandila village to take medicine with his son Manpreet Singh on moped being driven by his son. Two motorcycle-borne persons stopped their vehicle and hit Manpreet Singh with an iron rod at his head and snatched mobile and Rs 1,000 from his pocket.As soon as ASI Gurdeep Singh intervened to save his son the armed robbers fired at ASI’s chest and he died on the spot. The city police registered a case under Sections 302, 307, 323 and 34 of the IPC, Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act on the statement of Manpreet Singh.Dr Mehtab Singh, SP Investigation, said, a police team under the supervision of Ravisher Singh, DSP, was constituted. After scrutinizing CCTV footages, the police booked Jobanjit Singh Bobby of Bundala and Lovdeep Singh of None village in the case.The accused, Jobanjit Singh, has been arrested from Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Sher Singh, Damdami Taksal, Mehta, while his accomplice Lovdeep Singh is still at large. Both the accused had left the state after committing the crime. The arrested accused was produced in a court on Saturday, which sent him to three day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blind-murder-case-solved-1held-250255
09-05-2021||---||Rotational system to come into force in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 8In a new set of relaxations for shopkeepers, the district administration has done away with the system of essential and non-essential categories and allowed all shops to open from 9 am to 5 pm. As per the new orders, all shops would open on a rotation basis. The new system would come into force from Monday after the weekend curfew ends.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said, “On the first day, the shops on the one side of the road would open. Next day these shops would remain closed and shops on other side of the road would open.” However, the shops selling perishable goods such as milk, fruits and vegetables have been allowed to open on all weekdays.The DC said in case any particular road or street has shops on its one side only, then only half of these would be allowed to open. “The idea is to allow only 50 per cent shops to open on any day to check crowds,” said Khaira.In the beginning of the current lockdown, the government had allowed only essential-item category shops to open. Later, the shops as agriculture tools and inputs, industry related shops and even liquor vends were added to the essential list. However, this had created resentment among the shopkeepers whose shops did not fall in the essential category.The DC said it was the responsibility of the shopkeepers to follow the roster strictly and any violation would be punished with the sealing of the shop for at least one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rotational-system-to-come-into-force-in-amritsar-250256
09-05-2021||Amritsar||Newborn girl’s body found near Ganda Nullah||In a shocking incident, an unidentified person dumped the body of a newborn baby girl near the Ganda Nullah in the Anngarh area here on Thursday. The incident came to light when some residents noticed stray dogs pulling the cloth in which the newborn was wrapped. The police have registered a case in this connection. The police analysed the footage of a CCTV camera in which it noticed movements of an auto-rickshaw near the spot. The complainant, Sahib Singh, said he owned a house near Shaadi Shah dera near the Ganda Nullah where his nephew was currently residing. He said when he reached outside the house, he found a stray dog pulling the cloth in which the newborn’s body was wrapped. Dr Rohan Mehra, president, Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association, said they were informed of the development and soon after volunteers of reached the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/newborn-girls-body-found-near-ganda-nullah-250257
09-05-2021||---||13 succumb, 610 test positive in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 8The Health Department on Saturday reported 13 more casualties due to Covid-19 in the district, pushing the toll to 1,092. Besides, the district also reported 610 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the count to 36,712.The new cases include 462 influenza-like illness cases and 148 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 500 patients, the total recovery count has risen to 30,026. At present, the district has a total of 5,594 active cases.The surge in the number of casualties during the last few days has created a panic among residents. The district has reported 130 deaths since May 1 and 4,204 cases in the last eight days. Health officials stated that the number of positive cases was increasing daily.The officials have also asked the residents to get their tests done on experiencing any of the symptoms and isolate them from others. The residents have also been advised to seek medical assistance instead of relying on home remedies.Those who died due to Covid-19 have been identified as 56-year-old Raj Rani of Dashmesh Nagar near Jaura Fatak; 52-year-old Baldev Singh of Kotla Kajjian village; 49-year-old Komaljit Singh of Fateh Avenue; 40-year-old Lakhshmi of Kot Khalsa; 74-year-old Veer Kaur of Yaseen Road; 77-year-old Chaman Lal of Jujhar Singh Avenue; 34-year-old Jagroop Aulakh of Ajnala; 82-year-old Kuldeep Singh of Golden Avenue; 58-year-old Dimple Bedi of Guru Nanak Nagar (Chheharta); 47-yer-old Shelly Arora of Shiv Nagar; 74-year-old Surinder Kaur of Chowk Karori; 53-year-old Parmatma New Dashmesh Nagar (Kot Khalsa); and 55-year-old Jasbir Singh of Sultanwind village.Seven fall prey to Covid in Tarn TaranSeven persons lost their lives to Covid in Tarn Taran on Saturday. With this, the toll reached 240 .The number of deaths today was the highest in a single day.The ones who succumbed to the virus have been identified as Mohan Singh (68), Sawinder Singh (75), Balwinder Kaur (60), Narinder Singh (57), Surinder Kaur (65), Darshan Singh (63) and Mohinder Singh (56) who all were admitted at Amritsar hospitals.The deceased were cremated with the Covid-19 norms under the supervision of the Health Department officials.The Health Department said 179 new Covid-19 positive cases had been reported today which too was the highest since the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-succumb-610-test-positive-in-amritsar-250258
09-05-2021||Amritsar||24-hour helpline for children in need||The district level child safety helpline No. 1098 will be working 24X7 for children during curfew, lockdown hours as well. Pawandeep Kaur, District Child Protection Officer, Amritsar, and Paramjit Kumar Sharma, Chairperson, Child Welfare Committee, Amritsar, on Saturday addressed the issue of child safety during curfew and lockdown restrictions as they shared that the helpline will offer counselling as well as other services for children experiencing mental health problems.  “Any case of child safety, care and domestic violence during the lockdown can be reported on the helpline. The following helplines will help with child counselling, accommodation and care for vulnerable children. If there is any information, complaint regarding child abuse, it should also be registered to ensure safety and wellbeing of kids during the pandemic. If a complainant reports 1098, his, her information will be kept confidential,” said Pawandeep Kaur. She appealed that if any information is received about the children whose parents have died due to Covid or are undergoing treatment in hospitals, the following helpline numbers 1098, District Child Protection Unit— 0183-2573040 and the Chairperson Child Welfare Committee— 9464438515 can be contacted. “The child will be taken to a government recognised child welfare institution . For problems pertaining to legal counselling and education of children, the numbers of legal officer— 9876357202, Child Protection Officer— 8360869891 and PO— 9876424088 can be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-hour-helpline-for-children-in-need-250259
09-05-2021||---||Vaccination in GNDU crosses 1,000 mark||Amritsar, May 8Keeping in view the health of faculty, non-teaching staff and students of the university in the current Covid-19 pandemic, Guru Nanak Dev University has set up its own immunisation centre where inoculation of its staff is being carried out with the help of office of Civil Surgeon, Amritsar.On Friday, the landmark of 1,000 vaccinations has been completed and the university has been able to cover most of its employees over the age of 45 years. Dr Balwinder Singh, professor in charge health centre, who was specifically given the task of assuring the optimal working of the health centre during this difficult time, said that a complete database of the employees of the university has been maintained and they are prioritising the vaccination of frontline workers first.“Most of the employees have taken the first dose of vaccine with the second round coming within the next week. All safety measures of vaccination along with complete facility for storage of vaccine have been setup in the university health centre,” said Dr Balwinder Singh. VC Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said that the vaccination process completing in time would ensure that working of university will come back to normal within the shortest possible time.Apart from this, FICCI FLO too held a vaccination camp, with 100 vaccines administered to people above the age of 45. Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FLO Amritsar, informed that the vaccines were administered free of cost and to facilitate senior citizens.Frontline workers being prioritisedThe university has been able to cover most of its employees over the age of 45 years. Dr Balwinder Singh, professor in charge health centre, who was specifically given the task of assuring the optimal working of the health centre during this difficult time, said a complete database of the employees of the university has been maintained and they are prioritising the vaccination of frontline workers first.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vaccination-in-gndu-crosses-1-000-mark-250260
09-05-2021||---||DAV begins evening, weekend online classes||Amritsar, May 8DAV College has initiated online classes for the students under given circumstances where extension of offline classes seems a likely possibility for the next few months. The evening online classes have been started to facilitate students, who are not able to attend the classes in the day time.“Due to the pandemic, we are all trapped online on the internet, smartphone, laptop and tablets. We have been imparting students not only with online classes but also with online practicals and webinars. Many college students could not attend classes during the day and the matter was brought to us. Now the college has made special arrangements for evenings and weekend classes for them. Currently, these classes have been started by the Department of Computer and Journalism,” informed Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar.The college has also set up digital library to make students access books and learning material online. “The college has also recorded lectures of its professors and made them available online. Most of the students can go to the YouTube channel of the college and watch videos of the related subject as per their convenience,” he added.Prof Vikram Sharma, head of computer department of the college, said that many students pursuing diploma courses were working professionally. “In such a situation, it is not possible for the students to attend their classes regularly. We have started evening classes exclusively for such students. Its main objective is to complete the syllabus well on time,” he said. He added that students who miss class during the day time either due to network problem or due to some other issues, are now attending weekend classes. College sets up digital library for students||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-begins-evening-weekend-online-classes-250261
09-05-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Efficient water mgmt for livestock discussed||Tarn Taran, May 8 Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh (Tarn Taran) enlightened the dairy owners and farmers regarding efficient utilisation of water technologies for the production of forage crops and climate resilient approaches for sustainable livestock production. The KVK organised an online awareness programme on Thursday under ‘Jal Shakti Abhiyan’ in this regard, where as many as 35 dairy farmers and farm women participated. They were made aware of efficient water management for livestock. Dr Balwinder Kumar, associate director (training), KVK, Booh, addressed participants regarding the importance of water and its judicious use in livestock. Dr Suresh Kumar, assistant professor, livestock production, explained about the requirement of water in livestock. He discussed about the drinking behaviour of dairy animals, guidelines for use of saline water for dairy animals and concentration of nitrates in drinking water and expected outcomes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/efficient-water-mgmt-for-livestock-discussed-250262
09-05-2021||---||Relaxation for agri sector brings respite for farmers, traders||Amritsar, May 8 To relax the lockdown for shops selling fertilisers, pesticides, agriculture machinery and tools have come as a respite for the agriculture community which these days is busy planting nursery for paddy crop. The farmers stated that due to the closure of markets they were facing trouble in getting seed, chemicals and machine parts. The paddy transplantation is scheduled to start from the first week of June. With around a month left, the farmers are busy planting nurseries and preparing fields for the next crop. “The agriculture machines and tools often need repairs and service before they are put to use in fields. Usually such works are done after the harvesting of wheat. But by the time, harvesting was completed, the government had imposed lockdown,” said Suresh Gandhi, a tractor spare parts seller.  The government has also allowed opening of shops selling industrial material, tools, pipes and motors. The demand for submersible motors and pipes for borewells is high during this season as farmers need these items for their tubewells to irrigate paddy crop. The relaxation has elated the traders in nearby townships where most of the shops are related to sale of agriculture related items. “The previous lockdown period had been very tough. The government has now taken a timely decision and it will help traders and farmers,” said another shopkeeper Sukhwant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relaxation-for-agri-sector-brings-respite-for-farmers-traders-250263
09-05-2021||Amritsar||NSUI distributes ration among needy||Activists of Punjab National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) distributed ration among families of slum areas in city today. The ruling party’s several wings had announced relief operations under the ‘Farz Manukhta Layi’ mission to reach out to people during the raging pandemic.  Led by state NSUI president Akshay Sharma, the union distributed 250 bags of flour to marginalised families.  “We will be stepping up the drive by distributing another 500 bags among the needy by Monday. We had donated a hi-tech fleet of 15 ambulances with oxygen cylinders, masks, gloves and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits earlier to cope up with increased demand of medical and healthcare services due to the pandemic,” said Akshay. He said the state leadership of Congress had been reaching out to masses reeling under the devastating impact of Covid wave by ensuring them food and other essential items. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-distributes-ration-among-needy-250264
09-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Women cops to lead the way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 8In a major step, the city police have appointed eight women cops to head police stations, besides traffic zonal wings in the city.Though the step was taken to give more representation and participation to women force in operational duties, police officials believe that it would also help in inculcating a trust among the women community to lodge their grievance with the police without any hesitation.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said five women officers have been posted as Station House Officers, including two of women police stations, while three lady officials were made traffic zonal in-charges. “We have now eight lady officials who are on effective field duty,” he said.As per the information, Inspector Rajwinder Kaur would head Gate Hakima police station while Sub-Inspector Khushbu Sharma was deputed as the SHO Airport police station. Sub-Inspector Amandeep Kaur was deputed as SHO Vallah police station. Similarly, inspector Paramdeep Kaur and inspector Rajwinder Kaur would head women police station 1 and 2, respectively.Inspectors Kuldeep Kaur, Parveen Kumari and Sapinder Kaur have been made traffic in-charges of zone number 1, 3 and 4, respectively.This is a welcoming step in the area of women empowerment, said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Parminder Singh Bhandal, while adding that it can prove to be an encouraging factor for women community to reach the police stations without fear and hesitation.Crime against women, especially snatchings, have been on a rise and a number of times women prefer not to lodge complaints with the police, fearing non-responsive male dominated police force.Move will inculcate trust among community||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-cops-to-lead-the-way-250265
09-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers take out protest march against Covid-19 restrictions||Tarn Taran, May 8On a call given by the national leadership of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, farmer organisations organised protests in the district and demanded the opening of all shops without any restrictions. However, the shopkeepers did not turn up for the protest. The farmer organisations held protests in Tarn Taran, Patti, Bhikhiwind, Khalra, Chabal, Sarai Amanat Khan, Khemkaran, Harike, Chohla Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Sarhali, Naushehra Pannuan and in rural and urban areas.The farmers belonging to different organisations held a rally at Gandhi Municipal Park here. Prithipal Singh Marimegha and other leaders, while addressing the protesters, said the imposition of lockdown restrictions on the opening of shops was no solution to save humanity from Covid-19 pandemic. The leaders stressed on the strengthening of health services and providing sufficient oxygen, ventilators, more bedding in government hospitals with other medical facilities. The farmers also marched in the town.Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, state convener of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC), Punjab and member of the SKM, organised protests in Naushehra Pannuan, Chohla Sahib, Sursing and others townships in support of the shopkeepers. He said the lockdown was a conspiracy just to force people to shut themselves in the four walls of the houses as the Central and state governments were busy to protect the interests of big the corporate houses. He said the state government should allow the opening of all shops as usual.Shopkeepers do not turn up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-take-out-protest-march-against-covid-19-restrictions-250266
09-05-2021||---||City-based NRI narrates tale of Bhai Joga Singh||Amritsar, May 8 Amritsar Vikas Manch released a newly published book - Bhai Joga Singh Peshawar - authored by city-based NRI Gurinder Pal Singh Josan on Saturday.  Introducing about the contents of the book, retired Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi narrated that the main character of the book Bhai Joga Singh, who created history by presenting a high moral, ethical and gentle-manliness character, as his mind and soul were engrossed in the Guru’s sermons.  As per history, Bhai Joga was born in 1685 AD in mohalla Ramdas of the Aasia area of Peshawar. His father’s name was Gurmukh. Accompanied by his parents, he arrived at Anandpur Sahib in 1694 AD to seek the blessings of the Guru Gobind Singh. Gurinder Pal Singh Josan explained his extensive travellings to Peshawar, Mumbai, Hoshiarpur etc to research the history and have a glimpse of historical pilgrimages related to Bhai Joga Singh. Splendrous Gurudwaras in Peshawar, Hoshiarpur, Mumbai and Delhi have been established in the memory of Bhai Joga Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-based-nri-narrates-tale-of-bhai-joga-singh-250267
09-05-2021||---||Surge in Covid cases: Minister takes stock of arrangements at Central Jail||Amritsar, May 8 Jail Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday visited Amritsar Central Jail to oversee the arrangements inside jail complex in view of the rapid surge in the novel coronavirus cases in the country.  He said the government was making adequate arrangements to safeguard the jail inmates and to thwart any chances of Covid spread among them. He said that all employees posted in the jail were vaccinated while 462 prisoners above 45 years were also administrated the vaccine. He said 30 per cent of them had got their second dose of vaccine. He said all inmates would be vaccinated. Randhawa said that the government was also providing oximeters and medicine kits under Mission Fateh inside the jails across Punjab. He also visited the kitchen and food being prepared for the prisoners and expressed his satisfaction. He said the government had asked the concerned authorities for providing 50 oximeteres in central jails and 15 oximeters in smaller jails.  Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh informed the minister that the drug addict prisoners were being treated at the de-addiction centre inside the jail. He said the women inmates were shifted to Malerkotla sub-jail which was dedicated for the women prisoners who were found Covid positive. He said social distancing besides vaccination, wearing masks and sanitisation was also ensured in the barracks.  Earlier, jail staff presented guard of honor to the minister. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and other administrative officials also accompanied him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surge-in-covid-cases-minister-takes-stock-of-arrangements-at-central-jail-250268
