13-05-2021||---||20-year-old among 19 lose life, 490 fresh cases in dist||Amritsar, May 12The district on Wednesday recorded 19 more deaths, including that of a 20-year-old, pushing the toll to 1,158. The health authorities also reported 490 new cases with which the total count has increased to 38,737. The new cases include 311 influenza-like illness cases and 179 contacts of positive patients.The health authorities also reported the recovery of 330 patients, taking the tally of the recovered persons to 31,546. At present, the district has 6,033 active cases.Meanwhile, the district health authorities stated that a total of 1,916 persons, including 77 persons, were inoculated in the age group of 18-44 years. The drive for below the 45 age group began on Monday. Till date, a total of 125 beneficiaries have been inoculated.Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said there was no shortage of oxygen or beds for Covid-19 patients in the district. He said in case residents faced any such problem it should be brought to the notice of the civil administration. Aggarwal said the government had allowed 37 hospitals in the district to admit Level-2 and Level-3 category hospitals.The deceased have been identified as Amar Singh (60), a resident of Tej Nagar (Sultanwind Road); Davinder Singh (74) of Gopal Nagar (Majitha Road); Mahinder Kaur (70) of Hasanpura; Sumit Sharma (42) of Gopal Nagar; Sita Rani (20) of Mustafabad; Kulwant Kaur (44) of New Jaspal Nagar; Beant Kaur (50) of Chheharta; Asha Devi (58) of Sadar bazaar; Sahil Chugh (31) of Beri Gate; Harjinder Kaur (40) of Ajnala; Amandeep Sharma (42) of New Ranjitpura; Alka Khosla (56) of Guru Ramdas Avenue (Hall Bazaar); Sarbajit Kaur (89) of Rajasansi; Balwinder Kaur (51) of Kotla Sadra (Ajnala); Nirmal Rani (74) of Tungpai; Davinder Singh (63) of Malluwal (Baba Bakala); Darshan Arora (77) of Basant Avenue; Mandeep Singh (40) of New Tej Nagar (Sultanwind Road) and Jatinder Singh (44) of New Roop Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-year-old-among-19-lose-life-490-fresh-cases-in-dist-252148
13-05-2021||---||Drug addicts kidnap PCR cop, 1 held||Amritsar, May 12Three car-borne persons allegedly kidnapped a cop, ASI Chatar Singh, and snatched his service weapon while he was taking them to the police station for interrogation. The accused had sped away from a checkpoint installed at Mehta road. The car was later intercepted by ASI Chatar Singh and head constable Malkeet Singh of the PCR team near Vallah railway crossing.Within 24 hour of the incident, the police arrested one of the suspects while raids were on to nab his two accomplices. According to the police, they were drug addicts and habitual offenders involved in snatchings. The police recovered the snatched weapon and the car used in the crime.While giving details, Harpal Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (City-3), on Tuesday said that Tarlochan Singh, in charge Guru Teg Bahadur police chowki along with a police party had put up a checkpoint on Chowk Tahli Wala turn on Mehta road falling under the Maqboolpura police station here. They signalled a Verna car to stop. The car was running at very high speed. The occupants sped away the car from the spot.Immediately a message was flashed on the control room and a PCR team including ASI Chatar Singh and head constable Malkeet Singh chased the car on their bike. They intercepted the car near Vallah railway crossing. ASI Chatar Singh sat in the car and asked them to turn towards Maqboolpura police station for further interrogation. Malkeet was following the car on the bike.He said the driver instead to taking the car to police station, drove towards GT Road side. The accused entered in the scuffle with the cop. The driver took out a pistol and pointed at ASI Chatar Singh. After snatching his service weapon —38 bore pistol and five rounds— dumped half a km away from the spot.Following the incident, an alert was sounded when the accused sped towards Batala side. Police teams of Vallah, Verka and Maqboolpura police started chasing the car. Harpal Singh said within 24 hours of the incident, the police nabbed one of the suspect identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Vallah village along with the car and snatched service weapon of the ASI. Their accomplices Harjinder Singh and Harjit were yet to be arrested.Cops attacked in police chowki; probe orderedSeveral persons allegedly attacked cops at Chowki Kot Mit Singh here on late last evening. They threw stones at the police chowki while a cop, identified as Gurwinder Singh, was injured in the incident.Gurwinder Singh said he, along with chowki in-charge Amarjit Singh, patrolling in the area on foot and checking the lockdown violations. He said they found a suspicious scooter in the area and asked about its ownership from the person standing near it. He could not produce any documents. After preliminary questioning they let go him while asking him to show the documents to the police later.The police said when they were returning to the police chowki Avtar Singh of Sri Guru Arjan Dev Nagar olong the Tarn Taran road started provoking people. He along with a number of residents followed the police and attacked the cops. As the police chowki is located near the railway tracks, the accused started throwing stones at the cops.Avtar Singh, on the other hand, alleged that the area police harass poor people of the area unnecessarily under the influence of liquor. He said the chowki in-charge keeps a personal grudge against him. He said he had submitted complaints against him with the senior police officials and also with the SC Commission. He said on Wednesday, the cops held him and took to the police chowki and physically assaulted him. Perneet Singh Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said they have taken written complaints from Avtar Singh and the matter was being probed. He said appropriate action would be taken against those found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addicts-kidnap-pcr-cop-1-held-252150
13-05-2021||Amritsar||Woman suffers miscarriage; family protests police inaction||The family members of a pregnant woman on Wednesday held a dharna over police inaction outside a police post here. A four months pregnant woman suffered miscarriage after several persons allegedly attacked her husband in the house over a minor issue. The family members alleged that the police were not taking any action as one of the suspects was a cop and his son was also involved in it.Perturbed over this, the victim’s family members held a demonstration outside the Chheharta police chowki demanding the registration of a case against the suspects. The dharna was lifted after police officials assured them of filing a case in this regard.The victim’s husband Kirpal Singh said he, along with his family, was having dinner last night when accused Jobanpreet Singh along with his parents, Sajan along with his family and their accomplices barged into their house and attacked them. He said they kicked his wife in the stomach which led to her miscarriage. She was under treatment at a private hospital.He said a complaint was submitted by his brother Amritpal Singh to the Chheharta police chowki on Tuesday but no action was taken by the police. The police said investigation was under progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-suffers-miscarriage-family-protests-police-inaction-252151
13-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman shot dead  over illicit relations||Tarn Taran, May 12The police have booked a man for gunning down a woman, who was allegedly having illicit relations with his son, at Bhattal Sehja Singh village falling under the Chohla Sahib police station here on Tuesday evening. The accused person’s son was also injured in the firing.The deceased has been identified as Seema Rani (45) and the injured as Gurjant Singh (35) of Chamba Khurd. Gurjant was admitted to the local Civil Hospital. He disappeared from the hospital mysteriously soon after he was admitted.The accused have been identified as Paramjit Singh, his son Jarman Singh of Chamba Khurd and there was one more person who has not been identified. Gurjant Singh is married and has two kids while the deceased woman’s husband died about four years ago. She developed a relationship with Gurjant Singh of a nearby village who would live with her and his parents and wife would often object to their relationship.SHO, Chohla Sahib, Inspector Paramjit Singh said Paramjit Singh, his second son Jarman Singh and one unidentified person came to the victim’s residence in a car on late Tuesday evening where they saw Seema Rani and Gurjant talking.The accused opened fire on them from a close range. Seema Rani was killed on the spot and Gurjant Singh was injured and brought to the local Civil Hospital.The victim’s son Harpreet Singh, who is an eyewitness to the incident, told the police said that Gurjant Singh was having an illicit relationship with his mother and the accused were objecting to it.The SHO said a case under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the accused who are absconding. He said the house of the accused was locked as they disappeared after committing the crime.Know the caseGurjant Singh is married and has two kids while the deceased woman's husband died about four years ago. She developed a relationship with Gurjant Singh of a nearby village who would live with her and his parents and wife would often object to their relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-shot-dead-over-illicit-relations-252152
13-05-2021||---||Call to donate surplus medical supplies, medicines for needy||Amritsar, May 12Urging people, who have recently recovered from Covid, to donate the surplus medical equipments required for its treatment, including oxymeters, thermal scanners and surplus prescribed and unprescribed medicines, FICCI FLO is collaborating with the Health Department to collect and distribute the supplies to needy. The ‘Pass the Pill’ campaign is aimed at ensuring that those in need of Covid-related treatment supplies are not denied due to reported shortage in the market.Manjot DHillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, said the first consignment of collected medical supplies was today handed over to officials. “The collected material through our drive contains oxymeters and medicines that were sent to Gurdaspur and Dhaliwal, where they would be distributed to public health centres. The initial panic regarding Covid had created a problem of bulk-buying and hoarding of such medical equipments. We are asking people to donate voluntarily. We have also set up a oxygen concentrator bank, where we have already received two oxygen tanks donated by a woman from Batala,” she said.Dr Yukti Gupta, from Dr Ved Gupta Hospital and Raminder Grover, administrator, Preet Hospital, are also collaborating for the donation drive. “Most people are not being able to procure oxymeters, thermal scanners, and thermometers in market or online due to reported shortage that happened as many panic-bought such medical goods even when they did not need it. This has only resulted in further panic, especially for those who have tested positive. We have recently sent oxymeters and medicines to places like Delhi, as people in need had contacted us for help,” said Raminder Grover. The volunteers can drop the donations at Dr Ved Gupta Hospital and Preet Hospital that have created specific storage facility for donations.“The medicines, including unprescribed drugs and prescribed drugs, like FAbi Flu, which is being used for Covid treatment will be handed over to the Health Department officials for further distribution. Something that might be lying discarded in your drawer could be a lifesaver for someone else,” said Dr Yukti Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/call-to-donate-surplus-medical-supplies-medicines-for-needy-252154
13-05-2021||---||Railway station vendors, trolley operators seek rent waiver||Amritsar, May 12Vendors and trolley operators at the Amritsar railway station are a harried lot as most of the trains are suspended.There are about 12 stalls, eight trolleys, one food plaza and five water-vending machines at the local railway station. These commercial units offer direct employment to nearly 60 persons and indirect to about 30 persons. All these had been unemployed for the past over a year.The monthly rent for setting up a stall ranges between Rs 15,000 to Rs 30,000, for a trolley about Rs 15,000 and a food plaza is over Rs 1 lakh.They stated that most of them could not open shops as there was hardly any customer due to extremely low occupancy of passengers in trains which were operated. Only two trolleys, one stall and food plaza is serving few customers. So these units are incurring losses.They said their repeated requests for waiver of rent during the pandemic were not heeded by the authorities. Rents are extremely high, so are wages to workers, power tariff and miscellaneous expenses. As footfall is not likely to bounce back to its normal flow, it would not be wise to open the stalls.Before the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the railway station had been daily handling operations of 116 trains. Now, daily operation of trains is hovering around a dozen pair of trains. Classified as A-1 category railway station with annual earning of Rs 228 crore, tourists visiting the Golden Temple used to form the major proportion out of the 55,000 daily footfall.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Ferozepur Zone, said decisions of such magnitude were taken at the head office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railway-station-vendors-trolley-operators-seek-rent-waiver-252155
13-05-2021||Amritsar||Man runs for getting farm laws repealed||After running for 13 days, Gurwinder Singh on Tuesday reached at Delhi’s Singhu border to make the Union government aware of the displeasure of farmers over three laws.He chose the physically grueling task of running from his native border village Agwan in Gurdaspur to the national capital in the hot summer. He did not mind taking risk when there was a spike in the Covid-19 cases.Talking to the Amritsar Tribune he said: “I commenced the running on April 28 and reached Delhi on Tuesday.” Accompanied him were other farmers from his area and friends. He credited the cooperation extended by the sangat during the run. “They encouraged me all along the way,” he said, the objective of the run was to impress upon the government to repeal the three laws on farming. On his personal experience gained during the run he said the majority of people were supporting farmers in this struggle. He was felicitated at the stages of Samyukt Kisan Morcha and Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-runs-for-getting-farm-laws-repealed-252156
13-05-2021||Amritsar||Make pay panel report public, demand pensioners||The Punjab Pensioners’ Union has asked the government to make public the report of the Pay Commission.Members of the union, led by deputy general secretary Satya Pal Gupta, made this demand after holding a meeting of the union here on Monday. He described the rise in the medical fund of pensioners as marginal and sought the restoration of the old pattern of pension which used to take care well of the aged. The country, being a welfare state, should take care of at least its own retired employees, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-pay-panel-report-public-demand-pensioners-252157
