14-05-2021||---||10 deaths, 532 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 13With 10 more Covid-19 related deaths reported in the district on Thursday, the toll increased to 1,168. The health authorities also reported 532 new cases. With this, the total count has increased to 39,269.The new cases include 337 influenza like illness cases and 195 contacts of positive patients. The district reported recovery of 410 patients and the recovery count has reached 31,956. At present, the district has a total of 6,145 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Paramjit Kaur (61), a resident of Bhalla Colony (Chhehharta); Kuldeep Rai (75) of Greenfield (Majitha road); Amarjit Kaur (65) of Nehru Colony (Majitha road); Chandee Hanta (75) of Gurbax Nagar (Nwakot); Kanta Jaswal (65) of Batala road; Raju Singh (51) of Tangra; Manjit Kaur (60) of Sham Nagar; Ravi Chandar (59) of Gali Krishna Chowk; Rinku (38) of Near Guru Ramdas Mandir and Harbhans Lal (88) of Rani Ka Bagh.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla announced Rs 50 lakh for setting up of a new oxygen plant at the Government Medical College. He said remaining Rs 50 lakh would be contributed by philanthropist SPS Oberoi of the Sarbat Da Bhalla. Aujla accused the Centre of discrimination in allocation of resources, including oxygen required to tackle the pandemic. He said the plant would become operational by July.The MP also held a meeting to review the Covid control programme. GMC principal Rajiv Devgan said, “We have around 300 patients, out of which 250 are Level-III category patients and require regular oxygen.” Civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said around 8,000 samples were being tested daily. The Civil Surgeon also conducted an inspection at Civil hospital on Thursday and asked the medical staff to handle and dispose medical waste in a proper way. The employees were also instructed to ensure that all Covid safety guidelines are followed properly by them and the visitors.In the ongoing vaccination drive, the health authorities inoculated 4,415 residents on Thursday. The vaccination for 18-44 age group has also picked up pace as 441 workers registered with the Labour Department were administerd the shots today. A total of 556 residents in this category have been vaccinated to date.Four deaths, 79 test positive in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported four deaths in Tarn Taran district on Thursday. With this, the toll reached 254. The deceased include Bakhshish Singh (54), Gian Kaur (36), Sawinder Singh (54) and Kirandeep Kaur (40).The authorities reported 79 fresh cases and the tally increased to 846. DC Kulwant Singh said 1,641 persons were administered the dose today and 1,10,863 persons have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-deaths-532-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-252535
14-05-2021||---||Wheat procurement season ends||Amritsar, May 13With wheat procurement season coming to end on Thursday, various procurement agencies purchased 7,41,616 MT of foodgrains. Only 1,128 MT has been purchased by private players while the remaining has been procured by the government agencies.Though the procurement process has been completed, a major portion of foodgrains purchased by different agencies was yet to be lifted from grain markets.Officials said 3,52,542 MT of wheat stock has been lifted from mandis while the remaining was still lying in the open. The district has witnessed intermittent showers in the last four days, as a result, wheat lying in the open has got drenched. A commission agent said showers have added to their trouble as labourers have to cover gunny bags whenever it rains.The state government agency, Pungrain, which had been leading in the procurement has purchased a total of 2,17,834 MT followed by Punsup with 1,72,657 MT. Markfed has procured 1,58,070 MT wheat while Punjab Warehouse has purchased 95,053 MT. The Food Corporation of India has procured 93,614 MT.The wheat procurement season in state has ended early this year due to pandemic. Earlier, the procurement process was scheduled to end on May 31. The wheat procurement in state had began on April 10. However, as harvesting started late in the district, produce arrived in markets after April 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-procurement-season-ends-252536
14-05-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Despite NGT’s advice, Shivpuri crematorium not relocated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 13A few years ago, Durgiana Temple Committee had raised concern over pollution due to cremation with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), claiming that it damages the temple’s gold-plated walls. On the recommendation of the NGT Monitoring Committee, the Municipal Corporation initiated the process to relocate the century-old Shivpuri cremation ground, but failed to find a suitable land for shifting the crematorium.Office-bearers of the Durgiana Temple Committee claimed that they had attended three online meetings during the last one year in which the NGT asked the local administration to shift the crematorium to another place.After the outbreak of Covid-19’s second wave, the number of cremations rose almost double, and the office-bearers of Durgiana Temple Committee worried about its effect on the gold plates of the temple. Moreover, the ashes also pollute the talab of mandir.Advocate Ramesh Sharma, President, Durgiana Temple Committee, said, “Huge amounts of ashes cover all corners of talab every morning. We have to clean the talab regularly. After every fortnight, we clean the gold plates, otherwise it turns black. We have written to the NGT and they have asked the Municipal Corporation to provide the space for cremation but to no avail. The MC had proposed some land far away from the city, but how would the residents reach there in case of non-availability of vehicle.” The existing Shivpuri cremation ground is the oldest and a major cremation grounds in two-acre land. As many as 35 bodies can be cremated in a single day here.In July 2020, Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, had constituted a committee, comprising Additional Commissioner Sandip Rishi, Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia, Dr Yogesh, Municipal Health Officer and local registrar and Superintending Engineer (civil) to conduct a survey and submit the report.The committee had conducted a survey to check the capacity of other cremation grounds in the city. Instead of developing some new cremation ground, the committee planned to shift the load of Shivpuri to other crematoriums by upgrading the existing infrastructure.However, the MC proposed to install a CNG-equipped crematorium under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) of the Central Government.Earlier in 2016, the Amritsar Improvement Trust had proposed to develop a new modern crematorium in four-acre land near Gumtala Bypass. Some religious organisations moved the court and took stay orders on the construction of the crematorium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-ngts-advice-shivpuri-crematorium-not-relocated-252537
14-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Dhunda village farmers’ protest enters 8th day||Tarn Taran, May 13The Dhunda village farmers’ protest against erecting of dam in the interior portion of Beas river entered eighth day on Thursday.Rohit Gupta, SDM Khadoor Sahib, said the state government had released a grant of more than Rs1 crore for the dam to save their produce from inundating every year. He said the administration after conducting its survey by the Drainage Department had introduced the project. He said the dam was under construction.A deputation of the CPI led by leaders Prithipal Singh Marimegha and Devinder Sohal visited the spot today and said the under construction dam was a political movement to save the interests of few families likely to be their supporters by ignoring interests of majority of the farmers. The CPI leaders, with reference of farmers of the area Baldev Singh Dhunda, Harbans Singh Waring, Nirvel Singh, Harjinder Singh Panchayat member Dhunda, Gurmej Singh Subedar, Amarjit Singh, Gurdial Singh Nambardar Dhunda, Gurmej Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Rachpal Singh, Surjit Singh Maninder Singh, Gujjar Singh, etc refuted the claim saying that the dam must save the land and the crops of all the farmers. The agitators said the dam would divert the river’s flow from their 2,000-acre land which destroys their crops after every six months.The farmers said this trend of appeasing their fellows by the politicians had been seen since decades as this type of dam was erected by the politicians of Kapurthala years back and the river water of Kapurthala flows to this side often and entered their fields causing big losses.CPI leader and the farmers demanded for the permanent solution of the problem by constructing a parallel canal in the interior portion to save their land and the crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhunda-village-farmers-protest-enters-8th-day-252539
14-05-2021||Neha Saini||Delayed start to academic year weighs heavy on teachers, pupils||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 13Uncertainty prevailing over CBSE board exams and delay in several odd-even semester exams due to the second wave of Covid-19 has once again made an entire academic year of 2021-22 go haywire. Several colleges have delayed admissions for 2021-22 and are looking towards a rushed up or shortened academic year.The CBSE is yet to take a call on Class XII boards in June, while the state government has extended Covid-19 restrictions on educational institutions. Under these circumstances, academicians believe that they have been looking towards a shortened academic session, putting students in a fix.“The exams for even classes are still going on in some colleges through online mode. Several institutions are waiting for fresh guidelines by the state government in order to resume offline exams for odd classes. In a regular academic session, May-June is the time when admissions for new session begin. But the entire process has been delayed by at least three months. If, assuming that no extension of curbs happens, the exams are conducted in June, the admission for new classes will begin in August-September. This is way too late for entire syllabus to be completed in time,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal, DAV College.Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College, too feels that the constant delay in academic process is not good for students and institutions. “The lapse of two-three months in the beginning of the 2021-22 academic session will put an added pressure on teachers and students to finish the syllabus within the regular academic time frame. That would be a challenge given that we are still not sure on how long the second wave is going to last. Also, it would upset the balance of a student’s career or academic plaans.”Even colleges offering professional degrees in engineering and IT are looking towards a challenging year ahead. “We started our first semester batch in November last year due to pandemic. This year too, we might have to begin with our new batch from November. The process of completing the syllabus is without any break for teachers as well as students, which is taxing both mentally and physically,” said Dr VK Banga, principal, Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology.Dr Pushpinder Walia, principal, BBKDAV College, said the direct implications of extended academic year will only be gauged when things become clear. “Currently, the situation is highly unpredictable. So, we will try to make things work whatever the situation will be.”When the state government had announced the shutdown of educational institutions and schools, several colleges were in the middle of conducting offline exams for odd/even classes. The suspended schedule of exams will only resume if the government lifts the restrictions. While students and colleges wait for that to happen, no provisional or conditional admissions are being done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delayed-start-to-academic-year-weighs-heavy-on-teachers-pupils-252540
14-05-2021||---||Online session at KVK dwells on renewable energy||Amritsar, May 13A capacity-building programme on Agriculture Demand Side Management was held online at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Amritsar, in collaboration with the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA). The idea was to create awareness and sensitise the stakeholders on the efficient technologies and policies that help save energy and water in agriculture sector.The knowledge sessions were conducted on various aspects of energy and water conservation pertained to agriculture sector, including drip irrigation, energy efficient pumps and motors, star labeling of agricultural pumps and state policies on renewable energy.Dr Bikramjit Singh, Deputy Director, KVK, Amritsar, was the chief guest on the occasion. He emphasised on the need for energy conservation and the use of efficient technologies to make agriculture more cost-effective. He shared about various available technologies, including biomass, solar pumps, solar plants that help creating a significant positive impact on the environment too.Paramjit Singh, senior manager, PEDA was the Guest of Honour. He shared with the participants various initiatives of PEDA in the agriculture sector as well as overall achievement in terms of installed capacities on various RE technologies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-session-at-kvk-dwells-on-renewable-energy-252541
14-05-2021||---||Covid casts shadow over Khalsa College museum||Amritsar, May 13The inauguration of five galleries established at the Sikh History Research Centre, Khalsa College, that was completed in 2019, has been delayed by two years due to the pandemic. The galleries are a part of the museum established at the Sikh History Research Centre by Khalsa College that houses rare artifacts and manuscripts, paintings and other historical items from the 18th and the 19th century.Dr Kuldip Singh Dhillon, in-charge, Sikh history and Research Department, Khalsa College, said the galleries were supposed to be open for public but due to lockdown, the inauguration got delayed. “We had completed the work on the restoration and curated the galleries back in November 2019. The process of restoration for manuscripts was being undertaken when lockdown was announced. We hope to open museum space for public soon.”The centre was also undertaking restoration and conservation work for its collection of 650 Sikh manuscripts and documents of significance. Apart from this, expert conservationists from Salar Jung Museum, Hyderabad, and Sajjan Singh, convener, Sikh Heritage Foundation, Hyderabad, along with his team, had been working on the museum artifacts. Both the teams had to return as lockdown was announced. “We had completed work on the restoring weapon collection from Sikh Misl period while the conservation work on manuscripts is still going on.In the past two years, the pace of the restoration work has been slow due to restrictions and safety protocol. Earlier, two different teams with three-four members were simultaneously carrying out work but now we are three people carrying out restoration of manuscripts,” said Ajaypal Singh, one of the conservationists working at the centre.The centre has over 6,274 books, including rare books in English and Punjabi and hundreds of manuscripts and documents in Urdu, Sanskrit and Persian as well. The five galleries showcase the eras of Sikh Gurus, paintings by noted European and Indian artists, depicting Sikh rule, life of Sikh rulers such as Maharaja Ranjit Singh and rare manuscripts.The weaponry display includes swords, guns and bows and arrows from 18th and 19th centuries. Besides, it also houses Ragamala paintings, details of Misl period and pictures of gurdwaras in Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-casts-shadow-over-khalsa-college-museum-252542
14-05-2021||---||15 booked for attacking cops, helping burglar to escape||Amritsar, May 13As many as 15 persons attacked cops and helped a burglar to escape from the police custody in Bhindi Saida area, here on Wednesday. Among those booked include the mother of the suspect, his two brothers and their sons.Those booked have been identified as Manjit Singh, his mother Shindo, Bau Singh, Lal Singh, Raja, Battu, all residents of Bhindi Saida and around 10 unknown persons.Sub-Inspector Gagandeep Singh, in his complaint, stated that yesterday, he, along with his police team was raiding the area to nab Manjit Singh who was a prime suspect in two burglary incidents in Ajnala area when got a tip off that the accused was present in his house. He said they arrested Manjit when he was going to his home from the main road.On seeing this, Shindo challenged the police party that she would not allow the police party to arrest him. The SI said she started pelting stones at the police party. Meanwhile, other accused also reached there and started creating a ruckus. They attacked the police party and stopped them from discharging their duties.He said taking advantage of this, Manjit slipped away from the police custody. Later, they also fled from the spot.The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186, 224 and 225 of the IPC against them, while no arrest has been made till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-booked-for-attacking-cops-helping-burglar-to-escape-252543
14-05-2021||---||Road rage: Youth injured in firing||Amritsar, May 13  A youngster was injured while his friend escaped after two persons shot at them on Ram Tirath road on Wednesday evening.  One of the accused has been identified as Lovepreet Singh of Kohali village. Rajesh Babbar, a resident of Kartar Nagar, told the police that he along with his friend David Bhatti was heading from Ram Tirath to Kohali on a motorcycle. He said when they reached near Baba Jago Shaheed bridge, two persons came from behind on a motorcycle and rammed into them. He said this led to a heated altercation.  Babbar said when they asked the duo not to use foul language, one of the accused pulled out a revolver and fired at them. He said one bullet bruised Bhatti’s arm while second one hit his left thigh and hip. He said when they raised an alarm and people started gathering, the accused fled away from the spot.  Babbar said he rushed Bhatti to GNDH where he was under treatment.  Assistant Sub-Inspector Angrej Singh said a case under Sections 307, 34 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against Lovepreet and his accomplice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-rage-youth-injured-in-firing-252544
14-05-2021||Amritsar||12 cases disposed of at court camp||The District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA) today disposed of as many as 12 cases during a camp court organised at Amritsar Central Jail here. Among the cases which were heard and disposed included a case of Pakistani national languishing here for the past two years. He would now be released and repatriated to his native country after completing the necessary formalities.According to information, the cases were heard by Pushpinder Singh, Civil Judge-cum-Secretary DLSA. He also met jail inmates and listened to their grievances. He asked the central jail authorities to resolve their issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-cases-disposed-of-at-court-camp-252546
14-05-2021||---||Two weapons, bullets seized; one booked||Amritsar, May 13The police confiscated two weapons from a bag of car-borne person who, however, managed to escape from the spot. Along with a pistol and a revolver, the police seized 31 bullets of different calibre and two magazines from the bag.The city police have booked the occupant of the SUV, identified as Gagan Chogawan, under the Arms Act and raids were on to nab him.According to information, a police party was holding a checkpoint near Radha Soami Dera on Ram Tirath Road when it signalled a SUV driver to stop the vehicle which was coming from Sunny enclave side. When the SUV stopped, a man came out who was having a bag dangling on his shoulder. The police asked him to get his bag checked but the accused hit ASI Gurpinder Singh on face with the bag. The bag fell down while the unknown person sat in the vehicle and sped away towards Chogawan side.During search of the bag, the police seized a 32 bore pistol special along with two magazines and 10 cartridges, a revolver 32 bore (on which NP.FG12716, revolver 32 MK GUN Kanpur was written), five cartridges 32 bore, three cartridges 32 bore and 13 cartridges of 32 bore special. The police also seized two debit cards of HDFC Bank and Oriental Bank of Commerce.Following a preliminary probe, the police booked Gagan Chogawan under Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The police said raids were on to nab him besides finding the source of the weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-weapons-bullets-seized-one-booked-252547
14-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Salesman concocts false robbery story, arrested||Tarn Taran, May 13Manga Singh, a resident of Ajnala, who worked as a salesman at Pal Sandhu Filling Station, Shahabazpur, had to pay heavy price for concocting a false story related to robbery of Rs. 2.83 lakh from him on May 10.Manga had said that he was heading towards Amritsar to hand over the cash to Hari Om, owner of the filling station, when the incident took place.Om on the basis of claims of Manga, filed a complaint with the police. He stated that Manga was coming to Amritsar to hand over money, when some persons thrashed him and looted money from him near Jarmastpur village. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered on the statement of Om.Deputy Superintendent of Police Sucha Singh Bal said during preliminary investigation, Manga disclosed that he wanted to purchase a residential plot, and he himself concocted the false story.The Deputy Superintendent of Police said Manga has been arrested and a case under Sections 379-B, 408 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against him. The police have claimed to recover some cash from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salesman-concocts-false-robbery-story-arrested-252548
14-05-2021||Amritsar||7-year-old boy’s face ‘set on’ fire||SGPC condemns attack on youthAmritsar: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Jagir Kaur condemned brutal assault and desecration of ‘Kes’ (hair) of a Sikh youth in Rajasthan. The SGPC president said, “At a time when there are crisis due to the pandemic and the Sikhs have come to assist the needy, this tragic incident has led to great resentment and anger among the Sikh community. The selfless service rendered by the Sikhs is being appreciated all over the world, but cases of atrocities against the Sikhs are coming to light.” SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said a case has been registered by the Rajasthan police against four persons, but this was not enough. “We urge the Rajasthan Government to immediately arrest the culprits and punish them so that no one else dares to repeat such a heinous act again,” he said. TNSDevelopment works: Meet heldAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu held a meet with councillors of wards falling in the Amritsar (Central) Assembly constituency on Thursday. Councillors apprised the Mayor about difficulties being faced and other development issues in their respective wards. The meeting was also attended by officials of various departments, including Civil, Operation and Maintenance, and Horticulture. Councillors were heard ward-wise by the Mayor and officials were directed to address the issues. Rintu assured councillors that the Municipal Corporation was with and all of them would work for development of their wards. Councillors expressed satisfaction related to various development works done by civic body. TNSMan found murderedTarn Taran: The Chabal police have recovered a body of an unidentified person from bank of a canal at Jagatpur village on Wednesday. Chabal SHO Jaswant Singh said left leg and right hand were found chopped. He said as per preliminary probe, the man was first tied and then murdered. The police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC and further investigation was initiated. The body had been kept at mortuary of the Civil Hospital for identification purpose. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-year-old-boys-face-set-on-fire-252549
14-05-2021||---||Salon worker shot in Pandori village, cops clueless so far||Amritsar, May 13A 25-year-old woman was shot dead by unknown persons on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The assailants left the country-made weapon used in the crime with the body which was found in Pandori village today morning.The victim, identified as Amanpreet Kaur, a resident of the Ganda Singh Wala area, used to work in a beauty salon in the Pandori village. Last evening she told her brother that she would arrive late as she was going to attend some customers after the saloon closes. However, she did not return till late evening. Though they tried to find her but failed to locate her.The police reached the spot and took the body into its possession and sent it to Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital for autopsy. The victim has a gunshot wound at her chest. On the statement of her father Jasbir Singh, the Kamboh police have registered a murder case against unknown persons. The police authorities said the motive behind the murder would be ascertained only after the arrest of the perpetrators.According to police, Amanpreet was married to an auto-rickshaw driver and the couple had a son from the marriage.Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, Investigating Officer and in charge Bal Kalan police chowki, said that she had been working in the beauty salon located near Pandori village bus stand for the past three years. He said the police had recovered a Verna car which was allegedly used in the crime. Once the owners were identified, they would crack the case. He said whether she was sexually assaulted or not, it would be ascertained following the autopsy report.He said a case under Section 302 of the IPC and the Arms Act was registered against unknown persons for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salon-worker-shot-in-pandori-village-cops-clueless-so-far-252550
