15-05-2021||Amritsar||UP-based girl raped, 1 booked||Man injured in accident, diesTarn Taran: Goldi (38), a resident of Chhapar Wali Gali, who was injured in a road accident on Wednesday on the Muradpur road, succumbed to his injuries here on Thursday. ASI Bhupinder Singh, posted at the city police station, said the victim was returning from the local Shani Mandir after paying obeisance when a speeding truck hit him. He was admitted to the local Civil Hospital from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Amritsar, where he died. The police have booked the truck driver, identified as Pinder Singh of Sheron village, under Sections 304-A, 279, 427, 337 and 338 of the IPC. OCTwo held with illicit liquorTarn Taran: In a joint raid conducted at Kirtowal Kalan village here on Thursday, the police and the Excise Department arrested Major Singh of the village and recovered 45 kg of lahan and 11,250 ml of illicit liquor. In another case, a team of officials of the Excise Department, led by Inspectors Jatinder Singh and Amrik Singh, nabbed Bunti of Muradpur locality from a naka set up on the Amritsar Road and recovered 30,000 ml of illicit liquor. The accused was on Moped which was also impounded by them. Excise Officer Navjot Bharti said cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered against the accused. OCMan held for raping womanAmritsar: The police have arrested Jaswant Singh of Batala for allegedly raping a woman last month. According to the police, the complainant used to work as a domestic help. She had alleged that in October last year, the accused raped her and clicked her objectionable pictures. She alleged that the accused blackmailed her for establishing physical relations with her a number of times. The accused was on the run from April 29. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/up-based-girl-raped-1-booked-253214
15-05-2021||The Ranjit Sagar Dam Oustees Association which is at the forefront of the struggle to get compensation for the land acquired during the construction of the dam is once again in the limelight. Its members||Empty promises||Two in one!The doctor in this cop surfaces every now and then. And when it does, the advice given on anything related to Covid is savoured even by dyed-in-the-wool professional physicians. Almost everybody in the city knows that SSP Nanak Singh (pic) is an IPS officer. However, not many know that he was a doctor – having done his MBBS from Amritsar medical college – before he cleared the civil services examination. It is common to see the officer exchanging his views on Covid and other diseases with senior doctors. Last week, some volunteers of an NGO knocked his doors to tell him that Covid restrictions were not being followed in letter and spirit by residents. Somewhere along the line a discussion broke out over which is more efficient, Covaxin or Covishield. The doctor got the better of the cop and lo and behold the volunteers were in for some advice. The SSP recounted the story of Buridan’s donkey. For starters, the officer reminded his audience that Jean Buridan was a 14th century French philosopher. Then came the story which threw light on how an animal finds itself paralysed between two equally desirable alternatives. Buridan’s donkey is a philosophical paradox on the conception of freewill. In this hypothetical scenario, a donkey is placed precisely midway between a bale of hay and a barrel of water. The animal is equally hungry and thirsty. But being a donkey, it is confused whether to eat first or drink first. Since both the water and hay are equidistant and since it is both equally hungry and thirsty, it is unable to make a rational choice. Finally, the rational donkey dies. After the story came a suggestion. People who often waste time deciding between Covishield and Covaxin often meet the same fate as Buridan’s donkey. The volunteers got the point and the discussion ended then and there. The SSP was happy and so was his audience. The impasse had been broken courtesy a sagacious gentleman from France! Later, Nanak Singh told TNS, “The best Covid vaccine is the first one available. Do not wait for a specific brand. All the currently authorised and recommended vaccines are equally safe and equally effective.” That was a point well made, irrespective of Buridan and his rational donkey.Monsoon ready?Ahead of the monsoon season, Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has ordered a massive de-silting and de-watering drive in all villages of Punjab. This is being done to ensure that there is no flooding in villages when the rains come calling next month. The minister said that last year 12,244 ponds were dewatered. This time his department intends to target 14,919 ponds. This exercise is also seen as a vote-garnering one as it comes just as Assembly elections are around the corner. Bajwa said the entire work was being executed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to ensure livelihood to the poor. Sources say the Panchayat Department has become tough on villagers encroaching upon ponds. Village ponds are common lands that are governed by the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Act, 1961 hence any encroachment is taken seriously. There are over 13,000 villages in Punjab that have nearly 15,000 ponds. — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/empty-promises-253213
15-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Boy commits suicide, 7 of a family booked||Prabhjit Singh (22) of Rajoke village committed suicide at his home on the intervening night of May 12-13. The body was seen hanging in a room on Thursday morning. The police also recovered a suicide note from the spot on the basis of which, seven members of a family have been booked.The police said the deceased Prabhjit Singh used to live with his uncle Avtar Singh, a resident of Suba Kadom (Ferozepur) since childhood. Prabhjit developed physical relations with Avtar’s minor daughter and both ran away from the house. Avtar Singh lodged a criminal case against him and his family members under Section 376 about five months back under the POCSO Act, with the Ferozepur district police.The Ferozepur police located Prabhjit and the minor girl and sent him to jail while the girl was handed over to her parents. He was later released on bail. ASI Satnam Singh, Investigation Officer (IO), said, Prabhjit and his family members were falsely implicated in the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/boy-commits-suicide-7-of-a-family-booked-253212
15-05-2021||---||Cantonment police file cross case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Days after a clash and firing in the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital in which an emergency medical officer was injured due to a gunshot injury, the investigation took a curious turn when cross case was filed against those who had come to the Civil Hospital for treatment and the medico legal report.The Civil Hospital firing was an outcome of a clash occurred in the Luv Kush Nagar area hours before the incident and an FIR was registered by the Cantonment police station in this connection.In the FIR, the police had booked Raj Kumar Raju along with Sunny Sahota, besides their other accomplices on charges of illegal restrain, firing and creating law and order problem and under the Arms Act on the statement of Rahul Negi and his brother Madan Negi who were allegedly injured.However, the police said following a probe and the statement of Vijay Kumar of Luv Kush Nagar near Putlighar said in fact it was Rahul Negi, Madan Negi and other accomplices who had attacked at the residence of Raj Kumar Raju and damaged their car before the retaliation by the other group. In his statement to the police, he said Negi brothers along with Ishwar Chohan, Santosh Kumar and others had a dispute with Raj Kumar. Negi brothers and his supporters had allegedly fired some gunshots and indulged in stone pelting.The police said following this, a cross case had been registered and further investigation was under progress. A group of supporters of Raj Kumar and others who were booked in the case earlier had sit on a dharna outside the Cantonment police station seeking the arrest of the ‘real’ culprits who were roaming freely in the area. The dharna was lifted after Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal assured them of an appropriate action in the case and immediate arrest of the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cantonment-police-file-cross-case-253211
15-05-2021||---||SGPC not leasing  out Miri-Piri medical college trust: Officials||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14SGPC has refuted the ‘baseless’ statement made by a former Jathedar of Akal Takht Bhai Ranjit Singh at Fatehgarh Sahib on Thursday about the trust of Miri-Piri Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Shahbad-Markanda, Haryana.In a joint press statement issued from the SGPC office, SGPC’s senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhittewad, junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said SGPC manages many trusts and Miri-Piri Medical College trust is also one among them being managed at Shahabad-Markanda in Kurukshetra district of Haryana.SGPC officials appealed to former Jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh not to spread propaganda and false allegations against the Sikh body.“This trust is the property of SGPC. The statement by Bhai Ranjit Singh about leasing out this trust is a blatant lie and appeares to be just for the sake of political gains,” said the SGPC officials.They also said during the press conference that the members of SGPC’s trusts are nominated by the SGPC itself. “Bhai Ranjit Singh had spoken about leasing out Miri-Piri Trust without any logic.“He should not spread such false information. As a former Jathedar, baseless statements do not suit his personality,” said Dhami.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-not-leasing-out-miri-piri-medical-college-trust-officials-253210
15-05-2021||---||NGOs collect 150 units of blood||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14The city-based NGOs, ‘Phulkari’ and ‘Voice of Amritsar’ in collaboration with the District Red Cross Society organised a blood donation camp at IMA hall on Friday.The camp was held with medical support from Guru Nanak Dev Blood Bank and was conducted under the patronage of Deputy Commissioner and chief of Red Cross Gurpreet Singh Khaira.Neeta Mehra, chief, Voice of Amritsar, said, “This camp was in response to the appeal by medical and blood bank authorities to hold camps due to acute shortage of blood being faced at blood banks in the district due to pandemic. It’s in our hands to prevent a crisis of blood shortage.” Actor Sukhmani Sidana also came out to support the cause. Members of the two NGOs came out in full force to do their bit.The donors were pre-registered and were given time slots to donate blood. Deepa Swani, chief, Phulkari, said, “Safety of donors was of prime concern to us. We were able to provide complete assurance to them that all measures to ensure Covid appropriate protocol were in place. More than 150 donors came today.”All donors underwent rapid antigen test. Asisinder Singh, Executive Secretary, Red Cross, said, “This camp will provide relief to blood banks as the shortage increases due to restriction on blood donation for 14 days after vaccination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngos-collect-150-units-of-blood-253209
15-05-2021||---||2 days after attack on cops, ‘detainee’ moves SC panel||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Two days after several persons allegedly pelted stones at a police team at Kot Mit Singh police chowki, Avtar Singh, a resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, on Friday approached the SC Commission’s member, Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka, to seek his intervention in the matter.The police had accused Avtar of provoking people. However, Avtar alleged that he was kept in illegal detention, physically assaulted by the police and tossed his turban while in custody. He alleged that chowki in charge Amarjit Singh did this for pressurising him for withdrawing his complaint, which he had lodged against him with the SC Commission.Sailka said the commission would write to the Police Commissioner for taking action against the ASI concerned. The commission would recommend his suspension till the probe gets completed so that he cannot influence the investigation.It may be recalled that several persons allegedly attacked cops at Chowki Kot Mit Singh on Tuesday evening. They had pelted stones at the police chowki. A cop identified as Gurwinder Singh was injured in the incident.Gurwinder told that he along with chowki in charge Amarjit Singh was patrolling in the area on foot to keep a tab on the lockdown violators. He said they found a suspicious scooter in the area and asked about its ownership from a person standing near it.He could not produce any documents. After preliminary questioning, we allowed him to go and asked him to show documents to the police later on, said Gurwinder. The police said Avtar along with a number of residents followed the policemen and attacked cops with stones.Sultanwind police station SHO Perneet Singh Dhillon said the matter was being investigated. He said appropriate action would be taken against those found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-days-after-attack-on-cops-detainee-moves-sc-panel-253208
15-05-2021||---||Heads of Khalsa College raise concerns over common portal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14An emergency meeting was held today at Khalsa College in which principals of all seven Guru Nanak Dev University-affiliated-Colleges under Khalsa Colleges Charitable Society (KCCS), Amritsar, raised serious concerns over the new Common Admission Portal, being launched by the Punjab Government. Terming the new system as a direct attack on the autonomy of the colleges, they said it would be ruinous for the education that will trigger large scale harassment for the students.The meeting was chaired by KCCS secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina. The state government has announced to launch the centralised admission portal for session 2021-22 academic sessions for colleges under the GNDU, Amritsar, Punjabi University, Patiala and Panjab University, Chandigarh. Under the new system, all admissions in the colleges will be made through this integrated portal.“This is a highly illogical and irrational decision which will not see the test of the time. The colleges are already hit with the Covid and this system will be a further blow to the higher education in the state,” said Chhina, following the meeting.Khalsa College Principal Dr Mehal Singh said there was a statewide resentment over the issue as he condemned the move by the government. There was a unanimous view that the government must take back the decision as education sector was already passing through a fragile period and such centralisation will prove to be detrimental for the future of the students who will face harassment in the hands of the agents.Apart from him, Principal of Khalsa College for Women Dr Surinder Kaur, Principal of Khalsa College of Education Dr Harpreet Kaur, Principal of Khalsa College of Education, Ranjit Avenue, Dr. Surinderpal Kaur Dhillon, Principal of Khalsa College of Law Dr Jaspal Singh, Principal of Khalsa College of Chawinda Devi Dr HB Singh and Principal of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur College for Women Nanak Singh took part in the meeting.They said several problems in the system has not been addressed while taking the decision, such as how will the students deposit online fees, seek concessions, change subjects as earlier they used to approach colleges for such routine works.“Earlier, the state governments had introduced such common admissions for the BEd, Law colleges which had miserably failed. Now the government is introducing the same failed system and all the colleges in the state,” said Chhina, adding that many college principals and management are holding meetings on this to oppose the move of the government tooth and nail, adding that the existing system is suitable for the diverse needs of the students.Pupils at the receiving endKhalsa College Principal Dr Mehal Singh, said the single window process will complicate the process for students. He said the centralised admissions routed through Chandigarh will not offer fee adjustments and options like change of subject. Colleges offer the facility of fee instalment for students who cannot pay whole fee at one go, which is the case with the common portal system. Also, a student would not be able to change the subject once admission is done as there is no such option given in the new system. Students who do not have Internet access, will have to seek admissions through commission agents, making them vulnerable to financial exploitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heads-of-khalsa-college-raise-concerns-over-common-portal-253207
15-05-2021||---||Police zero in on suspect||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14A day after a woman was found dead at Pandori village, the police suspect it to be a case of illicit affair. The police have been analysing call details of the deceased, Amanpreet Kaur (25), who worked at a salon in Pandori village. The police have recovered the car used in the crime from Pandori village.The police claimed to have vital clues in the case and identified a suspect known as Amritpal Singh.Cops said the investigation was still under progress and anything concrete would be ascertained after his arrest. An illegal weapon was used in the crime, which was reportedly procured a few days ago.Call details of the victim pointed suspicion towards Amritpal. Cops were probing how many persons were involved in the crime.On the statement of Jasbir Singh, father of the deceased, the police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC, besides the Arms Act.Amanpreet Kaur, a resident of Ganda Singh Wala, was married to Gurpreet Singh. On Wednesday evening, she told her family that she was to visit her client. Later, her mobile was unreachable and her family members searched for her till late evening.On Thursday morning, her body was found at Pandori village with a gunshot on her chest. The suspects also left the weapon on her body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-zero-in-on-suspect-253206
15-05-2021||---||120 firms told to pay advertisement tax||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14The advertisement wing of the Municipal Corporation issued notices to 120 commercial firms to pay tax for third party advertisements, which they haven’t deposited for the past several years in the city. Officials of the advertisement wing claimed that several prominent jewellers, garment showroom owners and food shops were displaying advertisements but not paying tax to MC.The advertisement wing of MC prepared a list of the commercial establishments and issued notice to 120 firms to pay their pending tax.Sushant Bhatia, in-charge, advertisement wing said, “The commercial establishments in the city are not paying tax for displaying the advertisements in the city. We have identified the brands and stores, which are displaying advertisements. The notices have been issued and tax would be collected. Only a few of them responded on our notices.”Earlier, the officials of the MC had written to six shopping mall owners in the city to provide information on third party advertisements being displayed on their premises. The MC advertisement wing is taking note of the third party advertisements in which some private firms display advertisements of any other brand or company on their property. Though there was a provision of collecting tax for such advertisements earlier too, the civic body had not been collecting it.Officials also removed several illegal hoardings from various locations of the city today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/120-firms-told-to-pay-advertisement-tax-253205
15-05-2021||---||Only 830 beneficiaries vaccinated in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Vaccination drive to curb the spread of Covid-9 came down as only 830 people were vaccinated on Friday. Earlier, the daily average of inoculation in the district was around 8,000.Apart from people with comorbidities, labourers registered with the Labour Department were given jabs. Out of 232 identified centres, only 21 were covering vaccination drive in the district. Insufficient inventory of the vaccine in the district was attributed to delay in arrival of stocks from the Central government. The Union government provides a Covishield vaccine which has not arrived for the past five days, stated sources in the Health Department.The Health Department was utilising the stock given by the state government.Despite a big gap in the demand-supply of the vaccine, the department will initiate the drive on Saturday to inoculate family members of the health care workers in the 18-44 age group.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal, Additional Secretary Medical Education and Research and also Covid ICU Nodal Officer for Government Medical College, said people who came with comorbidity certificate were given jabs on Friday.He said the district administration was keeping a tab on the inoculation drive and the surge in Covid positive cases. As per the norms issued by the government, micro containment zones were being announced where positive cases between five to 14 are being reported and containment zones where 15 and above cases were being quoted.Meanwhile, the District Health Department today kicked off the drive and inoculated 251 persons with comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-830-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-amritsar-district-253204
15-05-2021||---||Amritsar witnesses subdued Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated with enthusiasm and zeal in the city on Friday. A large number of Muslims offered prayers at Jama Masjid, Hall Bazaar, to mark the end of the holy month.Maulana of the mosque greeted and addressed the gathering on the occasion. The gathering did not bother about the Covid-19 restrictions. Violating the social distancing norms, devotees hugged each other.Atif, a fruit seller, said, “I wanted to celebrate the festival at my home town in UP, but due to the Covid restrictions I could not arrange for transportation. So I visited Eidgah on Sultanwind Road and offered prayer.”“It is a great day to enjoy various delicacies. Owing to the Covid restrictions, we are not calling our Hindu and Sikh friends at our house. Unlike this year, we used to celebrate the day with our local friends,” said Farhad, a Kashmiri worker.Tasleem Ahmad, a wood carving artist from Saharanpur, said, “We were aware of the guidelines issued by the government and avoided gathering. Most devotees wore masks. The gathering was very small as compared to last year.”The city has a Muslim population of over two lakh. After the partition of Punjab, local Muslims moved to Pakistan. In the last couple of decades, a large number of Muslim migrants have settled in the city, besides establishing and renovating several mosques.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-witnesses-subdued-eid-ul-fitr-celebrations-253203
15-05-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Corridor of uncertainty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Even after several fatal accidents, including death of a motorcyclist on Thursday, the commuters are still using the corridor of Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS). Coursing BRTS lane often causes accidents as commuters, including four-wheelers drive at high speed, especially at night.Though the corridor is dedicated passage for BRTS but hundreds of commuters use it daily. In the absence of enforcement of rules, the accidents have become a regular affair.Gopala Dhawan, a traffic expert, who studied the accident patterns at BRTS lanes said, “We can’t blame one person for these accidents. No doubt the number of accidents is too high. The infrastructure is one thing that authorities have to install signage of no entry of other vehicles and dedicated bus lane on every entry point. Such signage is missing on the route. Secondly, the authorities have to educate the commuters and city residents about the rules and risks. If the commuters again violate the rules, then there should be strict enforcement of them.”A 55-year-old shopkeeper died on the motorcycle lane on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Raman Kumar, resident of Ranjit Vihar. He was returning after attending a cremation of a relative. The police have filed the proceedings in this regard. The metro bus heading towards the railway station from the India Gate also collided with the railing of corridor and got badly damaged. In the accident, 10 passengers on board had a narrow escape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/corridor-of-uncertainty-253202
15-05-2021||---||23 succumb to virus, 438 new cases surface in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Fatalities continue to remain at an alarming level as 23 persons succumbed to the virus in Amritsar district on Friday. With this, the toll increased to 1,191.The health authorities reported as many as 438 fresh positive cases in the last 24 hours, thus taking the number of positive cases to 39,677.The new cases include 291 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 147 contacts of positive patients.The health authorities reported recovery of 635 patients, with which the recovery count reached 32,591. At present, the district has a total of 5,895 active cases.Those who lost their battle to the virus include Reenu Bhalla (59), a resident of Jawahar Nagar on Batala road; Chandar Kanta (80), of Partap Bajar; Harmeet Kaur (54), of Kot Mitt Singh; Gursharan Kaur (71), of Roriwal; Harjinder Singh (65), of Tehsilpura; Diwan Chand (69), of Hargobind Avenue; Gurpreet Singh (38), of Islamabad; Swaran Singh (70), of Baba Bakala; Harkamaljit Singh (41), of Chheharta; Raj Kaur (65), of Satheyala village; Geeta Rani (60); of Fakir Singh Colony; Roshan Lal (74), of Majitha road; Jarnail Singh (80), of Lahori Gate; Sukhwinder Kaur (45), of Sultanwind road; Sarbjit Singh (65), of Mehnian Brahmana; Terjinder Singh (61), of Ganda Singh Colony; Bimla Devi (92), of Green Avenue; Sahil Gupta (28), of New Naraingarh; Harjinder Kaur (69), of Maal Mandi; Manjit Kaur (68), of Aman Avenue; Harjinder Singh (56), of Baba Bakala; Kamlesh Rani (50), of Kathunagal and Sukhbir Singh (59), of Partap Nagar.GNDU holds vax drive for C-class employeesGuru Nanak Dev University conducted a vaccination drive for teaching and non-teaching employees. The university has been covering even daily wagers and C-class employees as part of its extensive vaccination campaign. The university had begun vaccination drive for its employees on April 1 and has inoculated 1,000 beneficiaries so far.Two deaths, 12 cases reported in Tarn TaranThe district health authorities reported two Covid-19 related deaths on Friday. With this, the toll reached 256. Those who succumbed to the virus include Sukhwinder Kaur (55) and Jagir Kaur (65)The authorities reported 12 positive cases in the district today. At present, the district has 856 active cases.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 587 patients have been isolated at their homes. He said a total of 1,12,083 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district.The Deputy Commissioner said according to the instructions of the state government, vaccination drive for 18 to 44 age group commenced today in the district. He said 2,026 beneficiaries in this age group were inoculated, including 1,164 construction workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/23-succumb-to-virus-438-new-cases-surface-in-amritsar-district-253201
