16-05-2021||Amritsar||Eight sand-laden trailers seized||2 bodies found in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The district police have found two unidentified bodies from two different spots on Saturday. One body was found at Guru Arjun Dev Sarai Mohalla Jaswant Singh of a mentally-retarded person who was often seen moving around the town. Assistant Sub-Inspector Harwant Singh said actual cause of the death can be ascertained after the post-mortem. Another body was recovered at Thatha village. The deceased aged around 36 years had no injury marks on the body. Both bodies have been sent to the Civil Hospital to get the autopsy done. OCThree held with 145-gm heroinTarn Taran: The police have seized 145 grams of heroin from three persons. The police said Harjit Singh of Mianwind was nabbed with 90 grams of heroin by a team led by Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh. Navdeep Singh of Jandiala Guru was held with 45-gm heroin and 10 gram of heroin was recovered from Avtar Singh of Bhuchar Khurd. Cases under Sections 21, 61 and 85 the NDPS Act has been registered by the police. TNSFarmers head to Singhu borderAmritsar: A group of farmers under the banner of the Vegetbale Growers’ Association left for Singhu border to participate in the ongoing protest against the three agri laws. Farmers were provided masks, sanitisers and medicines by Folklore Research Academy, an association of writers and artistes. Farmer leaders, including Lakhbir Singh Nizampura and Bhupinder Singh Tirathpur, said safety equipment would be distributed among those who were already protesting at Delhi borders. Nizampura said more farmers would leave for Delhi in the coming days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-sand-laden-trailers-seized-253653
16-05-2021||A founder member of the Amritsar Vikas Manch and a retired teacher||‘Dodged virus despite being a heart patient’||"A positive set of mind, besides proper medication from medical experts and old Bollywood songs of golden era help us in tiding over these difficult times," said Professor Singh.Though I would like to owe my recovery to vaccination, the love, affection and concern shown by the family was also a positive force. It was my wife Jasbir Kaur (84) who was first tested positive for Covid-19 on April 12. We immediately shifted to the residence of my daughter at New Amritsar for self-quarantine. Three days later, I was also found to have contracted the virus.Sharing his experience, he said in November 2018, he suffered cardiac arrest which was timely tackled. "Three stents were inserted in my arteries at that time," he said. Last year also, when the lockdown was first imposed, I had a congestive heart failure. Nevertheless, following intensive hospitalisation, I recovered and came home during the curfew imposed by Punjab government. Another massive attack came earlier this year.In April, I Icontracted the virus. The situation compounded with Jasbir's simultaneous infection.As an avid reader, books had always been my companion; we decided not to let the negative thoughts impact us. We kept ourselves engaged in reading and writing and sharing opinions on different topics during constructive discussions. Listening to old Bollywood music was our best past time during period, he said. Prof Singh retired from Post Graduate Department of English in Khalsa College here in 1995. (As told to PK Jaiswar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dodged-virus-despite-being-a-heart-patient-253652
16-05-2021||---||Six-time MP among 26 die in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 15With 26 more deaths, including that of six-time Congress MP RL Bhatia, the toll in the district increased to 1,217 on Saturday. The health authorities reported 404 new cases with which the total count reached 40,081.The new cases include 225 influenza-like illness cases and 179 contacts of positive patients. The district health authorities reported recovery of 825 patients and the recovery count increased to 33,416. At present, the district has a total of 5,448 active cases.The deceased have been identified as RL Bhatia (100), Mall road; Younis (29), of Gujjarpur (Ajnala); Mewa Lal (64), of Lakshmi Vihar (Majitha road); Balbir Kaur (81), of Vallah; Jeevanjoy Singh (45), of Chowk Manna Singh; Sheela Rani (65), of Chawinda Devi; Veer Singh (55), of Ganda Singh Colony; Tarsem Singh (53), of Mahal village (Ram Tirath road); Salwant Singh (75), of Jaura Fatak; Shinder Kaur (60), of Indira Colony; Arur Chander (73), of Ranjitpura (Chhehharta); Narinder Kaur (45) of Ajnala; Kuldeep Kaur (65), of Krishna Nagar; Asha Devi (45), of Majitha; Dalbir Singh (25), of Jhande village; Sunil Kumar (37), of Tarn Taran road; Mohinder Singh (85), of Khanpur (Baba Bakala); Hans Muni (77), of Krishna Nagar; Jasbir Kaur (73), of Medical Enclave; Gautam Mittu (40), of White Enclave; Anandjit Singh (75), of Aman Avenue (Gate Hakima); Sunder Dass (75), of Ram Bagh; Manisha (47), of Gurwali Gate; Iqbal Singh (72), of Jagdev Khurd; Fateh Singh (70), of Chhehharta and Jaswant Singh (68), of Sudarshan Nagar.Meanwhile, 1,418 persons, including 800 workers in the age group of 18-44 years, 443 residents with co-morbid conditions in the age group of 18-44 years and 18 family members of healthcare workers were inoculated.After the start of vaccination drive for construction workers below 45 years, the government has also started vaccination for family members of healthcare workers and persons with co-morbid conditions.However, vaccination centres at various places, were seen locked due to shortage of vaccine.Five succumb to virus in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported five Covid-19 related deaths in the district on on Saturday. With this, the toll increased to 261 in the district. The deceased include Amarjit Kaur (65), Balwinder Singh (58), Sawinder Kaur (55), Sunil Kumar (37) and Gurdial Singh (75). All of them were admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar .The Health Department reported 80 positive cases in the district .The number of active cases has increased to 931. A total of 1,13,474 persons have been vaccinated in the district to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-time-mp-among-26-die-in-amritsar-253570
16-05-2021||---||Weekend lockdown hits supply of goods; vendors, public suffer||Amritsar, May 15The weekend lockdown has affected the supply of several goods, including essential items, in the city. Reasons: the administration has reduced the timings for vegetable markets in the morning hours and only wholesalers are allowed to enter the market.Vegetable vendors claim that they do not get enough time to buy all the items due to the short duration allowed for purchasing items. The police allow the vegetable vendors to buy veggies up to 10 am. It leads to temporary shortage of some items as well as overcharging.“We have to visit the wholesale market daily to buy goods, but due to time constraints we are unable to get even 50 per cent items of daily use. On Friday, we have to shop for three days and often do not get the required items from the wholesale market. The manufacturing units are also hit by the weekend lockdown and the evening curfew. Traders supply the items only on cash payment due to the uncertainty on the complete lockdown,” said Jagjeet Singh, owner of a grocery shop.Despite several restrictions on the opening of commercial establishments and vehicular traffic, the crowd is still gathering in the main markets of the city on weekdays. The administration has allowed the opening of one side of the markets but residents can be seen violating the rules. The hurry to end all works before the closing of shops also leads to crowding at the marketplaces.Meanwhile, there is no check on the violation of social distancing in markets before 5 pm. The police become active at 5 pm and enforce the night curfew but before this they generally do not interfere in the markets. Taking advantage of these relaxations, residents gather in the markets. There are some markets in the city where the closing of one side row of shops does not make much difference.Besides the city, residents of rural areas are also not following the Covid-19 guidelines properly.As the banks have reduced the working hours, the branches in rural areas also witness a rush of customers. Despite the circles marked outside the banks, most customers can be seen violating the guidelines.“The residents should follow the restrictions strictly otherwise the government may impose complete lockdown. The death toll in the city is increasing by the day. The residents should cooperate with the administration,” Jaswant Singh, a local social worker.Police officials have also appealed to the residents to follow the guidelines. “The government doesn’t want to disrupt commercial activities as it would result in financial hardship. All trade and commercial activities are allowed on the weekdays. People should show concern for the lives of others and follow the social distancing norm in the markets,” said Sarbajit Singh, a Sub-Inspector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekend-lockdown-hits-supply-of-goods-vendors-public-suffer-253571
16-05-2021||---||Covid canteens up & running for the needy||Amritsar, May 15  Following the directions from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab Police have opened ‘Covid canteens’ for providing food to Covid-affected families.  Such canteens were established in every district of Punjab. The police authorities said the step was taken in order to ensure that no Covid-affected family faces problems in getting cooked food. Not only this, the Punjab Police were also providing cooked dry ration to the underprivileged families in the slum areas. Police officials said that gazzetted officers besides SHOs of various police stations were asked to identify such families.  Amritsar rural police chief Dhruv Dahiya informed the people were facing very hard times during the second wave of the pandemic.  The people belonging to underprivileged families and those affected by the virus were particularly at the receiving end.  The Punjab Police therefore have formed designated teams who would not only identify such families in the slum dwelling but also provide them cooked food or dry ration as per their need. “Yesterday we got around half a dozen calls from the patients and our teams delivered the food at their doorsteps,” he said.  Manpreet Kaur Shimar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (cybercrime and forensics) has been appointed commissionerate as nodal officer for this purpose. “Several families of cops and women cops had volunteered for preparing the food and our teams were ensuring to deliver the same to the needy persons,” she told. Not only this, people could also contact them on helpline numbers for different needs like availability of oxygen or getting curfew passes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-canteens-up-running-for-the-needy-253573
16-05-2021||Amritsar||Neurologist offers free medicine for patients||Coming forward to help Covid-19 patients from poor families, a private hospital, Uppal Neuro hospital, has launched ‘Mission Rahat’ for poor families under which they would be given relief kits.  The hospital has also initiated a telephone helpline where the patients can get free consultation from doctors. Renowned neurologist and member of Punjab Medical College Dr Ashok Uppal said the patients who have Ayushman Bharat insurance card and BPL cards would be covered under the mission.  “All positive patients, who are unable to afford medical aid, can call at this helpline to order the Covid-19 relief kit. The patient would be required to submit his Covid test report through the helpline number following which the doctors on duty would analyse the patient’s condition through a telephonic consultation with him. The kit would be prepared accordingly and sent to the patient’s address,” said Dr Uppal.  He further said the kit would also be provided to passengers found to be positive during checks being conducted at the Amritsar railway station and bus stand. Dr Salil Uppal and Dr Ashraf, among  others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/neurologist-offers-free-medicine-for-patients-253574
16-05-2021||---||Temple trust alleges threat from Khalistani operatives||Amritsar, May 15While alleging threats from Khalistani operatives, a temple trust has urged the police to provide security to it.Mandir Sri Ram Balaji Dham Charitable Trust located in Kale Ghanupur in a statement issued to the media on Saturday said it had been getting threat letters from Khalistani ‘operatives’ to bomb the temple if the trust did not stop its operations.Manoj Kumar, Vishal Kumar and Trust’s general secretary Gurmit Singh and other office-bearers said trust president Sant Ashnil Kumar was attacked by unscrupulous elements a number of times. They threatened him and asked to shut down the operations of the temple in the area. They said the trust was involved in social service, including providing monthly ration to the needy and widow, medical facilities including free dispensary and physiotherapy centres, pension, marriages of poor girls and monetary help to the people following untoward incidents.They said some unscrupulous elements also tried to usurp the land belonging to the temple in the recent past. A complaint was also lodged with the police in this regard.The trust members urged the police commissioner to ensure the security of the temple and hold investigations in the threat letters allegedly by Khalistani operatives to the trust.The police authorities said that the matter was being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/temple-trust-alleges-threat-from-khalistani-operatives-253575
16-05-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Truck operators fire at security guards||Tarn Taran, May 15 Some armed truck operators opened fire on six security guards outside the wheat godowns of a private company at Chuslewar village in Patti here on Friday night. They wanted the security guards to allow them to unload the wheat stock (laden in their trucks) of government-owned agencies out of turn. The godowns belonged to Soma Company, which store the wheat stock of the government procurement companies and private firms. Gurwinder Singh, in-charge (Security), in his complaint lodged with the Patti Sadar police stated that the security guards were managing unloading of the wheat laden in trucks turn by turn after weighing these when about 10 truck operators armed with rifles and revolvers tried to enter the godowns forcibly. When the security guards tried to stop them, they opened fire on them. However, the guards escaped unhurt. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 336, 160, 148, 149 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the accused. The police have failed to identify the accused so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/truck-operators-fire-at-security-guards-253576
16-05-2021||---||Residents nab thief, hand him over to police||Amritsar, May 15A thief, who was allegedly targeting private colonies on the bypass road, was nabbed by residents of Veer Enclave here on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Prince of Maqboolpura area.The gardeners in Veer Enclave found that an unidentified person was going towards the bypass with a heavy iron grill frame around 11.30 am. One of them asked him to stop but he tried to flee. The gardeners along with some residents nabbed him.The accused reportedly attacked them with a screwdriver. However, the residents overpowered him and recovered a screwdriver and pliers from his possession. The accused had stolen the iron grill frame from a house (number 202) in the locality at around 11 am.The theft was also recorded in CCTV cameras.The residents called the police and handed him over to ASI Krishan Singh of PCR vehicle number 10.The Veer Enclave Welfare Association has urged Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill to take action against the gang of thieves active in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-nab-thief-hand-him-over-to-police-253577
16-05-2021||---||‘Meditation works wonders for me’||Amritsar, May 15Life in pandemic has made us learn several lessons and focus on health and wellness is probably the most important of them all. Emphasising the same, Ridhima Kapoor Sahni, daughter of Neetu Kapoor and late Rishi Kapoor, shared her journey of keeping fit and positive during this time with the members of FICCI FLO’s city chapter in a web session chaired by Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar.“This too shall pass but until then we must focus on our well being,” she shared as she talked about her own routine and balancing between mental and physical wellbeing during lockdown.“It was my mom, who paved the way for my love for yoga and meditation,” shares Ridhima. However, it was only after I had my daughter that I became devoted to yoga and meditation. Since then, there has been no looking back,” she said. As Mumbai remains under lockdown once again due to the second Covid-19 wave, she shared that she spends her time with her family and her pet to relax and instill positive vibes.She shared her mantra for keeping fit, mentally and physically, by starting the day with five minutes of yoga and meditation. “Limit news consumption and build immunity by eating clean. We must involve our children in activities like dialogue, creative writing, reading, puzzle games, etc. so that they emerge smarter and channelise their energies judiciously,” she suggested.Ridhima states that she disrelishes following any particular diet and believes in eating in moderation. On being asked what her secret to living beautifully was, she remarked, “Positive mindset comes first and foremost. I don’t follow any specific skin care routine but I’m a sucker for face oils. I eat healthy and binge on weekends. Meditations works wonders for me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meditation-works-wonders-for-me-253578
16-05-2021||---||Teachers need to be treated as frontline workers, says DTF||Amritsar, May 15The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), Punjab, today demanded effective implementation of 50 per cent attendance rule of the teachers in government schools compulsory.DTF Punjab state finance secretary and district president, Ashwani Awasthi, said despite the orders passed by the Education Secretary, the rule is not being implemented properly.“Chief Minister had recently issued instructions for several government offices /schools across Punjab to function with 50% capacity. But the Punjab Education Department has nullified these directives by issuing a letter that this rule applies only to schools with more than 10 staff members. Majority of schools across Punjab, especially in primary and middle schools, have less than 10 school staff members, who do not abide by the rule,” he said.He also said poor health facilities are also affecting the teaching fraternity. “Declaring teachers as frontline workers, would help them in getting quick medical treatment as teachers have been working offline throughout the pandemic. Also, reducing school hours as required, giving full exemption to pregnant teachers and those who suffer from chronic diseases such as cancer is what we demand from government,” said District Press Secretary DTF Rajesh Kumar Parashar.He also added that the process of transfer of ETT teachers must be hastened. “It has been more than two months since the orders of general transfers of ETT teachers serving in government schools of the state have been given. But these transfers have not been implemented yet and the teachers are suffering due to this.”The members also condemned the decision taken in some district to withhold salaries of teachers who do not get vaccinated. In order to expedite the fulfillment of these demands, the Joint Teachers’ Front Punjab has announced block level, tehsil level and district level protest demonstrations from May 17 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-need-to-be-treated-as-frontline-workers-says-dtf-253579
16-05-2021||---||‘Declaring Malerkotla as new district a communal move’||Amritsar, May 15 Rajya Sabha Member and former BJP State President Shwait Malik alleged that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh promoted communalism in Punjab by declaring Malerkotla as 23rd district, that too, on the occasion of Eid.  He said its apparent motive was to please a special community on the basis of religion and the fake religious equality being shown  by the Congress, is a political gimmick to utilise the ‘Divide and Rule’ policy.  Malik said this was a ‘conspirational’ move by Prashant Kishore who ‘specializes’ in electoral conspiracies.  Member of Parliament Shwait Malik stated that this had happened for the first time in the history of India that a state government had declared a district on the basis of religion.  MP Shwait Malik also added that the Congress has always been dividing the country in the name of religion and by pitting common people against each other in the name of religion, caste &creed and community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/declaring-malerkotla-as-new-district-a-communal-move-253580
