17-05-2021||Tarn Taran||ASI cremated with state honours||Woman crushed under truckAmritsar: An over speeding truck crushed a woman to death near Khalsa College. The deceased has been identified as Parminder Kaur, a resident of Azad road, Chheharta. The truck driver has been identified as Jaspreet Singh alias Sona, a resident of Panju Kalan village. Sukhwinder Kaur, sister of the deceased, told the police that they were heading towards the city on their activa. (Parminder was driving the scooter while she was riding pillion). When they reached opposite Nika Singh Colony, an a rashly driven truck hit their scooter from rear. She said Parminder fell down on the road and got crushed under the truck. The accused driver tried to flee from the spot, but locals overpowered him and handed him over to the police. ASI Jasbir Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the IPC against the truck driver. The ASI said Jaspreet was held and released on bail. TNSThree arrested in theft caseTarn Taran: Three residents of Khairdinke village were on Sunday arrested by Chabal police for stealing an iron rod weighing around seven quintals from the village Government Primary School here. ASI Kuldeep Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the accused were identified as Lovejit Singh, Gurvel Singh and Jagroop Singh of the same village. The accused stole the iron rod from the school on the intervening night of April 27 and 28. The police were informed of the incident by Ranjit Singh, a teacher, who said that there was some construction work under progress in the school and the iron rod was to be used for that purpose. OCCareer portal for studentsAmritsar: The Punjab Career Portal launched by the Punjab Education Department would provide proper guidance to students regarding their career, stated District Education Officer (DEO) (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh. He said the new portal would help students of government schools from Class IX to Class XII in choosing their profession and career. He added that each student would be issued a personal ID using which they would be able to access the portal. He said a capacity-building programme for teachers would be initiated . TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-cremated-with-state-honours-254085
17-05-2021||Open House||Widespread & well-structured redress need of the hour||Set up make-shift hospitals in vicinityViktor Frankl had said, “For the world is in a bad state, but everything will become still worse unless each of us does his best.” The present crisis wrought by the pandemic is quite monumental and the administration and the Health Department cannot tackle it alone. An accountable and responsible approach of the administration and the Health Department, ably supported by people, is desperately needed to alleviate the miserable plight of the people living in congested places and quarters. The inhabitants of such areas should be inoculated on priority. Doctors, nurses, police personnel, sanitation workers and all other frontline workers should be deputed at such places to take care of the people residing there. Their houses, toilets and surroundings should be disinfected on daily basis and the residents should be told to wash their hands frequently and always wear masks when around other people. Oxygen concentrators, cylinders, electric syringe pumps etc. should be kept ready to deal with any emergency situation at these places. Technical staff from various programmes should be redeployed to assist health authorities to respond to any emergency condition at these areas. The administration should make use of all means and measures to reduce the transmission. No one should be left in the lurch. The condition of congested places should be regularly monitored to take stock of the situation so that it does not go out of hand. Make-shift hospitals and Covid care centres should be set up in the vicinity of such localities to protect the people from contracting the virus that is causing havoc across the world. The people in congested areas are like sitting ducks that can be protected from getting infected by the coordinated, concerted and strenuous efforts of the administration and the Health Department. The authorities need to act swiftly, expand hospital capacities and equip them with sufficient medical supplies. It looks to be a tall order but without doing so it will be naive to leave them fend for themselves.Tarsem S BumrahHygiene should be ensuredAs of now, the government’s vaccination drive is being rolled out on the basis of certain age groups, whereas the local administration and the Health Department should inoculate rickshaw-pullers, auto-rickshaw drivers, street vendors and daily wagers etc. living in congested areas, on priority. The move will also help in containing the virus as people from these areas interact with a large number of people due to the services that they offer. A more stringent cleanliness drive should also be started in such areas to ensure hygienic conditions in the city.Harsh N JoharVaccinate slum-dwellers, people living in congested areas on priorityNaresh JoharRope in asha workers for the driveThe administration and the Health Department should rope in Asha workers for personal prevention awareness campaigns among such communities for spreading the message of practicing physical distancing, wearing a mask, keeping rooms well ventilated, avoiding crowds, washing hands regularly with soap, coughing into bent elbow and cleaning surfaces which are touched by large number of people with household cleaners which contain detergent to decrease the risk of infection through infected surfaces. The administration and Health Department should make a roster of the nursing staff which should include nursing students and also hire volunteers from the ‘Rozgaar’ offices and who should be given training and deployed into field job at congested areas to boost up testing and vaccination of people above the age of 45. The administration must also be proactive and assign targets to volunteers to run a campaign of doing maximum testing and vaccination as being done to curb polio and leprosy for the past few years. It should also be ensured that exhaust fans are functional and operating in restrooms when the space is occupied and also clean drinking water, sanitisation and hygienic conditions are there at toilets which are running under the campaign of the Swachh Bharat mission since 2014 and make every state free of open defection. The administration must also utilise the funds assigned under the mission to make public toilets clean and well sanitised. An initiative must be taken to educate the residents of such congested areas by displaying relevant signs and messages that promote everyday safe and healthy practices and describe how to stop the spread of contaminants while communicating with other residents, workers, volunteers and visitors.Ankur GuptaEnsure vaccination of slum-dwellersAmid the second wave, every person is likely to be affected, particularly people living in slums with limited toilets and congested living conditions where maintenance of physical distance not possible. To protect these slum dwellers, the administration and Health Department must ensure that these people be tested and vaccinated invariably along with other measures under the respected guidelines.TS BHATTISpread awareness to contain PandemicThe main issue in these areas is overcrowding. Asking the residents to shift or make new quarters is impossible, awareness regarding sanitisation and following of norms like social distancing and mask is first and foremost. This pandemic can only be controlled by awareness among masses. The administration should ensure availability of masks at cheaper rates near these quarters. Make sure the public toilets are clean and sanitised. The Health Department should ensure free vaccination of all as soon as possible. Also, the occupants should be made aware of initial symptoms of Covid and each family provided with at least one pulse oxymeter for early detection of respiratory symptoms.Jaspreet GroverQUESTIONComplaints against private hospitals fleecing Covid patients have increased and the patients are preferring home isolation. Do you think the trust and belief in the health system has shaken?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 20).Win with Will, don’t give in that easyThere is always a scope for improvement. With confidence and strong will and unruffled attitude of ‘I shall win, no matter what’, with right application of mind and inviting the services of the experts on the subject, is crucial to such avoidable tragedy. Slums and congested areas, is a common feature in developing countries like that of ours, where unhygienic conditions can be improved with extensive and regular sanitisation. The paramedical teams under the charge of senior medical officers can begin with educating people on preventive and safety measures and strict follow-up actions. Aware more residents and add incentives for this job. Polio eradication efforts first met with some roadblocks due to illiteracy, but soon, it picked up and did splendid job in eradicating polio worldwide. Social organisations and politicians of the areas should come forward to make it a mass movement to save lives and sufferings of masses.BM SinghMyths, doubts of public need to be dealt withA complete synergy between people and the administration can bring desired results in eradication of Covid-19. People living in congested places and having toilets in small areas need to take extra care in tackling the virus. Sanitising the seat and taps frequently and flushing with lid closed after every use should be made a norm. All the people should wear double masks and in addition to frequently sanitising hands, work tops, door knobs and door bolts etc, should use transparent plastic shields and partitions where it is not possible to maintain a social distance of six feet. All the windows, ventilators and doors should be kept open where possible to allow outside air in the house for maximum ventilation and exhaust fans put on in toilets to expel air carrying the virus. Use of air conditioners should be avoided to prevent aerosols containing the virus and hand dryers and hairdryers, steam inhalation, etc should not be resorted to by a patient quarantined at home as it could spread the virus via aerosols. Administration and the Health Department in tandem should arrange interactions with the public on TV channels, answering queries of the people live, in frequent bulletins broadcasted on tackling the virus. Trusted health experts and head of the administration should answer the questions and remove doubts and myths of the people face to face.Anil KhannaPlan or perish, it’s time to choose oneIn one of his speeches, Jawaharlal Nehru remarked that the day we learnt to use public toilets properly, democracy will have arrived in India. He assumed that there were enough public toilets around us or at least direction markers indicating the nearest facility. The reality is starkly different. The situation is compounded by our hypocritical attitude to the Animal Welfare Act. The bitter fact is that the real India that elects a government, good or not so good, resides along rail tracks, highways or city ghettos and living in tight quarters like a mud house measuring less than 25 square yards. Any epidemic invading a family there soon spreads to the whole colony. Would that our city planners had provided high rise small flats than vast 1,000 square yards mansions could have saved a lot of open space. In such colonies, it is easier to control a pandemic like the now ubiquitous coronavirus. Even door-to-door vaccination is easier like in row houses provided there is political will. But in the existing scenario with 40 per cent population living in congested homes, it is not possible to follow the virus protocols except perhaps wearing a mask. Even now, let us not assume that this is the last pandemic to face mankind.Prof Mohan SinghGood governance need of the hourThe number of Covid cases is increasing at an alarming rate in the community and it is hitting all sections of the society hard. Slums have emerged as hotspots for the virus transmission. The urban slums are highly susceptible to Covid-19 infection due to unavailability of adequate water, toilets, drainage, waste management systems, housing and other basic amenities. During this pandemic, the challenges of slum communities demand urgent solutions for containing the spread of the virus. Efficient and effective governance is an essential component of a well-planned pandemic control response. The state government has to act swiftly and coordinate effectively from the state headquarters. Public health teams and technical experts should be deployed for continuous monitoring by the state government leadership, including the Chief Minister, the Health Minister and other senior bureaucrats. A multi-sectoral approach towards pandemic preparedness emphasises the significant roles played not only by the health sector but also by all other sectors, individuals, families, communities, NGOs, and private healthcare workers in mitigating the effects of the pandemic, the outbreak response of which requires coordination at all levels. The municipal administration should collaborate with other departments for various activities to contain the virus, especially door-to-door screening, risk communication, disinfection of public toilets and supply of essential groceries. Round the clock war room should be established for monitoring every aspect of tracing, testing, quarantine, and lockdown in containment zones. In Dharavi, Mumbai, the municipal administration contained the virus by adopting “chasing the virus” approach rather than waiting for people to report it. Undoubtedly, lockdown is an effective strategy for containing the transmission of the infection. However, this is very challenging as it impacts the livelihoods of masses and adds to the woes of weaker sections of the society, where a daily wager can feed his family only if he goes out to work. Most of them, with little or no savings, have to step out daily amid the lockdown. Practising social distancing is also difficult in slum areas due to congested accommodations. For effective implementation of lockdown and reducing the discomfort to the public due to the restrictions, the administration has to ensure door-to-door regular supplies of food and other essentials and also set up control room of several departments for the public’s convenience. As we wait for the vaccine to be available widely, immediate measures such as strengthening the health system should be taken by the authorities.Dr KS ManchandaBuild more bio-green public toiletsThe most dreadful spots of virus spread are the congested places of human inhabitation. People living in urban areas with high population density are more prone to contracting the virus than with thinly populated areas. Tracing transmission through common toilets as the cause of spread in humans is being reported in recent studies. To protect this contact transmission of virus through this mode is to minimise the use of common toilets at these locations. The administration should build more bio-green public toilets near congested places of living like housing board quarters , inner city areas, galis, mohalla, etc. These should be regularly sanitised and hygienically-maintained to keep them free of virus penetration. Residents living in congested locations be subjected to frequent Rapid Antigen Tests, preferably twice a month for timely detection of the inflected persons. No home isolation facility should be offered for treatment, only designated Covid isolation centres should be provided for patients from congested places of living.Anil VinayakConsider toilets also as hotspotsCovid-19 is a mysterious virus which has confused everybody from politicians to doctors, from scientists to statisticians. In 2020, it engulfed the most neat and clean countries living in closed circuit air conditioned environments and in 2021 it has spread its wings to the open fields of villages. It has been proved that the catching the virus is more likely in toilets and bathrooms. Public is more likely to get infected inside public toilets. Congestion definitely facilitates its spread.At individual level, use of masks, frequent hand washing, no spitting, no gargling, not touching the surfaces, handles etc. While government can pitch in by constructing more toilets, sanitising bathroom floors and walls more frequently, proper ventilation, providing bathrooms with soaps and hand sanitisers, fogging entire area at night and above all mass immunisation to the earliest.Dr PS GroverAwareness drive must be launchedPeople living in congested places and quarters can be protected from contracting virus by creating awareness among them about the signs and symptoms of the disease. Early detection and separation of suspected patients by arranging screening camps and motivating them for timely testing if symptomatic or been in close contact of an infected patient. Infected person living in congested area should be motivated to get isolated at government isolation facility to avoid further risk of contamination to others. Areas where positivity rate for Covid cases is high should be identified and declared as micro-containment zones. The administration should take appropriate steps via verbal and visual platforms to educate people about proper hygiene and cleanliness. Regular washing of hands, maintaining social distancing, hygienic toilets which are cleaned regularly and disinfected, proper ventilation in rooms and avoiding ACs in congested areas can reduce the risk of contracting the virus. With the government prioritising construction works in the third phase of the vaccination drive, it needs to be made sure that proper awareness is created amongst them for motivating them to get themselves vaccinated by avoiding any misconceptions about vaccine. We, the Doctors are working tirelessly for our society and together we shall win the war against Covid.Dr Harsimarpreet SinghMore things to look after than ventilatorsAmidst this pandemic, it’s of global concern to break the chain of infection and curb down the mass transmission and thereby to reduce the load on healthcare delivery. People living in congested places and quarters are at high risk of transmission, because breathing in a single room with the aerosols may make them susceptible to the virus and the administration must focus on primordial prevention. The government is focusing just on oxygen and ventilators , rather suggestion is to provide a place where there’s enough ventilation and provide protein rich diet through pulses etc, to below poverty line people so as to enhance the immunity and reduce the transmission rates. Moreover, if supply of mask and sanitiser vending machines are set up it would reduce the risk to great extent. Studies, though not approved by the WHO, suggest that wearing double mask may reduce the risk to almost nil. The government can take measures to introduce cartoon type videos for awareness and involve medical personnel in health education and using them to dispel the ignorance, myths and misconceptions regarding the virus. This virus is preventable only if caution is taken.Sparsh Athwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/widespread-well-structured-redress-need-of-the-hour-254084
17-05-2021||Amritsar||3 cell phones, drugs seized  in Fatehpur Central Jail||The jail administration recovered drug powder and three mobile phones from inmates at the Fatehpur Central Jail during a routine checking here today. Assistant Superintendent of the Central jail Davinder Singh said the jail staff recovered 6-gm intoxicant substance from prisoner Satnam Singh of Marhana village during a checking of barrack No. 7, room no 2.Meanwhile, during checking of barrack No. 3, room No. 6, the authorities recovered 1-gm intoxicant substance from prisoner Paramjit Singh and later three unclaimed mobile phones were recovered from a dustbin along with ear phones. The Islamabad police have registered a cases under various Sections of the NDPS Act and the Prison Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-cell-phones-drugs-seized-in-fatehpur-central-jail-254083
17-05-2021||---||Health worker hurt during snatching bid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16A health worker got seriously injured when three motorcycle-borne miscreants hit her in an attempt to snatch her scooter, when she was returning from the health centre, after her duty, on Friday evening. The victim has been identified as Usha Rani.Raj Kumar, husband of the victim, stated that after finishing her duty from the health centre, Mustfabad, at around 8.30 pm on Friday, his wife Usha Rani, along with her friend was returning home on her Activa. When Usha Rani reached near Shri Guru Harkrishan School on Majitha Road bypass, three unidentified persons came on a motorcycle and tried to snatch the Activa. In an attempt to intercept the scooter, they hit it following which Usha Rani fell on the road and got serious injuries on her head and other body parts. The accused fled from the spot. The victim was rushed to the hospital with the help of a passer-by. She is undergoing treatment in the ICU.Assistant Sub-Inspector Kulwant Singh, in-charge of police post Mai Bhagho College, stated that a case has been registered under Sections 379-B and 511 of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons and the matter is being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-worker-hurt-during-snatching-bid-254082
17-05-2021||---||SGPC chief condoles death of Jathedar Vedanti||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16To console the family members on the demise of former Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur visited his residence on Sunday.The funeral ceremony would be held on May 18, confirmed Jagbir Singh, a family member of Vedanti while citing reason that Vedanti’s daughter was to come from Denmark, but got stuck up due to flight delay. “As she will come tomorrow evening, the final rites would be held on May 18”, he said.Bibi Jagir Kaur shared her grief with Bibi Harbhajan Kaur, wife of Jathedar Vedanti and recalled the Panthic services of the former Jathedar.Meanwhile, Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi of Golden Temple also offered his condolences to the family of the deceased and prayed for the departed soul. Many Panthic dignitaries reached the residence of Jathedar Vedanti, including SGPC senior-vice president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, member Bhai Manjit Singh Bhurakohna, Bhai Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, Bhai Ram Singh Damdami Taksal, Akali leader Talbir Singh Gill, Prof Waryam Singh, Inderjit Singh Gogoani, Giani Ravel Singh, SGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, assistant secretary Sakatar Singh, manager Golden Temple Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, and OSD to SGPC president Dr Sukhbir Singh.Meanwhile, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and patron of All India Sikh Students Federation Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad too expressed deep sorrow. “He was highly respected personality among the Sikhs and his untimely demise had created a vacuum in the Sikh Panth. We express our heartiest condolences to the aggrieved family and stand by it. Nobody can forget the great contribution of Vedanti in the history of the Sikhism,” Brahmpura said. Peer Mohammad also informed that Jathedar Vedanti had termed the ‘1984 Sikh riots’ as not just riots but ‘genocide of Sikhs’ after accepting the request of All India Sikh Students Federation.Chief Khalsa Diwan president Nirmal Singh said Jathedar Vedanti served as head priest of the Golden Temple and was teaching religious studies lessons to scholars of GNDU.Damdami Taksal head Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa said: “Jathedar Vedanti had grammatical knowledge of Gurbani. His demise was an irreparable loss to the Sikh panth”, he said. Jathedar Vedanti occupied the highest temporal seat of Akal Takht between 2000-2008.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-chief-condoles-death-of-jathedar-vedanti-254081
17-05-2021||---||Thikri pehras set up in villages||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 16With the approval of the district police, residents have set up ‘thikri pehras’ in 122 villages of the district to keep a vigil on the entry of suspected persons to their villages to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The district has around 550 villages.Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said here on Sunday that in these 122 villages, nakas had been installed on the entry points by villagers and the villages cordoned off to check the entry of outsiders. The SSP said outsiders would be asked about their identity and the information would be given to the police in case they do not belong to the village. Nimbale said ‘thikri pehras’ would also be conducted in other villages of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thikri-pehras-set-up-in-villages-254080
17-05-2021||---||Residents violate weekend lockdown in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16Despite the threat of rapid spread of Covid-19 and police strictness, residents still violate the weekend lockdown guidelines. Though the commercial establishments in the city were closed on Sunday, there was a great volume of traffic on city roads.Commuters were seen violating the norm of seating two passengers in a car and one on a two-wheeler.The police booked several persons from both urban and rural areas for violating the weekend lockdown restrictions. Some shopkeepers were also booked for opening shops. Personnel from the Majitha Road police station booked Rakesh Kumar of Nava Kot for violating the order of the District Magistrate by opening his cigarette shop near Medical Enclave and leading to gathering of people during the lockdown.The D-Division police booked Chetan Kumar of SUS Colony, Jhabbal Road, for opening his stationery shop during the lockdown. Apart from this, Amit Kumar and Vishal of Sunder Nagar and Jugesh Luthra of Krishna Nagar were also booked for violating the lockdown.Meanwhile, the rural police booked some shopkeepers for opening their shops and leading to crowds of people in villages. Tarsem Singh, owner of a kariana shop, was booked for opening his shop and causing people to gather at Balbawa village in Jahnder area. Jagatar Singh, a scrap dealer of Thathian village in Beas area, was also booked for opening his shop and violating the norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-violate-weekend-lockdown-in-amritsar-254079
17-05-2021||---||11 die, 396 test +ve in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16With 11 more deaths reported in the district during the last 24 hours, the toll has increased to 1,228. The health authorities reported 396 new cases with which the total count has reached 40,477 on Sunday.The new cases include 253 influenza-like illness cases and 143 contacts of positive patients. With the Health Department reporting recovery of 460 patients, the recovery count has improved to 33,876. At present, the district has a total of 5,373 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Harbhajan Singh, a 65-year-old from New Harkrishan Nagar; Davinder Singh (51) of Tungbala; Rajwinder Kaur (42) of Majitha road; Sunita (47) of Mohkampura; Ram Parkash (80) of Islamabad; Sudesh Rani (65) of Bhittaewad (Ajnala); Jagir Kaur (52) of Kirpal Colony (Tungbala); Mohinder Singh (73) of Shivala colony; Prem Singh (53) of Rishi Vihar; Paramjit Kaur (81) of Sant avenue and Balwinder Kaur (66) of Golden Avenue.Meanwhile, a total of 1,486 persons were inoculated on Sunday. These included 300 workers registered with the Labour Department, 979 residents with co-morbid conditions in the 18-44 age group and 207 family members of healthcare workers (HCWs).The partially vaccinated include 25,056 HCWs, 52,440 FLWs and 1,92,131 residents above 45 years of age. Besides 14,954 HCWs, 17,373 FLWs and 39,278 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated.Two deaths, 65 new cases reported in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported two Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran on Sunday. With this, the toll increased to 263. The deceased include Sukhwinder Kaur (55) and Jagir Kaur (65).The health authorities reported 65 positive cases today and the number of active cases reached 799.The Health Department has inoculated 1,14,740 persons so far, including 1,266 beneficiaries above 18 years. The department collected 857 samples today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-die-396-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-254078
17-05-2021||Manmeet Gill||Mayhem in May: Over 50% elderly among virus victims in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16More than 50 per cent fatalities (255 Covid-19 related deaths) reported in the first fortnight of May included senior citizens.Of the deceased, 137 were above 60 years. The district authorities reported 58 deaths in the age group between 50 years and 60 years, followed by 38 in the age group of 40-50 years.Cause for concernThe increasing casualties among youngsters have become a major cause for concern.In the first 10 days of May, the district had reported only one death in this category.Several medical experts said infection among younger population was on the rise.The authorities reported 15 casualties among 30-40 years and five deaths in the age group between 20 and 30 years. The district witnessed only one death in patients below 20 years age group.Of the six deaths reported below 30-year-old patients (five in 20 years-30 years age group and one below 20 years), five were reported after May 10. The increasing casualties among youngsters has become a major cause for concern. In the first 10 days of May, the district had reported only one death in this category.Medical experts said infection among younger population was on the rise. “While senior citizens are at a greater risk due to old age and co-morbid conditions, infection can also prove lethal for younger population. Earlier, it was believed that elders are more vulnerable than youngsters,” said a health official.Officials said youngsters and senior citizens should take care of their health and follow safety protocols.Recently, the district authorities also started vaccination for beneficiaries with co-morbidities in the age group of 18-44 years. A total of 1,673 persons in the category have been administered the first dose so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayhem-in-may-over-50-elderly-among-virus-victims-in-amritsar-district-254077
