18-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Cong leader held with illicit liquor||Mobile tower set on fireAmritsar: A miscreant burned down a mobile tower located in Akalgarh Dhapia village falling under the Jandiala police station here. Amrik Singh, a resident of the New Partap Nagar area, who is supervisor in the Indus mobile tower installation company, told the police they had installed a tower in the village. He said on the intervening night of May 11-12, an unknown person set the tower on fire by pouring some fuel. The tower was badly damaged leading to disruption in the signals. The incident led to heavy losses to the company. The police have registered a case under Sections 435 and 427 of the IPC in this regard while further probe is on. TNS9,000 intoxicating tablets seizedAmritsar: Ranjit Avenue police have confiscated as many as 9,000 tablets of Tramadol from one Prabhjit Singh of Chak Mishri Khan village falling under Lopoke police station here. However, his accomplice Samanpreet Singh of Ajnala managed to escape from the spot. Robin Hans, SHO Ranjit Avenue police station, said Prabhjit was nabbed from near Dushehra ground. The police also seized the car in which both the suspects were travelling. He said raids were on to nab his accomplice, while Prabhjit was produced in the court and brought on three- day police remand for further investigations. TNSMarried woman commits suicideAmritsar: A married woman ended her life by hanging from the ceiling fan of her parents’ house in Chowk Laxmansar area falling under Division C police station here on Sunday. The police have initiated inquest proceedings in the case following the statements of two families. The victim has been identified as Gurpreet Kaur (35), a resident of Rana Garden near Mall of Amritsar, and was in depression as per her family members, ASI Nirmal Singh said. She had come to meet her parents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-leader-held-with-illicit-liquor-254556
18-05-2021||Neha Saini||With no fancy aesthetics, beauty of this entrepreneur’s garden lies in simplicity||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17Lined by tall, impressive palm trees overlooking the expansive, lush garden that is pleasing to the eye as well as soul, Deepa Swani’s ‘green haven’ is something that she and her family has been taking care of for decades.Swani, who is an entrepreneur and president of Phulkari-Women of Amritsar, says that her garden is the one place her family begins and ends their day.“When I got married decades ago, my mother-in-law used to sit right at the centre of the garden surrounded by her entire clan. We are all outdoor people, everyone in my family loves to spend a significant part of their day in the garden and they also chip in with its maintenance and upkeep. Whether it’s having breakfast or a get-together, or just a peaceful stroll to end our day, the garden is where we love to relax and unwind,” she says.Her garden is full of native species of trees, medicinal plants and flowers. Right from palms, neem, teak, ashoka, mango and chikoo trees to potted varieties of herbs and flowering plants, her garden is as natural and it gets. “I do not like fancy or made-up garden spaces as I believe that it should be sustainable and natural as possible.” She also has a roof covered with bougainvillea that adds a dash of colour to the grey-hued residence.Although not an expert on gardening, Deepa has got an expert in her sister-in-law, Madhu Swani, who is a gardening enthusiast. “She is the one who teaches us how to nurture the garden. We, as a family, believe that green spaces are the most significant aspect of our existence and so, we try to live as sustainably as we can.” The garden doesn’t have much in added aesthetics, but terracotta and clay scultptures and some jute made planters do add to the overall simplicity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-no-fancy-aesthetics-beauty-of-this-entrepreneurs-garden-lies-in-simplicity-254554
18-05-2021||---||Jewellers resent loss of biz on  Akshaya Tritiya||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17Jewellers resent loss of business on Akshaya Tritiya due to lockdown. Last year too, due to lockdown, jewellery traders were not able to do any significant business on Akshaya Tritiya.Pankaj Arora, secretary of the All-India Jewellers and Goldsmith Federation, said there were only two days of Dhan Teras and Akshaya Tritiya in the annual calendar that attract brisk business due to age old beliefs. He said this was the second Akshaya Tritiya that there was negligible trade.Arora recalled that gold and silver ornament trade worth Rs10,000 crore had taken place in the country on the day of Akshaya Tritiya in 2019 when the price of gold was Rs35,000 per 10 gm. On the day of Akshaya Tritiya in 2020 the price of the same quantity of gold was Rs52,000 and trade of nearly Rs980 crore had taken place across the country. Now, the price of gold is Rs49,000 and pan-India the trade could not cross 20 tonnes.Holding lockdown responsible for the loss of trade, Piara Lal Seth, chairman of the Confederation of All-India Traders, Punjab, said it was estimated that about Rs10,000 crore trade did not take place on this Akshaya Tritiya.Although the state government had allowed opening of shops on alternate basis, yet customers did not move out of their houses due to fear of getting infected with virus. He said there were about four lakh gold and silver traders across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jewellers-resent-loss-of-biz-on-akshaya-tritiya-254553
18-05-2021||---||Summer electronic equipment sale soars in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17City bucks the downward national trend of low sales of summer electronic equipment.Dealers trading in FMCG say reports emanating from various parts of the country suggest low sales of electronic summer equipment due to lockdown. They say, luckily, a major proportion of sale in this segment, which includes air conditioners, desert coolers, fans and others, had already taken place in the district.Anil Kapoor, president, Amritsar Distributor Association (ADA), said a major proportion of the sale of air conditioners, desert coolers, fans and others in the district took place between February to April. After the reports of surge in positive cases as a part of the second wave of the Covid-19 in Delhi and Maharashtra, it had resulted in the escalation of sales for the summer electronic goods.According to the market watchers, another reason for good and early sale of summer electronic appliances was the experience gained during the previous lockdown. Since it was clamped at the fag end of March 2020, a large number of buyers could not buy the required products. So, news of lockdown in these two states hastened those who had planned to buy those gadgets.The rough estimates of the ADA suggested that between 15,000 to 20,000 units of air conditioners, 30,000 to 40,000 units of desert coolers and over one lakh unit of fans are sold every year in the local market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/summer-electronic-equipment-sale-soars-in-amritsar-254552
18-05-2021||---||Colleges federation meets minister, seeks deferment of Common Admission Portal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17A delegation of Non-Government Colleges Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh on Monday met Punjab Cabinet Minister for Higher Education Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa seeking deferment of Common Admission Portal for the next 2021-22 academic session. They said the new system being imposed was discriminatory, hitting autonomies of the colleges and full of inherent flaws.The deputation submitted a detailed memorandum to the Bajwa, which apart from Common Admission Portal also pointed large-scale interference into the working of the colleges by the Education Department. The decreasing grants, nomination of representatives in the managing committees of the colleges was also discussed in detail.The deputation was headed by federation’s vice-president Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who is also the secretary of Khalsa College Governing Council. The federation, comprised of representatives from colleges of Jallandhar and Amritsar, had been critical of state government’s recent move to impose centralised Common Admission Portal for the Colleges falling under GNDU, PU and Punjabi University, Patiala.Meanwhile, representation of aided colleges from city has also demanded the state government to release the financial aid to colleges. Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal DAV College, one of the aided colleges in city, said financial crisis in the colleges has deepened due to non-release of grant by the Punjab Government. “Due to the pandemic, fewer admissions are being witnessed. Also, the fee waivers that colleges are giving to students unable to pay fee in one go due to pandemic related economic impact, too, are draining out reserves from colleges. Staff salaries and other expenses are being affected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/colleges-federation-meets-minister-seeks-deferment-of-common-admission-portal-254550
18-05-2021||---||Government teachers protest ‘orders’ to admit pre-primary students||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 17Teachers of different government schools under the banner of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha on Monday held a protest in front of the Block Elementary Office, Naushehra Pannuan, against the verbal orders of the Punjab Education Department to the Principals of Government Secondary Schools to admit pre-primary students in their respective schools on their own. The protesting teachers burnt an effigy of the department for its anti-teacher policies.Addressing on the occasion, Nachhattar Singh, Sarabjit Warrian, Kuljit Kaur, Paramjit Kaur and others said that the move of the department was a threat to the existence of Government Primary Schools as the department wanted to initiate its move from the pre-primary classes to eliminate the primary section.They laid stress on other demands and condemned the department for abolishing a number of other posts from the primary and secondary sections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-teachers-protest-orders-to-admit-pre-primary-students-254547
18-05-2021||---||Vax camp for 18-44 age group organised in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with Sidana Institutes, organised a vaccination camp for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group years with comorbidities here on Monday.Nearly 100 people were vaccinated during the camp organised on the campus of the institute on the Ramtirath road. The aim was to encourage people in rural areas to get vaccinated. Residents were made aware of the rapid spread of the infection and what safety measures were needed to be taken by them.Rajiv Sajdeh, Chairman, CII, said a very encouraging response was received. “The initiative was planned keeping in mind the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and to augment the state government’s efforts to reach out to rural areas,” he said.During the vaccination camp, the registration was done on the spot. The beneficiaries were asked to show a copy of the identity proof (either the Aadhaar card or any other identity card), said Karan Verma, Vice-Chairman,CII, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-camp-for-18-44-age-group-organised-in-amritsar-254545
18-05-2021||---||Four-day workshop for Sikh preachers inaugurated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17Amid the prevailing situation due to the pandemic, SGPC has decided to carry forward its Dharam Prachar Lehar through online campaign, under which, a four-day online Gurmat (teachings of Sikh Gurus) workshop for the preachers (pracharaks) was inaugurated at the Dharam Prachar Committee office here on Monday.At the inauguration of the workshop, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur addressed the preachers from different districts of Punjab and other states and asked them to make maximum efforts to connect children and youth with Gurmat through the internet.Under the management of SGPC’s Dharam Prachar Committee and different Sikh missions, 250 pracharaks, 39 dhadi jathas (ballad-singing groups) and 54 kavishar jathas (poetry groups) are providing Dharam Prachar sewa. “At present, it is not possible for these preaching groups to reach out to the sangat and preach Gurmat through large gatherings or programmes. Therefore, it has been decided to launch an online Dharam Prachar Lehar,” she said.In this regard, four-day online camps of preachers and ballad-poetry groups are being organised. The first camp has been started for the preachers, following which, the camps would also be organised for the ballad-singing and poetry groups.She said under this movement, every day, lessons will be given and competitions in gurbani recitation, poetry, quiz, speech, etc will also be conducted. On this occasion SGPC members Bhai Manjit Singh Bhurakohna, Bhai Harpal Singh Jalla, assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, were present.Competitions in gurbani recitation will be heldThe first camp has been started for the preachers, following which, the camps would also be organised for the ballad-singing and poetry groups. The SGPC chief said under this movement, every day, lessons will be given and competitions in gurbani recitation, poetry, quiz, speech, etc will also be conducted. Under the management of SGPC’s Dharam Prachar Committee and different Sikh missions, 250 pracharaks, 39 dhadi jathas (ballad-singing groups) and 54 kavishar jathas (poetry groups) are providing Dharam Prachar sewa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-day-workshop-for-sikh-preachers-inaugurated-254544
18-05-2021||---||SGPC launches mobile bus service for blood donation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17At a time when there was scarcity of blood donors due to the Covid-triggered lockdown, SGPC initiated a move to introduce a mobile blood donation campaign. A special medically equipped bus, with the assistance of HDFC Bank, has been modified for having every facility pertaining to conducting blood donation camp. It will move in urban and rural areas as well.This bus will move under the supervision of Sri Guru Ramdas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College), Amritsar.The bus was flagged-off by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur in the presence of officials of SGPC and Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College.Kaur said while the SGPC has dedicated Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital for the Covid-19 patients, the medical services are being provided to people by setting up Covid care centres at various places in Punjab.“In such cases, the need of blood was often required at the healthcare institutions. A blood bank has been set up at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College. Many blood donors who were otherwise committed to donate blood, were helpless due to Covid-19 pandemic, as it was difficult to hold blood donation camps in the hospitals and movement was restricted due to the lockdown. Under such circumstances, it was proposed to prepare a bus that could reach the door of blood donors. I hope this will help meet the scarcity in blood banks”, she said.She said that so far about 150 Covid-19 patients have been cured at the centre at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Alamgir Ludhiana. Similarly, a large number of patients have also been provided health services at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib and Bholath.On this occasion, SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, executive committee member Satwinder Singh Tohra, principal Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College Dr Manjit Singh Uppal, principal of Sri Guru Ramdas Dental College Dr Kavipal Singh and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-launches-mobile-bus-service-for-blood-donation-254539
18-05-2021||---||Jalandhar resident robbed of scooter, mobiles near Jandiala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17A Jalandhar resident was robbed of his scooter, purse and mobiles by four car-borne persons when he was going to Amritsar here. The incident occurred near the Tarn Taran bypass road on the main GT Road in Jandiala around four days ago though a case was registered by Jandiala police on Saturday.The victim, Swaraj Bhagat, a resident of Basti Sheikh Sant Nagar, told the police that he was going to Haripura locality in Amritsar on May 13 on his scooter to attend a religious programme. He was riding an Activa scooter (PB-08-DX-8618). He said when he reached near the Tarn Taran bypass road in Jandiala at around 11pm, a car came and hit him from the rear. Following this, he fell off the scooter.He said around four occupants of the car came to him. They had covered their faces. He said they pointed a pistol at him and asked him to raise his hands. He said they took out his bag having important documents and also snatched his purse containing Rs 4,000 cash and two mobile phones. They took away his scooter and fled towards the Jalandhar side. He said due to darkness, he could neither identify the car make nor read the number. He said as he got scared following the incident, he could not report the matter to police that day.The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against unidentified persons.In a similar incident, a health worker was seriously injured when three bike-borne miscreants hit her scooter in an attempt to snatch it. The victim, identified as Usha Rani, was returning home after finishing her duty on Friday evening.The same modus operendi was used by them if we go by the statement of the victim’s husband Raj Kumar. The unidentified accused hit her scooter following which she lost her balance and fell on the road and sustained serious injuries. She was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. The accused fled from the spot. Kulwant Singh, investigating officer in the case, said they were analysing CCTV cameras on the route where the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jalandhar-resident-robbed-of-scooter-mobiles-near-jandiala-254538
18-05-2021||---||Girls outshine boys in PSEB Class VIII, X||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17The Punjab School Education Board, Mohali, today announced the results of Class VIII and X. The results have been prepared on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation as the examinations for both the classes were cancelled owing to the second wave of Covid.District Education Officer (secondary) Satinder Bir Singh said 3,21,384 students from the district had appeared for Class X examination in the state, out of which, 3,21,163 students have passed. Similarly, 3,07,272 students from the district were evaluated for Class VIII examination, out of which, 3,06,893 students passed. He added that in the announced results of Class X, the pass percentage of girls was 2 per cent higher than boys and the performance of rural students was better than that of urban schools. Similarly, in the Class VIII results, the pass percentage of girls has increased by 4 per cent while the pass percentage of students from rural and urban areas has been almost equal.“It’s an achievement for us as most of the syllabus was covered through online classes,” said the official. When the state government had ordered closure of schools and colleges in March due to second Covid wave, the government schools were in the middle of conducting offline exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girls-outshine-boys-in-pseb-class-viii-x-254537
18-05-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Labour shortage troubles paddy growers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17As the paddy transplantation days near, the shortage of labour hands has started to worry the farming community. The transplantation is expected to start come June.However, with restrictions on movement of workers from other states the farmers fear that the workers from UP and Bihar who mostly arrive during the season would not be able to come. In the paddy transplantation season last year too, the farmers had faced the shortage of labour due to the lockdown conditions induced by the pandemic. Previous year, the per acre transplantation cost had shot up to as high as Rs5,000. “The shortage of workers would be more this year as most of seasonal workers had left for their native places. With the ongoing uncertainty, these workers have no plans to return,” said Kewal Singh, a farmer. He added that farmers are worried.This is a labour intensive work. The farmers usually prefer migrant workers for the task as they are more adept than the local labour. Though the Agriculture Department had introduced paddy transplantation machines earlier, these have still not become popular with the local farmers.“The nursery for machines has to be grown in a different manner than for the manual transplantation. Moreover, the farmers with small land holdings cannot afford to buy these machines,” said another farmer Jaspreet Singh, adding that last year the machine operators too had charged around Rs5,000 per acre. He shared that as the farmers have to pay high per acre cost to paddy transplantation machine operators, they have no incentives to shift to the new technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/labour-shortage-troubles-paddy-growers-254535
18-05-2021||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee condemns lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Haryana||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 17The core committee of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee(KMSC), Punjab, at its meeting held here on Monday condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for lathi-charge on farmers protesting peacefully and arresting more than 200 of them.The organisation demanded immediate release of the arrested farmers. The committee workers held protests in different villages across the state against and the Union Government.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president, and Sawinder Singh Chutala, vice-president of the organisation, while addressing the protesters, said the village-level units of the committee would observe a black day on May 26 on the completion of six months of the farmer agitation on Delhi borders. The leaders said that the committee activists would hoist black flags at rooftops and burn effigies of the Modi government. The leaders demanded repeal of the three farm laws. The leaders alleged that the Union and state government had failed to provide proper treatment to the Covid-19 infected persons. The organisation demanded vaccination for all in government hospitals.The protesters warned the government that if their demands were not accepted they would intensify their stir in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-condemns-lathi-charge-on-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-254534
18-05-2021||---||Notorious criminal, accomplice arrested with 4 pistols, bullets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17The police nabbed a notorious criminal along with his accomplice here on Monday. Those arrested were identified as Sahil Kumar, alias Kalu, and Nikhil Gill, both residents of Gwali Mandi area here. The police recovered four pistols along with ammunition from their possession. Kalu had several cases, including one under the NDPS Act, registered against him.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said on a tip-off, Kalu and Gill were nabbed from near the Army quarters. He said Kalu had formed a gang and had 13 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, under the NDPS Act, firing and under the Arms Act, registered against him. He had been evading arrest in many cases. They were also involved in robberies also.He said Kalu was involved in the firing incident in which he had injured a person by firing at him. It was a monetary dispute case that took place in Gate Hakima police station area. The accused was brought on police remand for further interrogation.Meanwhile, panic gripped Kabir Park area after three occupants of a car indulged in firing on late Sunday evening. Following information, the police party reached the spot and recovered two empty shells. Immediately an alert was sounded and patrolling parties started a search. Later, the car was found abandoned in Rani Ka Bagh area and a .12 bore rifle was also recovered from the car.Kabir Park police said they got information that three car occupants were firing shots in the air. The car (DL-10-CC-0930) had broken bumpers. The police said they were looking into the details and ownership of the car. CCTV cameras in the area were being analysed for clues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-criminal-accomplice-arrested-with-4-pistols-bullets-254533
18-05-2021||---||14 booked for violating Covid norms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17As many as 14 persons were booked in city as well as in the rural belt of holy city for allegedly violating Covid-appropriate behaviour and opening their shops against district magistrate's orders.Seven persons were booked each in city and rural belt while a large number of people were challaned for violation of norms. Despite the fact that there has been a surge in the infections, people lessons have not been learned. A rapid surge in the cases in rural belt has particularly concerned the government which has been repeatedly urging the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing which is the only way to contain the virus for now.Civil Lines police booked two persons who had opened a tea shop near the D-mart on Lawrence Road area. According to the police, the accused pretended to sell milk and curd in his open tea stall though he was also serving tea to the people. They failed to maintain distance while opening the shop was also in violation. The duo was arrested under the Disaster management and Epidemic Diseases Act. Similarly, Rural police also booked several shopkeepers for the similar offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-254532
18-05-2021||---||No let-up: 17 more lose life to virus, Amritsar district toll 1,245 now||Amritsar, May 17The district on Monday reported 17 deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 1,245. Besides, the district health authorities also reported 427 new cases with which the total count has increased to 40,904.The new cases include 259 influenza-like illness cases and 168 contacts of positive cases. With the recovery of 485 patients, the total count of those recuperated has improved to 34,361. At present, the district has a total of 5,298 cases.The deceased have been identified as Surinder Singh (65) of Laxmansar Chowk; Rattan Lal (65) of Sardar Avenue; Pushpa Devi (66) of New Dashmesh Nagar; Harash Marwaha (65) of Kamla Devi Avenue; Vijay Kumar (69) of Sundar Nagar; Gurpreet Singh (35) of Shampur (Ramdas); Narinder Singh (49) of Guru Amardas colony; Deepak Kumar (39) of Varindavan Enclave; Maya (55) of New Preet Nagar; Jagan Das (54) of Dashmesh Nagar; Rani (60) of Sadar Bazaar; Jaswinder Kaur (64) of Saheed Udham Singh Nagar; Kishore Chand (78) of Khalsa Avenue; Jaswant Singh (73) Tej Nagar; Sucha Singh (57) of Buttar; Paramjit Singh (62) of New Jawahar Nagar and Asha Rani (62) of Vijay Nagar.Meanwhile, OP Soni said 790 more beds for Covid patients would be provided to government hospitals in the state. Of them, 100 beds would be provided to Government Medical College here. He said a total of 18,62,744 tests for Covid-19 had been conducted in the district so far. He further stated that there had been witnessed a slight dip in the daily count of positive cases in the district. Despite that, people must follow the guidelines strictly.Tarn Taran sees 2 deathsThe district on Monday recorded two deaths due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 265. The deceased have been identified as 80-year-old Makhan Singh and 61-year-old Jaswant Kaur. Besides, 83 new positive cases were reported in the district, pushing the tally to 880. Of these, the Health Department had isolated 464 patients in their respective houses.Meanwhile, 1,15,745 persons, including 1,005 construction workers in the 18-44 age group, had been vaccinated so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh had appealed to the residents to abide by the precautions to keep the virus at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-17-more-lose-life-to-virus-amritsar-district-toll-1-245-now-254531
