19-05-2021||Amritsar||Rolling out red carpet for Covid?||Call it a lapse on the part of authorities or lack of etiquette among the public, the discarded clothing and other belongings of the Covid patients were left abandoned leading to potential cause of infection.Outside Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), which caters to critical patients from various districts of Majha and Doaba region, mounds of abandoned articles got piled up out in the open opposite to the Emergency Ward.On the other hand, used PPE kits too were discovered in a corner of Durgiana Shivpuri (cremation ground).According to medical experts, the clothes worn by those who succumbed to the disease or the ones under treatment, ought to be disposed of properly in the bio-medical waste incinerators, otherwise it would only help in spreading the pandemic.Principal of Government Medical College Dr Rajiv Devgan said due to lack of civic mannerism, people not only throw the discarded clothes and beddings in the hospital premises but also elsewhere on the roadside and markets too. “I myself have noticed this menace in well-to-do colonies like Race Course road and Shastri Nagar areas where patients’ clothes and beddings were thrown,” he added.He said barring the ones admitted in ICU who wear designated dress only, the under-treatment patients are usually ambulatory. So, they wash their clothes either themselves or by their attendants in warm water. “We have bio-waste disposal unit in GNDH premises and our staff is liable to dispose of the medical waste every alternate day. Yet, better sense should prevail among the residents also that they should properly dispose the patients’ discarded material so that it may not end up causing infection.”At the cremation ground, the Covid protocols demand that the cremation is done under the supervision of administrative officials. The body getting wrapped in a designated plastic bag and the ones involved in performing the last rites would have to wear PPE kits. Astonishingly, post cremation, some leave it on the premises of the cremation ground.Head (Punjab) of Step One Covid National Doctors’ helpline Dr Sarpreet Singh Gill said it was gross neglience and dangerous as well, as it poses high risk of potential infections. “The patients’ clothing has to be incinerated through bio-medical waste process. The used PPE kits, too, have to undergo incineration process. Otherwise, it would certainly spread infection,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rolling-out-red-carpet-for-covid-255102
19-05-2021||Amritsar||16 fall prey to virus, 301  test positive in Amritsar||The district on Tuesday recorded 16 deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 1,261. The health authorities also reported 301 new cases with which the total count increased to 41,205 in the district.The new cases include 189 influenza-like illness cases and 112 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities also reported the recovery of 485 patients with which the count of recuperated persons improved to 34,846. At present, the district has a total of 5,098 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Ravinder Kaur (48) of Ajnala; Jeet Kaur (77) of Pheruman village; Daulat Singh (88) of Guru Nanak Nagar (Batala Road); Surinder Kaur (65) of Hukam Chand colony; Surjit Kaur (70) of Gujjarpura; Vishwanath (62) of Udham Singh Nagar (Chabal Road); Desh Bandhu (73) of Harpal Avenue (Chheharta) Satnam Kaur (65) of New Azad Nagar (Sultanwind Road); Subhash Chandra (73) of Laxmansar Chowk; Vinod Kumar (66) of Basant Nagar (Majitha Road); Ashok Kumar(76) of Tunda Talab; Parminder Singh (42) of A-block Ranjit Avenue; Dalip Singh (86) of Bhaini Badeshan village; Rupinder Kaur (58) of Boparai village; Jagir Singh (81) of E-block Ranjit Avenue and Dharampal Singh (82) of New Ranjitpura.Meanwhile, a total of 2,181 residents were vaccinated against Covid-19. These included 705 workers registered with the Labour Department, 894 people with comorbidities in the 18-44 age group, two healthcare workers, 24 frontline workers and 58 residents above 45 years of age.So far, 25,059 healthcare workers, 43,923 frontline workers, 1,92,163 residents above 45 years and 7,584 persons in the 18-44 age group have been partially vaccinated while 14,957 healthcare workers, 17,392 frontline workers and 39,318 residents above 45 years of age have been completely vaccinated.Three die in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported three Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran on Tuesday. With this, the toll increased to 268 in the district. The authorities reported 34 positive cases today. At present, the district has 835 active cases.Those who breathed their last include Daya Singh (72), Darshan Singh (50) and Savinder Kaur (63).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-fall-prey-to-virus-301-test-positive-in-amritsar-255103
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital firing: Role of Cantt police under scanner||Days after a cross case was registered in a clash between two groups at Luv Kush Nagar in Putlighar, which had led to firing at Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital, the working of the Cantonment police have come under scanner.Cops allegedly let off one of the suspects in the cross case who was handed over to the police by residents of Luv Kush Nagar.The suspect identified as Santosh Kumar was let off allegedly under the influence of a political leader.Locals informed the Cantonment police about presence of Santosh in Gwal Mandi area. Following this, he was nabbed by the police team led by Assistan Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar. Santosh was booked by the police by name in the case. The ASI said he was not aware why he was let off. He said he went off duty after arresting Santosh.SHO Jaspal Singh said Santosh was not arrested as the inquiry in the case was under progress. “We are still ascertaining the role of the suspects in the two cases,” he said.The Civil Hospital firing had led to an injury to an emergency medical officer. It was an outcome of a clash, which occurred at Luv Kush Nagar, hours before the incident on March 14. An FIR was registered by the Cantonment police station in this connection and the police had booked Raj Kumar Raju along with Sunny Sahota, besides their other accomplices on charges of illegal restrain, firing and creating law and order problem, and under the Arms Act. They were booked on the statement of Rahul Negi and his brother Madan Negi, who were injured in the incident. However, on May 10, the police on the statement of Vijay Kumar of Luv Kush Nagar had filed a cross case while booking Rahul Negi, Madan Negi and their accomplices who had attacked Raj Kumar Raju at his residence and damaged his car before the retaliation by the other group.Geeta, wife of Raju, said when the police had arrested a person in the case, how can they let him go. She said if the police fail to nab the suspects they would sit on a dharna outside the residence of Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-civil-hospital-firing-role-of-cantt-police-under-scanner-255105
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Vigilance nabs building inspector, husband for seeking Rs 1-lakh bribe||The Vigilance Bureau has nabbed a building inspector of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and her husband for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a trader. The accused have been identified as Harpreet Kaur (building inspector) and Prathamesh Mohan, alias Rahul, of New Mohindra colony.The duo was booked under the Corruption Act following a complaint by Manoj Chhabra, a resident of Shivala colony, while further investigation was under way.Chhabra told the police that he owns a plot of around 33.66 sq yd and was constructing three shops on the ground floor and a residential accommodation on the first floor. He said on October 24, the MC employees stopped the construction activity and took away the equipment on the instructions of Harpreet. He said he approached Mohan, who was known to him.Chhabra said Mohan demanded Rs 1.20 lakh for the alleged illegal construction of the said shops. He said Mohan sought Rs 1 lakh for them while Rs 20,000 for the complainant who had filed a complaint with the MC authorities. After negotiation, the deal was settled for Rs 1 lakh, which Chhabra had to pay in two installments. Mohan also agreed to return the equipment seized from the construction site.Instead of paying the bribe, Chhabra filed a complaint with the Vigilance Bureau, which got the audio recordings of Mohan, who was demanding the bribe on behalf of Harpreet.A case under Sections 7 and 7-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act added with Section 120-B of the IPC was registered against Harpreet and Mohan.Senior Superintendent of Police (Vigilance) Parampal Singh confirmed the arrest of Harpreet and her husband Mohan while adding that further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vigilance-nabs-building-inspector-husband-for-seeking-rs-1-lakh-bribe-255108
19-05-2021||---||Jassa Singh Ahluwalia: Remembering the forgotten hero||Amritsar, May 18Sultan-ul-Quam Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, Sikh ruler of Misl era, has contributed immensely for the development of the city.Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was born in 1718 at a village called Ahluwal near Lahore, established by his ancestor, Sadda Singh, a devotee of Guru Hargobind. Hence, the name Ahluwalia stuck to him. He was the fourth Jathedar of Budha Dal and fifth Jathedar of Akal Takht. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was honoured with the title of Sultan-ul-Qaum (King of the Nation). Legend has it that the historic Qila Ahluwalia was built as a military fortress to protect Golden Temple. Katra, a planned and secured residential locality, was also developed alongside the fort by Ahluwalia.He put up a brave fight against AfghansUnder the leadership of Jassa Singh, the Dal Khalsa took over Lahore, the capital of Punjab, for the first time in 1761. Abdali thought that having demolished their fort and desecrated their holy sarovar, he had weakened the Sikhs to face the Afghans. However, within months, the Sikhs, guided by Ahluwalia, were strong enough to make Afghans their prisoners and also make them clean up the Amrit Sarovar.With the resources available to him, he got the buildings repaired, improved the management of gurdwaras and provided better civic facilities to residents of Amritsar.In 1762, when Abdali attacked the Golden Temple and demolished the main building, the Misl Sardars recaptured the city soon and secured the shrines and residential areas. They constructed gates and military posts to secure the localities. Ironically, the fort and other heritage buildings were demolished or encroached over the time.Now, the state government and the local administration woke up from deep slumber and are planning to revive the heritage of Ahluwalia gate. The Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board and Asian Development Bank initiated the preservation of Qila Ahluwalia in Katra Ahluwalia at a cost of Rs 2.22 crore.Meanwhile, with the efforts of Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, Municipal Corporation (MC) will execute a plan to construct the gate there. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that project was in the pipeline and it would be executed soon. The inauguration of project is being delayed due to the outbreak of second wave of Covid-19.The Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society celebrated the 303th birth anniversary at his Samadh backside Gurdwara Baba Atal. A book on Jassa Singh Ahluwalia originally written by Dr Harbans Kaur Sandhu and translated in English by Dr Sarbjit Singh Cheena was also released.Pardeep Singh Walia, president Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society, said, “We have fought a long struggle to revive heritage of the great Sikh ruler Jassa Singh Ahluwalia. A major portion of the fort is still under encroachment and we have been making efforts to set it free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jassa-singh-ahluwalia-remembering-the-forgotten-hero-255110
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Man beaten to death, 3 booked||Cong man escapes from custodyTarn Taran: The police claimed that Congress leader Nirbhai Singh, who is also a panchayat member of Dialpur village, escaped from the police custody on Monday. The police and the Excise and Taxation Department had seized 400-kg lahan and 2.5 lakh ml of Illicit liquor from the possession of Nirbhai and his domestic help Ranjit Singh. The search operation launched jointly by the Excise Department and the police. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said Nirbhai was handed over to Kacha Pakka police by the joint team. The SSP added that supporters of Nirbhai came to the police station and the accused escaped from the police custody by dodging the police. Nirbhai had been booked under Section 224 of the IPC by the Kacha Pakka police, said the SSP and added that the accused would be nabbed shortly. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-beaten-to-death-3-booked-255111
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar monsoon ready, claims Mayor Rintu||In the wake of the upcoming monsoon season, residents and councillors of the Municipal Corporation are worried about desilting of sewer lines. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that all main lines have been cleaned with super sucker machines in the recent past and there would be no obstacle in draining out rainwater.“Our main lines are clear but the sewer lines in narrow streets in internal city areas need to be desilted. We are going to buy around 50 small machines under the Smart City project for narrow sewer lines. Apart from this, tenders have been floated to hire suction machines on ward level. We hope that there would be no water-logging in any area if desilting got completed on time,” said Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu.The Municipal Corporation (MC) hires super sucker machines and spends Rs 2 crore annually on every constituency. The state government had empaneled some of the private firms and fixed the price for desilting. Meanwhile, the MC councillors demanded to buy machinery for this purpose. Mahesh Khanna, Chairman, Water supply and Sewerage Subcommittee advocates to buy own machinery instead of hiring the machines from private firms annually. Cabinet Minister OP Soni sanctioned Rs 50 lakh to buy the super sucker machine for the central constituency.However, the senior officials of the MC are not willing to buy its own machines as it needs skilled workers and several other functioning challenges. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “Private firms empaneled by the government are providing good services. The super sucker machines are very costly and also need technical staff. We bought small machines which can be handled by our staff easily.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-monsoon-ready-claims-mayor-rintu-255114
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Pandemic, a path to rediscovery||A long spell of the pandemic and its aftermath on mental and physical health has been nothing less than traumatic.While there’s nothing much in the name of inspiration as the second wave batters the country, a few persons have found their own way of beating the pandemic blues by doing what they always wanted to do, but never got the required support.Harjit Bamrah has spent a large part of her life taking on the responsibilities of her family, but when pandemic struck, Bamrah got a chance to rediscover herself as a singer.“I have passion for music, especially Punjabi folk. I have been a big fan of legendary Surinder Kaur. Since, I had a busy social life, confinement during the lockdown made me look for something else to overcome the stress. That’s when my husband and few friends suggested that I should try singing,” she said.Bamrah released her debut song ‘Jutti Kasoori’ in April on a digital music channel. “I have no professional training in singing, no prior exposure as a singer. I never thought of singing and performing in a music video, but this first step has given me enough confidence to pursue a new career,” she said.Her debut came as a surprise for her three grown-up kids. “During the pandemic, I got time to spend with myself, something I never really did before. There is so much going around that it becomes difficult to focus on positive aspects of life. I listened to my inner voice and got the confidence to perform.”Latika Arora, is another person, who turned to self-exploration. Arora has been a choreographer for the past two decades and used to teach dance for livelihood when the pandemic-induced lockdown halted everything. “It was a really difficult time as everything came to a standstill, with so much uncertainty and no other option available. When you have been doing the same thing comfortably for years, it takes a while to adapt to anything new. For me, the lockdown was a time to pause and re-invent myself as an artist,” said Arora.“I spent the last one year singing. It was a good way to distract myself from negativity of the pandemic,” she said.Recently, Arora released her first ghazal, a version of Mehdi Hasan’s classic ‘Duniya Kisi Ke Pyar Mein’ (from Jaag Utha Insaan in 1966). She’s also working on an upcoming Punjabi web series and featured in Ekta Kapoor’s ‘Who’s Your Daddy?’Shefali Diwan, a mother of two, who loved cooking for her large and extended family, came out as a writer.“Like many, I too spent a large part of the lockdown in my kitchen. A friend suggested that I should start with professional cooking videos. I got ahead of myself and tried my hand at writing a book,” she said. Diwan has penned a book on therapeutic and homecooked recipes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-a-path-to-rediscovery-255116
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Cops attacked, three nabbed||A police team was allegedly manhandled by three youngsters near gate number 1 at the interstate bus terminus on Monday. The police team had gone to the spot after they received an information regarding an accident between a bicycle and a scooter.Investigating Officer Kapil Dev said when the police team led by an ASI reached the spot, they found cyclist (Charanjit Singh of Ganda Singh Wala) injured. He said the scooter-borne persons, Sahil alias Sunny of Majitha road, and Surinder Kumar of Batala road, entered into an argument with Charanjit.He said they tried to pacify the duo while asking them not to indulge in such act, however, they apparently under the influence of some intoxicant, started arguing with cops. The Investigating Officer said they also called their accomplice, Rahul of Loharka road, and scuffled with the policemen. He said the police arrested the three and admitted Charanjit to a hospital. A case has been registered for physically assaulting the policemen and stopping them from discharging their duties against the trio. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-attacked-three-nabbed-255118
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Foraying into pharma sector no child’s play, says city entrepreneur||The pandemic triggered several medical service providers, professionals and associated industries and pharmaceutical companies to upgrade themselves in order to meet new demands and face challenges.Amit Kapur, 52, who has employed over 40 persons to manufacture drugs for treating cardiac, diabetic, blood pressure, neuro and other patients, stated that the pharma sector always needed proper attention due to the critical care of the service. “We have recently added a dissolution machine, to ascertain how long it takes to properly dissolve a medicine in a human body, disintegration machine to verify disbursement of a pill in the body and Stability Chambers. These chambers give real time outcome of pills stored at different temperature”. All these state-of-the-art machines were procured from Ahmedabad.His idea of venturing into pharma biz was initially ridiculedAmit Kapur laments the role of the government in not encouraging the MSME sector in the pharma segment. “Government gives contracts for procurement of medicines to only those companies which have annual turnover above Rs 10 crore. This clause simply pushes aside small companies and big pharma companies pocket the moolah,” he rues. Such norms do not help indigenous small companies to grow, he says. When he hinted upon venturing into pharmaceutical business three decades ago, with his friends and family members, it drew humorous reactions. The city was known for dishing out culinary delights and the locals did not take the locally-produced medicines seriously, he said.He, along with his brother, had switched over to pharmaceutical business in the nineties to augment the family income as the growing joint family can no longer depend upon one business and required more source of income. It’s before his family was in the petroleum business. His grandfather Jiya Lal Kapur had procured a shop outside the Hall gate in 1925.About three decades ago, when he hinted upon venturing into pharmaceutical business with his friends and family members, it drew humorous reactions.” The city was known for dishing out culinary delights and the locals did not seriously take locally produced medicines. They had more faith in the medicines coming from Mumbai and Gujarat.Now, the entire scenario has undergone a change as a considerable segment of the locally produced medicines are exported. Similarly, the number of pharma units has also doubled from nearly 15 to 30 in the city.He lamented the role of the government in not encouraging the MSME sector in the pharma segment. “Government gives contracts for procurement of medicines to only those companies which have annual turnover above Rs 10 crore. This clause simply pushes aside small companies and big pharma companies pocket the moolah.” Such norms do not help indigenous small companies to grow, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foraying-into-pharma-sector-no-childs-play-says-city-entrepreneur-255120
19-05-2021||Amritsar||All power, telephone wires will be laid underground, says Soni||Under the ‘Smart City’ project, all electrical and telephone wires around the old city area would be laid underground. This would free the city from wires said Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal were also present.Soni said development works at a cost of Rs 1.25 crore in an area of 7.5 km on outer ring road was going on in full swing. He said the road was being widened, besides a separate water supply line was being laid. A cycling track and a pedestrian path were also being developed.Soni said the first phase includes area from Lohgarh Gate to Khazana Gate. He asked the authorities to expedite the project so that residents do not face any difficulty.He said negligence in the development works would not be tolerated at all. He asked officials of the Municipal Corporation to carry out all the works under their supervision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-power-telephone-wires-will-be-laid-underground-says-soni-255122
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Teachers burn effigy to protest govt apathy||Teachers from district held protest under the banner of the Joint Teachers Front, Punjab, and burnt effigy of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla to oppose the non-implementation of transfers of primary teachers for the past two and half months.The long pending demand by the primary teachers, including reinstatement of 1,904 posts of primary head teachers, demanding health insurance of Rs 50 lakh, implementation of 50 per cent staff attendance rule in all schools and solitary leave with pay of 17 to 30 days as per the instructions of the personnel department, were raised once again.Ashwini Kumar, member of the front, said the Education Minister had refused to meet them earlier and their demands are being ignored repeatedly. “In middle schools, C&V posts were abolished, 228 PTIs have been forcibly transferred out of schools to remote areas and now the remaining posts have also been shifted to senior secondary.Vacant posts of ETT and other teachers have not been filled, new recruitment under teaching and non-teaching category has not been regularised, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-burn-effigy-to-protest-govt-apathy-255124
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar resident fills pit on his own after losing kin to road accident||Four deaths due to four accidents on the stretch between Naraingarh to Chheharta on the GT road failed to move authorities but moved a local resident Gurmeet Singh. These accidents took place from May 12 to May 15. Gurmeet lost his kin, Parminder Kaur (wife of his brother) in one such accident on May 15. Seeing the apathy of the government, he volunteered to fill these pits so that such incidents are not repeated in future.He said Parminder was travelling with her sister on Activa when it lost its balance due to pits on the road and rammed into the rear side of a moving truck. Parminder died on the spot and her sister had a miraculous escape.“Life is extremely precious. Neither government officials nor contractors bother about this. Common persons travelling on roads do not figure in the priority of governments. So, we have to be on our own guard and be vigilant enough to plug the infrastructural gaps.”Keeping this in mind, he spent from his own pocket to fill the pits on the stretch. His gesture moved people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-resident-fills-pit-on-his-own-after-losing-kin-to-road-accident-255125
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Farmers told to go for mechanised transplantation||The agriculture experts stated that direct seeding of rice technique can be an effective way to counter the shortage of workers for manual transplantation of paddy. They stated that the farmers can bring a portion of their land holding under the direct seeding.The experts have, however, warned against direct seeding of rice in fields with problem have excessive germination of weeds. They stated that for the first timers, it is recommended that only one-fourth of the land is shifted to direct seeding.Farmers who had successfully tried the technique during the previous years can use the technique on larger areas, said agriculture department officials. The agriculture department had earlier promoted DSR machines for the purpose.Direct sowing can be done with a machine having a spray attachment or not but it must be ensured the weedicides are sprayed within 24 hours in case the machine does not have a sprayer attached, said the CAO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-told-to-go-for-mechanised-transplantation-255128
19-05-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Cross firing at Cheema Kalan leaves 8 injured||Eight persons of two groups were injured in an indiscriminate cross firing that took place at Cheema Kalan village, 35 km from here, on Sunday night. A one-acre plot was the reason behind the incident.The two groups, one led by Dhara Singh and the other by Charan Singh, had been claiming to be the actual owner of the plot. Sub-Inspector Nirmal Singh said both Dhara Singh and Charan Singh had purchased a three-acre plot each from Maninder Raj Singh, an NRI of the village, a few years ago. Besides, both the parties were laying separate claim to a one-acre plot adjoining their plots.In the current wheat season, Charan Singh had not only cultivated the land but also harvested the crop. Now, the Dhara Singh group wanted to usurp the land forcibly.SI Nirmal Singh said Dhara Singh and his three sons along with their 30 armed supporters went to till the land.Charan Singh, his sons and their 12 armed supporters too reached the spot to stop the Dhara Singh group from doing so. Both the sides broke into a verbal duel, which led to indiscriminate cross firing between them.The Sub-Inspector said three persons of the Dhara Singh group, who were injured in the incident, submitted their medical reports to the police on Monday. He said it was learnt that five supporters of Charan Singh were also injured in the cross firing. One of the injured, who received bullet injuries at his face, was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.The SI said a case under Sections 307, 324, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against both the groups by the Patti Sadar police. The police have initiated further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cross-firing-at-cheema-kalan-leaves-8-injured-255129
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Banker’s hand chopped off, bag with Rs 1.5K snatched in Amritsar||Two unidentified persons, including a Nihang, chopped off a hand of a bank employee at Naushehra Kalan village and decamped with his bag containing Rs 1,500, a tablet and a register here on Monday.RAIDS ON TO ARREST ACCUSEDThe victim has been identified as Anand Vishwas of West Bengal. He was returning to his office after collecting monthly instalments when the incident took place, a video of which has gone viral. A case was registered at the Kamboh police station on the statement of Vishwas’s colleague Ankit Mittal. The police were yet to record Vishwas’s statement.Mittal said they were on their way back from Naushehra Kalan village when two motorcycle-borne men came from behind. “A Nihang, who was riding pillion, hit Vishwas with his sword, chopping off his hand in which he was holding the bag,” he said. Vishwas was rushed to a hospital. Kamboh SHO Yaadwinder Singh said they were carrying out raids to nab the accused who were captured on a CCTV camera. A case under Sections 307 and 379-B of IPC had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bankers-hand-chopped-off-bag-with-rs-1-5k-snatched-in-amritsar-255095
