20-05-2021||---||Gym owners counting losses, staff fear layoffs||Amritsar, May 19 The restrictions imposed to check the rapid spread of Covid-19 have started taking a toll on the business of gym owners in the city. The gyms have been closed for the past nearly two months, causing a big loss of income to them. Gym owners, employees and their clients have their own cup of woes. Deepak Kumar, a gym owner, said it was the second time that his gym was closed. Earlier, it was closed from April to September, 2020. “After successfully running the business for nearly a decade, I had taken on rent a much bigger hall in January 2020, little knowing that the restrictions would be imposed. The monthly rent of nearly 1,400 square feet floor area is Rs 35,000 per month, about Rs 8,000 as monthly power tariff and salaries of five employees — how we will bear the expenses when our gym is closed. Paying unavoidable expenses is exhausting all my savings of previous years.” Dilpreet Singh, owner of another gym, said, “They did not earn enough between October 2020 and February 2021 to make up for the loss incurred during the first lockdown. Now, again strict restrictions were imposed on the gyms. He said the costly machines in gyms required maintenance regularly otherwise these would not function properly.”  He said the installation of indigenous machines in a gym required an investment between Rs 15-18 lakh. “In case the machines are imported, the cost doubles. Getting no regular income leads owners to fall back on the savings or take more advances,” he said. Ramanjit Singh, a trainer, said, “He has not been receiving his salary (Rs 10,000) for the past two months due to the closure of work. Similar is the condition of most of the trainers and other staff at almost all gyms in the city.” He demanded that the government should consider re-opening of gyms with minimum people. Sandeep Kumar, who sells food supplements to gym goers, said the sale of items at his shop had gone down since its closure. “Workout enthusiasts are doing exercises from their houses without pumping iron which requires intake of more supplements,” he added||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gym-owners-counting-losses-staff-fear-layoffs-255667
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Students show talent in poetry recitation contest||Tarn Taran, May 19Guru Amar Das Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, organised an online English poem recitation competition on Wednesday for the students of grade 1.The students recited lively and cheerful poems on different topics. The school principal said the students were provided an opportunity to recite small poems to express their heart and mind out with perfect flow to express their emotions. More than 20 students participated in the poetry recitation competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-show-talent-in-poetry-recitation-contest-255668
20-05-2021||Neha Saini||Enrolment in postgraduate courses witnesses big dip in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19Expressing concern over the falling number of enrolments in higher education, several aided colleges in the city have recently taken up the matter with the Higher Education Minister. Citing several factors, such as the pandemic, for the drop in admissions in postgraduate courses, educators say that if the trend continues, it will leave a long lasting damage on higher education in the state.“Despite the state government’s move towards privatisation of education and mushrooming private colleges, the past five years have seen an annual drop of 10 per cent in enrolment for higher education. Owing to the pandemic, teaching has shifted to online mode and this has resulted in the present situation as many students are either not getting admission due to financial constraints and others are waiting for the offline classes to commence. Students who had plans to pursue PhD or PG diploma courses are preferring to wait for a year for the things to return back to normal,” said DAV College Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar.The drop in enrolment in postgraduate courses is significant in some colleges. Hindu College Associate Professor Ritu Jaitly said, “We used to have average 40-50 students per class in postgraduate courses until a few years back. Now, the number has reduced to 15-20. Many students are interested in going abroad and pursue their higher education from overseas universities as they believe it offers them a chance for a better future. The uncertainty created by the pandemic has only added to the situation.”Another factor attributed towards the student’s losing interest in pursuing higher education is the failure of the government to offer incentive to students. The historic Khalsa College too has seen a fall of up to 30 per cent in student enrolments for postgraduate and PhD this year. “The government asked colleges to waive off or exempt fee charged from students and it was complied with. Despite that the fall in enrolment remains as students are not ready to invest economically and personally to pursue higher education in India. The lure of overseas education and foreign citizenship is at all-time high as they don’t see employment opportunities here. Though, all foreign visas and travel remain suspended due to the pandemic, those nurturing foreign dreams prefer to wait. With an all-time high unemployment rate, the situation seems to worsen,” said Khalsa College Principal Dr Mehal Singh. Khalsa College has approximately 7,000 students, out of which, Dr Singh said 60 per cent prefer to fly out to pursue higher education. Since, Punjab’s economy too has been hit, with no government jobs in line and industry moving out of the state, the solution lies in introspection and action.“The government has to consider the brain drain and our young, skilled people choosing overseas education for the lack of jobs in India. They have to offer incentives and jobs and boost corporate sector to promise better employment for our youth,” said Dr Rajesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/enrolment-in-postgraduate-courses-witnesses-big-dip-in-amritsar-255669
20-05-2021||---||Govt owes apology to Covid patients: AAP||Amritsar, May 19The district unit of AAP sought apology from the Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government for failing to provide medicines, medical equipment and oxygen to Covid-19 patients.Addressing the media here today, Ashok Talwar, Joint Secretary of AAP, Punjab, said, the pandemic had exposed the deplorable medical infrastructure in the state. He said impoverished people unable to afford costly treatment at private hospitals were compelled to approach the government-run medical institutes. However, many of them were losing lives owing to poor quality treatment and unavailability of proper equipment, he claimed.Parminder Singh Sethi, AAP, District President (Urban), demanded Rs 10,000 aid for impoverished people, free-of-cost one LPG refill and essential groceries to help them make-up for the loss of their wages. They sought a hike of Rs 600 in daily wage.Harwant Singh Umranangal, AAP District President (Rural), said instead of holding ‘Man Ki Baat’ with Sarpanches, the CM must look into medical shortcomings. He sought implementation of promised Rs 2,500 monthly pension to the aged, handicapped, and the widows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-owes-apology-to-covid-patients-aap-255670
20-05-2021||Tribune New Service||Four nabbed with habit-forming drugs||Amritsar, May 19In two cases of drug smuggling, the police nabbed four persons and seized a huge quantity of habit- forming drugs from them here on Wednesday. In the first case, the rural police nabbed three persons and seized 50,000 tablets of habit-forming drugs. The accused have been identified as Samir Kumar, Suraj Kumar of Majitha Road and Gurmukh Singh of Mallunangal village.Lovepreet Singh, SHO Mattewal police station, said the police got a tip-off that three persons involved in the smuggling of habit forming drugs were heading towards Fatehgarh Churian to supply the tablets. The police set a checkpoint and nabbed the accused with 50,000 tablets. A case has been registered at the Mattewal police station.Meanwhile, the excise staff of the city police nabbed a person with 13,680 tablets of habit-forming drugs from the E division area. The accused has been identified as Nishan Singh of Ansal Uttar of Tarn Taran. The excise team got information about the movement of suspect Nishan Singh. A case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-nabbed-with-habit-forming-drugs-255671
20-05-2021||Amritsar||Body of 42-yr-old Amritsar man arrives from Dubai||The body of a 42-year-old immigrant from Dubai arrived at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here this morning. The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Singh of Mahishampur Kalan village (near Tarsikka) in Amritsar.Dr SP Singh Oberoi, founder of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Harjinder Singh had gone to Dubai about 17 years ago in an attempt to improve the economic condition of his family. He used to work as a labourer there. He arrived at his village two months back and then returned on April 10 for work. On May 5, a few days after his arrival in Dubai, he ended his life due to some problems. Friends of the deceased contacted Oberoi and requested to send Harjinder’s body to India. After which, they immediately completed all the necessary paperwork and handed over the body to his family in India on Wednesday with the help of Indian Embassy.Dr Oberoi said trust has so far handed over the bodies of 233 unfortunate people to their heirs. He appealed to the parents to send their children abroad only after a thorough investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/body-of-42-yr-old-amritsar-man-arrives-from-dubai-255673
20-05-2021||---||2-day pen-down strike by agri technocrats begins today||Amritsar, May 19 The Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee (AgTAC), a joint body of all Agriculture Development Officers, Agriculture Officers, Deputy Directors and Joint Director-level officers, will go on a pen-down strike on Thursday and Friday to protest the government’s failure to pay any heed to their demands.  “All officers of the department are enthusiastic about the call given by the AgTAC. During these two-day protest, no official correspondence, sampling, testing or any virtual meeting will be held with the government by the officials of the Agriculture Department. But, all kinds of services will be provided to farmers in the offices or at the farms, siad AgTAC general secretary Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu.  He said due to a large number of vacancies at various levels in the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department and the absence of regular departmental promotions for a long time, the structure of the department was in a shambles. Agricultural extension services to farmers are also being affected due to this, he said.  “The role of agricultural technocrats in addressing the challenges being faced in agriculture sector such as groundwater depletion, increasing use of pesticides, climate change, agricultural diversification, finding new markets, cost control and provision of high quality pesticide seeds is significant. But, some anti-agricultural forces are constantly trying to undermine the peasantry, take away agricultural extension services from them and suppressing the technocrats. The anti-farmer face of the state government has also been exposed by ignoring the department associated with the farmers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-day-pen-down-strike-by-agri-technocrats-begins-today-255674
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent  
||‘Govt school, best school’ calendar released by Tarn Taran DC||Tarn Taran, May 19 ‘Government School, Best School’ calendar was released by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh here today, showcasing the new changes from all aspects. The Deputy Commissioner said the changes had made all schools smart and equipped with latest technology and better infrastructure. He added that the government schools were known for the best educational facilities and well-qualified staff.  The building of the schools had been given attractive look with smart classrooms, modern furniture and the peaceful atmosphere for students. Rajesh Kumar DEO (Elementary) and Deputy DEO (E). Paramjit Singh, along with other officials of the department, too  were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-school-best-school-calendar-released-by-tarn-taran-dc-255675
20-05-2021||---||Private hospital makes hash of treatment, de-empanelled||Amritsar, May 19After the death of six patients at the private Neel Kanth Hospital on April 24, the administration has removed it from the list of hospitals empanelled for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken after a committee constituted by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira submitted its report on Wednesday.The committee comprising Deputy Director Local Bodies Dr Rajat Oberoi and Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh found the hospital guilty of more than one charges. As per reports, the hospital did not have enough number of specialist doctors to treat serious patients.It also found that the hospital does not have a single full-time anesthesia specialist. The report further states that it did not have any buffer stock of oxygen and that it had failed to inform the district administration regarding the shortage of oxygen.Khaira said the private hospital has been de-empanelled with immediate effect. He added that a communication to National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH) would also be written requesting them to reconsider their accreditation given to the hospital.The DC has also asked the committee constituted to look into the complaints of public regarding overcharging by private hospitals as the committee probing the death of six patients had received complaints from the attendants. Khaira said the report has been sent to the Health Department and state government for necessary action.Earlier, six patients admitted at Neelkanth Hospital had died allegedly due to shortage of oxygen on April 24. The hospital management had alleged that they had informed the Nodal Officer appointed by the administration regarding the shortage. Four of the six deceased were positive patients. What had happened?Six patients, four of which were Covid positive, had died one after another in wee hours of April 24 due to shortage of oxygen at Neelkanth Hospital. It was a harrowing time for the attendants of the patients as they frantically searched for oxygen cylinders in the middle of the nightA day before the deaths were reported, the local chapter of IMA had met the district administration and apprised the DC about the shortage of oxygen faced by private hospitals as maximum of the supply was diverted towards Government Medical College which had maximum of the caseloadEarlier, the GMC too had to shift to its buffer supply as it faced shortage. The hospital claimed that it had informed the administration 48 hours prior to the incident which has been denied by the administration||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-hospital-makes-hash-of-treatment-de-empanelled-255676
20-05-2021||---||Lockdown: Shopkeepers rue tepid footfall, find ways to dodge the cops||Amritsar, May 19 Despite relaxation in Covid curfew restrictions, traders seemed to be unhappy. Though the major markets of garments, utensils, electronic gadgets, jewellery and interior furniture are open, but have been witnessing very low footfall of customers. Due to travel restrictions, even customers from rural areas are almost absent from the main markets. During a visit to Katra Jaimal Singh, one of the major markets of garments, shopkeepers were found to be sitting idle and waiting for customers. Sardari Lal, a cloth merchant at Katra Jaimal Singh, said, “It is the second consecutive year, when we are facing financial hardship. After wheat harvesting season, rural masses visit the city and buy clothes. Due to restrictions, customers have not been visiting the market.” There are some traders in the city whose business reduced to 2%. But they are opening shops on their turn and waiting for customers.  Prince Singh, who prints wedding invitation cards, said, “I have opened the shop at 10 am and closed it at 5 pm. I didn’t get a single order. The wedding functions are restricted but people are even not printing visiting cards. We had seven workers. I have laid-off five of them but there is no work even for the remain ing two.”  On the other hand, the police have been challaning the violators. The shopkeepers on the other side of the market, which are allowed to open shops on rotation basis, do not close the shop completely. They open one-fourth portion of the shutter to indicate the customers that they are available. A large number of shopkeepers are practising this tactic. It has been observed that shopkeepers park their scooter outside the shop and sit on it while keeping an eye on police patrolling. They allowed the customers to enter the shop. Some of the shopkeepers made provisions of back-door entries in their shops. Meanwhile, the city police registered six cases against shopkeepers and individuals for violating the curfew restrictions. Similarly, the rural police booked several persons for violating the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-shopkeepers-rue-tepid-footfall-find-ways-to-dodge-the-cops-255677
20-05-2021||---||No respite: Amritsar district clocks 11 deaths, 306 new infections||Amritsar, May 19The district on Wednesday logged 11 deaths due to the novel coronavirus disease, pushing the toll to 1,272. Besides, the health authorities also reported 306 new positive cases, taking the total count to 41,511.The new cases include 208 influenza-like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 585 patients, the total recovery count of those recuperated improved to 35,431. At present, the district has a total of 4,808 active cases.Meanwhile, district health officials stated that 3,413 persons were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Wednesday. These included 492 workers registered with the Labour Department, 1,118 residents with comorbidities in the 18-44 age group and 669 family members of healthcare workers. So far, 10,167 residents in the 18-44 age group have been inoculated.64 new cases in Tarn TaranThe district on Wednesday reported the death of a woman due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 269. The victim has been identified as Chindo (87). Sources in the Health Department said 64 more tested positive, pushing the number of active cases to 696. Around 407 patients had been quarantined in their respective homes. Besides, 1,17,290 persons had been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district till Wednesday. Of them, 1,213 beneficiaries are construction workers.Oxygen facility at doorstepThe district administration has started oxygen service for Covid-19 patients under home isolation. It will provide oxygen concentrators to them for use. The service would be managed by the district Red Cross Society.Red Cross Society secretary Thakur Randhir Singh said, “Those who had tested positive for Covid-19 and are under home isolation can get the concentrators from Red Cross.” He said the patients would be given the concentrators only if they had a valid prescription from a qualified doctor.The patients would have to deposit Rs 5,000 as security which is refundable. They would have to pay the facilitation charges of Rs 200 per day. The patients would also be required to return the machine after sanitisation.Randhir Singh said the district had recently received 20 oxygen concentrators from Sun Foundation due to the efforts of Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. The patients who want to avail of the facility can contact district Covid control room at 0183-2500398 and 0183-2500498.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-amritsar-district-clocks-11-deaths-306-new-infections-255679
20-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Vaccination only for registered labourers||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, MAY 19Even as the district Health Department initiated vaccination of registered labourers in the district but 90 per cent of them are not registered.Dr JP Singh, patron, Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad Punjab, said there were about 4.50 lakh labourers, including 1.70 lakh migrants, engaged in a variety of jobs in the district. However, not more than five to seven per cent of them were registered with the departments of labour and factories. For instance, the Labour Department has a record of only 13,000 construction workers while their actual number is much more.So, Parishad sought that the district administration must utilise the services of the department to reach out to all workers. Singh stated that vaccinating them must be a priority instead of only registered ones. “Labourers work in groups at different locations. They could be carriers of pandemic. Most of them are single-earning hands in the families, their falling sick means that the source of income to their families has stopped.”Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Parishad, suggested that the Health Department could hold camps in those areas where industrial activities were more. For instance, focal points, Batala road, Meeran Kot, Chheharta, Bal Kalan, East Mohan Nagar, Majitha road and Tarn Taran road.“Labourers were reluctant to go to hospitals for vaccination, fearing that they might get infected,” he said. He elaborated that most of the industrial units were lying closed due to the lockdown in various parts of the country. Being a border district, the holy city depends upon raw material and selling finished goods in the rest of the country. “So, the 75% out of nearly 400 textile units, 85% out of 30 processing units and others are lying closed.”Amarjit Singh Asal, a veteran Left Party leader in the district, said there must be around 4.50 lakh labourers engaged in factories, shops, farms and various other professions. He lambasted the government for chalking out lopsided policies. He said most of the labourers were hesitant to get vaccinated as they would lose their wages once they would develop fever post vaccination. He said Rs1,500 monthly aid translates into three to four day wages. He added the government takes decisions in offices without holding discussions with the labour representatives. He suggested that the aid should at least be Rs 6,000. That, too, should be disbursed to those who would get the jabs.War of wages“Labourers were reluctant to go to hospitals for vaccination, fearing that they might get infected,” said Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad Punjab. Another reason that has held labourers back from getting inoculated is of missing out on wages. Many of them are single-earning hands in their families. Post vaccination fever is likely to grip them, “their falling sick means that the source of income to their families would be cut off.” The statement resonated well with Amarjit Singh Asal, a veteran Left Party leader in the district, who underlined the need to raise the lean financial aid the government hands them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vaccination-only-for-registered-labourers-255683
20-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Woman thrashed, partially stripped||Batala Mayor teja visits MCAmritsar: Newly-appointed Mayor of Batala Municipal Corporation, Sukhdeep Singh Teja, visited the office of Municipal Corporation (MC) Amritsar and met city Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu here today. On this occasion, Mayor Rintu congratulated Teja on his appointment as Mayor and assured of all possible cooperation from the Municipal Corporation Amritsar. Senior Deputy Mayor of MCA Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar and Councillors were also present on this occasion. Mayor of Batala thanked Karamjit Singh and his colleagues for the warm welcome extended by the city civic body. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-thrashed-partially-stripped-255686
20-05-2021||Neha Saini||Soon, government schools in Amritsar to get smart playgrounds||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19Capitalising on the sports funds reserved due to the pandemic, the district Education Department has initiated the project to set up ‘smart playgrounds’ at all government schools across the district. The department is compiling data for per school funding requirement that will be shared with the Sports Department to release funds accordingly.Kuljinder Singh Malhi, district sports mentor, said the process of upgrading facilities at government schools had begun last year. “We had received Rs80 lakh for upgrading gymnasiums last year that were used to set up five state-of-the art gymnasiums at schools in Lopoke, Ajnala, Attari, Tarsika and senior secondary school at Mall Mandi. Also, the annual sports fee revenue received by the district Education Department that is usually shared with the Sports Department was given back to schools last year for sports upgradation. We have already set up 80 smart playgrounds in district.”A meeting was held on Wednesday with Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, District Education Officer (S) Satinder Bir Singh and Sushil Kumar Tulli District Education Officer (A). Malhi said that while the department was releasing grants for smart playgrounds for games, including hockey, basketball, handball shooting range, etc as per the demand of the school, upgraded playgrounds for games like kho kho, kabaddi, badminton and indoor halls for table tennis, carrom board, chess, etc have already been completed. He said financial assistance of Panchayat and SMC committee members could also be sought for this purpose as soon as possible.Annual sports grant for senior secondary schools and high schools amounts to Rs25, 000 per school, while the middle schools get Rs10,000 as sports grant. Malhi said that utilising the previous reserves for sports development is the priority now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soon-government-schools-in-amritsar-to-get-smart-playgrounds-255688
20-05-2021||Even after getting funds for the completion of Naushehra Pannuan grain market||Naushehra Pannuan: Of what use is this incomplete shed?||Home no more a long walk away!Gurdeep Singh Rataul, 93, a former SDO of the PWD and a social worker had helped Bihar migrants financially as they did not have money to go back to their homes. As many as 14 labourers had come from Bihar in the area to harvest wheat crop more than two months back. Dinesh, a representative of the labourers, said that due to Covid-19 pandemic and other circumstances they failed to make both ends meet during their stay in the area and as a result they were unable to earn money to go back to their respective villages. They had been coming to the area during wheat harvesting season since long. The migrants approached Gurdeep Singh Rataul for financial help which he happily agreed. Dinesh thanked Gurdeep Singh for the help.Watch out! it’s a bumpy link road aheadElders of Sheron, Dhotian, Dugri, Chaudhriwala, Kot Muhammad Khan, Tur, Jamarai, Mundapind, Bhail Dhai Wala, Lalpur and many other villages have taken a serious note of the stoppage of renovation work on the Sheron-Jamarai link road which has gone at its worst condition. Sarup Singh Dhotian, an international handball coach, said that residents of these villages had been facing hardships due to the worse condition of the road for the last more than seven years. He said the road was repaired 10 years back. A year back the PWD coated the road with earth and stone. The earth clouds had been disturbing the residents' whole day since years. About two months back the department restarted the work to put bitumen coat. The work was dropped midway again a month back. The villagers approached the officials concerned but the work had not been completed till date. Sharanjit Singh, JE of the department, said due to non-availability of labour the work had been stopped. The work will be started as soon as we will get the labour, he said. The residents said the farmers had to face problems in the wheat season to approach the grain markets. The approach roads of many other villages are of the same condition especially in the border area, people said.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/naushehra-pannuan-of-what-use-is-this-incomplete-shed-255690
