21-05-2021||Amritsar||10 booked for thrashing man||KMSC jatha leaves for Singhu, TikriTarn Taran: A jatha of the district unit of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, left for Delhi to join the agitation against the three farm laws. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the organisation, said, men, women and youths were part of the jatha who would stay there for 21 days. The farmers and mazdoors organised a rally here before leaving for Delhi. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satam Singh Manochahal and other leaders condemned the Central Government for its alleged anti-farmer policies. The leaders said the farmers’ movement had become a people’s movement. OCThree held with 775-gm heroinTarn Taran: The police have recovered 775-gm heroin from the possession of three persons on Wednesday. In the first case, the police arrested Manpreet Singh of Bhakna Kalan and recovered 500-gm of heroin. He was driving a motorcycle when the police intercepted him. Cops recovered 260-gm heroin from Narinder Singh of Sarhali Kalan. In the third case, Jaspal Singh of Pakhoke village, was nabbed by the police. Cops recovered 15 gm of heroin from his possession. The accused have been booked under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused. OCStaffers seek pay parity, protestTarn Taran: On the first day of the week-long agitation, the state government employees wore black badges, and held protests at several places in the district. District chief of the Punjab UT Mulazm/ Pensioner Sanjha Morcha, said employees of the Deputy Commissioner and the SDM’s offices, besides revenue staffers participated in the agitation. Teachers and ministerial staff of the Education Department, too, lodged their protest against the state government. Regularisation of services, implementation of the 6th Pay Commission report and releasing of dearness allowances, were some of the demands of employees. Indefinite strike call given by the Safai Sewaks’ Union entered in its eight day on Thursday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-booked-for-thrashing-man-256143
21-05-2021||Amritsar||Meeting held on development works in Amritsar||In a series of meetings being organised by Mayor Karamjit Singh with councillors for solutions to the problems faced by public, today councillors in Opposition, including Independents, met the Mayor and discussed the development works carried out in their wards. The Mayor heard their issues and instructed the officials concerned to address the problems.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said,“ Every councillor is a representative of the public and accountable to the people. Irrespective of the party, the people have elected him for the development work of the area”. He directed the officials to give similar attention to each councillor and resolve their grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meeting-held-on-development-works-in-amritsar-256141
21-05-2021||---||JE, assistant lineman accept bribe, arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 20Vigilance Bureau arrested a Junior Engineer and an assistant lineman of Powercom for seeking bribe for not disconnecting a power connection on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Vikrant Salwan (Junior Engineer) and Sukhdev Singh (assistant lineman).The duo was nabbed red-handed by the Vigilance Bureau while accepting bribe.The complainant, Ashish Kumar, a resident of Katra Praja, alleged that due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, his business got badly hit and he could not pay electricity bill of his shop.Ashish said around 10 days ago, the department issued a power bill of Rs 35,000. He said on May 14, Salwan came to his shop and asked him to clear his bill, else his power connection would be disconnected.The complainant alleged that Salwan demanded Rs 5,000 as bribe and asked him to ensure that he would pay remaining amount in montly instalments.He said after a lot of pursuance, the deal was fixed at Rs 3,500 from him.The complainant said he could arrange only Rs 2,000 and the accused pressurised him to give remaining Rs 1,500 as well.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the Junior Engineer and an assistant lineman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/je-assistant-lineman-accept-bribe-arrested-256140
21-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Arhtiya, Pungrain staffer held for bungling Rs 71-lakh paddy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 20Vigilance Bureau has nabbed a commission agent (arhtiya) Sawinder Singh along with Pungrain’s auction recorder Sarabjit Singh on charges of corruption on Thursday. The VB also booked Pungrain’s Inspector Harmeet Singh in the case though he was yet to be arrested.According to VB sleuths, the accused bungled government paddy worth Rs 71.26 lakh and forged records, thus causing huge losses.Interestingly, Sawinder was complainant in the case who had informed the VB about the bungling and involvement of Pungrain officials. However, during probe, officials found his active role in the misappropriation. Therefore, he was also booked in the case registered by the VB on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy, forgery and corruption.Vigilance officials said the trio embezzled 3,883 quintals of paddy worth Rs 71.26 lakh and later prepared fake record. The minimum support price of the paddy was Rs 1,835 per quintal. Sawinder, who hailed from Batala used to run SS Trading Company at Mehta Grain Market.The fraud pertains to paddy purchase in 2019-20 when Pungrain and the FCI were allotted to procure paddy from the Mehta Grain Market. Sawinder had alleged that during the said period, Inspector Harmeet had made a bogus procurement of 9,000 bags of paddy in account of Pungrain and took Rs 50 lakh for the same from the department after taking him into confidence.However, when records were sought from The Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, it came to light that the department had written to the Amritsar (rural) Police to register an FIR against Sawinder for bungling of paddy, but the police forwarded the complaint to VB in April 2020 for appropriate action.After completing the probe, DSP (VB) forwarded the same to the rural police and also to the (vigilance) in March.The investigations revealed that in October 2019 to November 2019, Pungrain procured over 9,100 quintals of paddy from SS Trading Company. The department made online payment to the tune of Rs 1.68 crore in the account of Sawinder. However, the probe pointed out that Sawinder failed to hand over around 3,883 quintals of paddy to the Pungrain.Following this, the Food and Civil Supplies Department, wrote to higher authorities and the Police Department to initiate the probe. It was found that the accused showed excess procurement to Pungrain in record rather than actual procurement. The probe also found active connivance of Harmeet and Sarabjit in the fraud as they had forged documents for making the payment in the account of Sawinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arhtiya-pungrain-staffer-held-for-bungling-rs-71-lakh-paddy-256139
21-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar sees 17 cases of black fungus, all in pvt hospitals||As many as 17 cases of black fungus were reported from the district on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said all patients infected with black fungus had been reported from private hospitals. “None of the government hospitals have reported any such case,” he said.The health official when asked about the severity of the cases said the department was still collecting data about such patients. “The first case of black fungus was reported two days ago. We are still verifying the facts and collecting data,” he said. Dr Singh said all patients were under treatment and the department was in regular touch with the hospitals from where these cases had been reported. “This disease existed prior to Covid pandemic but the chances of positive patients catching it due to weak immunity are high,” he said, adding that the health department had been informed about the development and they were constantly monitoring the situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-sees-17-cases-of-black-fungus-all-in-pvt-hospitals-255975
21-05-2021||Neha Saini||Gurcharan Singh Chani exits the stage of life||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 20The city theatre fraternity woke up to a rude shock with news of the demise of eminent theatre person and actor Gurcharn Singh Chani, who passed away in Chandigarh due to Covid-related complications. Chani, 69, is survived by wife Harleen Kohli and children Gyan Dev and Sukhmani. Considered a stalwart of Punjabi theatre and celebrated actor, Chani had long association with Amritsar’s theatre circuit. Kewal Dhaliwal, a fellow NSDian and one of his close friends, could not hide his grief when he shared that he has lost a brother on Thursday.Lost a gemHe had worked as a producer at the Doordarshan, Jalandhar, before settling in Chandigarh.“It is such a big loss personally, and in terms of regional theatre losing one of its finest gems. Chani was among the foremost artistes to take theatre to the rural Punjab in post-militancy Punjab. He used to organise theatre workshops for children along with me and used to travel to villages, doing nukkad nataks and folk theatre with kids. He was an immensely talented artiste and a wonderful human being,” said Dhaliwal. He adds that Chani’s clown act that he used to perform for kids at children’s wards at hospitals, under his community theatre programme, will be his fondest memory. “He was that kind of a person who used to bring smiles through his work, his being.”Chani was a recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and a Fulbright scholar. He had worked as producer at the Doordarshan, Jalandhar, before settling in Chandigarh. “I was a young theatre artist and I met Chani ji several times at the Jalandhar Doordarshan office. My mentor Dr Atamjit was very close to him and I had always heard good things about him. He had a knack to strike interesting conversation even with people junior to him. It was one of his many endearing qualities,” shared Vijay Sharma, senior theatre artist and actor from city.Vipin Kumar, NSD alumnus and theatre artist, shared that his humility and sensitivity as an artiste and as a human being, will always be a lesson for future crop of artistes. “It’s our biggest tragedy that we could not say our final goodbye to someone, who used to bring smiles to the forlorn faces in hospitals. He was an institution for many, including myself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurcharan-singh-chani-exits-the-stage-of-life-256136
21-05-2021||---||Specialist in caring for people||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 20Call of duty has made city-based retired medical practitioners render their services to help people fight Covid. Dr Karanjit Singh and Dr Shyam Sundar Dipti, two of the many such retired healthcare specialists, have been on call for the patients at the newly set up Covid-19 ward by the All India Pingalwara Charitable Society.Having survived the infection last year, Dr Singh, 66, who retired as Director, Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, in 2015 and is a paediatrician, has been the on-call doctor for the patients at the ward. He has been associated with the Pingalwara since 2004. “I believe that the situation is such that everyone must reach out to the community with whatever they can do to help fight the disease. The patients being treated at the Covid ward at the Pingalwara are stage-I and stage-II, who require physical as well as mental well-being.” Having lost his cousin to the virus last year and a survivor himself, he encourages families to take care of each other’s mental well-being as well. “Our approach towards treatment of patients and their families should be empathetic,” he said.He has been among the 32 doctors rendering free on-call consultation across the state. He has also been providing tele-consultation to his patients in Taran Tarn. His son and daughter are both doctors, fighting pandemic at the frontline in the USA. “I believe that as a family we have become stronger while tending to our duty as doctors,” he says.His fellow compatriot, Dr Dipti, too, has chosen to work at frontlines. He retired from serving as doctor at the Community Health Department, GMCH, in 2016, but has been re-employed ever since. “The first and foremost treatment we give to our patients is to remove their fear. There is a need to understand that in a pandemic, everyone has got a responsibility…as a citizen and as frontliners,” he tells.Both of them are also prolific writers, Dr Singh has written short stories and Dr Dipti has authored a book in Punjabi. They use their creative skills to enthuse motivation among their patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/specialist-in-caring-for-people-256134
21-05-2021||---||9 die, 343 test +ve for Covid in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 20With nine deaths reported from the district on Thursday, the toll has increased to 1,272. The district health authorities reported 343 new cases with which the total count in the district has reached 41,854.The new cases include 239 infleunza-like illness cases and 104 contacts of positive patients. The district has also reported recovery of 545 patients with which the total recovery count has improved to 35,976. At present, the district has a total of 4,597 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 4,647 residents were inoculated on Thursday. These included 737 workers registered with the Labour Department, 1,279 residents with comorbid conditions in the age group of 18-44 years and 806 family members of healthcare workers.The authorities said 25,084 healthcare workers, 44,534 frontline workers, 1,94,455 residents above 45 years and 12,989 residents in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose. Besides 14,959 healthcare workers, 17,403 frontline workers and 39,366 residents above 45 years have been administered the second shot.One succumbs to virus in Tarn TaranThe district reported one Covid-19 death on Thursday, taking the toll to 270, while 43 persons tested positive for Covid on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as 73-year-old Sawinder Kaur. The number of active cases in the district is 692, of these 443 are home quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-die-343-test-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-256133
21-05-2021||Manmeet Gill||Cases fall, death rate on rise in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 20The number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths reported in the district have witnessed decline in the last few days. The district health authorities said though the situation has improved to some extent, but they were not taking any chances.As compared to an average of 520 cases daily in the first 13 days of May, the district authorities reported around 369 cases on a daily average in one week (May 14-May 20).In the first 13 days, the authorities had reported a total of 6,761 positive cases. From May 14 to date, the district witnessed 2,585 new cases.May 14 onwards, 113 (per day average 16.14) fell prey to the virus to date. From May 1 to May 13 (per day average 15.84), a total of 206 persons succumbed.Though general perception is that the number of new cases has gone down due to lack of testing, the district health authorities said the testing was still being done in full swing.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the number of deaths being reported daily due to the Covid-19 has gone down. “It is an encouraging sign, but residents still need to follow precautions,” he said.“We have started ‘Corona Roko’ mission in rural areas under which over 80,000 people were covered on Thursday. Around 1,200 samples were collected and only 14 tested positive,” said the Civil Surgeon.He said the entire rural population would be covered in the coming few days. “The number of daily reported deaths have gone down, but we are not taking any chances and over 5,000 samples are being collected daily,” said Dr Charanjit. He said 5,300 samples were collected today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cases-fall-death-rate-on-rise-in-amritsar-district-256125
