22-05-2021||---||Covid-19: Nine die, 260 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 21The district health authorities on Friday reported the death of nine persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 1,290. Besides, there is no let-up in the number of rising positive cases as the district witnessed 260 fresh cases, taking the tally to 42,114. Of the new cases, 183 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 77 are contacts of positive patients.The authorities reported the recovery of 423 patients with which the recovery count improved to 36,399. The district has at present 4,425 active cases.The report of two positive cases from the wholesale vegetable and fruit market has created a panic among traders and vendors.The district administration has warned strict action against those hospitals which were overcharging Covid-19 patients during their treatment. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira on Friday said if a hospital or a doctor exploited any patient, the district administration would be forced to take strict action against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The government was empowered to shut the hospital or take control over the hospital.He said complaints were pouring in that private hospitals were fleecing patients by charging above the rates fixed by the government. Khaira clarified that all private hospitals should not take advantage of any patient’s compulsion failing which the government would be left with no other option but to take punitive action against the defaulting hospital.He said most of the government and private doctors and paramedical staff had set a good example of serving the people during these difficult times, but there were some black sheep in the system who were cheating people.He said the state and district-level committees would soon conduct a detailed audit of the treatment of Covid-19 patients done by private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-nine-die-260-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-256689
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Overcharging  patients: Hospitals in Tarn Taran district under radar||Tarn Taran , May 21The district administration on Friday warned private hospitals to stop overcharging Covid-19 patients.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said if a hospital or a doctor exploits any Covid patient, the district administration would be forced to take very stringent action against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act and and the hospitals would be closed.Kulwant Singh, DC, Tarn TaranParamedics have set a good example by serving masses during these difficult times wholeheartedly, but there are some black sheep in the system who are cheating people by taking undue advantage of the situation. He said, “Paramedics have set a good example by serving masses during these difficult times wholeheartedly, but there are some black sheep in the system who are cheating people by taking undue advantage of the situation.”The Deputy Commissioner said it was unfortunate that such people were denting the image of the entire profession. He warned nefarious elements to stop the misconduct with immediate effect or else be prepared to face stern action.He informed that the state and district-level committee would soon conduct a detailed audit of the treatment offered to positve patients by private hospitals.Anyone can file a complaint on the 104 helpline number of the Health Department and at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, he said.Five succumb to virus, 54 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district health authorities reported five Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran on Friday. With this, the toll increased to 275.The deceased include Neeraj (54), Joginder Kaur (55), Surjit Kaur (50), Jagir Kaur (55) and Harinder Kaur (60).The health authorities reported 54 positive cases today and the active cases increased to 666 in the district. A total of 422 persons have been isolated at their homes so far.The District Health Department collected 1,556 swab samples today.The authorities have inoculated 1,19,539 beneficiaries in the district to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/overcharging-patients-hospitals-in-tarn-taran-district-under-radar-256692
22-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Patient dies in Amritsar, kin allege disruption of Oxygen supply||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 21Family members of a patient who succumbed to Covid-19 alleged disruption of oxygen supply and created ruckus at Karam Singh Memorial Hospital. The vicitm, Anita Sharma (50), lost battle to the virus on Thursday night.Jagdish Chand Sharma alleged that his wife Anita died due to lack of oxygen supply and negligence on the part of medical staff of the hospital. “I got her admitted to the hospital on May 12. My daughter checked the supply of oxygen and found it turned off. Following this, we approached the hospital authorities, which immediately swung into action.”“On Thursday, they put up an oxygen mask on Anita. How can a person inhale when the mask is on and oxygen turned off?” said Sharma.He alleged that body of the deceased was moved out of the hospital without knowledge of the family members. Kin claimed that they were told that Anita was in a good condition in the morning and she was declared dead at night.Another person, Vikramjeet Singh, also alleged that his mother Narinder Kaur had passed away due to the negligence of the hospital staff on October 1, 2020. He said his complaint against the hospital was lying with the Civil Surgeon.Dr Varun Sharma, Anesthesiologist, Karam Singh Memorial Hospital, refuted the allegations and said there was no shortage of oxygen and they were having a two-day buffer stock in the hospital.He said the patient was shifted from the Military Hospital in a critical condition and due to quality medical care she managed to survive so long.ACP (North) Sarbjit Singh Bajwa said the police team was at the spot to the maintain law and order. He said the police would not investigate the matter as it pertains to the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patient-dies-in-amritsar-kin-allege-disruption-of-oxygen-supply-256694
22-05-2021||---||Rain washes away tall claims of Amritsar civic body||Amritsar, May 21Despite tall claims, the Municipal Corporation Amritsar failed to re-carpet several major roads, which have been lying in a pathetic state in the city. Moreover, instead of re-carpeting, patchwork was carried out on several major roads of the city which also turned out to be a shoddy exercise because of the sub-standard material used during the process. Not only this, the loose gravel also got scattered on roads, leading to fatal accidents.Last week, MC conducted patchwork on Sultanwind road and Sau futti (100ft) road. Ironically, with the first rain, the substandard material came off the surface and the gravel got scattered on the road. Some of the accidents were also reported due to stones scattered on the road.It is worth mentioning here that Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu had claimed that MC had spent Rs13 crore on roads and proposed to spend more than Rs 60 crore on city roads and streets. However, the road projects announced last year are still pending.On Tuesday, a local resident Gurmeet Singh volunteered to fill pits on the stretch between Naraingarh to Chheharta on the GT road after losing his kin, Parminder Kaur (wife of his brother) in one such accident on May 15. Four deaths due to accidents on potholed roads failed to move the Public Work Department to re-carpet the road.Deepinder Singh, Executive Engineer, Civil Wing, MC, said, “We have called the contractor, who did the patchwork on Sultanwind Road and Sau Futti road. He said it was due to sudden rain that the material came off the road. The work order of Sultanwind Road has been placed and tenders have been floated to Sau Futti road too. The roads would be re-carpeted soon.” Sandhu said the stretch between Naraingarh to Chheharta is under PWD and they had written to the authorities to re-carpet the road. Now they have also conducted patch work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-washes-away-tall-claims-of-amritsar-civic-body-256695
22-05-2021||---||Big haul: 11 mobile phones, opium seized in Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, May 21Prohibited material, including cellphones continue to be sneaked inside the high security Amritsar Central Jail.In the last two days, the jail authorities confiscated 11 mobile phones, out of which five were recovered from prisoners while remaining were unclaimed.Besides the authorities also confiscated 80-gm opium from a prisoner who has been identified as Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu, of Tarn Taran. He was lodged in the de-addiction centre’s barrack inside the jail complex. The staff also seized a mobile from his possession.Avtar Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, said two mobile phones were found from washrooms of the same barrack. Similarly, four cellphones were recovered from backside of the langar building. The phones were wrapped in a polythene, which was hidden in the sand.On Thursday, the jail authorities had recovered from mobile phones from four prisoners, who had been identified as Jobanjit Singh alias Billa, Rohit Joshi, Akash and Kashish Duggal. This seizure was also made in the barrack number 1 of the de-addiction centre.Meanwhile, Sanjay Kumar (an inmate) of Indira colony, was booked for allegedly assaulting another prisoner Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi. They were lodged in room number 1 of barrack number 3. Gopi was injured in the attack while the jail staff recovered a sharp-edged weapon from his possession. Separate cases have been registered in this connection.The Amritsar Central Jail authorities said there has been zero tolerance against sneaking of prohibited material inside the jail.Seizure of mobile phones have been regular inside the jail even as paramilitary forces among other security arrangements were in place.The jail officials on condition of anonymity said there has been some flaw in the construction of prison as its located in a densely populated area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-haul-11-mobile-phones-opium-seized-in-amritsar-central-jail-256698
22-05-2021||---||Amritsar-based dairy owner, brother booked for culpable homicide||Amritsar, May 21The police have booked a dairy owner and his brother on the charge of culpable homicide after they forced his worker to enter a chocked gutter to clean it.The victim, identified as Shashi Kumar, a resident of Kirpal Colony, Tung Bala, on Majitha Road, died after he inhaled poisonous gas in the gutter. The incident occurred on May 14.Those booked were identified as Harpal Singh, alias Bhalla, and Dilbagh Singh, alias Bagga, of Ram Nagar Colony on Majitha Road. A case under Sections 304 and 34 of the IPC and Section 3(1)(J) of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has been registered against the accused. The police said raids were on to nab the culprits.In his complaint to the police, Kulwant Singh, alias Baba, told the police that Shashi Kumar had been working at the dairy for last eight years. Kulwant said on May 14, Shashi had called him to his place as the sewer of Harpal Singh’s dairy was chocked and required de-silting. He said he had also entered the gutter but came out of it without cleaning it. Then the accused took Shashi for cleaning the gutter on the main road (Majitha Road). He said as the gutter was deep, he refused to clean it.He said later the accused forced him to clean the gutter, but he refused again. However, the duo allegedly forced him due to which he fell into the gutter. Owing to poisonous gases, Shashi got unconscious. On seeing this, they fled from the spot.Shashi was admitted to hospital where doctors declared him dead. It was alleged that the accused on the pretext of helping the victim’s family tried to influence them for not filing any police complaint. On this assurance, they cremated the body, but now they refused to compensate the family.They alleged as the victim belonged to the SC community, therefore he was forced to clean the gutter. He died due to negligence of the two accused, so a case had been registered against them.ASI Kulwant Singh, investigating officer in the case, said further investigation was under progress while raids were on to trace the two suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-dairy-owner-brother-booked-for-culpable-homicide-256702
22-05-2021||---||F&CC gives nod to works worth Rs 19cr in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 21A meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation was held here where development works worth Rs 19 crore were unanimously approved. These development works include civil, operation and maintenance (O&M), beautification of parks, re-carpeting of roads and patchwork, de-silting of sewerage in various areas, development work in all wards and strengthening of the infrastructure.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Yunus Kumar and Councillor Gurjit Kaur were also present in the meeting.Apart from this, proposals including purchase of cattle catcher vehicle for capturing stray animals, undergrounding of 132 KV main lines of electricity from Sultanwind Chowk to Bularia Park, repair of toilet blocks in various assembly areas, installation of LED lights and paying wages to the labour hired by contractor for sanitation work allotted by Municipal Corporation as per current DC rates were passed during the F&CC meeting.The meeting also approved allotment of 13 parking lots through e-tendering. On this occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh said crores of rupees have been spent so far on the development of the holy city and the MC is fully committed to the overall development of the city. He said there would be no shortage of funds for development.Approved ProjectsProposals including purchase of cattle catcher vehicle for capturing stray animals, undergrounding of 132 KV main lines of electricity from Sultanwind Chowk to Bularia Park, repair of toilet blocks in various assembly areas, installation of LED lights and paying wages to the labour hired by contractor for sanitation work were also approved in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fcc-gives-nod-to-works-worth-rs-19cr-in-amritsar-256703
22-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Youth ‘murder’ case: Two more accused held in Tarn Taran||The police have arrested two more accused in connection with the murder of a 17-year-old youth, Jugraj Singh of Gharka village, on July 28 last year. The accused, who were arrested on Friday, have been identified as Ranjodh Singh Yodha of Burj Poolha and Arashdeep Singh of Burj Deva Singh. One of the accused, Ghachu of Gharka, was still at large, said the SSP.The victim was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his village. The Chohla Sahib police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC, but the police failed to resolve it.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said Harmanpreet Singh Joban, Harmanpreet Singh Dana, Jashanjit Singh Jashan and Resham Singh were arrested on May 8. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-murder-case-two-more-accused-held-in-tarn-taran-256704
22-05-2021||Tarn Taran||2,480-kg lahan seized, 4 booked in Tarn Taran||Minor girl raped, youth bookedAmritsar: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth at Tanel village falling under the Mattewal police station here on Wednesday. The incident came to light when a complaint was lodged with the police on Thursday. The police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Harman Singh of the same village. The victim’s mother told the police that on Wednesday, the accused took her daughter along saying that his sister Baljit Kaur was calling her. She said as her daughter did not return home, she went to her friend’s house and found the gate bolted from inside. She said when the gate was pushed open by her, Harman Singh fled from the house. She said the accused raped her daughter. The police said a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act had been registered and raids were on to nab the suspect. The medical examination of the victim was also conducted. TNSRow over horse: Nihang killedTarn Taran: A Nihang was killed by his fellow (Nihang) on the premises of Dera Baba Bidhi Chand at Sursing village late Thursday evening with a sharp-edged weapon. The vicitm, Karamjit Singh (19), who was a resident of Jalandhar, was offered to the Sect by his parents since childhood. The accused has been identified as Surjit Singh of Sakhira (Tarn Taran). He has been arrested by the Kacha Pakka police. Bhikhiwind Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajbir Singh said Surjit was angry with Karamjit as the latter had not given his horse to the former. The accused used sickle to attack Karamjit, who died on the spot, said the Deputy Superintendent of Police. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against Surjit. The Deputy Superintendent of Police said the accused who fled away from the spot was arrested within hours of the incident and they recovered the sickle used in the crime. OCOnline poster-making contestAmritsar: State Education Research and Training Council, Punjab has initiated various competitions to create awareness and maintain interest in social science among the students studying in government schools. Under this series, Punjab Education Department announced to conduct online social science poster-making competition at school level for the students studying in Classes VI to X. Sharing information in this regard, Jaswinder Kaur, District Mentor, Social Science said that the department would start four days poster-making competition for the students of Class VI to X studying in government schools from May 26 May to May 29. E-certificates will be provided to the students, who come in the first three places of these competitions to be conducted at the school level. She said that the best poster selected at the school level would be selected for the block level, district level and finally the state level competitions and the winners at the state level would be specially honoured by the department. TNSMasks distributed among studentsAmritsar: A mask distribution drive was organised in DAV College campus under Gandhi Studies sponsored by UGC. Masks were distributed to students and staff members attending the college by members of the NSS and the history department along with Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar. He said that the impact of Covid-19 is not yet over. "Few people even now refrain from wearing masks despite the horrors of pandemic quite evident. The drive has been carried out to make people understand the importance of masks as first defence against Covid-19 infection. Physical distancing and the utility of the mask is required for each person,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-480-kg-lahan-seized-4-booked-in-tarn-taran-256705
22-05-2021||---||Free treatment for black fungus patients in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 21To counter the alarming surge of black fungus cases, doctors from private hospitals have joined hands under the banner of Amritsar-based Muskaan Trust to offer free treatment to those suffering from the disease.Besides the free treatment, the group also launched free ambulance services, oxygen concentrators and free medical consultation to Covid-19 patients in collaboration with Toronto-based ‘Pravasi Sahaayta Foundation’. These doctors are being assisted by several volunteer donors from the NGO called ‘Helpers’.Black fungus is a deadly disease, which also affects the eyes and jaws of the affected patients, often necessitating the removal of these and other affected organs. “The initiative has been launched by extending our services to 30 black fungus-affected patients. Depending on its success, the services will later be extended to others too,” said Dr Madhu Shankar Diwan, Founder, Muskaan Trust, and an Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon. He revealed that the treatment entails several expensive surgeries.Stating that being immuno-compromised, the Covid-affected diabetic patients were more prone to contracting black fungus, Dr Dushyant Thaman, a Neuro Surgeon, said though these cases were often reported even before there was an alarming increase in their incidence due to the heavy consumption of steroids prescribed for Covid-19 treatment. Dr Raman Chatrath, from Each One Save One, said the trust’s aim of providing free medical consultation to patients through the social media and helplines is no more restricted only to Amritsar but has a global reach now.“We are being contacted by people from across the globe on a daily basis for free consultation. The prevailing situation mandates consultation with a doctor rather than going to the hospital. Increasing incidence of Black Fungus is attributable to massive intake of steroids on people’s part without a doctor’s prescription,” he said.Dr Chatrath said that the doctor’s duty roster was being updated on a daily basis to ensure round-the-clock availability of doctors to facilitate such consultations.Dr Kuldip Singh Arora, President, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, and CEO, K D Hospital too is supporting the initiative through his hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-treatment-for-black-fungus-patients-in-amritsar-256706
22-05-2021||---||Lending a helping hand with oxygen||Amritsar, May 21Om Prakash Soni, Minister for Medical Education and Research on Friday reiterated that there is no shortage of medical supplies and oxygen in three medical colleges in state. He was speaking at an event at the Circuit House where two organisations, FICCI FLO and Virdi Foundation donated oxygen concentrators that will be handed over to the District Red Cross.It has been providing oxygen concentrators to the Covid-19 patients at a fixed rate of Rs 200 per day, as fixed by the state government. FICCI FLO, that gave eight oxygen concentrators, also provided ration kits as well as medicines to the needy during the pandemic.Virdi Foundation, from the UK, donated 10 oxygen concentrators, 12 oximeters and a large number of oxygen masks. Soni said till date, 66,17,457 tests have been conducted in seven government hospitals of Punjab, out of which 2,92,498 people have been tested positive. The death toll in the state is 4,317, while there has been a 25% increase in bed capacity of three medical colleges to deal with the third wave. He said at present, about 920 patients are undergoing treatment in three medical colleges, in Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala, including 40 patients from Delhi being treated at Patiala medical college. On cases of black fungus being reported in state, he said eight cases of black fungus have been found in Medical College Patiala, 10 in Faridkot and one each in Amritsar and Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lending-a-helping-hand-with-oxygen-256707
22-05-2021||Amritsar||Agriculture officials begin two-day pen-down strike in Amritsar||On the call of the Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee Punjab, the agriculture officials, led by its convener Kuljit Singh Saini, began a two-day pen-down on Friday.Giving information, Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, general secretary, AgTAC, said, “Punjab is a leading state in the field of agriculture since the Green Revolution.For the last four decades the state has contributed 40 to 70 per cent of wheat and 20 to 30 per cent of the paddy in the central pool”. He said Punjab had increased the production of various cereal crops from 175 lakh tonnes to 180 lakh tonnes and paddy production from 35 lakh tonnes to 185 lakh tonnes, all due to the extension services provided by the agronomic technocrats and the farmers’ efforts.“It has been possible only due to hard work but despite these honours, due to the apathy of the government for many years no extension workers are being recruited and no departmental promotions are being made due to which agricultural technocrats working in many posts with additional charge. They are working under mental pressure”, said Sandhu.He said that by giving additional charge to various technocrats, the Deputy Director Agriculture cadre has been given the task of two districts, the Block Agriculture Officer has been given the job of more than two blocks and the Agriculture Development Officers have also been given additional charge. “Agriculture is currently in crisis due to difficulties in providing extension services to the farmers and the farmers are also facing many problems such as groundwater depletion, excess use of pesticides and fertilisers. The vacancies of 500 Agriculture Development Officers, 105 Agriculture Officers, 28 Deputy Director Agriculture and four posts of Joint Director Agriculture are lying vacant. He said that apart from this more than 100 vacancies in the engineering wing, Agriculture Extension Officer in the department are lying vacant. He said that 141 Agriculture Development Officers who had passed the examination through PPSC were awaiting their appointment letters.Agriculture Officer Mandeep Kaur said during these two days of protest the agricultural technocrats didn’t do any government work but would provide all kind of services to the farmers in the offices and at the farm level. She said the AgTAC was appealing to the government to expedite the appointments and promotions keeping in view interests of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-officials-begin-two-day-pen-down-strike-in-amritsar-256708
22-05-2021||---||Luv Kush Nagar clash: Kin write letter to Punjab CM, DGP||Amritsar, May 21Family members of Raj Kumar, alias Raju and Vijay Kandra have shot a letter to Punjab Chief Minister and DGP Punjab Police while alleging that they were being threatened by the opposite group and were pressurised for compromise.Raj Kumar and Vijay Kandra were suspects in the Luv Kush Nagar clash that led to firing in the Civil Hospital in which an emergency medical officer had sustained bullet injury. The cantonment police had registered a cross case against the opposite group after the supporters of Raj Kumar and Kandra held agitation. A clash took place at the Luv Kush Nagar area on March 14 which later led to firing at Civil Hospital.An FIR was registered by the Cantonment police station. At that time, the police had booked Raj Kumar Raju along with Sunny Sahota, Vijay Kandra, besides their other ‘accomplices’ on charges of illegal restrain, firing and creating law and order problem and under the Arms Act.However, on May 10, the police, on the statement of Vijay Kumar of Luv Kush Nagar, had filed a cross case while booking Rahul Negi, Madan Negi and their accomplices who had attacked at the residence of Raj Kumar Raju and damaged their car before the retaliation by the other group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/luv-kush-nagar-clash-kin-write-letter-to-punjab-cm-dgp-256713
22-05-2021||The Covid-19 pandemic is bad enough in the sense that reports have surfaced about resurgence in the use of drugs||Defeating drugs: Dancing their way to fitness||The early bird catches the wormQadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa knows for sure the meaning of the adage ‘the early bird catches the worm.’ Reason enough why he has started working among his constituents in his assembly seat. For starters, he has roped in his sons, Arjun Partap Singh, who is also a member of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad and Kanwar Partap Singh to distribute Covid related material across the length and breadth of his constituency. The family has converted school vans into mini ambulances. ‘Fateh Kits’, which are given to people who test positive, are also being distributed but with a difference. These kits, containing masks, sanitisers, medicines and related material, come under the name of ‘Satbachan Welfare Foundation’ which is a charitable organisation floated by the Bajwas. Arjun, who is also into film acting is maintaining his distance from the glossy studios of Mumbai and has pitched tent in Qadian. Five-member teams of ‘Covid Warriors’ have been formed with each team manning one village. These warriors guide villagers on how and where to get vaccinated. The erudite Arjun has this to say: “We have a chance to do something extraordinary. As we head out of this pandemic we can change the world. We can create a world of love. A world where we are kind enough to each other. A world where we are kind no matter what class, colour, creed, race, sexual orientation and religion we belong to. Let love and kindness should be our roadmap if we have to triumph over the virus.” Words of wisdom, indeed! As for Fateh, he says he fails to understand why people are not getting vaccinated. “Inoculation is the key to survival in these dreaded times. We can survive this together by staying apart. That is the best approach to this pandemic,” said the MLA as he gets ready sitting in a mini ambulance ready to go to yet another village.Research institute: Sugary days are here againCabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is the moving spirit behind the establishment of the Rs45 crore Guru Nanak Dev Sugarcane Research and Development Institute. Construction work has already started and will end in May next year. The project is coming up on 100 acres of panchayat land in Kalanaur village. Once completed, farmers will have more varieties of sugarcane seeds to choose from. IAS officer Puneet Goel has been appointed the project’s member secretary while Shivraj Pal Singh Dhaliwal, general manager of the Ajnala sugar mill, is the institute’s first Director. The institute is being modelled after the famed Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI), Pune. For every project, money is a big factor. In this case, Randhawa says he had a difficult time convincing the state government about the need for such a project in Gurdaspur district which is a sugarcane rich area. “However, I never lost heart and finally I got Rs 45 crore. It is a good start, I think so,” he said. The minister for sure knows that a good start is half the job done! — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defeating-drugs-dancing-their-way-to-fitness-256732
