23-05-2021||Neha Saini||Finding her silver lining amid pandemic||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, May 22Though the pandemic brought misery upon businesses across the world, there are some home-based entrepreneurs who have been finding possibilities even in the most trying times. Priya Chauhan, who started her food label Food Zen, six months back, is one among such entrepreneurs.Priya (36) comes from a family of jewellers and till a year back, was a dedicated homemaker, who never really jumped at the opportunity of setting up her own business. “Cooking for me was not something that I did regularly, until the lockdown was imposed. Being home bound, it gave me an opportunity to try my hand experimenting with recipes in my kitchen. I am big time into eating healthy, so I used to cook up recipes using healthier, nutritious ingredients. My family was the first to taste my food. It encouraged me with every attempt I made, until one day, my sister threw in the idea of starting my own food business,” she shares. And that’s how she started with Food Zen, cooking and curating customised food platters for her customers.Priya has been catering to specific tastes, with her food label. “My food is not about universal standard menu. I prepare specific recipes, with multiple items in a platter. I mostly use healthier options such as whole wheat and multi grains for breads, seeds, quinoa and whatever the order demands. But I do not compromise on taste and hygiene.” Currently, she operates through a network of supply chains and delivery agents. “I do not take bulk orders but only pre-orders, as I am building on my brand yet. My mantra is not quantity but quality. I feel that under current circumstances, more than profits, a brand needs to work with sensitivity and practicality,” she says. A first-time entrepreneur, she does not have any formal training in culinary skills.“I feel that my brand brings together two passions — cooking and art. I like to curate visually appealing food for my clients as I feel that food is therapeutic, both for eyes as well as body. That’s the idea behind the Food Zen’s foundation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finding-her-silver-lining-amid-pandemic-257066
23-05-2021||---||Sustainability crisis: City losing its biodiversity in name of development||Amritsar, May 22As the world is showing concern towards preserving biodiversity, the city is gradually losing it in the name of development. The holy city had a variety of trees in Ram Bagh, planted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. More than a century old trees are being uprooted one by one in the garden to encroach the land for private use. Some species of trees are about to extinct due to improper care.Meanwhile, Ram Bagh is also losing its sheen due to the depleting green cover continuously and local politicians spending crores on concretisation of the garden on the name of development.Not only Ram Bagh Unplanned development in the past decades has ruined the biodiversity of the city. There are roads, which were named after the trees due to its diversification and these were planted during the British era. Moreover, there were a large number of native trees around the Golden Temple’s parikarama and Guru Ka Bagh in the shrine complex. Now, only a few ‘ber’ (jujube) and ornamental trees are left.“There are several plants, names of which have been mentioned in the Guru Granth Sahib and Sikh history. Preserving tree diversity is also important to understand the history,” said Sarbjit Singh, head preacher in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.The General Assembly of the United Nations had passed a resolution in 1992 to observe the International Day for Biological Diversity and its objective is to increase understanding and awareness on the issue.Parkash Singh Bhatti, an environmentalist, said, “Biodiversity is important not only to humans but to all living creatures. It is the biodiversity that prevails to provide a functioning ecosystem that supplies natural oxygen, clean air and potable water. Biodiversity’s systems help pollination amongst plants to produce fruits and grains. It naturally controls pests and insects while now humans use dangerous pesticides and insecticides and is destroying the bio system further. Biodiversity naturally treats contaminated water and it works further through many ecosystem services. It increases ecosystem productivity - each species has a specific niche-a role to play.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sustainability-crisis-city-losing-its-biodiversity-in-name-of-development-257067
23-05-2021||---||Getting everybody’s goat!||Amritsar, May 22Challenging the social stigma for goat farming among agriculturalist families, a farmer from Tarpai village of Majitha block is successfully keeping goats. Dilbagh Singh, who has done his masters in political science, MSC IT and BEd, served as teacher at a school being run by Bharti Foundation for eight years.In 2015, Dilbagh Singh bought five goats for Rs50,000 and initiated stall feeding.“It is sort of a courageous and revolutionary task to keep goats at a farm house. Generally it is cast in a specific occupation and people start calling ‘bakrian wale’ whoever keeps goats in the village. My family opposed my decision. I own seven acre land and am searching for a subsidiary occupation which provides monthly income. In 2015, I took training from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) and started goat farming,” he said.In 2018, Dilbagh left his teaching job and gave maximum time to his goat farm.“Now there is no need to go out to graze the goats in the fields. The stall feeding is a good alternative and goats can be kept in a small yard. Initially, I had five goats and now the number of goats is 25,” he proudly shared.There are still some challenges in this occupation and marketing is one of the major problems. “The government should establish processing units for the processing of meat. It would help the goat farming. Apart from this, the availability of vaccination is also an issue. Most of the time, we don’t get the required vaccination. The occupation has great exposure but the government should take some steps,” added Dilbag.‘My family opposed my decision initially’Dilbagh Singh, who has done his masters in political science, MSC IT and BEd, served as teacher at a school being run by Bharti Foundation for eight years. In 2018, Dilbagh left his teaching job and gave maximum time to his goat farm. Her says it is sort of a courageous and revolutionary task to keep goats at a farm house. Generally it is cast in a specific occupation and people start calling 'bakrian wale' whoever keeps goats in the village. My family opposed my decision. I own seven acre land and am searching for a subsidiary occupation which provides monthly income. In 2015, I took training from GADVASU and started goat farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/getting-everybodys-goat-257068
23-05-2021||---||42-yr-old man’s body found in village pond||Amritsar, May 22 Joga Singh (42), a resident of Lohgarh village was found dead in a pond at Kaler Ghuman village falling under the Khilchian police station here on Friday.  Mystery shrouds his death even as the police have registered a murder case against unknown persons on the statement of deceased’s brother Baldev Singh.  Baldev (35) told the police that he received a call at around 7 pm that Joga’s body was found near Kaler Ghuman’s village pond. The body had injury marks on his head and face.  Sub-Inspector Baljinder Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the police took the body into custody. It was in very bad condition and therefore Baba Bakala Civil Hospital authorities referred to the Forensic Department of Government Medical College for autopsy. The post-mortem would be conducted today and thereafter the body would be handed over to his family members. It was not yet certain whether he died due to injuries or due to drowning in the pond. The villagers noticed the body after it came up in the pond. It was later fished out in the presence of police. He was later identified as Joga Singh, a labourer. He had a dispute with his wife and was living separately. He originally hailed from Lohgarh village, but used to visit many places or sometimes out of state for labour work.  The autopsy would reveal the exact cause of death and nature of injuries, Baljinder Singh said, while adding that the police will also examine the call details of the deceased to identify his acquaintances for finding some clues about the perpetrators and the motive behind his murder. “For now it is still a blind murder for us,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/42-yr-old-mans-body-found-in-village-pond-257069
23-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 held with illegal arms, ammunition||Tarn Taran, May 22The district police on Friday arrested two persons from different places and seized arms and ammunition from them.According to information, the Chohla Sahib police arrested Jorawar Singh of Rattoke village with a 32 bore revolver and two cartridges, while the Patti city police arrested Nikhal Kumar of Amritsar with a country-made pistol and two cartridges from Kairon village. Cases under Sections 25,54 and 59 of the Arms Act have been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-with-illegal-arms-ammunition-257070
23-05-2021||Batala||Police bust drug-smuggling gang, 518-gm heroin seized||The Batala police have arrested four members of a gang which was involved in smuggling of heroin and seized 518-gm white powder from their possession. There were reports that some persons from the city were supplying heroin and its derivatives to youth living in the labyrinthine lanes of the town. Following these reports, SSP Rachpal Singh formed a team under DSP Gurinderbir Singh Sidhu to bust the gang. Acting on a tip-off, Sidhu’s team managed to arrest Shugham Mehra and Harmeet Singh, both residents of Amritsar, a few days ago. Two more members — Abhimanyu Gupta and Sukhwinder Singh — were arrested today. The police have registered an FIR under the NDPS Act against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-bust-drug-smuggling-gang-518-gm-heroin-seized-257071
23-05-2021||---||Four arrested with narcotics||Amritsar, May 22 The police nabbed four drug peddlers and confiscated heroin, charas, drug proceeds, a car, bike and scooter from their possession in the past one week. Harminder Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, said the arrests were made recently. Those arrested have been identified as Inderjit Singh of Vaniyke village, Baldev Singh of Sandhu Colony, Majitha Road, Balwinder Singh of Fakir Singh Colony and Malkeet Singh of Baba Deep Singh Colony in Chheharta. The police seized 120 gm of heroin, 250 gm of charas, Rs 40,000 of drug money, besides car, bike and a scooter.  The ACP said further investigation was under progress to find their backward and forward links in order to expose the entire nexus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-arrested-with-narcotics-257072
23-05-2021||---||Teachers call on DC, raise Covid duty issue||Amritsar, May 22 A delegation of the Joint Teachers Front, Amritsar unit, met the Deputy Commissioner regarding the demands of the employees of the Education Department. The front said the district administration had sent officers, teachers and non-teaching staff on Covid-19 duties.     “Officers are forced to go on Covid-19 duty without safety equipment, even teachers and other staff in schools does not have safety kits. We have been demanding work from home, reduced work hours in schools, recognising the six teachers of Amritsar district, who fell victim to the Covid-19, as frontline warriors, and immediate release of benefits and financial benefits to their families,” complained  Ashwini Kumar, a member of the Joint Teachers Front delegation. He further said employees of the Education Department on duty at the oxygen centres set up in the district are continuously on duty for eight hours every day. “No holidays are given on Saturday and Sunday.  The organisation had lodged a protest with the district administration, calling it a violation of human rights and of the Labour Act.  Relief was sought for the teachers on continuous duty by making alternative arrangements with immediate effect. But nothing happened so far,” he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-call-on-dc-raise-covid-duty-issue-257073
23-05-2021||from page 1
||19 succumb to virus, 400 new cases surface in dist||vaccination drive. Those administered the vaccine included 182 workers registered with the Labour Department, 1,287 residents with comorbid conditions in the 18-44 years age group and 1,014 family members of healthcare workers (HCWs). The district health authorities said 25,179 HCWs, 45,705 frontline workers (FLWs), 1,97,484 residents above 45 years and 17,247 residents in the 18-44 age group have been partially vaccinated. Further, 14,942 HCWs, 17,455 FLWs and 39,461 residents above 45 years have been completely vaccinated. 5 die, 78 test +ve in Tarn Taran  The district on Saturday reported the death of five persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 280. The deceased have been identified as Gango Devi (80), Beant Singh (55), Manpreet Singh (29), Devinder Kaur (46) and Vinod Kumar (57). 78 more persons tested positive in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-succumb-to-virus-400-new-cases-surface-in-dist-257074
23-05-2021||---||Despite capping, pvt hospitals still overcharging Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 22Even though the state government has capped treatment charges for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals, they are still being fleeced and charged more than the fixed prices. Some local residents say that in the absence of any effort by the government to publicise the capping of charges, all private hospital are not aware of any such orders.The instances of overcharging by two private hospitals have officially been recorded with the committee constituted to check such cases.In the first instance, the attendants of a patient had filed a complaint regarding overcharging against Corporate Hospital. However, when the four-member committee reached the hospital for investigation, the hospital management did not provide any records. Meanwhile, the attendants of another patient filed a complaint on the spot.In another instance, Nayyar Hospital had charged Rs 5,500 for CT scan of a Covid-19 positive patient though the charges for the same had been capped at Rs 2,000 by the state government.These two cases have been recorded officially, but local residents say that some private hospitals are charging more than double the amount fixed by the state government. They say that as in most cases, the payment is made in cash, hospitals easily manipulate the records.The state government had earlier capped the charges for very severe sickness category at Rs 16,500 (ICU with ventilator) per day for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accredited hospitals. For non-NABH accredited hospitals, the per day charges for very severe sickness category patients had been capped at Rs 15,000 per day. The charges for both the category of hospitals include Rs 2,000 as PPE kit charges. Similarly, the charges for moderate sickness and severe sickness category patients have also been fixed.When contacted, Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Harkamal Singh refused to divulge any details about the overcharging by private hospitals and the action being taken.The Deputy Medical Commissioner said, “The issue is being investigated.” He said if any hospital was found guilty of overcharging, action would be taken as per the law.5 die, 78 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe district on Saturday reported the death of five persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 280. The deceased have been identified as Gango Devi (80), Beant Singh (55), Manpreet Singh (29), Devinder Kaur (46) and Vinod Kumar (57). 78 more persons tested positive in the district.Free diagnostic tests for patientsAmritsar: In a gesture that has a potential to inspire other diagnostic centres in the city, KYB Diagnostics has announced to conduct free tests of Covid-19 patients at two of its branches on May 25. The initiative has been taken with the efforts of Jaswinder Singh of the Akal Purakh Ki Fauj. Covid-19 patients after testing positive have to undergo many tests for exact diagnostic of the condition. Advcoate Jaswinder Singh said, “The lab has agreed to conduct tests free of cost. The lab operators have said that if they are able to handle the rush, they may continue with the initiative.” He during difficult times, everyone should come forward for the welfare of humanity. The KYB Diagnostics has its branches in Bhagatawala and on Majitha road. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-capping-pvt-hospitals-still-overcharging-covid-patients-257075
23-05-2021||---||Ticking every attendance box for 16 years||Amritsar, May 22In 2019, she first set a record of having 100% attendance in her academics for 14 years straight. In 2021 again, Anveet Kaur continues her streak of regular attendance even in higher education as she received another honour for her record. She has been conferred with a doctorate degree by the World Record University, for setting a world record of Most Regular Attendance for Consecutive Years. The World Record University based in UK, is the only such university established by a conglomeration of different record books that honours selected individuals globally for their accomplishments in creating records.Avneet, who is currently pursuing B Tech in Electronics and Communication from GNDU, has never missed a class in 16 years and eight months now. And she hopes to continue with this mean feat of hers. “I never really started this to make some record. I was just too dedicated towards my studies. But when I got my first recognition by India Book of Records, it motivated me to continue. It feels good to be acknowledged for my dedication,” she expressed. Avneet’s father Narinderpal Singh works as a vendor near the Golden Temple. in the aftermath of pandemic, Narinderpal ‘s income was hit bad. Even the shift towards online education made it difficult for Avneet to continue her feat.“My family had a difficult time throughout past one year and its also a challenge to manage studies through online mode as it requires smartphone, consistent internet connection and spend a lot of time on self-study. Whenever there was a problem with my phone or Internet, I used to make sure that I had my father’s phone to attend class. My elder brother Pawandeep was my biggest support,” she shares. There were instances when only two-five students attended class and she was always among them.The record includes her attendance from both school and university life. Apart from her academics, she also likes to paint. She wants to pursue a career in the IT industry and says that her devotion towards her education is the biggest way of saying thank you to her parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ticking-every-attendance-box-for-16-years-257076
23-05-2021||---||Salon worker murder: Prime suspect sent to police custody||Amritsar, May 22  The Amritsar (rural) police have nabbed the prime suspect in the murder of 25-year-old Amanpreet Kaur of Ganda Singh Wala who was found shot dead at Pandori Waraich village on May 13.  Amritpal Singh was produced before a court, which sent him to two-day  police remand. The police had also recovered the car which was used in the crime. The accused had left the weapon used in the crime on the body of the deceased.  Yaadwinder Singh, Station House Officer of Kamboh police station, said Amritpal was nabbed on late Friday evening. He had procured the illegal weapon from Uttar Pradesh. He said the victim used to work in a salon at Pandori village. She was married to an  auto-rickshaw driver and the couple had a son. On the day of murder, she told her brother that she would arrive late as she was going to attend some customers after the saloon closes. However, she did not return till late evening. Efforts to locate her also remained unfruitful. Next morning her body was found in Pandori Waraich village. She was shot in the chest and she died on the spot.  On the statement of her father Jasbir Singh, the Kamboh police have registered a murder case against unknown persons.  The SHO said as per the police probe she had been working at a salon near Pandori village bus stand for the last three years. He said preliminary probe revealed that Amritpal had developed a relation with Amanpreet around three months ago. She had been calling him from different phones. “We are suspecting some blackmailing angle in the case. Amritpal will be brought on police remand for further interrogation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salon-worker-murder-prime-suspect-sent-to-police-custody-257079
23-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Third eye to keep tab on illegal mining||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 22In order to curb illegal mining activity, the Tarn Taran police have decided to install CCTV cameras, on routes where illegally excavated sand gets transported.Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale on Saturday visited various sites where illegal mining takes place. “We have identified 15 spots where high quality and night vision CCTV cameras will be installed,” he said. Nimbale said majority of these spots have checkpoints.He said they scrutinised the police records to identify spots where illegal mining cases were reported in the past five years and identified various routes used to transport sand.At present, illegal mining was rampant in Bhalojla, Gagrewal and Jalalabad falling under Verowal police station, Jaloke and Harike under jurisdiction of Sadar Patti police station and a couple of villages under Khemkaran police station, including Gazal village.“Rampant illegal mining in river beds and nearby areas has led to environmental degradation, thus resulting in anger among environmentalists. This has led to extensive damage to nearby villages,” said Nimbale.The Senior Superintendent of Police encouraged village panchayats to question sand-laden vehicles passing through their areas in order to curb illegal mining.Nimbale also asked the SHOs to stay in touch with villagers falling under their jurisdiction.Meanwhile, the Tarn Taran police have come down heavily on illegal mining in Verowal, Goindwal Sahib, Sadar Patti, Harike, Valtoha, Chohla Sahib, Bhikhiwind and Khemkaran in May.As many as 59 cases were registered in which 70 persons were nabbed. The police confiscated 39 tractor-trailers, two tractors, three earth excavators (JCBs), five indigenous vehicles (gharooka), 15 tippers and a Bolero camper worth Rs 5.34 crore. Sand worth Rs 3.42 lakh was also seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/third-eye-to-keep-tab-on-illegal-mining-257080
23-05-2021||---||Addict stabs son, held for murder bid||Amritsar, May 22Two days after a man allegedly stabbed his son, the police have booked the accused on the charge of attempt to murder. He was a drug addict and demanded money from the family for his daily dose. When restrained by his son, he stabbed him.The victim, identified as Sehajpreet Singh, was immediately rushed to hospital where he was under treatment. The police have arrested the accused, identified as Harpreet Singh, of New Paris Avenue in Chheharta.Tejinder Kaur, mother of the victim, told the police that Harpreet was a drug addict. On Thursday, they were in the house when the accused demanded money for buying his daily dose of drugs. When refused, he started using abusive language and created a ruckus in the house.She said her son Sehajpreet tried to stop him from doing so. Infuriated, he brought a knife from the kitchen and stabbed him in the stomach. Later, he fled from the house.Sehajpreet was rushed to the hospital where his condition is stated to be serious.Sahil Singh, investigating officer, said Harpreet was arrested by the police and a case under Sections 307 and 506 of the IPC was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/addict-stabs-son-held-for-murder-bid-257081
23-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Mystery shrouds 40-yr-old’s death||The body of a 40-year-old man was found under mysterious circumstances in Warian Naven village on Friday. The victim has been identified as Gurbhej Singh. Gurmeet Kaur, wife of the deceased, in her statement to Chohla Sahib police said that her husband went to the residence of his paternal uncle in the village where he complained of chest pain. He was rushed to the hospital but died before he could reach there. The police have registered a case under the CrPC. The exact cause of death would be known after the postmortem report. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-40-yr-olds-death-257082
23-05-2021||Amritsar||5 mobiles seized in Central jail||Two nabbed with illegal weaponsAmritsar: The police arrested two persons for allegedly possessing illegal weapons and bullets here on Friday. They have been identified as Bhupinder Singh and Rajwinder Singh, both residents of Pandori Waraich village. Though the accused did not have any criminal background, investigation was underway to ascertain what their motive was behind possessing the weapons. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said the accused were held at a check-point in Pandori Waraich village. He said they were travelling on a bike when a police party intercepted them. During search, the police recovered two .32 bore country-made weapons along with nine live cartridges from them. They could not give satisfactory answers to police queries. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. TNSTwo arrested for cheatingTarn Taran: The police have arrested two persons (brothers) who were on the run for the last two months. The accused have been identified as Lalit Kumar and Munish Kumar Prince. Mother of the accused was also nominated in the case and arrested three weeks ago. The accused had called Harshinder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana, to their home on the pretext of selling their SUV. They clicked obscene pictures of Harshinder and snatched Rs 6.45 lakh from him. Deputy Superintendent of Police Sucha Singh Bal Rs 6.45 lakh was yet to be recovered from the accused. The family was running a gang comprising 20 members, including women, which was facing 10 criminal cases. The Deputy Superintendent of Police said the duo was produced before the court on Saturday, which sent them to the two day-police remand. The accused had been booked under Sections 379-B, 384 and 34 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-mobiles-seized-in-central-jail-257086
23-05-2021||---||Traders a harried lot as Covid puts brakes on sale of used cars||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 22The automobile vehicle market of the district has been rendered listless by the pandemic. The impact of Covid lockdown and restrictions has upset all spheres of life. The market for used cars and two-wheelers is no different.Amandeep Singh, proprietor of a shop dealing in used vehicles, said, the customer is elusive and the sellers are not getting market price for their product. “In this scenario, no sale or purchase was taking place. We have been dealing in this business for the past four decades but have never encountered such a dry period.”Vinay Seth, dealing in used cars in posh areas of the city, said, customers were not out in the market. Only a handful of desperate sellers were out in the market while most of the sellers withdrew, waiting for the opportune time to sell their units.He stated that before the pandemic there used to be a thriving market of used cars in the city. This can be gauged from the fact that there are about 130 members in the Amritsar Car Dealers Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-a-harried-lot-as-covid-puts-brakes-on-sale-of-used-cars-257087
