24-05-2021||Amritsar||Two duped of Rs5L, three booked||‘Debt-ridden’ farmer ends lifeTarn Taran: The Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC) has demanded a high-level probe in the death of Gurbhej Singh (40), a resident of Varian village, who died under mysterious circumstances on Friday. Gurbhej was president of the village-level unit of the KSC. Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, chief, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said Gurbhej had four acres and was under Rs 12-lakh debt. Pannu said Gurbhej committed suicide as he was depressed due to financial crisis. He said wheat crop production of the vicitm also fell and banks had served notices on him. Pannu sought the entire loan waiver of the victim, a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and government job for one member of his family. Gurbhej had actively participated in the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi and had come to his village to harvest crop. The Chohla Sahib police have initiated inquest proceedings. OC384 appear in exam for nursesTarn Taran: A written test for the advertised posts of staff nurses by Baba Farid University of Health Science (BFUHS) was conducted at the Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary School, Chabal, today. Orpinder Kaur, principal of the school, said 384 candidates appeared in the test. She said Covid-19 norms were strictly followed at the test centre. The police under the DSP Dilbag Singh made tight security arrangements on the occasion. A team of the THE Health Department too was deputed on the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-duped-of-rs5l-three-booked-257668
24-05-2021||Open House||Private hospitals making a killing under garb of treatment||Services were better post-liberalisationPost-liberalisation, education and health sectors were under the control of the government and it was providing satisfactory services. Education and health services were considered as a part of social services and never treated as a business. People used to earn from their regular businesses and donate a part of their earnings for health or education purposes. ENT hospital, children ward and family ward at government hospitals used to be made from the donations of local philanthropists. But post-liberalisation, the scenario changed. Now people think of minting money being in the health and education sector and invest it into other regular businesses such as hotels and resorts etc. Adam Smith had rightly said, “People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices.” Hence, incidents of private hospitals fleecing people in the name of Covid are not surprising.Naresh JoharDigging deep into the pockets of patientsCovid has burnt a hole in the pockets of inflicted individuals. The unpredictable course of disease, prolonged treatment, fear of severity and alarming mortality rate forces everyone to get the best possible treatment to save their life. Increasing number of critical cases is a worrying trend. Unlike the first wave of Covid, the second wave has been found to be more fatal among youthsPeople of 30 to 40 years are succumbing to the virus, which is a cause for concern. Both - the government and private hospitals -with adequate infrastructure and skilled professionals, are packed to capacity. This has led to scarcity of life saving drugs, oxygen supply and beds at hospitals. The consequences of this situation are that people started black-marketing drugs and exploited patients by overcharging them for the services offered at hospitalsMany people who could not arrange funds for their treatment succumbed to the virus. Fearing such incidents, people strived to find alternate ways to remain healthy at home and avoid getting admitted to hospitals. Also, the prices of availing medical facilities have also risen steeply. The cost of medicines, oxygen, PPE kits and shortage of health staff constitute to be major problems faced by the health sector which need to be resolvedDr Raman GuptaAdmn must act to regain trustThere is a shortage of beds, oxygen supply and also medical staff at various hospitals. A number of people have died in the last few days owing to this scarcity of medical facilities. Even if these services are anyhow ensured at the hospitals, still a lot needs to be done to improve the quality of health infra and sanitation conditions there. People are gradually losing their trust in the health system. The administration can’t solely be blamed for the present situation of the health system as for the past one year, the health sector has been overburdened due to the Covid pandemic. The government had imposed various restrictions such as curfew and lockdown but in vain as there is no respite from the ever raging deadly virus. Amid these conditions, the trust of people in the healthcare system is shaken to the extent that people today prefer getting isolated at their home rather than availing hospital facilities. Many persons have also been seen avoiding the Covid vaccine due to this lack of trust and the situation is thus worsening. The administration must make proper provisions for the health and safety of the citizens to regain their trust. Also, people should act responsibly and follow the guidelines to keep the virus at bay. I request all citizens to trust and cooperate with the government for their own well being.IzleenQUESTIONCovid vaccination centres in the city are often crowded with chaotic scenes witnessed almost every day. What are your suggestions to improve the system at the centres?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 27).Act strictly against erring hospitalsI believe that there should be a price cap on every private hospital dealing with Covid cases and that a rate list of these should be posted on an online portal, so that patients can check it beforehand. The authorities should also make sure that the list is updated on daily basis and also provide with the actual figures of number of beds, oxygen supply and stock of emergency drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab available there. The government should make an independent body which should be given the responsibility for this. Also, there is a need to act strictly against the hoarders and violators. Licence of hospitals fleecing people and indulging in malpractices should be cancelled. In this way we can set an example so that no one can do this type of unethical work. In this way we can build trust with people.Rohit Kumar SehdevStop exploitation of helpless patientsTo minimise exploitation of patients by private hospitals, the state and the Union Government need to take certain measures immediately. The Centre should amend the Corporate Social Responsibility Act to spend the amount in health and education sectors. A high-power flying squad should be formed at district-level to visit private hospitals and keep a check on them and also ensure that patients are not fleeced. The government needs to take stringent action and penalise the hospitals and testing labs which are found providing medical services at exorbitant prices. Last year, during the first wave of pandemic, an SAD ex-minister named a reputed private local hospital for charging a Covid patient with more than Rs20 lakh. He had levelled the charges in a press conference but no action was taken against the hospital. Similarly, a private lab in connivance with a private hospital gave a positive Covid report to a person who didn’t had the infection, again no action was taken against the owner of the lab. Amid these times when the pandemic is raging and the trust of people in the in health system has shaken, the administration needs to rebuild it by taking effective measures. We also need personalities like Sir Ganga Ram, who raised national-level hospitals at Lahore and New Delhi in the British era with his hard earned money for the general public. Sir Ganga Ram was not a businessman but an architect and his will to serve the society brought him name and fame.Harsh N JoharWake-up call for governmentInadequate beds at government hospitals and absence of guidelines on treatment of Covid patients is the reason why a lot of people prefer private hospitals over government. As a result, private hospitals are offering services at exorbitant prices and exploiting people who are already in a lot of problems and don’t have any other option to save lives of their dear ones. Though, there are many hospitals which have also risen to the need of the hour and are working beyond their capacity to meet the exigencies of the Covid pandemic. The “fragility” of the healthcare system in the country posed a huge hurdle in bringing out an effective response to deal with the pandemic while noting that the spending on health was abysmally low. A sustainable pricing model by the government, to treat Covid patients could have averted many deaths and streamlined the treatment in private hospitals. The required infrastructure to imbibe the 5ts – tracing, tracking, testing, treating and technology – should have been established. The number of government hospital beds in the country is not adequate to handle the increasing number of Covid and non-Covid patients, in the wake of the pandemic. Inadequate equipment, PPE kits, oxygen scarcity, ventilators (lying unused), overcrowded wards, unhygienic conditions, poorly maintained toilets, no social-distancing and overstressed healthcare personnel have all contributed to patients rushing to private hospitals. It is a wakeup call for the government to rise above politics and to take the pandemic seriously, upgrade the healthcare facilities in all government hospitals at the Centre, state, district and tehsil level in every village.Dr KS ManchandaAdministration must come to the foreThe Covid pandemic has spread at an alarming rate like a wildfire and Covid blast has been witnessed in the whole world. With this, the healthcare system has been stretched to its limits. Shortage of beds, oxygen supplies and emergency medicines added to the woes of the patients. Recent reports focus on the increasing incidents of fleecing by private hospitals and service providers. Due to this, people prefer home isolation over availing hospital services. People are definitely losing trust in the healthcare system. Lack of medical supplies and beds is also the reason behind the high fatality rate due to the virus. Awareness among people and masses is the need of the hour. Rumours are proving to be another pandemic among masses, thus there is a need to initiate an effective awareness drive and the authorities must interact with people and aware them about their safety and smash to smithereens their doubts and myths. Moreover, the authorities need to act strictly, expand hospital capacities and equip them with sufficient medical supplies.Khushpreet KaurDoctors serving people religiouslyLast year, when the nation witnessed initial cases of Covid infection, some of the laboratories and private hospitals started to not only fleece the worried patients, but also provided some healthy patients with fake positive reports just to mint money. The misery of the masses turned into fortune for some unethical health organisations. It is a fact that this pandemic proved more harmful for the persons with comorbidities, particularly those with diabetes, hypertension, and pulmonary diseases. So such patients preferred multi-specialty private hospitals, notwithstanding the fact that PGIMER offered best services at affordable rates. I have seen that in such a condition of national health emergency, government hospitals and their staff did a commendable job round the clock. A rural dispensary at Gumtala village had been witnessing a huge footfall due to testing and vaccination. The doctors giving services there have been working tirelessly and even contracted the infection due to high exposure to the virus. Government hospitals, despite having limited resources have performed exceedingly well to contain the spread of the virus. Similar is my experience with a private hospital, where my grandmother was admitted for her treatment and the doctors there too served with devotion and without any greed to make money. In the entire scenario, the only laggards have been the governments at different levels. The government and governance has failed its people and healthcare system at every step. The budgetary allocations have been scanty, recruitment of doctors and other associated staff has not been satisfactory for the last many decades, the equipment has also remained under-utilised.Abhiraj singh BajwaMore demand, less supply behind fleecingThe doctors and health workers have been serving the nation tirelessly for the past one year. With the rising number of cases, limited staff and shortage of medical supplies, it has become difficult for medics, who are working day-night in PPE kits, to save lives of their patients. Many of them had been facing sleepless nights due to avoidable deaths of their patients. At the same time, due to restrictions such as lockdown and curfew and also increased demand and low supply, prices of all medical items, drugs and various other equipment such as oxygen concentrators have also spiraled. An oxygen cylinder is now available at twice the rate it could be availed earlier. Owing to increased expenses, the expenditure burden is further passed on to patients in the form of bills and other charges.Jaspreet GroverGovt must increase health budgetKeeping in mind the state of the healthcare system which has been overburdened due to the pandemic, the government needs to increase the allocations for the health sector in the Budget. Many medical organisations and associations took the responsibility and set up dedicated Covidcare centres, provided free consultation and treatment to Covid patients. Nearly 1,000 doctors have already succumbed to the virus while giving their services. But some black sheep have brought disgrace to the noble profession. News regarding overcharging Covid patients by some private and corporate-run hospitals is shameful for the entire medical fraternity. Despite repeated warnings and strict guidelines by the state government, reports of overcharging patients is quite disturbing especially for those doctors who tend to dispense wellness to its visitors with compassion. Shortage of drugs and oxygen cylinders due to black-marketing is putting doctors in a helpless condition. With a whooping population of around 1,400 million people, the government needs to ensure that it increases the health budget,to improve medical infrastructure,improve doctor to patient ratio by increasing medical postgraduation seats in the country, so that patients can be given better and cheaper health facilities at government setup. To reduce dependency on private hospitals, helpline number 104 has already been set up to address any complaints regarding fleecing. But, the administration also needs to make sure that no false allegation is levelled against any hospital.Dr Harsimarpreet SinghPeople paying through their noseUndoubtedly the trust and belief in the healthcare system has shaken horribly as rampant incidents of overcharging by private hospitals are being reported. Private hospitals are plundering the Covid patients in broad daylight and under the garb of treatment, they are making a killing taking undue advantage of the people’s compulsion. They are setting a rank bad example by making the afflicted pay through their nose. One has to say that it is easier to recover from Covid than from the shattering blow that the hospital bills are landing on the harried patients. Little do they know that their unethical practice has badly dented the image of the medical profession. Though the government has rationalised the charges at private hospitals and has put a cap on room rent and oxygen rates etc., nothing is preventing them from swindling Covid hit people.Not to lag behind, the middlemen, hoarders and profiteers are making hay amid the pandemic. A strong action needs to be taken against the black sheep indulging in malpractices. Fast investigation and fast-track courts should be formed to give exemplary punishment to the violators of the government’s prescribed rates for the treatment of Covid patients. They should be warned that their properties could be confiscated if they don’t desist from charging exorbitant prices from the patients. Their offences should be made non-bailable to bring them back on the right track. They should be made to prominently display the charges for the treatment of Covid patients.In the US,Covid tests are done free for all natives but here, private labs and hospitals are charging people for that even. A lesson or two should be taken from countries such as Japan which showcase their best behaviour during tragedies and natural calamities. Of course earning money is important but it is not everything. Afterall we are humans and whatever concerns humanity should be of interest to us. Medical professionals are considered next to God but they belie their nature if they are not kind and merciful to their fellow beings, especially during the prevalent pandemic.Tarsem S BumrahPandemic has caused health crisisThe Covid pandemic has caused a huge loss of human life and presented an unprecedented challenge to public health. The nation is totally helpless and many patients succumbed to the disease for being denied hospital facilities owing to lack of sufficient beds and oxygen cylinders. Due to this increasing gap in demand and supply, some private hospitals found ways to exploit the needy patients by fleecing them. In some cases, patients have even said that they were threatened of dire consequences if they complain about it to anyone. It is very unfortunate to know that private hospitals are making a fortune out of their miseries in this hour of national crisis. Due to the government-imposed lockdown and other restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the virus, youth have been left jobless and finding it difficult to survive in difficult times. The state government had ensured strict action against hospitals which are overcharging for Covid treatment but people don’t have faith in the government’s promises too.Due to black-marketing of certain essential drugs and shortage of beds and oxygen supply the state, people are already facing a lot of problems and many lives have also been lost due to their unavailability.There an urgent need to regulate the healthcare system and emergency services should be ensured to the public.Parampreet KaurDoctors working overtime amid CovidDoctors are called life saviours and their knowledge and ability has earned them this credit. The pandemic has posed a major challenge for doctors. They are working round the clock at the stake of their own lives to serve the public. However, incidents of some private hospitals overcharging patients for Covid special facilities have shaken the public’s trust in the health system.Several incidents of fleecing have been highlighted in daily newspapers in the recent past and patients have been harassed by the authorities. People are now preferring to stay at home and practice home isolation rather than going to hospitals and get pay for the services provided by them at exorbitant prices. Also, due to shortage of beds at hospitals, even critical patients are denied admission to hospitals which is adding to their woes. Amid all thses conditions, when the whole human race is suffering, doctors are the lone pillars of hope. However, some of them have brought shame to the profession due to their greed. To lose the crown is easy but to re-earn it is most difficult.Gulshakh KaurMedical facilities at record-high pricesThe trust of people in the healthcare system is shaken. Though incidents of private hospitals fleecing patients have been reported in the past too, during the pandemic, hospitals have crossed all limits and many lives have been lost for not being able to afford treatment at such exorbitant prices. From hiring an ambulance to renting a room and charges for an ICU bed, all have been seen on record-high levels in these past few days. Even though thegovernment had fixed the rates of some treatments but in the absence of anytangible act, laws and also due to the connivance of political lobby,people are being made to pay hefty price for even minor treatments.The current Covid crisis hit our health system hard and left the patients gasping for the life saving medical oxygen at government-run hospitals. Inadequate supply of oxygen and life-saving drugs at government facilities left peoplewith no alternative but to seek refuge at private hospitals for want of emergencytreatment, which took advantage of the situation and started fleecing people. The faith of people in the healthcare system is badly shaken, leaving them in lurch orto seek home isolation or treatment at charitable run-hospitals.Since health is a fundamental right of every citizen, the government should ensure affordable healthcare to all. It should bring forth legislation oran act to curb ill-practices being followed by private hospitals. The government should also have its representatives in the management of big corporate private hospitals. Small and medium private nursing homes should also be covered under the Clinical Establishment Act.Rates of treatments should be fixed andbe displayed on a notice board outside the hospitals.Private hospitalsshould spare 20 per cent of the total bed capacity for economically weaker sections of the society.Government and private health providers must work in tandem to restore public faithin the healthcare system.Anil VinayakHospitals must act responsiblyWith Covid-19 cases and death toll increasing at an alarming rate, rising number of incidents of private hospitals fleecing people is a cause for concern. The government must devise ways to keep a tab on these institutions to avoid such incidents in future and also act strictly against those who have been found involved in such practices. The government should also put a cap on prices of treatment required by patients and curb the menace to regain people’s trust in the healthcare system. Although private hospitals cannot be excluded from providing Covid treatment as they play a significant role in the fight against the pandemic. Thus, a mechanism needs to be devised to find a solution to this problem.Saanya AggarwalNot all hospitals to blame for this messPrivate hospitals in the state are not as bad as they have been shown in the media. Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital is one of the black sheep that have brought bad name to the sector. Hundreds of people are benefitted by private nursing homes and government dispensaries. If people are resorting to home quarantine, they are only following Covid protocol. These days, when government hospitals are overloaded with Covid-positive patients, private hospitals are providing OPD services for other ailments such as chest burning, heart disease andrenal problems etc. These also provide suitable healthcare and facilities to patients. Private healthcare centres emerged in the times when the state-run system started failing and no notice was taken of the suffering people.Prof Mohan SinghMedical staff working selflesslyThough it might be true that some hospitals are overcharging patients in the wake of the current pandemic situation, the selfless service provided by so many doctors and nurses can’t be ignored. Many health professionals have also lost their lives while protecting people from the pandemic.The erring officials must be booked and strict action must be taken against them. People still have a lot of faith in the healthcare system which is evident from the huge number of people getting the jab at various vaccination centres.Jatinderpal Singh BatthGovt must resolve these problemsThe second wave of Covid has exposed the unpreparedness as well as mismanagement of our government.Failing to get admission in government hospitals,Covid patients are forced to visitprivate hospitals where they are charged beyond their reach. Due to this, people have been compelled to mistrust the very foundation of public healthcare.Their trust needs to be restored.TS Bhatti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-hospitals-making-a-killing-under-garb-of-treatment-257667
24-05-2021||---||Cops act after video goes viral,  man held||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 23The Bhikhiwind police on Sunday arrested Gurjit Singh of Sursing village on the charge of molesting a married woman. The incident took place on May 16, but the case was registered on May 22.The video of the incident went viral on social media.The threat to set her on fire in front of the police station forced the cops to register a case against the accused.Manjit Kaur (28), the mother of three kids, said earlier they had a sexual relationship. In her complaint to the police, the victim alleged that on May 16 she along with her daughter went to the village market. The accused was standing there and compelled her to sit on his bike. She said she was beaten up severely by him when she refused to sit on his bike. The incident was captured on the CCTV cameras installed at nearby houses. The victim said she had lodged a complaint with the police the same day, but the police did not act against the accused.ASI Narinder Singh, investigating officer, said the accused was produced in a court on Sunday, which sent him to the two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-act-after-video-goes-viral-man-held-257661
24-05-2021||---||2 months on, police stay clueless||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23Even after two months, the city police are clueless in the Mall Road goldsmith robbery case. The police had earlier claimed to have vital clues in the case.Several armed persons had robbed a goldsmith after holding his family hostage at gunpoint at the posh Mall Road area near Kitchlew Chowk here on March 21.Victim Ashish Arora (goldsmith), along with his father SK Arora, mother and grandmother, was present in the house when the accused entered the house. They pointed guns at the family members and held them hostage. They later took along Ashish Arora.They decamped with a box containing over 700 gm of gold ornaments worth around Rs 25 lakh. They also took away Rs 50,000 cash from the family. Before escaping, they locked the family in the bathroom so that they could not call the police immediately.The police had earlier suspected that an interstate gang of robbers who were helped by local gangsters might be behind attack. The police investigations had revealed that the accused were five in number and they had covered their faces.The house has two entry points—one from the main Mall Road and other from the Kennedy Avenue side. It is located just a few meters from the residence of a ruling party MLA.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said during the probe, the police had zeroed in two gangsters who had been on run. He said efforts were on to nab them. Once they were arrested, the police would also identify their accomplices involved in the robbery.Man booked for dowry, domestic violenceThe police on Saturday booked a man and his family on charges of dowry and domestic violence here. The complainant, Shayna Kapur of the Ranjit Avenue area, have lodged a complaint with the police in this connection.The police have registered a case under Sections 498-A, 324, 323, 34 and 506 of the IPC against her husband Manak Kapur along with in-laws.The complainant alleged that the accused demanded dowry and also attacked her with sharp weapon leaving her injured.ASI Daljit Singh said the investigations were underway. He saidas per medico legal report she had around five injuries. Therefore a case was registered. He said the couple got married around one and half year ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-months-on-police-stay-clueless-257660
24-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Man shoots mother dead over property||A 65-year-old woman was shot dead by her son at Naurangabad village, 10 km from here, on Saturday. The money earned by selling landed property was cited as the main reason behind the incident.The deceased has been identified as Sawinder Kaur, who was living with her daughter Lovpreet Kaur and son-in-law Hardeep Singh at Naurangabad.The accused, identified as Karaj Singh, lived in Goindwal Sahib. The accused had thrown out his mother from his home and she had been living with her son-in-law for the last eight months.The accused came on his motorcycle at Naurangabad village on Saturday evening and fired at his mother with his rifle, killing her on the spot.SHO, Sadar police station, Inspector Prabhjit Singh said the victim had sold her 10-kanal plot (at Mundapind village) for Rs 3.5 lakh recently.The accused feared that his mother would give the property to her daughter Lovpreet Kaur.The SHO said a case under Section 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against Karaj. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shoots-mother-dead-over-property-257659
24-05-2021||---||A Covid Samaritan, he is driven to save human lives||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23Rajesh Sidhana, who has been donating blood and platelets for the past three decades, is busy arranging blood and platelets for Covid as well as other patients these days.The 49-year-old does not switch off his phone even during night as he keeps getting panic calls even in the middle of the night. During the pandemic period, he received calls for plasma from Delhi, NCR, Faridkot, Ludhiana this time. Many times he has to go to hospitals to donate blood in the middle of the night. He donated blood for the 104th time on December 10. For the first time in his life, he twice donated plasma last year.Having donated blood for 104 times and platelets for 30, he has become the highest blood donor in the city. His links are well established among active donors and he stays connected with them through WhatsApp.Last night, his sleep was interrupted as he received a desperate call for a bottle of blood and the caller was from Jammu whose kin was admitted at a private hospital here. He immediately accessed three WhatsApp groups being operated by Being Human Blood Donation Society, Khalsa NGO, Amritsar Blood Donors Association and Knowledge Villa Integrated and arranged a suitable donor.“I had lost my father when I was a middle school student. That tragedy upset my entire family. Despite being a scholarship student and being offered free of cost study, I could not pursue it any further. I adopted the role of a bread winner of my family. This changed the course of my personal life and approach to it.”A manager at a private hospital for the past nearly two decades, his day remains extremely busy juggling with administrative, finance and other works of the hospital. Yet his boss never stops him from going out of the hospital in the middle of working day as they are all well aware that he goes out to help a person in need of medical exigency. After finishing his job, he does an hour-long free of cost service at Shri Ram Charitable Clinic on the Majitha road.He had started blood donation at the age of 18. He is also associated with eye donation. Now, he inspires the family members of desperate callers to donate blood to help other families in need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-covid-samaritan-he-is-driven-to-save-human-lives-257658
24-05-2021||---||Where are lockdown norms?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23Though the state government has imposed weekend lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, movement of vehicles was witnessed on all roads in the the city. Shops other than chemists and grocery stores remained closed on Sunday. However, those dealing in non-essential goods opened their shops in internal markets, as the police failed to conduct regular checking.Those dealing in sweets, bakery products and ice-cream parlours remained operational (by opening half-shutters).Recently, the administration had given permission to open vegetable market in Vallah for wholesalers. Despite, the market committee making announcements to follow the norms, traders could be seen violating the guidelines.“As vegetable markert opens on weekdays, vendors visit on Friday to purchase veggies and fruits. This has led to a hike in prices and violation of norms. The vegetable supply from Himachal Pradesh and other states gets disrupted during the weekend lockdown. The government should allow opening of vegetable markets on weekends as well,” said Bant Singh, a vendor. Commuters can be seen defying condition of ‘one person on a two-wheeler’ and ‘two occupants in a four-wheeler’.“The administration has exempted those dealing with essential services, labourers in construction and agriculture related works. Numerous residents are taking undue advantage of this relaxation. As a result, heavy movement of vehicles can be seen even during weekend,” said Harbhajan Singh, a resident.Assistant Sub-Inspector Harvinder Singh, who was on a patrolling duty in the walled city, said, “We appealed to locals not to go outside. Those found roaming without any reason are being booked under Section 188 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/where-are-lockdown-norms-257657
24-05-2021||---||Special training for doctors soon: Soni||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23In view of the risk to children during the third wave of Covid-19, all doctors would be given a special training, stated Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni. He said testing has already been increased in rural areas under which door-to-door surveillance has begun.He said the virus was spreading fast in rural areas and to tackle it, the state government has begun Mission Fateh-2.0 in which apart of screening of residents, the positive patients are being given treatment and free medicines.The minister said as per the state government programme, ASHA workers have been visiting every household in rural areas and conducting survey regarding residents with suspected symptoms of Covid-19. He said suspected cases are immediately brought to the health officials so that their samples are taken for testing. He said residents should also cooperate with the visiting medical staff as they are risking their lives to remain in service of the people.He said some of the community health centers would soon be prepared to treat Level-2 category positive patients. Soni said the district administration has also been asked to act against the private hospitals charging more from the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-training-for-doctors-soon-soni-257656
24-05-2021||---||15 die, 300 test +ve for Covid in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 23With 15 Covid-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the toll in the district has increased to 1,344 on Sunday. The health authorities reported 300 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 42,834.The new cases include 218 infleunza-like illness cases and 82 contacts of positive patients. The district reported recovery of 500 patients. With this, the total count has reached 37,269.At present, the district has a total of 4,121 active cases. Officials said the active caseload was decreasing from the last few days as number of patients recovering was more than the number of persons testing positive. They said decreasing active caseload was an indicator that the spread of infection has been contained to some extent.Those who succumbed to the virus include Mohinder Singh (85) of Shivala Colony, Ashwani Kumar Mahajan (56) of Tungbala, Krishna Rani (55) of Chota Haripura, Sanjay Seth (52) of Banke Bihari Wali Gali, Harjit Kaur (54) of Tungbala, Sucha Singh (80) of Baba Bakala, Jasbir Singh (23) of Islamabad, Darshan Kaur (46) of Khairabad (Ajnala), Inderjit Kaur (63) of Partap Avenue, Sarwan Kaur (85) of Timmowal (Baba Bakala), Gurcharan Singh (73) of Meerakot, Mangal Das (85) of Kot Mehtab, Karanjit Singh (68) of Maha Singh Gate, Darshan Kaur (90) of Jassar village and a 30-year-old unknown patient admitted at the Government Medical College.Meanwhile, a total of 3,483 residents were inoculated, including 204 workers registered with the Labour Department, 696 residents with comorbid conditions in the age group of 18-44 years and 683 family members of healthcare workers.One death, 47 new cases reported in Tarn TaranThe district health authorities reported one Covid-19 related death in Tarn Taran on Sunday. With this, the toll increased to 281. Gurmeeet Kaur succumbed to the virus.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 47 positive cases were reported in the district. At present, the district has 674 active cases and 344 patients have been quarantined at their homes.The Deputy Commissioner said 835 samples were collected and 871 beneficiaries were inoculated on Sunday. He said a total of 1,22,529 citizens, including 40,858 above 60 years have been vaccinated, so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-die-300-test-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-257655
