25-05-2021||---||13 fatalities, 340 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 24With 13 Covid-19 casualties reported in district on Monday, the toll has increased to 1,357. The district health authorities reported 340 new cases with which the total count has increased to 43,174.DC flags off ‘sanjivani’ for rural areasAmritsar: The district administration on Monday despatched ‘Sanjivani’— a vehicle containing detailed information regarding the pandemic— to rural areas. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira flagged off the vehicle, which would travel through 35 villages. He said misunderstanding about Covid-19 has developed among a large number of people in rural areas. He said the vehicle was originally flagged off by Sonu Sood on April 7 to visit the most affected five districts of the country, which were in severe grip of the virus. These districts include Amritsar, Nasik, Guntoor, South Kannad and Indore.The new cases include 242 influenza-like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has reported recovery of 398 patients with which the recovery count has improved to 37,767. At present, the district has a total of 4,050 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Champa Rani (50) of Ajnala; Surjit Kaur (65) of Vallah; Nirmal Gulati (73) of Batala Road; Baldev Singh (68) of Malakpur (Ajnala); Nirmal Singh (58) of Jaspal Nagar; Ravi (37) of Ram Tirath Road; Rafal (65) of Anngarh; Neelam (57) of Brahampuri; Sardaro (72) of Khajala (Baba Bakala); Raj Kumar (37) of Ishwar Nagar; Santosh Kumari (71) of Rani ka Bagh; Ravinder Kaur (37) of Jawala Nagar and Varun Chandok (37) of Dayanand Nagar.Meanwhile, a total of 3,067 residents were administered the shots today. The health authorities said those given the first dose included 58 healthcare workers, 301 frontline workers, 1,212 residents above 45 years, 72 workers registered with the Labour Department, 715 residents with comorbid conditions in the 18-44 years age group and 555 family members of healthcare workers. Those given second dose included 28 healthcare workers, 21 frontline workers and 93 residents above 45 years.8 succumb to virus, 42 new cases surface in Tarn TaranThe district reported eight more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 289, while 42 persons tested positive for Covid on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Amarjit Singh (60), Jagir Kaur (75), Dalbir Singh (70),Dial Singh (75), Darshan Singh (55), Amarjeet Kaur (50), Barbir Singh (65) and Randhir Singh, all residents of the district. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the active cases stood at 653, while 405 patients are isolated at their homes. He said 1,23,499 persons had been vaccinated in the district.Markfed roped in to speed up oxygen procurementTo supplement the state government’s effort to provide oxygen to Covid-19 patients, Markfed is supplying oxygen through special trains. Gurpreet Singh, General Manager, Markfed, said in order to curtail delivery time of medial oxygen in the state, it was being brought by trains which took hardly one-day. Earlier, it was being transported via trucks which used to take four to five days. He informed that so far the Markfed had paid for 35 metric tonnes of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-fatalities-340-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-257821
25-05-2021||---||Testing capacity to be increased : Soni||Amritsar, May 24After a review meet with officials of the Health Deapartment and the district administration at Government Medical College on Monday, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni asked officials to increase testing capacity.Soni said around 12,000 tests were being conducted at the GMC daily and the capacity would be increased to 15,000 tests. He said sample collection process would also be expedited for this purpose.He said the state government was making all efforts to secure vaccination for residents. “Shortage of vaccination is throughout the country. We are trying to procure it from within India and abroad as well,” said Soni.The minister said of 29 lakh residents of Amritsar district, around 3.5 lakh have been inoculated so far. He also issued instructions to officials to ensure proper arrangements at vaccination centres so that beneficiaries spend less time for their turn.He said 147 health wellness centres, anganwadi workers, block development officials and rural panchayats were working in coordination. He said these centres would monitor health of residents closely and ensure that they get required medical help.The medical college authorities raised the issue of problem faced by family members of healthcare workers who were being vaccinated on priority as the vaccination centre at the GMC had been closed. Soni asked officials concerned to come out with a solution.He said number of Level-3 category patients at the GMC has gone down, which was a sign that severity of the virus was decreasing. He said as number of cases in rural areas were increasing, the government has shifted its focus towards rural belts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/testing-capacity-to-be-increased-soni-257823
25-05-2021||---||‘Should have vaccinated students, teachers first’||Amritsar, May 24As the Centre and the state governments deliberate on conducting Class XII exams admid the pandemic, the issue has left thousands of students and teachers in a fix. Already a two-month delay has caused several students to replan their academic future and the possibility of sitting for exams in the middle of deadly second wave has increased pressure on them.Rakshit Sawhney, a student of Shri Ram Ashram School, said, “Conducting exams at this stage is very risky. Whether we sit for 40 minutes or for three hours, things will remain the same. The CBSE knew in March that exams will be held offline. Keeping this in mind, the government should have vaccinated teachers and students first. From May 1 onwards, vaccination opened for 18 plus, but in Punjab, no slots are available. If exams are a priority, all these points should have been considered way back.”Another student, Shivam Chopra, who was planning to pursue BTech in computer engineering from aborad, said, “A student who has not prepared for any competitive exam, the idea of conducting MCQ-based exam will definitely affect his/her performance. Appearing for exams without getting vaccinated is quite risky. The best option is to delay exams and take a call in July.” His plans to study overseas has taken a hit.Manav Goyal, a JEE aspirant and a topper in JEE Mains 2021, who has taken two JEE exams in March and April said, “Class XII boards are very important for higher education, thus cancellation of exams is not a solution. When we are reporting high number of infections with crumbling medical infrastructure, conducting exams in any format exposes us to the virus. It is acontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/should-have-vaccinated-students-teachers-first-257824
25-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||NGT orders, effluents drain into Tung Dhab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 24Despite directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Amritsar Municipal Corporation continues to discharge effluents into Tung Dhab drain.The civic body in its reply to the NGT had stated that they would plug all sewage release points.Daljit Singh Kohli, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch said, “It’s surprising that despite the NGT’s orders and meeting of the taskforce headed by MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, the issue has not been addressed to date. More than 40 million litres per day (MLD) sewage is still being openly released from Batala road (12MLD) and Majitha road (18 MLD) sewerage points directly into the drain.”The polluted water has caused dangerous levels of heavy metals absorption into underground water and has adversely affected air quality of the area. Massive urbanisation took place around the drain during the past two decades. Numerous colonies, including Holy City, Ranjit Avenue, Defence Enclave and Gobind Avenue, have come up in the area.Various studies conducted on the impact of the drain suggested that sulphur dioxide turns into sulphuric acid that erodes copper surfaces of ACs, refrigerators and circuits of electronic devices leading to their malfunction within a few months.Yogesh Kamra, a resident, said, “Children and elderly are suffering the most as they develop breathing, skin and eye related problems due to toxic fumes, which get released from the drain. Guru Nanak Dev University had done a detailed study and found dangerous levels of heavy metals in subsoil, crops, vegetables and in aquifers, which resulted in DNA alteration of those residing along the drain.”Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch, said despite investing crores on the underground sewerage project funded by JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency), the civic body continues to flout the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, as well as the National Green Tribunal order, which clearly directed to immediately stop release of all forms of sewage into storm water drains.Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Amritsar Municipal Corporation, said she would look into the matter and if any discharge was taking place, they would get it plugged at the earliest. The MC Commissioner said Majitha road and Batala road disposals have been closed as per the NGT directions. However, due to some desilting work going on at Batala road, there’s slight discharge of sewage. Desilting work would end within a week.‘Should have vaccinated...’helpless situation as we do not have any say in it and our future depends on it. If marking is not done in any other format, then we do not have any option, but to appear for exams.” Pushti Seth, a student of Springdales, who got admission at a Canadian university, has been in the middle of nowhere due to the pandemic. As for Class XII, she feels that it’s not the ideal time to conduct offline exams. “The CBSE exams are conducted at a large scale. It is not possible to follow the health guidelines. These are unprecedented times, thus safety of students should be a priority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngt-orders-effluents-drain-into-tung-dhab-257825
25-05-2021||Amritsar||Man shot at after scuffle, 4 booked||Yet another firing incident was reported in Fatahpur  on Saturday in which one person was injured. The police have booked four suspects in this regard on charges of attempt to murder while no arrest has been made so far. Those booked have been identified as Deepu Lofar, Deepu Dans, Heera Singh and Bagga, all residents of Fatapur area. The police recovered two empty shells of .32 bore pistols from the spot. The injured has been identified as Gurwinder Singh. Victim’s brother Manpreet Singh, alias Manu, of Bhindu colony, told the police that he was returning home after procuring flour from mill in the village. He said when he reached near his house, he saw the accused arguing with Gurwinder. Soon, the arguments turned into a scuffle. He said in order to rescue his brother, he threw a brick at the accused. Following this, Lofar took out a pistol and opened fire at Gurwinder, leaving him injured. He said the accused fled away from the spot while firing.  ASISushil Kumar said a case under Sections 307 and 506 of the IPC and 25/ 27/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shot-at-after-scuffle-4-booked-257826
25-05-2021||---||Five booked for murder bid||Amritsar, May 24  A firing incident over an old enmity left three persons injured in Bhindar colony falling under the jurisdiction of Chatiwind police station on Sunday.  Following preliminary probe, the police have booked five persons on charges of murder bid and the Arms Act. Those booked have been identified as Gurdev Singh, Sharanbir Singh, both residents of Bhinder colony, Amritpal Singh Kahlon of Tarn Taran road, Bharpoor Singh of Kot Mit Singh and Joban Singh of Naushehra Dhalla village in Tarn Taran. The complainant, Lovejit Singh, told the police that they had nabbed a thief, which led to an altercation with Gurdev. He said his family already had a dispute with Gurdev. He said owing to this, the accused intercepted him near gurdwara in the village and started a brawl. On seeing this Jaskaran, Rajbir Kaur of Gurwali and Gursewak Singh Kasel village intervened and tried to rescue. He said before anybody could understand, Sharanbir started firing at them, thus leading to injuries to Jaskaran, Rajbir and Gursewak. Sub-Inspector Harmit Singh said a case of attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. The Sub-Inspector said the victims were still unfit for the statement. He said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-murder-bid-257827
25-05-2021||---||Financial row leads to firing  in Ramdass||Amritsar, May 24 A monetary dispute led to firing at Awan village in Ramdass on Sunday. The police have booked eight persons, but nobody has been arrested so far. Those booked include Lakhbir Singh, Sarwan Singh of Nurpur Padri village and their six unknown accomplices. Sukhdev Singh told the police that at around 11 am, the accused barged into his house and asked about whereabouts of his brother Sandeep Singh. He said in the meantime, he came out from his room. He said while shouting, Lakhbir took out a pistol and started firing into the air. Sukhdev said he along with his family rushed inside the house to save themselves. Later, the trio fled away from the spot, said Sukhdev. The police have registered a case under Section 336, 148 and 149 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/financial-row-leads-to-firing-in-ramdass-257828
25-05-2021||---||Of diet, health & time||Amritsar, May 24 A thematic luni-solar calendar was presented to Guru Nanak Dev University Vice Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu by Prof Adarsh Pal Vig, president, Vigyan Bharti, along with Prof Ashwani Luthra, director, IQAC, on Monday.  This thematic wall calendar is based on the theme ‘Food as medicine’. The aim of this effort is to make the calendar more user friendly, which is based on the principles of science. “Since 2019, the entire world is facing acute challenge of the pandemic and it’s very much related with our food habits and immunity. The theme has a direct relevance to common man, wherein, it becomes important to understand the correlation between diet, health and time. The calendar features significant information on fruits and vegetables from India,” said Prof Vig.  “As the United Nations has declared 2021 as ‘International Year of Fruits and Vegetables’, the calendar has depicted seasonal fruits and vegetables, its nutritional and medicinal value, and their Indian names wherever possible. All other features of regular calendar such as national holidays, festivals, birthdays of Indian scientists are also included,” he said. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources (CSIR-NISCAIR) and Vijnana Bharati (VIBHA) jointly released the calendar last month. Prof Sandhu appreciated the innovative efforts of the CSIR to promote and popularise science behind our ancient Indian systems among masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-diet-health-time-257829
25-05-2021||---||Condolences pour in from across political spectrum||Amritsar May 24Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh sent condolence messages on Monday through Chairman Medium Industry Corporation Amarjit Singh Tikka during the bhog ceremony of former Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti who passed away recently.Wife donates Rs10L cheque to Covid care fundOn the occasion, Tikka said the CM has announced to name the government school at Talwandi Kalan in Ludhiana after Jathedar Vedanti, who has devoted his entire life to propagating the philosophy of Guru Sahib, The village panchayat has been asked to pass a resolution in this regard.Dr Manmohan Singh, in his message said, he was deeply shocked to hear the news of Jathedar Vedanti’s demise. He referred him as a good scholar as well as having proficiency in Gurbani and while being a Jathedar he had done many important things for the Sikh Panth. He believed that Jathedar Vedanti’s untimely death had come as a shock to the Sikh Panth and its admirers.In the message sent by the Capt Amarinder Singh, he said, Jathedar Vedanti had rendered his services well during his tenure as head Granthi of Golden Temple.Meanwhile, the ‘antim ardas’ was performed amid presence of Panthic personalities at Gurdwara Sangrana Sahib which was attended by Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and head priest of Golden Temple Giani Jagtar Singh.Bibi Jagir Kaur presented a cheque of Rs 10 lakh to Harbhajan Kaur, wife of Jathedar Vedanti, as an honourarium but the latter donated it back to the SGPC’s Covid Care Fund.Giani Harpreet Singh expressed to extend special honour to Jathedar Vedanti posthumously keeping in view his services to the Panth and the issue would be taken up in the next Five High Priests’ meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/condolences-pour-in-from-across-political-spectrum-257830
25-05-2021||---||‘Vote for party that stands with you’||Amritsar, May 24 The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has called upon its members to vote in favour of the political party which stands with them in this economic crisis caused by the pandemic. This announcement was made after their repeated requests for relief package to the Union Government did not elicit any response. PPBM president Piara Lal Seth said the pandemic-induced restrictions and lockdown hit the businesses badl, adding that even in that scenario, the government was reluctant to come forward to hold their hands. He stated that the MSME sector had become a victim of all kinds of restrictions such as lockdown, evening curfew, weekend lockdown and rotational opening of shops.  He said entrepreneurs had been paying various kinds of taxes throughout their life and when it comes to any reprieve, they are not taken into account.  The PPBM demanded Rs 10 lakh medical insurance for seven crore enterpreneurs of the country, special economic package for border districts on the line of the one given to the Union Government-administered Jammu and Kashmir, setting up of technical institutes keeping in view the demand of industries and incorporation of petrol and diesel prices in the GST.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vote-for-party-that-stands-with-you-257831
25-05-2021||---||Branch out: City-based NGO plants trees at Verka bypass||Amritsar, May 24 A city based NGO, Diwan Todarmal Yadgari Sewa Society, planted several grown up trees at a bypass road here on Sunday.  Members of the NGO have been continuing the green drive for the past five years and also take care of them after planting them.  Sukhshiwan Singh, one of the leading members of the NGO, said they assemble every Sunday and plant trees in villages and wherever people asked them to do so.  The activists of the society planted several grown trees at the Verka Bypass Road, where 24x7 langar is being organised for the past three months. The organiser said earlier, they used to do so annually on Hola Mohala, but now it was being organised daily. Workers from the industrial area, who had lost their job due to the Covid pandemic, are served free food here, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/branch-out-city-based-ngo-plants-trees-at-verka-bypass-257833
25-05-2021||Amritsar||Trust provides free medical aid||After setting the ball rolling for five oxygen plants at Majha, Malwa and Doaba, the Sarbat Da Bhala Trust has now initiated the process of providing free medical aid such as oxygen concentrators, ventilators, ambulances, vans for carrying the victims, freezers for bodies and medicines to the district administration.  The trust’s president, Dr SPS Oberoi, said five oxygen plants at Majha, Malwa and Doaba were being established by the trust. He said these medical aids were being given to various districts to handle the second wave of the Covid pandemic effectively. The trust had recently dispatched trucks laden with ration for nearly 20,000 Afghan nationals stuck in various parts of the country due to Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trust-provides-free-medical-aid-257834
25-05-2021||---||Notification to raise martyr’s memorial out||Amritsar, May 24 The state government has issued a notification to raise a memorial at the birth place of Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra, which is situated inside the Sikandari Gate here. He was born at this house on February 18, 1883.  The project will be carried out by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation along with the Tourism and Cultural Affairs Department. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal has been made the in-charge of the project.  The state government had decided to construct a memorial at the ancestral house of the martyr in August 2018. The Madan Lal Dhingra Shaheed Smarak Samiti, headed by former Health Minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla, had been raking up the demand for setting up a memorial for the past many years.  Welcoming the decision, she said it would be a right tribute to the martyr, who was executed at the age of 26 in London in 1909. However, the present generation of the Dhingra family had sold out the house nearly a decade ago and the new buyer had demolished the original structure in 2012.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notification-to-raise-martyrs-memorial-out-257835
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Tributes paid to ASI Dalwinderjit||Tarn Taran, May 24 Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Monday paid rich tributes to ASI Dalwinderjit Singh on his bhog ceremony held at Guru Nanak Singh Sabha Gurdwara in his native village Sangwan here.   The ASI lost his life in a firing with criminals and drug smugglers in Jagraon on May 15. He is survived by his wife and two sons. DGP Dinkar Gupta, who attended the ceremony via video-conferencing due to Covid-19 restrictions, led senior police officers of the state in remembering the supreme sacrifice made by ASI Dalwinderjit Singh. “All of us, who are the family of 82,000 strong police force of Punjab, will always remember and feel proud of the supreme sacrifice of the ASI for the safety and security of the citizens of the border state of Punjab,” he said. The DGP assured that the family of ASI Dalwinderjit Singh would be paid a sum of Rs 1 crore as relief by the HDFC Bank, besides other benefits, including a police job, will be given to his son as soon as he comes of age. Meanwhile, following the gathering restrictions due to fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, only a limited number of people were requested to attend the bhog ceremony, however, the district police made the entire event live on their Facebook pages for all police officials and people to pay tributes to the martyr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-asi-dalwinderjit-257836
25-05-2021||---||Kalanaur health staff out to identify diabetic, hypertensive persons||Amritsar, May 24 With an objective to counter Covid-19 fatality rate, a total of 22 medical teams of community health centre Kalanaur are in field to identify persons suffering from non- communicable diseases (NCDs)complications.  Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal, Senior Medical Officer, said, “It has been noticed that people who are having NCDs like hypertension, diabetes mellitus are at a greater risk of getting infected with Covid-19 as they have low immunity in comparison to healthy persons”.  Dr Athwal said: “We have observed that NCDs are one of the major reasons behind Covid deaths so we have launched this campaign to bring them on medication in time. In rural areas people do not get tested for hypertension or diabetes until they face a serious complication”.  He said, “Our teams comprise of ANMs, MPHW, ASHA and community health officers are equipped with thermometer, pulse oximeter, sphygmomanometer and glucometer so that they can take down blood pressure reading and level of blood sugar on the spot”.  He said: “On the first day of survey we identify 41 persons having NCDs complications and we have registered them and started their medication immediately. Unfortunately majority of the people are not aware that they are patient of NCDs and even if they now accept it as part of their normal life”.  Since November 2020 till now, the CHC has identified 1,284 patients of diabetes mellitus and 752 patients of hypertension, he said. The survey would continue for next 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kalanaur-health-staff-out-to-identify-diabetic-hypertensive-persons-257837
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Man held with 5 stolen bikes||Tarn Taran, May 24 The Patti police nabbed a man and seized five stolen motorcycles from his possession on Sunday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused had been identified as Veerpal Singh of Sohawa (Sarhali) who was arrested from the Patti town on Sunday. The accused disclosed that he had stolen the bikes from outside banks and IELTS centres like institutions. The SSP said the accused had been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-5-stolen-bikes-257839
