26-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Two held with 2.6 -kg opium||Class V results: Tarn Taran topsTarn Taran: With 99.95 pass percentage, Tarn Taran district has topped in Punjab in the Vth standard exams held in March the results of which were declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Monday. Rajesh Kumar, District Education Officer (E) and Paramjit Singh, Deputy DEO (E) jointly informed that the district had obtained 99.95 pass percentage. The district officials said that all it could be achieved with the joint efforts of the team of the BEEO’s in which the teachers and the school heads played their remarkable role. The officials said the performance of government schools was praise worthy and it was due to this the admission of students in government schools had increased to 68,976 in the current 2021-2022 academic session as compared to 64,071 in the 2020-2021 session. OCGNDU declares exam resultsAmritsar: Results of BCom (Financial Services) semester-I; BSc home science semester-I; BSc home science semester-V; diploma in computer animation semester-I; BCom LLB (FYIC) semester-IX; MSc zoology semester-I; MSc biotechnology semester-III; BBA semester-I; BFA semester-I; MA geography semester-III; MA religious studies semester-I; MSc internet studies semester-III; bachelor of vocation (contemporary forms of dance) semester-V; bachelor of vocation (cosmetology & wellness) semester-III; bachelor of vocation (fashion designing) semester-III; MA Sanskrit semester-I; MA Sanskrit semester- III; MA music instrumental semester-III; MA fine arts semester-III; master in fine (applied art), semester-III and MA Hindi semester- I of session December 2020 have been declared by Guru Nanak Dev University. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in, said Prof Manoj Kumar, in-charge examinations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-2-6-kg-opium-258726
26-05-2021||---||Beer bottles seized||Amritsar, May 25A joint team of the excise and police seized over 50 cartons of expired beer from an approved vend after BJP SC Morcha held a protest in front of it here on Tuesday.Sanjeev Kumar, president of the district unit of the SC cell of the BJP, said once again the expired beer was being sold near the Dalit basti known as Hindustan Basti, outside the Hathi gate. He said consumption of the beer could cause serious health risks to its consumers.Recalling the hooch tragedy stuck in Tarn Taran last year, he said over 100 people from Dalit families had lost their lives. Now, again expired bottles of beer were being sold close to a dalit basti. He accused that it was the modus operandi of the liquor traders chosen by this government to sell spurious and expired liquor near dalit houses. He said it was a big scandal and such bottles of beer and liquor have been selling in different parts of the state and it required a thorough probe.He said the expired beer has been selling there for the past many days and his repeated requests to the authorities did not elicit any response. Compelled he along with activisits of the BJP’s dalit Morcha held a protest.Suresh Mahajan, president of the district unit of the BJP, demanded registeration of attempt to murder case against the agency selling the expired beer. He said the Capt Amarinder Singh government had given free run to drug and liquor dealers. He stated that its slogan of drug free Punjab remained an eyewash.Later, a team of Excise officials along with police personnel raided the vend and seized 54 cartons of beer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beer-bottles-seized-258725
26-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||GREEN FINGERS: Curating garden, lives amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25From her busy schedule, Dr Anju Bala always spare an hour or two everday for her terrace garden.Dr Bala, who is an anaesthetist, and posted at the Tarn Taran Civil Hospital, said travelling consumes a lot of time. Nevertheless, she makes it a point to oversee her garden twice a day – in the morning and evening.“I wake up early in the morning and it usually takes an hour to water the plants,” she said.Dr Bala said she started taking her gardening seriously after having their own house in Gopal Nagar on Majitha road. “I frankly did not know when I developed the hobby of gardening, but it surely increased manifold after having own house,” she said.A passionate garden lover, she preferred evergreen kind of plants that though requires minimal care, but gave a sense of lush green atmosphere on her terrace. “One cannot express the satisfaction and joy, which one gets during the wee hours in your garden. It feels that these plants welcomes you with open hands,” she said. It gives immense pleasure to see them growing with new leaves and flowers, she said.“Working as an anaesthesiologist it is a tough task, but gardening is a stress buster,” said Dr Bala.She has more than 250 plants, including different varieties of palms, bauganvillas, hibiscus, rubber plants, besides seasonal plants.Recently, she has grown some ornamental plants and vegetables as well. “Every Sunday, a gardener also visits to ensure proper maintenance of the garden,” she said.Dr Bala said, “Disposable containers, glass bottles or oil cans are used in her garden. I keep them on walls or wherever I find any suitable place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-fingers-curating-garden-lives-amid-pandemic-258723
26-05-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor Rintu assures  locals of water supply||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu interacted with residents of Ward No.22 and assured them of providing water supply in their area here on Tuesday.The Mayor visited Ward No.22 of East assembly constituency in the afternoon and heard the problems of residents of the area. Area councillor Jaswinder Singh Lado and officials of various departments of the MC were also there. The Mayor instructed the officials present on the spot to solve their problems immediately.Addressing residents, the Mayor said the MCA had passed development works worth crores of rupees, in which almost all the works like new tubewells, water supply and sewer lines, modern street lights and laying of interlocking tiles had been completed. He said due to harvesting of crops and sowing season there was a shortage of labourers. Besides, migrant workers had returned to their native towns due to the pandemic, affecting the pace of development works.Officials had been directed to expedite development works and complete them within the stipulated time. He said apart from putting clean drinking water pipes in the area, beautification of the area would also start soon.He said wherever development works would be required in the area, the MC would do it and there was no shortage of funds for this purpose. All other development works would be completed on time.“The councillors are working diligently for the development works in their respective areas, for which they deserve to be congratulated. But in these difficult times of Covid-19, the councillors need to go to their respective areas and enquire about the financial status of the families and whatever assistance is available or can be provided to them at the government level, should be provided,” he saidMayor Karamjit Singh was thanked by the councillor and residents of the area for addressing their problems on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-rintu-assures-locals-of-water-supply-258722
26-05-2021||---||Forged documents: 2 bank managers among 4 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25The Civil Lines police have booked three persons, including a manager of a private bank for allegedly preparing fake documents and opening accounts in different banks and making transactions worth Rs 15 crore.The incident came to light when a shopkeeper got a notice from the Income Tax Department following which he filed a complaint with the police.The complainant, Bir Shiv Nath Grover, told the police that several days ago, he received a notice from the I-T Department about certain transactions from different bank accounts allegedly opened in his name.Shocked over this, he approached the I-T Department and later filed a complaint with the police in this connection. Following preliminary probe, the police have booked Vishak Kohli of Gurbax Nagar, Vikas Jain of Jagdambay Colony and Vikash Sethi of Daily Needs street.According to the police, there were around 14 such bank accounts opened in different banks, including Kotak Mahindra Bank and Yes Bank. The police said Kohli was a manager at a private bank and transactions worth Rs 15 crore were made through these accounts. Cops said further investigation was under progress while a case of fraud and forgery has been registered in this regard.In another case, a senior manager of a bank was allegedly booked for making several fraudulent transactions from a bank account of Raj Kumari, a resident of Chowk Moni.She told the police that she had an account in Punjab National Bank. Senior Bank Manager Harish Chander Juneja, a resident of Jalandhar, allegedly deposited over Rs 41 lakh in her account and later withdrew it. She said she was illiterate and did not knew about these transactions until she got a notice from the I-T Department.Following initial probe, the Division C police have booked Chander under Section 420 of the IPC while further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/forged-documents-2-bank-managers-among-4-booked-258721
26-05-2021||---||Low hanging power cables pose danger||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25Residents of houses in Ward Nos.22, 24 and 25 falling in the Joda Phatak area are a harried lot as their repeated requests to remove power supply cables hanging low over their houses have always fallen on deaf ears.Sahil Singh said he had been living with his parents and wife in the house where power cables dangle too close from their rooftop. So far his family managed as all of them were mature and could be on their guard while moving on the roof. Now, the couple is expecting the baby this year and they are scared of its safety. “Due to care free behaviour children work as per their will and tend to forget dangers ahead. Many accidents had taken place in the past in which children lost their lives or limbs when they came in contact with live wire while playing ontheir rooftop”.Indu, another affected resident, said at times as they are engrossed in their work on the rooftop they tend to forget that live wires pass over their houses. She said her family desperately needed to add two more rooms on the upper floor to adjust the growing family. However, they could not do so due to the dangling wire.Mandeep Kaur, councillor of ward number 25, said all formalities to remove 11 kv cables from ward numbers 22, 24 and 25 have been completed under the Smart City project. She said the project would cost Rs 1 crore and would take two months to execute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/low-hanging-power-cables-pose-danger-258720
26-05-2021||---||Man killed over illicit relationship||Amritsar, May 25A man was brutally killed by his paramour and her family members at Dhulka village falling under the jurisdiction of Khilchian police station on Monday evening.The deceased has been identified as Gurinder Singh. The accused include his alleged lover Daljit Kaur, her husband Ajit Singh, Amarjit Kaur, Dharminder Singh, Angrej Singh, Amritpal Singh, Baljit Kaur and Balraj Singh.A case has been registered on the complaint of Sukhjinder Singh of Dolewal village in Tarn Taran. He told the police that Gurinder called him on his mobile phone on Monday evening and told him that the accused would kill him. He said he along with several relatives immediately rushed to the spot and found his body lying in a pool of blood at Ajit’s residence. He had injuries inflicted with a sharp-edged weapon on his face and other parts of the body, said Sukhjinder.Sub-Inspector Baljinder Singh (Investigating Officer) said they were conducting raids to arrest the accused. Sukhjinder told the police that Gurinder was living with her aunt at Padde village and used to drive a taxi for his livelihood. He told that Gurinder came in contact with Daljit around three years ago and the duo had eloped in 2019, however, they came back later on.He said Ajit and Daljit had struck a compromise following which she again started living with the former, but they kept a grudge against Gurinder.The Sub-Inspector said Daljit allegedly called Gurinder at her house on Monday and the accused killed him with sharp-edged weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-illicit-relationship-258719
26-05-2021||---||Move to axe century-old trees draws flak||Amritsar, May 25Residents of Sultanwind area and some social activists have raised voice against the proposed axing of century-old trees on the the banks of Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) with several posts criticising the move doing the rounds on social media for the past few days.Activists of the Akali Jatha observed marks of cross with red colour on trees of “peepal” and “Bohar” near the flour mill of the British era a few days ago.Paramjit Singh Akali posted some pictures on his Facebook profile which later went viral.Several residents, concerned over the environment, came in favour of the cause of Akali and initiated efforts to save the full grown century-old trees on the the banks of UBDC .“On the one hand, people are struggling for oxygen in hospitals and the government is allowing the axing of trees. We saw the marks of the cross and raised the alarm. Now people are aware about the importance of trees. So the authorities have to revise its decision otherwise we will intensify the struggle,” said Parmajit Singh Akali.The Akali Jatha claimed that more than 80 trees were marked with crosses and authorities should make their attention clear.When contacted, District Forest Officer Surjit Singh Sahota said, “The Municipal Corporation had deposited the money for axing of trees required for renovation of a water flour mill of British era on the banks of the canal under Heritage Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) Scheme in May 2019. We have marked the cross on those trees for the official record. The land belongs to the Irrigation Department and MC is the development authority. Later they might have amended the plan of axing the trees but the marks are still there. There is no threat of axing these trees as the MC has completed the project without axing it.”Forest Department officials claimed that after getting the fee for axing trees, department officials asked the authorities concerned to adopt some alternative plan to save the trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/move-to-axe-century-old-trees-draws-flak-258718
26-05-2021||---||Farming community to observe ‘black day’ today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25Farming community will protest against the Centre by hoisting black flags on Wednesday and burning effigies. Farm leaders said they have planned protest marches at various places in the district.Gurbachan Singh Chabba, a farm leader associated with the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Women activists have been preparing black flags, which will be hoisted atop houses and on vehicles.” He said flags have already been provided to village-level units.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been leading the protest against the three controversial agri laws has given a call to hoist black flags as a mark of protest as farmers’ agitation on Delhi borders complete six months on May 26.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, member, Vegetable Growers’ Association said, “The agitation has completed six months, but the Centreis still indifferent. It’s still trying to defame farmers.” Nizampura said the protest would continue till the three agriculture laws were not repealed by PM Narendra Modi-led government. He said protests would be held at village levels, besides on main roads leading to the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farming-community-to-observe-black-day-today-258715
26-05-2021||---||16 fall prey to virus, 352 new cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 25With 16 more residents losing their lives to the deadly Covid-19, the toll in the district has increased to 1,373 on Tuesday. The health authorities reported 352 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 43,526.The new cases include 245 influenza-like illness cases and 107 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 385 patients, the recovery count has improved to 38,152. The district has a total of 4,001 active cases.The active case load in district has been on the decline after the district reported a highest number of 6,145 active cases on May 13. The active case load had been on the rise after the start of second wave in mid February.Officials said number of cases being reported daily has decreased during the last few days and the active case load was decreasing as number patients getting recovered was greater than the number of new infections.Theose who succumbed to the virus include Harkirat Singh (55) of Bhittaewad (Ajnala); Sheela Rani (60) of Prem Nagar (Majitha Road); Manjit Kaur (45) of Khandwala; Veer Singh (77) Vallah; Manohar Lal (72) of Haripura; Sonia (40) of Railway Gate Colony; Balraj Kaur (60) of Nangal; Kasturi Lal (55) of Sultanwind Road; Manjit Singh (65) of Kot Khalsa; Hardip Kaur (39) of Mattaewal; Tilak Raj (73) of A-Block Ranjit Avenue; Harvinder Singh (72) of SG Enclave; Gursewak Singh (29) of Wadala Khurd; Paramjit Kaur (64) of Dharar; Shabha Rani (55) of Katra Karam Singh; Sudesh (48) near Bhandari Bridge.A total of 2,187 residents were inoculated during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive today. Those vaccinated included 43 workers, 188 residents with comorbid conditions in the 18-44 age group and 159 family members of healthcare workers.Three die, 74 test positive in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported three Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran on Tuesday. With this, the toll has increased to 292.The Health Department reported 74 positive cases in the district today. At present, the district has 712 active cases and out of these, 463 patients have been isolated at their respective homes.The teams of the Health Department collected 1,259 swab samples today. A total of 1,25,475 citizens have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-fall-prey-to-virus-352-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-258711
