27-05-2021||The cremation ground on the Sachand Khand road||Dignity abandons the covid dead||Green sentinels: Meet youths of RasulpurYouths of Rasulpur village have been using their ample time giving green look to the footpaths and the main road leading to the village. The youths have been using their spare time in lockdown to contribute to the nature. As many as 70 youths had formed Shaheed Bhagat Singh Welfare Sewa Society to take part in social causes. They first cleaned the paths of the village and planned to plant saplings. They also collected money on their own. They had cleansed both the cremation grounds in the village.A pandemic warrior in true senseDr Ramandeep Singh Padda of the District Civil Hospital was rightfully honoured by the administration for his services while treating Covid patients. On the frontline to treat covid patients, he was honoured on January 26 in Tarn Taran. He has been staying away from his family members for their safety. It has been two months that he has been maintaining distance from his family. He has examined and treated about 1,000 Covid-19 patients till date. “I have learnt a lot from this pandemic,” he says. Not only this, several conferences and webinars on Covid also helped learn a lot about the virus.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dignity-abandons-the-covid-dead-259103
27-05-2021||Amritsar||26-yr-old killed, four arrested by Khilchian police||Over 1lakh-kg lahan seizedAmritsar: In yet another major illicit liquor haul, the Amritsar rural police confiscated over 1 lakh-kg lahan (raw material for preparing illicit liquor) from Nangal Vanjawala village falling under the Ajnala police station here. The police also bust three stills from the village. SSP (Amritsar Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said the four-hour raid led to the seizure. The police arrested Malkeet Singh, Sunny, Kabal Singh and Bindu from the village who were involved in manufacturing illicit liquor. The police also seized 50 litres of illicit liquor and three running stills besides 35 tarpaulin from the spot. Four cases under the Excise Act were registered against the accused. This is the eighth major operation conducted in the rural belt in past the three months. TNSTeen abducted in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: A teenage girl was abducted from the town here on Tuesday when she was going to her college. The victim’s father in his complaint to the local police said his daughter had gone to her college on Tuesday but did not return. He said they were unable to contact her on her mobile phone too as it was switched off. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/26-yr-old-killed-four-arrested-by-khilchian-police-259092
27-05-2021||Amritsar||Drug peddler booked for jumping parole||The police have booked a prisoner, Rajinder Singh, a resident of Pritam Nagar area, for allegedly jumping parole. A drug peddler, he was convicted in an NDPS case registered with the Division B police station in November 2014. He was booked following a complaint lodged by the Amritsar Central Jail authorities when he failed to return the jail after the expiry of his parole. Amritsar Central Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh told the police that he was granted parole for six weeks in April 2020 and was to return on May 7, 2020. However, following the Covid-induced situation, the jails were decongested and hundreds of inmates were sent on parole to contain the virus spread. In view of this, his parole was extended by high-powered committee formed by the Punjab Government. As per the instructions, he was to return jail on February 10. As per the orders, he would have to return to Pathankot sub-jail by March 29, but did not turn up. Therefore, a complaint was lodged with the police. A fresh case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-booked-for-jumping-parole-259085
27-05-2021||---||OP Soni must rise above politics: AAP||Amritsar, May 26Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Manish Aggarwal, who had contested assembly elections from Amritsar North, and general secretary of Punjab State Trade Wing on Tuesday countered the statement of Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni’s objection to vaccination camps being organised by opposition parties.In a press conference today, Aggarwal said that Soni should rise above politics in pandemic. “During a meeting with district administration and health officials by OP Soni, he objected to opposition parties holding vaccination camps and instructed them to divert all vaccination directly to the hospitals instead of providing doses for the camps,” he said.In a situation where vaccines are either not available in government hospitals or people have to wait two-three hours in long lines to get vaccinated, NGOs, political parties are voluntary coming out to help people. The same is true of the ventilators malfunctioning in government hospitals and the lack of oxygen. In such a situation, it is condemnable to stop voluntary work being done by NGO’s and political parties,” he said.He also urged Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to make specific arrangements to provide vaccines for old age and disabled persons. “In such a situation, everyone should work together to deal with this by rising above politics,” said Aggarwal.‘Don’t stop NGOs from pitching in’Aam Aadmi Party's Manish Aggarwal said in a situation where vaccines are either not available in government hospitals or people have to wait two-three hours in long lines to get vaccinated, NGOs, political parties are voluntary coming out to help people. The same is true of the ventilators malfunctioning in government hospitals and the lack of oxygen. In such a situation, it is condemnable to stop voluntary work being done by NGOs and political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-soni-must-rise-above-politics-aap-259087
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||‘Adopt DSR method for sustainable farming’||Tarn Taran, May 26 An awareness programme on direct seeded rice (DSR) was organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in Durgapur here.  The programme aimed to create awareness about benefits of direct the DSR. Associate Director Dr Balwinder Kumar stressed upon the need to adopt direct seeded rice for sustainable farming.  He said the technology requires less water, ensures early crop maturity with low production cost and creates better soil-physical conditions as well for succeeding crops. Dr Anil Kumar, Assistant Professor (soil science), elaborated about the nutrient, weed and water management in the DSR.  The experts of KVK are carrying out campaign on direct seeded rice in various villages and had visited Booh Havelian, Harike, Kirtowal, Nandpur, Dargapur Jauneke, Dadehar Sahib and Bhagupur Havelian etc. to motivate farmers for the DSR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adopt-dsr-method-for-sustainable-farming-259089
27-05-2021||---||Shopping mall deposits Rs 3.94 lakh for outdoor ads||Amritsar, May 26With the efforts of the advertisement wing, D-Mart, a shopping mall at Lawrence Road, deposited Rs 3.94 lakh for outdoor media display to the Municipal Corporation here. The MC implemented an advertisement policy for the third party advertisement for collecting tax from them.A few weeks back, the advertisement wing issued the notices to the local malls to submit their details of tax deposited for advertisements displayed outside the mall. The malls and stores, which were not paying the third party tax, have now been depositing the amount.Sushant Bhatia said, “We have sent the notices to all commercial establishments to show the details of tax paid for advertisement. Some of the malls and stores responded to our notices. We will take strict action against those ignoring the notices.”The advertisement wing has a good potential for the collection of revenue but in the absence of implementation of advertisement policy, the department was not fulfilling its targets. MC secretary Sushant Bhatia claimed that every clause of the policy would be implemented in the city to curb defacement and regularise the advertisement displays in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopping-mall-deposits-rs-3-94-lakh-for-outdoor-ads-259074
27-05-2021||---||Shortage of vaccines gives Amritsar people a harrowing time||Amritsar, May 26A large number of beneficiaries are facing difficult times due to the shortage of vaccines. They go to the designated centres for inoculation but have to return disappointed due to non-availability of the doses. Many are being made to wander from place to place for vaccination.Raghav Bhardwaj, a resident of Putlighar area, has been searching online daily for availability of the vaccine for his parents and for himself for the past nearly a month, but success seems to elude him.Perturbed over this, he decided to visit some vaccination centres in the hope that he would find the vaccine but he had to return empty handed. He was to get the first dose of the vaccine. The same is the story of Baldev Singh who came for vaccination at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre on Mall Road. He said he had visited the centre several times for vaccination but failed to get the jab.Many people visiting different vaccination centres made by the district administration were returning empty handed.The centres were witnessing a shortage of vaccines as governments miserably failed to provide the same. Wishing not to be named, a doctor at a satellite hospital located in the posh locality here said for the past two days they have not received a single dose of the vaccine. According to him, on an average around 400-500 people of both groups (above 45 years and between 18-44 years) visit centres seeking vaccination. However, not all of them got vaccinated. "We get only limited stock of vaccination and that too was not regular," he added.A sewadar at the Radha Soami centre said health authorities should inform in advance about the number of doses being allotted to the centre. At least this would save people harassment. We would issue tokens as per the availability of the doses. Recently, the rush at the vaccination centres has witnessed an increase out of panic with high number of causalities being reported and surge in the novel Covid cases.The people visiting the centres pointed out that the government is endorsing vaccination, but it has miserably failed to provide the same to the vaccination centres. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-vaccines-gives-amritsar-people-a-harrowing-time-259078
27-05-2021||---||Khalsa College bags GNDU’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Trophy||Amritsar, May 26 Khalsa College received Guru Nanak Dev University’s overall Shaheed Bhagat Singh Memorial Trophy for outstanding performance in various sports competitions for the year 2019-20. GNDU VC Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu handed over the trophy to the college Principal, Dr Mehal Singh and sports head Dr Daljit Singh at the varsity campus. The college has been a champion in all sports events in the A category of the colleges in both boys and girls’ sections. The trophy, said the varsity authorities, is given to colleges for overall performances throughout the year in sports competitions.  “Our students’ performances had been outstanding in all categories, especially in athletics, boxing, fencing and other categories,” said Dr Mehal Singh. He said the college had earned a record number of points in the competitions and was way ahead of the nearest rivals in the overall score. He said apart from performances in the varsity events, the students of the college had performed well in inter varsities, national, Asian and even some students have been selected for the next Olympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-bags-gndus-shaheed-bhagat-singh-trophy-259080
27-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||‘Rubber roller industry hit due to less demand for textiles’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 26DP Singh, an entrepreneur, says the production in his factory producing rubber rollers for textile processing units across the country is now half of what it used to be in pre-Covid era.“My industry is badly hit. Fabric in general and costly fabric in particular is no longer in the priority list of people. Travel and party restrictions have limited the mobility of people. So the demand for textile has waned, prompting the industrialists to bring down production. This, in turn, curbed the demand for rubber rollers.”Even as the demand was extremely low yet there has been a tremendous increase in price of almost all raw materials utilised in manufacturing rubber rollers. For instance, prices of synthetic rubbers, rubber chemicals and carbon black increased between 25 to 40 percent during the past few months. Besides, there has been disruption in imports as well.“This changing scenario is impacting the industry so much that there is hardly any scope for research and development. We are continuously fighting an unknown enemy and taking short term measures to tackle day to day problems. Hence long term planning has massively suffered.”“At this juncture, we cannot think of new expansion or upgrade in the current scenario as our capacity utilisation right now is already down to 50 percent.”Since most of the highly industrialised states like Maharashtra and Gujarat have massively suffered due to corona hence orders from these states have evaporated.Apart from industry, what pricks him more is the need for a sustainable environment. “It is for all of us to think about environmental sustainability in our manufacturing activities. This pandemic has taught us the hard way that playing with nature will cost dear to humankind.”Short-term measures to help tide over crisisDP Singh, an entrepreneur, says this changing scenario is impacting the industry so much that there is hardly any scope for research and development. “We are continuously fighting an unknown enemy and taking short term measures to tackle day to day problems. At this juncture, we cannot think of new expansion or upgrade in the current scenario as our capacity utilisation right now is already down to 50 percent,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rubber-roller-industry-hit-due-to-less-demand-for-textiles-259082
27-05-2021||---||Amritsar clocks 14 deaths, 297 fresh Covid cases||Amritsar, May 26With 14 more residents losing their lives to Covid-19, the toll in the district increased to 1,387 on Wednesday. The health authorities also reported 297 new cases with which the total count has increased to 43,823.The new cases include 232 influenza-like illness cases and 65 contacts of positive patients. The district Health Department has also reported 370 recoveries with which the total recovery count has increased to 38,522. The district at present has a total of 3,914 active cases.The deceased have been identified as Kuldeep Kaur (51) of Rajasansi; Jasbir Kaur (70) of Chhattiwind village; Jagjit Singh (58) of Neevi Abadi Nwakot; Ram Lubhaya (75) of Bhittaewad (Ajnala); Veero (60) of Urdhan; Mangat Ram (53) of New Focal Point (Mehta); Surinder Singh (76) of Ram Nagar Colony; Jaswant Rai (70) of Bhalla Colony; Sham Lal (63) of Chheharta; Parkash Singh (74) of Pawan Nagar (Batala Road); Jagjit Singh (81) of Kot Karnail Singh (Sultanwind Road); Rashpal Singh (57) of Khanay Rajputtan; Jagdish Singh (74) of Nawi Abadi and Rajinder Kumar (81) of Green Avenue.Meanwhile, a total of 2,064 residents were inoculated against Covid-19 on Wednesday. District health officials stated that 25,530 Healthcare Workers (HCW); 47,043 Frontline Workers (FLW), 2,02,589 residents above 45 years and 20,570 residents in the 18-44 age group have been partially vaccinated.Five succumb, 27 test positive in Tarn TaranThe district reported five deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll 297 on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 27 positive cases were reported and the number of active cases had gone up to 622 and 419 were isolated in their respective homes.Teams of the Health Department collected 1,285 samples. Around 300 citizens were given the first and second doses of the jab. A total of 2,42,018 persons have been vaccinated so far. The DC said 116 patients were discharged after their treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-clocks-14-deaths-297-fresh-covid-cases-259097
27-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Of rallies, black flags & effigy burning||Farmers observed ‘Black Day’ here on Wednesday. They organised protest marches, rallies and burnt effigies of the Union Government. They also hoisted black flags on rooftops of their houses. They covered all major cities, towns and villages to lodge their protest against the three controversial agriculture laws.They were supported by people from other sections of society like labourers, employees, shopkeepers, etc.The outfits affiliated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha organised a rally at the local Gandhi Municipal Park and marched with black flags in the town and burnt an effigy of the Union Government.Addressing on the occasion, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Baldev Singh Pandori, Nirvail Singh Dalake and others condemned the alleged wrong policies of the Union Government. Baldev Singh Pandori of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Nirvail Singh Daleke of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Nachhatar Singh Pannu of the Kirti Kisan Union, Amritpal Singh Jaura of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) too addressed the farmers.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, under the leadership of Harpreet Singh Sidhwan organised a motorcycle rally in a number of villages in the area and burnt an effigy of the Union Government at the local Chaunk Bohri.Kanwalpreet Singh Pannun, state president of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, said farmers held protests at Naushehra Pannuan, Chaudhriwala, Nandpur, Khabbe Dogran, Chohla Sahib, Warhian Punare and other villages.The farmer leaders criticised the Union Government for ignoring the farmers’ interest and demanded a repeal of the three contentious laws. They also burnt an effigy of the Union Government at the Usman Toll Plaza where a dharna launched by farmers entered the 233rd day on Wednesday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-rallies-black-flags-effigy-burning-259102
27-05-2021||---||‘Will continue to fight till farm laws are repealed’||Amritsar, May 26On the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to observe Black Day, a huge response was received in rural areas with people hoisting black flags from the rooftops of their houses and vehicles to protest against the Central Government here on Wednesday.As the protest on Delhi borders completed six months on Wednesday, the farmers reiterated their commitment to continue their agitation till the three laws were repealed.Farmers from different areas burnt effigies of corporate houses and the Prime Minister to express their anguish. A bike rally from the Nangli area reached the Hall Gate and a protest was staged. The protests were also held at Vallah, Attari, Baba Bakala and many other places.Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said, “The village level units of our union burnt effigies in 172 villages of the district. Similarly, other unions had organised events in their areas also.” Randhawa said the response to the call was phenomenal as people voluntarily hoisted black flags to express their solidarity.Balwinder Singh Mahal of the BKU Ugraha said, “The government had earlier labelled the protesters as terrorists, Khalistanis, Pakistanis and what not. Now they are labelling us as super spreaders of Covid-19.” He said all this was being done to defame the farmers. Not even a single farmer out of those died at Delhi borders was infected with the virus.Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Sangarsh Committee said, “Farmers have no other option but to continue with their protest as the three controversial laws would completely destroy the farming community.” He said the government was trying to turn the tide of public sentiments against farmers on Covid-19 issue to hide its failures.The farmer leaders stated that the protest would be intensified in the coming weeks and the SKM would chalk out new programmes for the participation of general public. Apart from residents in rural areas, many urban residents from non-agriculture background too hoisted black flags on their houses to express solidarity with the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-continue-to-fight-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-259076
27-05-2021||---||Activist alleges irregularities in Rs 55-cr Chali Khoo project||Amritsar, May 26The Rs 55-crore restoration work on Chali Khoo complex and other sites, taken up three years ago by the MC under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), has raised eyebrows with an activist alleging grave financial irregularities.RTI activist Suresh Sharma says the MC spent four times of what the market price of the installed items is.Sharma, who procured the bills paid through an RTI query, has demanded a Vigilance inquiry into the alleged connivance of MC officials and local politicians.“The contractor was supposed to install cemented slabs around 205 trees as they charged Rs 4,341 per slab, but it was learnt during a visit that slabs were installed around only 60 trees. Rs 8.89 lakh had been paid in bills for that. Ironically, the MC officials paid an exorbitant amount of Rs 15.72 lakh to remove weeds from Chali Khoo complex. Moreover, weeds are still flourishing there,” he says.The bills show MC paid Rs 23.82 lakh to install 107 German lights, costing Rs 22,269 each, but the ones installed are locally made and the market price is not more than Rs 8,000 per light, he alleges. Lights worth over Rs 60 lakh have been fitted at Chali Khoo.Sharma further says the high security glass installed in the building costs Rs 1,830 per square foot on papers, but its actual cost is Rs 600 per square foot. “The MC is supposed to install 81 steel bins, costing Rs 14,140 each, and they paid Rs 11.45 lakh for this. But the bins used are of substandard material, which have been damaged without use as building is yet to open for public,” he added.Sharma also raised questions on the 15 water harvesting chambers in Gol Bagh. He claimed the borewells had inappropriate depth and the chambers were not functional. “The price of furniture installed at Chali Khoo is also high. The state government and the Central Government should conduct separate inquiries to find more misappropriations,” said the RTI activist.When contacted, SDO SS Malhi, who undertook the restoration work along with Sanjay Kanwar, then in-charge of the project and XEN (Civil) of the MC, said, “We are ready for an inquiry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activist-alleges-irregularities-in-rs-55-cr-chali-khoo-project-259071
