28-05-2021||---||13 die, 199 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 27With 13 more Covid-19 related deaths reported in the district on Thursday, the toll has increased to 1,400. The health authorities reported 199 new cases with which the total count has reached 44,022.The new cases include 153 influenza-like illness cases and 46 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 400 patients, the recovery count has improved to 38,922. At present, the district has a total of 3,700 active cases.AAP launches helplineThose who fell prey to the virus include Balbir Singh Sandhu (66) of Shareefpura; Swaran Kaur (68) of Jandiala; Kailash Wanti (72) of Nwakot; Veena (65) of Katra Karam Singh; Tejinder Kaur (58) of Dhardeo (Baba Bakala); Rinku (41) of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony; Jaswant Singh (75) of Fateh Singh Nagar; Surinder Kaur (88) of Bahadur Nagar; Chaman Lal (89) of Beauty Avenue; Surinder Kaur (68) of Bhindi Saidan (Ajnala); Surinder Kumar (72) of Jawahar Nagar; Teg Bahadur (58) of Batala Road and a 60-year-old unknown man who was admitted to Government Medical College. Meanwhile, a total of 2,426 persons were inoculated on Thursday. Those administered the shots included 143 persons in the age group of 18-44 years while remaining were above 45 years.Three fall prey to virus in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported three Covid-19 related deaths in Tarn Taran district on Thursday. The death toll has reached 300.The authorities reported 61 positive cases today. With this, active cases increased to 655. A total of 407 patients have been isolated at their homes in the district.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,122 samples were collected at different health centres.So far, 1,26,178 beneficiaries comprising different age groups have been inoculated in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-die-199-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-259595
28-05-2021||---||‘Periods don’t stop for pandemic, neither will our efforts’||Amritsar, May 27Doing their bit towards menstrual equity and hygiene, Muskurahat, a small volunteer group founded by Manan Sharma, a year back, is now leading the menstrual hygiene campaign in the city. Partnering with Project Baala, under Girl Up India initiative, that aims to organise pan-India fundraiser and awareness campaign for menstrual hygiene, Muskurahat’s volunteers have been carrying out various awareness and fund raising activities to ensure gender equity and stop unhealthy practices.An MBBS student at SGRD, Manan (21), said the data shows that poor menstrual health practices in India have resulted in many diseases. “Over 23 million girls drop out of school at the onset of menarche because of lack of access to safe menstrual products. Only 36% of menstruating women have access to safe and sanitary products while the remaining use a variety of unsafe methods such as ash, husk, old rags, banana peels, etc. Using such unhygienic methods to manage menstruation can have serious health consequences such as reproductive tract infection, urinary tract infection, vaginal infections, etc. but also lead to other psycho-socio- economic consequences. The situation in menstrual health has worsened in the pandemic as several women did not get access to sanitary pads. Till now, we have managed to raise Rs 21,000 for sanitary pads that will be distributed among needy women for free,” she informed.Girl Up Muskurahat started on July 20, 2020, has been working for several causes, including gender equality, women rights, and healthcare awareness, advocacy, and fundraising. Girl Up Muskurahat is raising funds to donate reusable pads to teenage girls of Government Senior Secondary School For Girls, Kathu Nangal, along with the slum areas of Fatehgarh Churian Road. “We will bear the cost of each kit, which is around Rs 190 per kit. It contains three reusable pads and a bag for a soiled pad. One kit can support a girl’s menstrual cycle for at least two years. The volunteers will distribute the pads across these localities once the Covid situation gets better,” she said. Muskurahat has 25 members.Why celebrate this day?Every woman in the world deals with the monthly mensuration cycle; however, the need for hygiene is met with silence and neglect even today. To create awareness among people regarding menstrual hygiene, every year, May 28 is observed as World Menstrual Hygiene Day 2021. The main aim to mark this day is to change the social stigma and taboo associated with menstruation. To create adequate awareness and education among girls and women regarding hygiene, World Mensuration Hygiene Day was introduced.Reason behind opting May 28This special day was initiated by a German-based NGO WASH United in 2014. Not many know the reason behind opting for May 28 as Menstrual Hygiene Day. Since on average, the menstrual cycle for most women is 28 days and the period lasts for five days. This is how the date of this special day was decided.Theme this yearThis year’s theme for the Menstrual Hygiene Day is ‘Action and Investment in Menstrual Hygiene and Health.’ The objective behind this day is to create awareness among every individual regarding the challenges and hardships girls and women face during menstruation. It highlights the innovative and positive approach taken to address this challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/periods-dont-stop-for-pandemic-neither-will-our-efforts-259596
28-05-2021||---||Birth, Death Certificates: Now, get first copy from pvt hospitals||Amritsar, May 27From now onwards, hospitals will be providing the first copy of birth and death certificates on the same day.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation had initiated an online approval of the first copy of the certificate on may 26. Initially, the online system has commenced at 29 private hospitals of the city.Vishal Wadhawan, in charge, Death and Birth certification wing (MC) said, “It’s a hassle-free process. Hospitals can now issue the first copy of certificate on the same day when birth or death is reported. The hospital will forward required details of the applicant online and we will approve it after verifying the record. It will take only a few hours. We will assure that hospitals issue the first copy on the same day.”Earlier, hospitals used to send intimation to the zonal office concerned about every death and birth. Generally, hospitals send records related to birth and death once a week or twice a month. The MC manually checks record and issues the first copy to the applicant. Later, an applicant can get hologram copies from Suvidha Kendras.This practice provided space to middlemen who took money to expedite the entire process. The MC officials often face allegation of corruption due to this dilly-dallying system.“It’s a major reform undertaken by the government. After a one-week trial, we will make it compulsory for all the hospitals. Staff at government hospitals is also being trained to provide facility to applicants,” said Wadhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/birth-death-certificates-now-get-first-copy-from-pvt-hospitals-259597
28-05-2021||Amritsar||Three tobacco shops raided in Amritsar||The Excise Department conducted raids at shops selling tobacco illegally in different parts of the city on Thursday. They penalised three shops under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA). Sharanjit Kaur Sidhu, Deputy Director health-cum-nodal officer of National Tobacco Control, said Adarsh Karyana store near Rattan Singh Chownk was found selling expired and banned tobacco products. She said many cigarette boxes did not carry pictorial warnings. So, the shopkeeper was charged Rs7,000 as fine.Another kiosk near an educational institute in Ranjit Avenue was found selling tobacco. As per the COTPA, no tobacco shop can operate within a 100-metre radius of any educational institution. This third shop was raided at Ranjit Avenue’s C-block market.She called upon shopkeepers to not sell tobacco products at their shops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-tobacco-shops-raided-in-amritsar-259598
28-05-2021||---||Three booked for Rs 17L fraud||Amritsar, May 27The district police on Thursday booked three persons for duping a man of Rs 17,45,000 on the pretext of sending him abroad.The accused have been identified as Vikramjit Singh, his wife Navneet Kaur, residents of Mohali, and Maninder Kaur, a resident of Anmol Enclave, Ram Tirath Road.Jasbir Singh, in his complaint to the police, said the accused took Rs 17,45,000 from him on the pretext of sending him to Canada, besides they also cheated one of his relatives, Harpal Singh, of Rs 9 lakh. The accused also took possession of the 13 kanal land on the pretext of sending Harpal Singh and his family to Canada. After conducting an inquiry, the police registered a case under Sections 420 and120-B of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-rs-17l-fraud-259599
28-05-2021||Amritsar||Civil Judge inspects Amritsar Central Jail||Civil Judge Pushpinder Singh visited the Amritsar Central Jail at Fatahpur on Thursday. During the visit, newly appointed judicial officers Charanpreet Kaur, Civil Judge, (Junior Division) and Ramanpreet Kaur, Civil Judge, (Jr Division), who are under training with the Civil Judge and panel lawyer Amandeep Singh. The judicial officials inspected barracks, kitchen, hospital, legal aid clinic and video conference room.Inmates were informed about various legal aids being provided by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, including ADR mechanism (legal aid, lok adalats, victim compensation schemes, para legal volunteer services, legal aid clinic and legal literacy clubs in schools and colleges). They were also made aware about free legal aid provided by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority and were apprised that any inmate whether convict or under trial was entitled to free legal aid under the Legal Services Authority Act, 1987.Similarly, in case a person gets convicted by the court and intends to file appeal/revision against the order, he/she can also file an application in the office of the District Legal Services Authority. Inmates were informed about legal aid clinic established at the Amritsar Central Jail, where trained para legal volunteers have been deputed by the District Legal Services Authority. — TNSDistrict and Sessions Judge visits Patti sub jailDistrict and Sessions Judge Priya Sood visited Patti sub jail on Thursday and apprised inmates of their legal rights. She urged inmates to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. She supervised sanitation and meal arrangements. She instructed jail officials to organise medical camps to provide better medical services to inmates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-judge-inspects-amritsar-central-jail-259600
28-05-2021||---||Smart junctions a bane of Amritsar commuters, shopkeepers||Amritsar, May 27Smart junctions designed to ease traffic congestion in the city have become a bane of commuters. The Amritsar Smart City Limited has planned to construct 22 smart junctions in the city.The contractors have started construction at Majitha Road, Ratan Singh Chowk and Court Road.Resident alleged that the construction work was going on at snail’s pace. Frequent jams, rise in air and noise pollution has further irked commuters and shopkeepers on these stretches. Shop owners of nearby areas urged the district administration to speed up the work.Ashok Kumar, a resident of Navi Abadi said, “The construction is going on for the last few weeks. It’s tough to cross the road as the authorities didn’t provide any alternative route. The work should be completed within the proposed time to ensure residents do not face inconvenience.”According to information, the work had commenced two months ago at Ratan Singh Chowk and was yet to be completed. Similarly, commuters have been facing inconvenience at Majitha Road, where tiles have been unloaded on the road, which leads to traffic snarls. A worker of the contractor claimed that they were not getting sufficient labour due to the virus.The smart junctions would also come up at Cantonment Chowk, Maqboolura Chowk, Husianpura Chowk, Khandwala Chowk, Ghala Mala Chowk, Green Field on Majitha Road and Naina Wala Morh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-junctions-a-bane-of-amritsar-commuters-shopkeepers-259601
28-05-2021||Tribune correspondent Manmeet Singh Gill and photo journalist Sunil Kumar take you to the holy land of Tarn Taran||Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn Taran||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarGuru Arjan Dev — the fifth Sikh master — started digging a holy sarovar — ‘Tarn Taran’, which means the boat that takes one across, in 1590. Six years later, he laid the foundation stone of the city, which is now known as Tarn Taran. Even though Amritsar, the holiest of the Sikh cities, was founded in 1577, the Guru felt the need for a new city to reach out to travellers and traders for preaching the religion far and wide. The place where Tarn Taran exists now is chosen due to its proximity to the Grand Trunk Road built by Sher Shah Suri from Lahore to Delhi.A district headquarter since 2006, Tarn Taran has Goindwal Sahib and Khadoor Sahib towns in its vicinity, where many Sikh gurus spent significant years of their lives. Several gurdwaras from the Guru period still exist in these towns. Have a look...Tarn Taran SarovarLargest of the Sikh holy sarovars, it is nearly rectangular in shape with its northern and southern sides measuring 289 metres and 283 metres, respectively, and eastern and western sides measuring 230 metres and 233 metres, respectively. It was originally fed by rainwater that flowed in from the surrounding lands. A water channel connecting it with the Kasur Branch Lower of the canal was constructed in 1833. Gurdwara Darbar Sahib (Tarn Taran)It is a three-storey building on the south-east corner of the holy sarovar — Tarn Taran. The upper portion of the building is covered with glittering gold-plated sheets. The lotus dome, damaged in an earthquake in the early 20th century, was subsequently reconstructed and has an ornamental gold pinnacle with an umbrella-shaped gold finial. Gurdwara Chaubara SahibIt was once the residence of Guru Amar Das and his family. It has a small room with a smaller room having an entrance through it. The Guru Granth Sahib is seated in the front room.Gurdwara Angitha Sahib (Darbar Sahib)Khadoor Sahib is a place which had been visited by eight Sikh gurus. Guru Angad Dev — the second Sikh master — lived at the place for many years and it was from this place that he left for his heavenly abode.Gurdwara Shri Tapiana SahibIt is a place associated with the first Sikh master — Guru Nanak Dev, who visited Khadoor Sahib five times during his lifetime. It is said the Guru, along with Bhai Bala and Bhai Mardana sang hymns at this place. Later, Bhai Bala on the instructions of Guru Angad Dev wrote the Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev at this place. The MinaretOnly one minaret of the four planned by Kunwar Nau Nihal Singh on the four corners of the holy sarovar stands on its northeastern corner. A dome was added later on top of the 156-feet and 6-inch high three-storeyed tower constructed during the Kunwar’s lifetime. Darshani DeoriA double-storeyed arched gateway, ‘darshani deori’ of the Darbar Sahib was built during the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The existing structure has survived the onslaught of time and the recent attempt by a kar sewa sect to demolish it.Parkash Asthan Guru Granth SahibIt is a square building adjacent to the Baoli Sahib with a sanctum in the centre, where the holy book is installed.Baoli SahibThe Goindwal Baoli, which comprises a flight of 84 steps, was built by Guru Amar Das in the 16th century. It is believed that the recitation of complete Japji Sahib on each of the steps followed by bath in the holy well helps liberate one from the cycle of transmigration. The devotees start from the topmost step, complete the recitation and then descend 84 steps to bathe in the holy water. They then start from the second step at the top and complete the cycle till all steps are covered.Khoo (well) of Bibi AmroThe water of the well got dug by Bibi Amro, daughter of Guru Angad Dev, was saline. It is said on the request from followers, Guru Angad Dev gave them a log of wood, which was thrown into the well and the water became drinkable.Gurdwara Khoo Guru Ram DasIt’s a gurdwara in Goindwal, west of Chaubara Sahib, where Guru Ram Das served water to devotees in his childhood. Bhai Gurdas had also ascended for heavenly abode from this place.Killi SahibIt is a wooden peg (now covered with a silver sheath) fixed in the wall inside Chaubara Sahib, which is believed to be used by Guru Amar Das for support when he meditated in a standing posture.Gurdwara Guru Ka Khoo (well)The well was a resting place for Guru Arjan Dev at night. After overseeing the digging work of the sarovar at Darbar Sahib all day, he used to spend his nights at this place. It is believed that the water of the well has a medicinal value, especially for patients suffering from leprosy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-tarn-taran-259741
28-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Malwinder Singh Jaggi is new MC Commissioner||PSEB constitutes academic councilAmritsar: The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has constituted a 17-member academic council comprising five principals and five teachers of affiliated educational institutions. The 17 members of academic council include chairman, deputy chairman and director-general of school education, secretary of the Board of Education, SCERT, Department of Languages, and director of the Punjab State University Text Book Board. Jagatpal Singh, Sakattar Singh Sandhu and Kamaljot Singh, president, Amritsar unit of Recognised and Affiliated Schools Association (RASA) are members of the 17-member council. Kamaljot Singh said inclusion of RASA members in the academic council will help bring in the views of the private schools on table. TNSMan killed in road accidentAmritsar: A 35-year-old unidentified man died in a road accident near Khanna Paper Mill on Bypass road here on Wednesday. Baldev Singh, head constable at Mai Bhago College police post, said no ID card was found from his possession. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital for the next 72 hours for identification. The police officials said the deceased was wearing blue jeans, yellow T-shirt and blue colour sports shoes. The height of the deceased is 5’4”. The police appealed to the resident that if anyone knows about this person, he can contact at mobile number 99142-94679. TNSMP Malik takes stock of projectsAmritsar: Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik held a meeting with the MC Commissioner and other officials to take stock of the ongoing projects under the Smart City scheme. He said cost of this project in Amritsar was Rs1,000 crore, which would be utilised to provide adequate water supply, fixed power supply, sanitation, including solid-waste management, efficient urban mobility and public transport, affordable housing, especially for the poor, strengthened IT connectivity and digitisation among other things. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-malwinder-singh-jaggi-is-new-mc-commissioner-259745
28-05-2021||Amritsar/Abohar||Free vax camp by SGPC tomorrow at Golden Temple entrance plaza||The SGPC has announced to organise a free vaccination camp against Covid on Saturday, while formally inaugurating “Coviserv” campaign launched by a Rajasthan-based Prandharin Trust here today.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a total of 5,000 Covaxin doses worth Rs 53 lakh had been procured which would be administered free of cost. The camp would be organised at the Golden Temple entrance plaza. Meanwhile, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today announced the extension of “oxygen sewa” organised by the party across the state. He launched it at the party’s local office in Abohar and said technicians hired by the party would install oxygen concentrators at the houses of the needy. “If the SGPC is able to order and receive a consignment of Covaxin within ten days of placing an order. Why can’t the state government do so?” asked Sukhbir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-vax-camp-by-sgpc-tomorrow-at-golden-temple-entrance-plaza-259514
28-05-2021||---||MP Gurjit Aujla lauds those cremating Covid victims selflessly||Amritsar, May 26Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla visited the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Wednesday and lauded the role of the Dead Bodies Management Committee which is working tirelessly during the ongoing pandemic. Aujla said the team was selflessly doing the service of cremation of Covid-19 deceased and ensuring that proper protocol is followed.The team led by district health officer Dr Inder Mohan Gupta includes all food safety officers, clerk Nirmal Singh, Foreman Baljit Singh, Driver Harpal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Iqbal Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Dilbag Singh, Arun Kumar, Swaran Singh and Kuldeep Singh.Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla also held a meeting with the employees who apprised him of the issues faced by them in performing their duties. He said all Health Department employees have been performing their duties with utmost sincerity and their role needed to be lauded in managing this pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-gurjit-aujla-lauds-those-cremating-covid-victims-selflessly-259083
28-05-2021||Amritsar||Particulate matter levels found high at Amritsar ISBT: Study||Last year in October and November, levels of air and noise pollution were monitored in different parts of the city under the Smart City Mission. Under this, a total of 13 places of the city — bus stand, Maqboolpura Chowk, 100 Feet Road chowk, Bhagtanwala Chowk , DTO Office chowk, Rialto chowk, B-Block Market Ranjit Avenue, SSSS Chowk, Mustafabad BRTS Station (Batala Road), Ratan Singh Chowk, Chheharta Chowk, Majitha Road bypass chowk and Town Hall were monitored 24 hours continuously with combo dust sampler machine and noise level meter. Where particulate matter (PM) 10 and PM 2.5 levels in the air have been reported higher than the normal value. Apart from this, the level of noise pollution has also been recorded higher than the limit set by the Central Pollution Control Board.While releasing the factsheet of the environment monitoring study, Smart City CEO and MC Commissioner CEO Komal Mittal said this monitoring was conducted under the CITIIS programme to know the post-monsoon pollution level in the city. The CITIIS programme is run by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development and funded by the French Development Agency and European Union. She said under this monitoring, level of PM 10 and 2.5, sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-dioxide, carbon-monoxide, ozone as well as noise pollution levels were monitored in 13 places for three days (two working days and Sunday). In which the average amount of PM 10 and 2.5 in the air during working days in the city was recorded at 130.2 and 91.0 respectively and 108.6 and 71.3 on Sunday. At the same time, the amounts of sulfur-dioxide, nitrogen-dioxide, carbon-monoxide and ozone were less than the maximum limit.The most polluted area was in the vicinity of the bus stand, where the amount of PM 10 and 2.5 in the air during working days was recorded as 211 and 128 and on Sunday, 197 and 125. The highest level of noise pollution was recorded in Rialto Chowk, where it was recorded 92.6 on working days and 98.4 on Sunday. She also said that this is the first time when pollution monitoring study is conducted in the pan city under the Smart City Mission. “Pollution levels have been monitored on all the main traffic routes of the city. In which the amount of PM 10 and 2.5 particles in the air has been reported to be much higher than the average. An excessive amount of PM particles in the air is very harmful. Due to which 6.5 lakh people die every year in India and 19,000 in Punjab,” said Mittal. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/particulate-matter-levels-found-high-at-amritsar-isbt-study-258724
