29-05-2021||The pandemic is creating critical blood shortages not only in this district but throughout the country. It is not due to more and more patients needing blood. Rather||Want to lend a hand, lend an arm||Covid crooks to be reined in, says DCIn Gurdaspur, ambulances of private hospitals fleecing Covid patients and their kin became so common that the Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq was forced to intervene. He set up a committee headed by ADC (General) Rahul Sindhu to figure out a modus operandi by which the swindling could come to an end. After confabulations with various stakeholders, including owners of private hospitals, a formula was drawn up. The instructions were to be followed in letter and spirit by the drivers. Any driver found violating the norms is liable to cough up a hefty fine. The latest is that the overcharging has indeed stopped following which residents heaved a sigh of relief.Funding 17-yr-old’s fight against tumorMonalika (17), a fatherless girl of Dukhniali village of Dhar block, has stars in her eyes and dreams in her heart. Unfortunately in her head is a tumor which is not allowing her to lead a normal life. In fact, she has to live with pain which becomes acute at times requiring medication. Her mother has urged her relatives to come forward but only a few have done so. NSUI (Pathankot) president Abhyam Sharma has now taken it upon himself to get the girl treated. For starters, he has donated Rs 50,000. He has now urged the city’s elite to come forward and help the ailing girl. “My next step is to ask all district units of NSUI to donate liberally. Later, if the need arises, we will admit Monalika to some private hospital in Delhi,” said Abhyam. — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/want-to-lend-a-hand-lend-an-arm-260351
29-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Job opportunities for youth in banks||Hoshiarpur, May 28Youth will be provided better employment opportunities in big banks and financial institutions in the district. Addressing a meeting of cluster heads and branch managers of private banks and financial institutions at the District Administrative Complex on Friday Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said the main objective of this meeting was to provide more than 100 jobs in the banking sector to well-qualified and fresh pass out youths in the district. She said there was a lot of employment potential in banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/job-opportunities-for-youth-in-banks-260350
29-05-2021||---||2 months on, Amritsar Municipal Corporation property tax wing in deep slumber||Amritsar, May 28Though Additional Commissioner of Municipal Corporation Sandip Rishi has asked superintendents of property tax wing twice during the last two months to submit list of notices (property tax) issued to tax payers for ceiling and scrutiny, superintendents concerned have failed to submit the same so far.Now, Rishi has called a meeting on May 31 to discuss the issue. On March 23 and April 7, the Additional Commissioner has written to all zonal superintendents and staff concerned with property tax to immediately submit the list of notices. The MC had issued notices to commercial buildings for scrutiny of property tax at Ranjit Avenue Market, Circular Road, Mall Road and Lawrence Road in North constituency. Civic body officials have been suspecting that owners and tenants of these commercial establishments did not disclose actual tax in their self-assessment forms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-months-on-amritsar-municipal-corporation-property-tax-wing-in-deep-slumber-260348
29-05-2021||---||MTP wing partially demolishes under-construction hotel in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 28The Municipal Town Planning (MTP ) wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation partially demolished an under-construction hotel at Narian Gali near Golbagh on Friday.A team led by Municipal Town Planner Narinder Sharma, Assistant Town Planner Parminderjeet and Building Inspector Paramjit Sing along with demolition staff and police personnel removed shuttering on the fourth floor of the hotel and partially demolished a few walls on the ground floor.It’s pertinent to mention that the construction of the hotel was going on for the last several months by violating the building bylaws.Earlier, the MTP wing had taken action and resorted to partial demolition, but failed to stop the construction.Residents of the area filed several complaints against illegal buildings and alleged that the MC was not taking stern action due to political pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mtp-wing-partially-demolishes-under-construction-hotel-in-amritsar-260347
29-05-2021||---||Online classes for students during summer vacations||Amritsar, May 28To engage the students of government schools during the summer holidays that were announced early in wake of pandemic, online summer camps are being organised voluntarily by the government school teachers. Special summer activities including extra classes for mathematics too have been organised for the students to help them clear doubts and improve subject understanding as online classes continue for second year in a row for the students.Satinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), said the online activities of various subjects were being conducted with the intention of keeping in touch with the students during the summer vacations and keeping the students engaged in studies.“Under this, two groups for mathematics for middle and secondary classes have been created. These activities will start from June 1 and will continue till June 23.A total of 10 experimental activities are listed for the middle group classes VI, VII and VIII and students will do any four of these activities. A total of nine experimental activities have been listed for the IXth and Xth classes of the secondary group. The students will do four activities as per their interest,” he informed.Sarabdeep Singh, District Mentor, mathematics, said the purpose of these activities was to revise the syllabus given to the students during the new session and to maintain the coordination between the students and the teachers during the holidays.It is also planned to continue the preparation for the competitive examinations NMSS and NTSE. The teachers of senior classes, i.e. Class XII are also helping out students ahead of boards with extra classes. The classes are being conducted online to help clear doubts and revise the syllabus as PSEB contemplates on conduct of boards in June.To help students revise syllabusSarabdeep Singh, District Mentor, mathematics, says the purpose of these activities is to revise the syllabus given to the students during the new session and to maintain the coordination between the students and the teachers during the holidays. It is also planned to continue the preparation for the competitive examinations NMSS and NTSE. The teachers of senior classes, including Class XII are also helping out students ahead of board examinations with extra classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-classes-for-students-during-summer-vacations-260345
29-05-2021||---||Udaan scheme: 1 lakh women to receive sanitary pads for free||Amritsar, May 28The state government announced Project Udaan today to mark World Menstrual Hygiene Day, and said free sanitary pads will be distributed among women and girls living below poverty under the pilot project.This information was given by Chief Administrator, PUDA Palvi Chaudhary while attending an event on menstrual hygiene awareness in the city today.Chaudhary said there were 859 Anganwadi centres running in the district through which pregnant women of the district and children of 0 to 5 years of age were being given the benefit of government schemes. She said each Anganwadi worker would provide sanitary pads to 50 girls or women each. “Under Udaan project, over one lakh women in state will receive sanitary pads,” she said.District Program Officer, Manjinder Singh said 12 CDPOs of the district would go door-to-door with the Anganwadi workers to provide sanitary pads.The MC had already installed 31 sanitary pad vending machines across city where one can get one sanitary pad after inserting Rs 5 coin and three for Rs 10. these machines have been installed at government senior secondary schools and at different public toilets located inside walled city, IDH Market, Ranjit Avenue B Block Market and several prominent public places.“The machines had been installed last year onwards under Smart city development plan. Till now around 12 government schools have been given the vending machines, but soon we plan to install such machines in all senior secondary government schools in the district,” said Komal Mittal, MC, Commissioner.Anganwadi workers to be roped inChief Administrator, PUDA, Palvi Chaudhary said there were 859 Anganwadi centres running in the district through which pregnant women of the district and children of 0 to 5 years of age were being given the benefit of government schemes. She said each Anganwadi worker would provide sanitary pads to 50 girls or women each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/udaan-scheme-1-lakh-women-to-receive-sanitary-pads-for-free-260344
29-05-2021||Amritsar||Alleged gangster tanish nabbed||Man arrested with 4-kg ganjaAmritsar: Acting on a tip-off, the police have arrested Suresh Mahato, a native of Bihar, for allegedly possessing 4.3 kg of ganja. At present, Mahato resides in slums near the Civil Lines police station. Mahato was produced before the court, which sent him to police remand. As per preliminary probe, the accused brought drugs from Bihar and used to sell them to addicts in the city. Investigation was under progress to expose the entire nexus and source of the contraband. TNSFarmers head to Delhi morchaTarn Taran: Farmers and labourers from different parts of the district on Friday left for Delhi to take part in the ongoing farmers' protest on Delhi borders against the three farm laws of the Union Government. Women and youngsters too would be part of the agitation. Farmers under the leadership of Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Dhanna Singh Lalughuman, Salwinder Singh and others led jathas, which departed from Chabal, Khadoor Sahib, Jeobala, Shahbazpur and other areas of the district. Residents of the villages performed ardas in gurdwaras for the success of the farmers’ struggle. They condemned the Union Government’s failure to redress their grievances. OCDRDO to set up O2 plant at GNDHAmritsar: With the help of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the Punjab government is setting up an oxygen plant at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here. The plant would have a capacity of generating oxygen at a rate of 1,000-litre per minute which would help the hospital in meeting the demand of medical oxygen. Himanshu Agarwal, ADC, on Friday visited the site at GNDH where the plant was being established. He said the state government had already started its preparation for the setting up of the plant. This plant would reach Amritsar in coming few days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/alleged-gangster-tanish-nabbed-260342
29-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jewellers urge Central Govt to extend deadline by one year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 28Jewellers have urged the Centre to extend the deadline further for hallmarking gold ornaments.Earlier, the government had fixed June 1, 2021, as the deadline, but recently extended it till June 15, 2021, in the wake of the pandemic. However, the jewellers forum wants the deadline to be extended till June 2022.Pankaj Khurrana, vice president, Indian Jewellers’ Forum, said, “Under the changed rules, organised sector will not have much impact, but outlets situated in remote parts will suffer a huge blow.”Besides, Khurrana sought time to take up the matter with the government as jewellers could be punished in case, ornaments were found to be below mentioned quality.He said it would be gross injustice with retailers as they buy objects certified by the hallmark centre. The concept of hallmark and its centres were introduced to decipher the exact quality of gold being used in ornaments.On the sale of gold ornaments in the city, jewellers said there were enough customers in the market. Despite high gold prices and Covid-19 induced restrictions, trust of people in gold has increased.Rahul Seth, a jeweller, said, “Parents who are about to marry their children now have sufficient funds to invest on gold ornaments. Lavish Punjabi marriages have been replaced by simple ceremonies in which one cannot have more than 20 attendees.”Sandeep Gulati, who was purchasing gold ornaments for the marriage of his daughter, said, “Money I will be saving will go into asset making of his daughter.” He said as price of 24 carat gold was hovering around Rs 50,350 per tola (10 gm) and 22 carat at Rs 48,150 per tola, a lion’s share of wedding budget goes into buying gold. Restrictions fail to hamper gold sales||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jewellers-urge-central-govt-to-extend-deadline-by-one-year-260337
29-05-2021||---||When pandemic nudged people to grow their own organic food||Amritsar, May 28Back in 2019, Major Singh, 41, an electrical officer in Merchant Navy, was skeptical about the much-advertised organic food. One of his friends in Lucknow, who was into using organic products, used to coax him to switch to organic food.“I never really paid heed to it. But in early 2020, just when the lockdown was imposed, it was the first time I searched for organic food to build immunity,” he shares. A year later, Major and his family has created a small rooftop kitchen garden and turned an empty plot adjacent to his residence into a mini-organic farm. “We grow lady finger, eggplant, cucumber, bell peppers, chilies and lots of herbs. My wife and daughter help me in maintaining the garden,” he says. Ever since the pandemic struck, the demand for organic and naturally-sourced food has increased in the country. In Punjab, where the movement to shift towards natural farming was already growing, the shift towards natural and ethical food habits has been tremendous. “There is a tremendous increase in the number of people asking for guidance in growing their own food and setting up kitchen gardens. It’s time people realise that medicines won’t fix their immunity, clean and healthy lifestyle can,” says Rohit Mehra, an IRS officer and the man behind introducing the concept of seed balls and vertical gardens in Punjab. Rohit and his team is now helping people train in growing vegetables and fruits organically.“Kitchen gardens are low maintenance and first step towards sustainable living. We promote the concept of zero waste, creating compost from kitchen waste, seasonal farming and growing medicinal herbs and plants at home,” he adds. Major Singh set up his kitchen garden at a total expenditure of Rs3,000. “I have learnt a lot while working in my garden. All it needs is a bit of your time, which we all have now, thanks to the pandemic,” he says.Gunbir Singh, who has been at the forefront of promoting organic farmer’s market and natural farming practices in the city, has been mentoring many like Major to grow their own food and learn to make a lifestyle shift. After Covid 19 restrictions affected organic farmers’ market in the city, Gunbir and his team has been making home deliveries of organic produce sourced from local farmers through their label The Earth Store.“Earlier, we used to deliver thrice a week, but now the demand for organic food has multiplied. We are getting orders daily. Many of our consumers have started growing their own food. At least 25 per cent of what you require to consume in a nutritious diet can be grown in kitchen gardens,” he said.“Reality is harsh, the present one cruel. Out of this grim situation has emerged a growing yearning for good health and the need to eat right, work out and shape up,” he added.Consuming nutritious, home-cooked meals, growing your own produce, procuring natural goodness from reliable sources, ingesting immunity building herbs and roots is the new norm. This is a lifestyle change which can sustain beyond the present.”Beginners’ lessonFor beginners, easily produced vegetables and plants in your kitchen garden can be medicinal plants such as giloy and ashwaganda, turmeric, neem, tulsi, wheat grass, mint and coriander. As for seasonal vegetables, bottlegourd, cherry tomatoes, bell peppers, lady finger, mushroom, chilies and fruit trees such as mango and sapota (cheeku) can be easily grown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-pandemic-nudged-people-to-grow-their-own-organic-food-260316
29-05-2021||Neha Saini||Now, Covid-related verified information just a click away||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 28City-based Simrat Swani, who is an IT professional, has come up with a Covid-19 specific online portal which gives verified information for Covid-19 related resources in Amritsar. The website, https://covidrepository.in/, acts as a single platform containing information on oxygen suppliers, plasma donors, food deliveries for affected families, ambulance service, availability of hospital beds, etc. It’s a first such online platform and has been designed for the community, by the community.Swani has co-founded the online portal along with Markus E Schilter.“We have been running the platform since May 11, in our individual capacity and our aim is to make all valid, verified information accessible for people in need. The information uploaded on the website has been verified by us through various government agencies and private channels working in Covid-19 response,” said Simrat.Using her experience as a data planner, she has been working on data driven government projects and says that it can be used as an armour against challenges in planning immediate response to a crisis like Covid-19. Last year, she had been working with several government agencies from various cities, collecting data and using to find solutions to immediate Covid-19 response. “I applied the very same concept to create the website. This is the first platform in Amritsar, which makes collated information from varied sources available at a single point. The idea is that when an individual is in distress, they do not have the bandwidth to collect information from different places, verify it and then use it. Easy and timely access is also the key. I felt that amid the pandemic, the information was so scattered and having single digital platform will help streamline important information for public,” she says.Swani says that the website is still under upgrade. “In its current mode, it’s limited by and large to our personal network of sources. We regularly verify and update the information hosted on the page to keep it relevant and useful. Furthermore, the idea is to run it as a community platform for the people and by the people. We actively encourage individuals to come forth and share any Covid-19 relief resources they know of on our website. This will go a long way in expanding the database and keeping it valuable for the people of Amritsar.” Their community partner is Phulkari- women of Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-covid-related-verified-information-just-a-click-away-260314
29-05-2021||---||19 fall prey to virus, 192 new cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 28With 19 more Covid-19 related deaths reported in the district on Friday, the toll has increased to 1,419. The health authorities reported 192 new cases with which the total count has reached 44,214.The new cases include 138 influenza-like illness cases and 54 contacts of positive patients. With the recovery of 292 patients, the recovery count has improved to 39,214. The total count of active cases in the district stands at 3,581 cases.Meanwhile, the district administration today asked all government hospitals to utilise 108 ambulance service for ferrying Covid-19 patients.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the decision was taken after reports of Covid patients being overcharged by private ambulances poured in at his office.Those who fell prey to the virus include Surinder Kaur (77) of Maqbool Pura, Baljinder Kaur (55) of Jaspal Nagar, Jagjit Singh of Chhidan village, Avtar Singh (70) of Rajasansi, Kanta Rani (55) of Chheharta, Sukhwant Kaur (80) of Tarn Taran road, Ajit Singh (61) of Krishna Nagar, Ram Ganesh (58) of Hari Singh Nagar, Shamsher Singh (22) of Mahal, Rekha (40) of Majitha road, Ganesh Kumar (45) of Mustafabad, Surinder Singh (68) of Krishna Nagar, Navtej Singh (45) of Guru Ramdas Nagar, Santokh Singh, (85) of East Mohan Nagar, Palwinder Singh (67) Seva Singh (81) of Baba Bkala, Renu (50) of Katra Khajana, Inderjit Joshi (72) of Majitha road and Mukhtar Singh (76) of Baba Bakala.Four die in Tarn TaranThe district on Friday reported the death of four persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 304. Besides, the district recorded 47 positive cases taking the tally to 637 out of which 376 were quarantined at their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 1,236 samples were collected by teams of the Health Department. The DC said a total of 7,401 citizens had contracted the virus so far and 6,460 patients had been discharged. A total of 1,26,388 persons had been inoculated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-fall-prey-to-virus-192-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-260313
29-05-2021||---||Big relief to traders as all shops in Amritsar to open till 5pm now||Amritsar, May 28Scrapping the earlier policy of opening left and right lane shops on alternate days, the panel headed by Cabinet minister OP Soni announced that all shops would open from 9 am to 5 pm during the five days a week, subject to the condition that the Covid-19 protocols would be followed sternly.OP Soni, Minister for Medical Education & ResearchI appeal to the traders to allow only those customers who wear a mask. Shopkeepers themselves should wear a mask.Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni held a meeting with traders at the Circuit House here this afternoon. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill were also present on the occasion. Soni announced that all shops would open from 9 am to 5 pm while the rest of the restrictions would remain in force till June 10.The minister said due to increasing Covid-19 cases, the shops on the right side were allowed to open on one day and those on the left side would open on the next day, but now due to the fall in the number of cases, the shops on both sides would open from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday.He said gymnasiums, spa centres, coaching centres, hotels/restaurants would remain closed. Soni appealed to the traders to allow only those customers who wear a mask. Shopkeepers themselves should wear a mask.Addressing the traders, Soni said it was now our responsibility to ensure that shops were not crowded, follow the social distancing norms and other instructions passed by the government.He said preparations had been made to deal with the third wave of Covid-19. He said special wards for children had been set up.Addressing a meeting, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said with the change in the rotation policy, the shops on both sides would now open from Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm and the rest of the restrictions would continue till June 10.On the occasion, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said action would be taken against the shops which would open after 5 pm as per the law. “If we continue to be negligent, the problem may escalate so the shopkeepers should use masks and not let a crowd to gather in their shops,” he said.Besides, Piara Lal Seth, Sameer Jain, Jatinder Singh Moti Bhatia, Wazir Chand, Surinder Duggal, among other traders, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-relief-to-traders-as-all-shops-in-amritsar-to-open-till-5pm-now-259941
29-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar man chosen LoP in UK council, villagers rejoice||Rajbir Singh Bhullar of Amritsar’s Wazir Bhullar village has been elected Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council in the UK. There were 64 councillors of the Labour Party in the council and among them he was appointed the Leader of Opposition on May 19. Residents of his native village and the family erupted in joy.Before moving to the UK, he had been a student of economics at Punjabi University, Patiala, and later he studied English literature at Panjab University, Chandigarh. During his college and university days, he had been an active student leader.His father, a retired Inspector of the Punjab Police, Mann Singh Bhullar said unlike India, politics in the UK was public-oriented with focus on amenities and happiness for all. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-chosen-lop-in-uk-council-villagers-rejoice-260031
29-05-2021||Amritsar||IIM-Amritsar recruitment drive concludes with 100 per cent  placements||Despite the copious challenges and variations posed by the changing landscape of the job market and education in 2020, IIM-Amritsar achieved 100 per cent final placements for its MBA batch for 2022, which has the largest number of students among the third generation IIMs.“Since international recruiters didn’t participate in the placement process this year due to pandemic induced reasons, the highest annual package of Rs 18.16 LPA was received from a domestic firm,” said spokesperson of the placement committee, IIM. The average package for the top quartile of the batch was Rs 15.94 LPA and the overall average CTC stood at Rs 12.68 LPA. The highest annual package saw a drop significantly this year as compared to last year’s highest package that stood around Rs 40 LPA, which can be seen as a result of global economic stress due to pandemic.For the placement season this year, the institute witnessed amalgamation of offers encompassing various domains ranging from marketing, sales, finance, analytics, HR to some noteworthy offers in the operations domain. Strategy, advisory and consulting roles were also offered to the students from two of the big four accounting firms, viz., Deloitte and Ernst & Young.Other firms that were part of the recruitment process included ICICI Lombard, Anand Rathi, Accenture, Cipla, Polycab, Xiaomi, Infosys, Amazon, Tech Mahindra, Mu Sigma, Grant Thornton, new marquee recruiters like Gartner, Capital Foods, HCL, etc., visited the campus for the first time during this placement season. The students of the MBA 19-21 batch will be convocated online on 29 May. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-recruitment-drive-concludes-with-100-per-cent-placements-257832
