30-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Thieves decamp with 150-gm gold||Chadha joins KCGC’s panelAmritsar: Charanjit Singh Chadha, former chief of Chief Khalsa Diwan and member of Khalsa College governing council (KCGC), has been nominated for managing committee of the KCGC. He has been appointed in place of his son Harjit Singh Chadha. The decision was taken during a meeting held by members of the KCGC. Recently, he was absolved of charges of immorality by the Akal Takht and received a clean chit. TNSTwo held with 60 liquor bottlesHoshiarpur: The Model Town police arrested two persons and seized 45,000 ml (60 bottles) of liquor from their car. The accused were arrested near Purheeran and had been identified as Jatinder Kumar of Bhagat Singh Nagar locality and Shashi Kumar of Sunder Nagar, Hoshiarpur. Both have been booked under the Excise Act. Meanwhile, the Dasuya police seized 10,000-litre illicit liquor (lahan) during a raid at Rajpur village in the Mand area, seized the lahan and destroyed it on the spot. An FIR under Sections 61,1, and 14 of Excise Act was registered. OCWoman nabbed under NDPS ACTHoshiarpur: The police seized intoxicating powder from a woman on Friday. A police party was patrolling near Jiwan Palace stopped a woman on suspicion. On checking, in presence of Inspector Ramandeep Kumar, 42-gm intoxicating powder was ecovered from her. An FIR under the NDPS Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-decamp-with-150-gm-gold-260651
30-05-2021||---||12 die, 172 catch infection in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29The health authorities reported 12 Covid-19 related deaths in Amritsar district on Saturday. With this, the toll in the district has increased to 1,431. The authorities reported 172 new positive cases with which the total count has reached 44,386.The new cases include 110 influenza-like illness cases and 62 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 280 cases, the recovery count has reached 39,494. At present, the district has a total of 3,461 active cases.Those who succumbed to the virus include Bishambar Kumar (48) of Judge Nagar, Nisha Chabra (37) of Chhatti Khooi Chowk, Chanchal Singh (80) of Preet Avenue (Majitha Road), Madhu Bhatia (69) of White Avenue, Kailash Sharma (68) of Fatehgarh Churrian Road, Parwinder Singh (65) of Chheharta, Amarjit Singh (46) of Majitha Road, Jeet Singh (80) of Chawinda Devi, Sucha Singh (80) of Marar Khurd, Chanchal (54) of Khandwala, Deepak Seth (72) of Bead and Kalawati (45).Meanwhile, 1,869 beneficiaries were inoculated on Sunday. Health officials said those vaccinated included 58 construction workers, 94 residents with comorbid conditions in the 18-44 age group and 143 family members of healthcare workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-die-172-catch-infection-in-amritsar-district-260591
30-05-2021||---||2 Covid deaths reported in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 29Two patients succumbed to the virus in Tarn Taran district on Saturday. With this the tally reached 306.The District Health Department reported 15 positive cases in the district today.At present, the district has 598 active cases and out of these 349 patients have been isolated at their respective homes.A total of 1,288 beneficiaries were administered the shots today and the tally of those inoculated in the district has reached 1,27,680 so far, including 3,427 teachers of primary and secondary schools.The Health Department collected a total of 1,165 swab samples at various centres in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-covid-deaths-reported-in-tarn-taran-260592
30-05-2021||---||Respite for patients as elective surgeries begin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29The decision by the state government to allow elective surgeries in private and government hospitals has come as a big respite for patients.Earlier, elective surgeries in the state were stopped during the second week of April to ensure availability of medical resources for Covid patients as positivity rate had increased manifold.Experts said elective surgeries cannot be postponed for long as it aggravates condition of a patient. “Surgeries are elective only in the sense that a doctor and a patient have time to plan these. These cannot be delayed for months,” said a physician.Joginder Kaur, a resident, said she was all set to get her eye operated for cataract when the government took the decision to defer surgeries. She said she would again consult his doctor.While the number of infections and casualties due to the Covid-19 have dropped significantly, officials of the Health Department said number of beds reserved for Covid patients would not be decreased. “Elective surgeries are allowed to the extent that it does not have any bearing on resources dedicated for Covid management,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/respite-for-patients-as-elective-surgeries-begin-260594
30-05-2021||---||Street vendors to be jabbed from June 1||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29From June 1, street vendors, delivery boys, shopkeepers, hospitality sector workers and industrial workers will be inoculated in the district. The administration officials stated that bus and cab drivers, conductors and elected members of the local bodies will also be eligible to get injections.In the first phase of the vaccination earlier, the government had allowed vaccination for senior citizens only. In the second phase, persons above 45-years of age with comorbidities were allowed.At present all residents above 45-years are eligible for the vaccination. Additionally, residents with comorbid conditions in the age group of 18-44 years, workers registered with the Labour Department and family members of healthcare workers are also eligible.The officials stated that with the inclusion of new categories in the vaccination drive, vaccination would pick up pace. However, with limited supply of the vaccine, the residents are also complaining for long wait and rush at vaccination centres.While speaking during a vaccination camp at Rose Graden, MLA Sunil Dutti said the state government had ordered 30 lakh doses of vaccine to cover 18-44 age group residents. He added that of these only 4.29 lakh doses had been received while the efforts were on to procure the remaining vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/street-vendors-to-be-jabbed-from-june-1-260595
30-05-2021||---||2 men ‘sexually’ assault salesgirl||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 29A salesgirl, working with a healthcare company, was allegedly injured by two persons at Pangota village, 35 km from here, in a bid to assault her sexually on Friday. The victim was a resident of Moga district, who was in the village to sell company products.The accused have been identified as Bagicha Singh and Harjit Singh Lal. Harike SHO Sub-Inspector Harwinder Singh Nagoke said the accused had been booked under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC.The victim was on her job work in the village. The accused lured her to sell her products and took the victim to a palatial house in the middle of the village.When the salesgirl was going upstairs the accused hit her on head and she became unconscious. The SHO said the accused took her to a room of the house where they tried to assault her sexually. They half-naked the girl and stuffed a cloth into her mouth. In spite of her serious condition, the victim foiled all their attempts to sexually assault her. The accused fled the spot leaving the victim behind.The village elders saved the girl and admitted her to a private hospital in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-men-sexually-assault-salesgirl-260596
30-05-2021||---||Batala police bust arms racket run from Central Jail, 5 booked||Tribune News ServiceBatala, May 29The Batala police have busted arms racket, which was being run from the Amritsar Central Jail, by a noted heroin smuggler on Saturday.Senior Superintendent of Police Rachpal Singh claimed that they had been working on a tip-off for the last few days in which the needle of suspicion pointed to heroin smuggler Joginder Singh Jagga, who had been lodged at the Central Jail.The Senior Superintendent of Police formed a team comprising DSP Gurinderbir Singh Sidhu, which nailed the offenders.“Joginder Singh Jagga is one of the biggest drug smuggler in the region with his area of specialty being heroin trafficking. He already has 16 FIRs registered against him out of which 10 pertain to the NDPS Act,” said Rachpal.Cops recovered one .30 pistol, two country made .32 pistols, two locally manufactured .315 bore guns, two double-barrel guns and a single-barrel gun. The policemen seized 60 cartridges of .315 bore gun and 34 cartridges .32 bore pistol. A toolkit meant for repairing weapons was also recovered from the accused.“Apart from Jagga, others who have been booked are Sandeep Kumar, who repaired weapons at his father’s gun shop ‘Lahori Gun House’, Sarwan Singh, Amrinder Singh and Lukas Masih. Sarwan has been arrested while cops are on the lookout for others,” said Rachpal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-police-bust-arms-racket-run-from-central-jail-5-booked-260597
30-05-2021||---||2 robbed of Rs4.22L in broad daylight||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29Two unknown armed persons robbed two employees of a finance company of Rs 4 lakh in Jandiala on Friday. Though the police have registered an FIR, there has been no breakthrough in the case so far.Sunil Kumar, a resident of Kangra (Himachal Pradesh), told the police that he along with Mukesh Kumar, assistant manager of Satin Credit Care, were going to deposit cash in the bank when the incident took place.Sunil said as they came out of their office, two bike-borne persons with their faces covered arrived on the spot and pointed a pistol at him. He said they snatched a bag containing Rs 4.22 lakh and fled away.The Jandiala police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC and Section 25/27/54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons.The police said investigation was under progress and CCTV cameras located in the area were being scrutinised to find some clues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-robbed-of-rs4-22l-in-broad-daylight-260598
30-05-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Unsung warriors who came forward to ease woes of the needy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29City-based philanthropists, who played a key role in providing aid to the needy during the first wave of Covid-19, and the lockdown period last year, have once again taken it upon themselves to help the needy this year as well. Economic recession following the lockdown was no deterrent to hold them back from helping the needy in the hour of crisis.Gurinder Singh Rishi of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Welfare Club claimed that his NGO had distributed ration worth Rs 1 crore to 9,837 families during the lockdown last year.He said this time, they procured 11 concentrators which concentrates oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply oxygen enriched gas stream. A machine costs Rs 35,000 and it is very helpful in the initial phase of Covid-19 infection, he said. He added that this step was taken keeping in view the high number of patients exceeding the limited medical means for battling the virus. “Similarly, the population proportion was higher than medical means here. So we are focusing on medical aid.”Harsimran Singh, a practising advocate, has set a towering example of charity under the patronage of Just Sewa Society. Being funded by nearly 35 families on the principle of taking out Dasvand from their earnings, the society takes care of rickshaw pullers, masks, sanitisers for frontline workers, vocational courses for the needy and many others. Volunteers of the society distribute twice a day meal to rickshaw pullers. Last year, they had distributed three lakh masks and one lakh face shields to the frontline workers, patients and impoverished people.Bal Krishan Sharma, who has been doing charity work for the past several decades, said he had to take out a loan to continue distributing two carts of fresh vegetables every morning as his both dhabas remained closed last year. He distributes vegetables twice a week on Tuesday and Saturday. He stated that he would continue his charity work in case the lockdown lasts longer this year.Ma Chintuprni Ji Sewa Mandal, Jagran Evam Langar Samiti, said, they had distributed cooked meals and ration valuing Rs 22.50 lakh to the needy for 10 months last year.Sonu Sharma, President of the Samiti, said, there were 140 members of the Samiti who contribute themselves. So they do not seek contribution from outside. “Last week, they held a meeting alerting members to be ready for pooling in money.”Harish Sharma, President of the Manav Adhikar Sangarsh Committee, distributed ration among 700 families during the lockdown. He said 200 members had contributed as per their will for the charitable work. “Despite the economic crisis, we are planning to once again pool money to carry out charitable work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unsung-warriors-who-came-forward-to-ease-woes-of-the-needy-260599
30-05-2021||---||‘Nod to use land adjoining Shivpuri’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29Finally, the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) has allowed the Durgiana Mandir Management Committee to construct a shed to store logs of wood meant for last rites in a plot adjoining the Shivpuri cremation ground, claimed the Durgiana temple committee here on Saturday.Ramesh Sharma, president, Durgiana Mandir Management Committee, said they got nod from Chandigarh to use the land. “The government will also give the ownership rights of plot to temple and process has been started. We got this permission verbally”, said Sharma. Earlier, the PUDA officials denied utilisation of three kanal plot in the start of this month. The temple committee had claimed that with a surge in Covid-19 casualties, crematoria in the city are facing shortage of space. They don’t have space to keep wood logs. The committee levelled the plot with JCB but PUDA officials accompanied by the police prevented them from storing wood on the land.The Durgiana Mandir Management Committee denied cremation of unclaimed bodies and asked the government to provide land for storage of wood logs.The office-bearers of temple committee claimed that construction of shed would be initiated soon and it would help the committee a lot to tackle the situation emerged after second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nod-to-use-land-adjoining-shivpuri-260600
30-05-2021||---||3 peddlers held in separate cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29The police have arrested three persons in separate cases and seized various types of drugs from their possession.In the first case, the city police have nabbed Lucky Kang, alias Lucky, of the Bakkar Mandi area and seized 263 gm of heroin from his possession.The police authorities said that the accused was held following a tip off.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered in this connection while further investigations are under progress to ascertain the source of the contraband.Assistant Commissioner of Police Parvesh Chopra said he was allegedly involved in drug trafficking in different parts of the city. Investigations were on to identify his forward and backward links to expose his network.Similarly, the police also arrested another local resident, Rahul Singh, with 95 gm of heroin.Meanwhile, the Amritsar rural police have arrested an alleged drug peddler, identified as Varinder Kumar of Ajnala. SI Gagandeep Singh said the police got specific input that the accused was involved in trafficking of intoxicants in the belt.He said the police laid a trap near Ibrahimpur village and intercepted his car. He was coming from Gujjapur village to Ajnala. During search of the car, the police seized over 2,000 intoxicant tablets from the car. He could not produce any documents regarding the purchase of the drugs.He was arrested and further probe was on to ascertain the source of contraband. A case has been registered with the Ajnala police in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-peddlers-held-in-separate-cases-260601
30-05-2021||---||Forest Dept stops plantation of eucalyptus trees on roadsides||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29After filing of petitions with the National Green Tribunal by environmentalists, the Forest Department has stopped planting of eucalyptus trees on roadsides in the district.However, the panchayats in the district are still planting the eucalyptus on roadsides in the rural areas.The forest experts claim that it takes all the nutrients from the soil and makes it infertile for other crops.“We have observed the problems in the plantation of the eucalyptus trees. However, it is good for waterlogged areas but generally it makes the soil infertile for other plants and takes a lot of water to survive. So, we have stopped its plantation. The farmers in some areas plant on their own but we don’t recommend it”, said Divisional Forest Officer Surjit Singh Sahota.Punjab is one of the major eucalyptus producing states in the country which suffices the demands of the timber, pulp and paper industries.Hoshiarpur-based Safal Bharat Guru Parampara Punjab filed a case in the NGT and later in the Punjab and Haryana High Court stating extreme utilisation of ground water and citing commercial eucalyptus cultivation as one of the reasons behind it. The case is still sub judice in the court while in 2015 the NGT had stated that there could not be a complete ban on eucalyptus plantation in the state. However, it is for the Forest Department to evolve appropriate policy by regulating and restricting the growth of the eucalyptus plantation.Beer Partap Rana, office bearer of the Safal Bharat Guru Parampara Punjab, said, “The NGT recommendations should be implemented in all districts. There are some areas in Punjab, which have been declared the dark zone area but plantation of eucalyptus is still going on”.Michal Rahul, a social worker, said, “The panchayats and other rural bodies should not plant the exotic trees. There are several native trees which are about to go extinct. The government departments should promote such plants in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/forest-dept-stops-plantation-of-eucalyptus-trees-on-roadsides-260602
30-05-2021||Amritsar||Bizmen irked over lack of amenities at focal point area||Industrialists and labourers working in the focal point area are irked over the rainwater accumulation on the main road here. The visitors face inconvenience while crossing the waterlogged road. Bahujan Samaj Party general secretary Rohit Khokhar, district president Tarsem Bhola visited the Focal Point area where and industrialist Rajinder Kumar showed the condition of roads in the area.Rohit Khokhar of the BSP said rain, water accumulation had helped breeding of mosquitoes here. He said the Congress government didn’t conduct any development works in the area in the last more than four years. Mayor of Amritsar Karmajit Singh Rintu had failed to fulfill the promises he made to the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bizmen-irked-over-lack-of-amenities-at-focal-point-area-260603
30-05-2021||---||Cops face resistance while taking Anthony Pehalwan for interrogation||Amritsar, May 29The Tarn Taran police faced resistance from people on Saturday when they along with city police raided the residence of Manohar Lal, aka Anthony Pehalwan who was recently arrested in Hawala transactions in a drug case.According to police, around Rs 2 crore were paid to drug peddlers in Pakistan through Hawala racket, allegedly by Anothony Pehalwan who has links with several Pakistani wrestlers there. It has been learnt that he made payment through Canada.He was taken to the Joint Interrogation Cell at Mall Mandi for further interrogation.According to information, the residents residing near the Aanum Cinema showed resistance to the police for arresting who had brought Anthony Pehlwan with handcuffs. The people said they would not allow the police to take him away. However, police officials urged people not to interrupt the working of the police. Pehalwan also asked people not to obstruct the police and let them do their duty.Pehalwan used to give money on loan to people. He is well connected in the political circles. He remained a prominent Congress leader but later joined BJP in the last Assembly polls.Anthony Pehalwan was nabbed by Tarn Taran police three days ago in connection with the seizure of 3-kg heroin in Patti area on April 5. The police had nabbed Nishan Singh, a resident of Bandala (Ferozepur) on April 5 for allegedly possessing 3-kg heroin worth Rs 15 crore.He was travelling in a car bearing number CH-01-BS- 2036 when he was intercepted by the police following a tip off. A search led to the recovery of the contraband. According to police, as per probe the payment of the drugs was made by him. He was booked under section 27 (A) and 29 of NDPS Act.Used to loan money to peopleAccording to information, residents residing near the Aanum Cinema showed resistance to the police who had brought Anthony Pehlwan with handcuffs. The people said they would not allow the police to take him away. However, police officials urged people not to interrupt the working of the people. Pehalwan also asked people not to obstruct the police and let them do their duty. Pehalwan used to lend money to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-face-resistance-while-taking-anthony-pehalwan-for-interrogation-260605
30-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Minister donates 1,000 Fateh kits in Hoshiarpur||Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday donated 1,000 Fateh kits to the local Civil Hospital. On behalf of the minister, his son Prateek Arora along with Shadi Lal and others handed over the kits to SMO Dr Jaswinder Singh in the Civil Hospital.Sunder Sham Arora said various social and religious organisations, individuals, societies, panchayats, clubs, etc, were doing a yeoman service by extending a helping hand to Covid-19 patients in these trying times. He said now teams of the Health Department would provide Fateh kits at the doorstep of Covid-19 patients. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-donates-1-000-fateh-kits-in-hoshiarpur-260607
30-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran women join Aam Aadmi Party||Tarn Taran, May 29A number of women of Tarn Taran town joined the Aam Admi Party (AAP) along with their families in a party gathering organised here on Saturday.It was organised under the leadership of Anju Verma, volunteer of the party in which Nirmaljot Kaur, Sharanjit Kaur, Kiranjit kaur, Usha Gupta, Neelam Sharma were among the others who announced to join AAP. Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, senior leader of the party, while addressing on the occasion, called upon the people to join AAP to bring change in the overall system for the welfare of the general masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-women-join-aam-aadmi-party-260608
30-05-2021||---||Shawl industry catches ‘cold’ due to Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29Traders dealing in indigenous shawls, stoles and muffler manufacturing industries are a disheartened lot for the second consecutive season as the hilly areas where the demands for shawls is much are out of bounds. They have been blaming Covid-19 pandemic and its induced restrictions for the same.Atul Arora, a shawl trader who has been selling his merchandise in Kashmir valley, Shimla and Kullu, Manali and other hill stations said the market was full of enthusiasm in the month of March and they had started receiving even advance orders from these scenic places. Tourists had also started flocking the hill stations in a large numbers.“All hopes were dashed as the resurgent second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic” There is annual turnover of Rs 2,500 crore as far as shawls, mufflers and stole industry is concerned. Harish Sharma, a shawl manufacturer, said, domestic tourism was almost wiped out and all their hopes rested on the international tourism destinations.“Now, we are receiving inquiries from countries such as Turkey and the Middle East where tourism destinations are gradually opening up. However, we are not getting containers and flights were already disconnected due to the fear of the Covid-19 spread. The industry offers employment to thousands of skilled and semi-skilled labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shawl-industry-catches-cold-due-to-covid-260609
30-05-2021||---||Immense job avenues in radio, says RJ Dileep||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29DAV College held a workshop on radio journalism and radio jockeying as a career. Addressing the webinar, RJ Dileep, founder of Radio Adda, who works with AIR Delhi said the growth surge of radio listeners during pandemic has been tremendous. “One good thing that happened to radio during the pandemic is that it has become a lifeline for the people of villages as well as big cities,” said RJ Dileep.“With lockdown and most outdoor sources of entertainment shut, radio has kept entertaining and dispensing news and information without break,” said RJ Dileep.Department of Journalism, co ordinator Prof Sandeep Kumar said in today’’s time, there are many possibilities of career in radio jockey. “Earlier, Doordarshan used to be the medium of radio, but today many FM channels have surfaced for the entertainment of the listeners. FM channels are very popular in metros.But now, these channels are spreading their reach even in small cities. Today, apart from FM channels in rural areas, community radio is also very popular, there are umpteen employment opportunities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/immense-job-avenues-in-radio-says-rj-dileep-260610
30-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 held with 84 bottles of liquor||Hoshiarpur, May 29The district police have arrested two persons and seized 84 bottles of smuggled liquor from their possession. The Dasuya police arrested Jorawar Singh, a resident of Tajewal village under Chabbewal police station, and seized 66 bottles of liquor from him.Also, the Hariana police arrested Gurinder Pal, alias Giddu, a resident of Bhagowal village under Sadar police station and seized 18 bottles of liquor from him.Cases under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act have been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-with-84-bottles-of-liquor-260611
