31-05-2021||Open House||Raising vaccine production, distribution need of the hour||Set up centres at school buildingsA strategy, which is applied at the time of the General Election, should be applied for Covid vaccination. When due to shortage of police personnel, elections are held in phases, similarly due to shortage of vaccines, this vaccination programme should be divided into phases. Amid the pandemic as schools and educational institutes are closed and even vacations are declared in schools, the government must set up vaccination centres there as in case of elections. Crowding at vaccination centres can be prevented in this way making them open to public in their locality. One day before the scheduled vaccination at a particular area, announcements should be made in streets regarding this to carry out the drive effectively. People who miss it due to any reasons, should be allowed to move to civil or government hospitals for the same.Naresh JoharNeed to end shortage of vax dosesPeople assembling in large number at vaccination centres without caring about social distancing norm is all due to scarcity of vaccines. There is a huge gap between demand and supply. To address the problem, the Central Government has put the responsibility on the shoulders of state governments and private hospitals. In response to their demand, Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna and Sputnik V have refused to entertain the demands raised by state governments or private hospitals. All leading manufacturers have confirmed that they would supply the vaccine to the Centre only. Why is the Centre running from its duty? The government had allocated Rs35,000 crore in the Budget for vaccination, using which they can buy 233 crore doses sufficient for more than 116 crore population. Even if extra money is required for import, the PM Cares fund is also there, which should be used for the purpose. The Central Government must take full responsibility to meet the demand of vaccines.Harsh N JoharAdopt token system at all vax centresFor smooth vaccination process at the centres, availability of doses should be ensured at the centres. Generally, it is observed that the reason behind huge rush of people waiting at the centres is non-availability of doses, which needs to be addressed. The authorities must adopt token system and beneficiaries must be administered the vaccine on first-come-first-serve basis. A portable public address system should be made available to repeatedly convey information among masses. This too will help in avoiding people to visit centres and return empty-handed. A sufficient sitting arrangement should be provided with proper shade and drinking water facility.Sanjay Sen BudhrajAdministration must upgrade CoWIN appA chaos is witnessed at vaccination centres due to reported shortage of vaccine doses in the state. People are seen rushing to the centres in order to not miss getting inoculated at the earliest. The ongoing raging pandemic has added to the public’s worries as they find getting vaccinated as the only effective way to keep the virus at bay. In order to stop overcrowding and boost confidence among people, digitisation of CoWIN app must be augmented. People should be administered the same vaccine in both their doses and the gap of required time period also should be ensured using the app. People should be given assurance by the authorities that there would be judicious administration of the vaccine to all without any favour or deprivation. This centralised system will build people’s faith in the administration and ensure authenticity. People should also understand the constraints of the government and cooperate, they should wait patiently for their turn while recognising the perils of overcrowding which could prove to be a super-spreader event despite adopting necessary protocols to keep the virus at bay. Social organisations also must rise to the occasion in educating people and assuring them of their support, meet the local authorities for taking necessary steps to ensure that everyone gets vaccinated fairly according to an orderly schedule.Anil KhannaSet up multiple centres in cityCovid vaccination centres should be set up at multiple places so that gathering of huge crowds can be avoided and the risk of people contracting the virus is minimal. After registration at the app, beneficiaries should be sent a message about the time slot and all necessary details about the vaccination day. Hand sanitiser and sitting arrangement with respect to social distancing should also be provided at the jab centres for the convenience of the beneficiaries.Rohit Kumar SehdevEnsure enough staff at health centresThe government should ensure that adequate supply of vaccines to centresand it should be the duty of the centres to manage the crowd and make them follow norms such as social-distancing and turn-wise getting inoculated with the help of security force and also without any back-door entries of VVIPs which cause chaos. Also, enough staff should be provided with them to handle crowds. Shortage of vaccines is the main cause for panic among people waiting for their turn and this causes harassment to doctors and staff trying to explain non-availability of vaccine. The government is at fault for this mismanagement. Vaccine should be made available at all centres so that the public should approach the nearest centre and not run in search of it causing chaos at a particular centre.Indu AuroraUse educational institutions for driveEarlier, people were hesitating over getting inoculated but now they are flocking to vaccination centres and crowds of beneficiaries can be seen daily at the vaccination centres. Another reason for people being panicky is the surfacing of reports of wastage of vaccine doses and their low stocks throughout the nation in the recent past. Finding it as the only way to stay safe and not be affected by the deadly virus, people can be seen in a hurry to get their first and second dose of the vaccine. The government not providing vaccines to private hospitals is also a reason why people fear of not being left behind to get inoculated, resulting in chaos at vaccination centres. Owing to the pandemic, as the educational institutes are closed during this period, vaccination centres should be set up various schools or colleges to lessen the burden of major vaccination centres. This will also facilitate local beneficiaries and make it convenient to handle rush at local jab centres. The Civil Surgeons can order private hospitals to spare some staff for the vaccination drive and in this way huge rush at government hospitals can be avoided.Prem Parkash PunjIncrease number of local centresThe pandemic is raging and the second wave has proven to be more fatal. Vaccination and following norms are the only effective ways to keep the virus at bay. The administration should make efforts to vaccinate maximum eligible residents. It is not just public ire that has hospital staff worried. With huge crowds, doctors and healthcare workers are worried about the spread of Covid among the beneficiaries and other visiting the hospital or vaccination centres. While the government recently announced that vaccination centres would be shifted to college and school premises, a system is yet to be rolled out. In some cases, people above the age of 45 secure an appointment on the CoWIN app to go to a vaccination centre, but when they arrive they are informed that there are no stocks. Others who had lined up outside the centres from morning also wait for hours only to be told that the stocks have exhausted. The government must set up more vaccination centre for timely inoculation of masses to prevent the third wave. Door-to-door vaccination campaign should also be launched to cover maximum number of beneficiaries under the drive.Amarjit KalsiBeneficiaries must cooperate with staffThere are several reasons behind the chaotic scenes witnessed at vaccination centres almost every day. Among these is shortage of vaccine. Only 15.87 per cent of the total population has been inoculated in the state so far, which is significantly low and the drive needs to be ramped up. The number of people being administered the dose is also low this month as compared to the past month. To deal with these issues, the administration must take steps and devise ways to make the drive more effective. Prior information about fewer stocks should also be given to beneficiaries so that people are informed about no stocks and be prevented from coming to centres by wasting their time and resources. Furthermore, the administration should monitor the condition of all vaccination centres in the city and security and convenience of the beneficiaries should be ensured there. People who don’t co-operate with the staffshould be dealt with strictly.Ekamnoor SinghOpen more centres in localitiesEarlier people were reluctant to get themselves vaccinated. But now, the second lethal Covid wave has caused consternation and a sense of mortal vulnerability among them. Consequently, inhibitions about the vaccine have vanished and people have thronged the vaccination centres to arm themselves as the deadly virus is spreading its tentacles fast. The unusual heavy rush at vaccination centres has caused a chaos by making the task of doctors and observers an arduous one. Resultantly, Covid-appropriate behaviour is bearing the brunt of the on-rush. It is feared that the centres might become super-spreader venues where a single infected person can transmit it to a large number of people. Therefore, people should be assured that everyone will be inoculated, come what may but they need not rush in panic. More centres in the peripheral areas should be opened to lessen the burden on the city centres. New registration should be stopped till the existing backlog is cleared. For spot registration, only a limited number of tokens should be issued to avoid chaotic conditions prevailing at the vaccination centres. The government should carry out door-to-door inoculation drive to overcome the problem of rush that has turned everything topsy-turvy at vaccination centres. People should be impressed upon to maintain discipline and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the centres. It is the responsibility of people to ensure social-distancing outside the centres as it concerns to their own safety. The entire process of vaccination should be streamlined if the gains of the vaccination campaign are not to be nullified. The Health Department should clearly and effectively communicate to people about the short supply of vaccines, assuring that they would not be left in the lurch. The government should allocate an exclusive fund to purchase vaccines for the state to ease the rush at the vaccination centres.Tarsem S BumrahPeople must strictly follow normsAs the pandemic has spread its tentacles beyond urban areas to semi-urban and rural settlements with increased fatality rate, it is instilling fear of infection in the population. The government and voluntary organisations are also creating awareness through media and advertisements to dispel the fear of vaccine. The subsequent rush at the vaccination centres should have been foreseen by the government authorities as a foregone conclusion of the above factors. And adding to this panic is the shortage of vaccines. Covid protocol of wearing mask and practising social distancing at vaccination centres is also sometimes ignored. Reports of discontentment and even skirmishes, when people have to wait in long queues bearing the sun, with no arrangements of waiting areas, despite prior appointment through the CoWIN app, also have surfaced recently. Can one blame people only? The government needs to ramp up the supply of vaccine, increase the number of vaccination centres, make the CoWIN app glitch-free, make provision for walk-in people as well, and inform about the centres in time. The vaccination centres should include clear-cut guidelines and information about type of vaccine to be given (Covaxin, Covishield, or Sputnik V) and the age group being catered to. The councillors of the respective wards should ensure successful vaccination drive, like during elections. Similarly, in villages, panchayats and chaupals should guide people by imparting Covid-prevention protocol and getting them vaccinated.Dr KS ManchandaValue of jab known after 2nd waveWhen the vaccination drive was rolled out, masses shirked from getting the jab, fearing its adverse effects and complications and also fatalities reported in some cases after getting inoculated. Due to this, a mammoth number of doses were left on the shelf and many were even wasted for no beneficiary showing to get the shot. State and central agencies tried their best to lure people for getting the jab but very less percentage of people conceded. This in turn led to laxity in manufacturing and even exporting large amounts of doses to other countries. Now when the second wave struck with blatant ferocity, inflicting and snuffing out inordinate numbers with those vaccinated being spared from the clutches of death or being serious. People realised the value and benefits of getting vaccinated. Following this, scores of panicky crowds started thronging centres to get the jab. But the government was not prepared to cope up as per the previous scenario. To end this chaotic scenario at vaccination centres, both the state and Centre need to adopt various measures and keep this agenda on its priority. Companies manufacturing vaccines need to be pushed and provided utmost support in terms of subsidy, easing out unnecessary red tapeism and procuring raw materials from other countries to scale up the production as high and fast as possible. The number of jab centres and health personnel involved also needs to be increased manifold considering the population load.Dr Raman GuptaNeed to set up more vaccination centresThe devastating pandemic second wave has prompted public in large numbers to go for vaccination after the lukewarm response shown at the very beginning of the drive due to hesitancy and lack of awareness. The sudden rush for vaccination post-second wave has led to chaotic scenes at vaccination centres which happened to be located at the very same hospitals treating the fresh Covid cases. To ease the rush and chaotic scenes, the need of the hour was to shift the current vaccination centres to a separate location. Since most of the colleges and schools are shut due to lockdown, the authorities should set up vaccination centres at these places. At least 40 vaccination centres/booth can be set up in the district after taking data from local election office. Not much rocket science is needed but a doctor, nurse and a trained ASHA workers can take up the vaccination work as they did in the pulse polio campaign. Similarly, Suvidha centres can be utilised for setting up additional vaccination centres in case of need.Anil VinayakVaccinate peopleat their doorstepThe mankind started looking at the scientists to invent a medicine to save them from the pandemic last year itself. It has taken the world about a year to see the vaccine, which could deliver it from this fatal disease. India also produced the vaccines in sufficient numbers, but unfortunately, the estimates of reappearance of the disease went haywire and the vaccines were also exported to many other countries. The second wave has proved more dangerous and Indians have suffered its adverse effects the most. The only saviour is vaccine. But the available stock of vaccines was consumed speedily. Initially, the pricing policy of vaccines, was criticised by one and all and then the diffidence and confusion at the central level has made the problem of insufficiency of vaccines to create panic among masses, who have the innate desire to live. The unmanageable crowds at vaccination centres, civil hospitals and dispensaries remind one of the shortage of foodgrains, sugar, and kerosene in the 1960s, resulting in rationing of these articles. In the present scenario, if crowds appear in the vaccination centres, then the worst victim would be Covid protocol and if this protocol is not followed then, instead of containing the disease, these centres may turn into super-spreaders. Sufficient number of vaccines must be procured at emergency level and supplied across the nation for universal free vaccination. I remember, during our childhood, the health authorities would vaccinate its citizens at their doorsteps. Even now, detailed programme must be chalked out and people must be vaccinated at their houses.Anaya KularMonitor vax centres continuouslyCCTVs must be installed at all vaccination centres in the city and monitored by a control room set-up by the police. In case of any wrongdoing, immediate action must be taken by sending the police to the spot. Moreover, the healthcare staff must create awareness among people at regular intervals regarding the rules to be followed while getting a jab. The authorities must be strict and people should be sincere so that mass vaccination drive can be a success in these trying times.Jatinderpal Singh BatthMass vaccination is the need of the hourThe earlier response to vaccination drive was lukewarm and even the health workers were not interested in getting the jab, however, during the second wave, the scenario changed and all want to inoculated as soon as possible. The government at present though is facing shortage of doses, it is trying its best to provide maximum coverage to beneficiaries. The solution to chaos at centres is that these should be shifted to a place which is huge, has good ventilation and all necessary facilities. Prior registration on the portal should be mandatory so that nobody has to wait for a longer period in long queues. No influential person should be allowed to come and get the jab out of turn. Number of doses to be given in a day should be fixed and displayed. Also, the number of doses left should also be displayed.Jaspreet Groveract responsiblyto fight the diseaseThe problem of crowding at vaccinating centres is basically an administrative issue temporarily precipitated by non-availability of the vaccine which is the consequence of Government of India’s frittering away the country’s huge vaccine-potential. Adequate and satisfactory arrangements for maintaining physical distance and drinking water etc. are the basic requirements at such centres. On the other hand, after adequate supplies have arrived, round the clock jabbing should be carried on by roping in staff from private hospitals, if required, and priority should be given to CBSE teachers, and students who are to sit in the possible forthcoming Board examination. It is not difficult. The programme for the allocation of tokens for the following group or groups should be clearly displayed inside as well as outside the centre premises ensuring that it is not mutilated by mischievous elements. Perhaps BLOs (Booth Level Officers) can be consulted if school premises can be utilised for vaccinating purposes during the summer vacation. The idea is that vaccine is our only defence and following Covid protocol is our duty, yes, but no more time should be lost in administering the same. The staff of the healthcare department are imaginative and innovative enough to handle the situation as they have already been handling, on the forefront of the battle against this virus. Vaccination apart, care should be taken to nip any rumours or false propaganda against modern medicine like the one recently triggered by Ram Dev and others of his ilk. Remember that Covishield and Covax are Indian discoveries by our own scientists and they rose to the occasion by manufacturing it so fast.Prof Mohan SinghAsymptomatic carriers pose a serious threatDuring these extremely difficult times caused by the ongoing pandemic, high turnout at hospitals for vaccination has resulted in a situation where social distancing is not being followed. This situation is worrisome as there are high chances that those who are asymptomatic carriers of Covid may spread the infection. Moreover, elderly, who are quite vulnerable to the deadly virus becomes fatal to their life, are waiting at the hospital environment thereby increasing the risk of contracting the deadly virus. To improve this chaotic system at centres strict monitoring should be done to ensure physical distancing is being followed at the centres. Such a system should be devised wherein vaccination can be given as per fixed slot basis. No random walk-in should be encouraged. Door-to-Door vaccination can be implemented wherein people can be vaccinated at their homes only. Camps may be organised at big organisations where they can handle individually like Khanna Paper Mills Limited for their employees so that people don’t go out to crowded places. Also, nearby residing people can be accommodated at such camps.Suneet Kochhar Covid appropriate behaviour must be adoptedn The pandemic is still with us, thriving and mutating-These are the prophetic words of the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres. But, unfortunately, nobody is paying heed to these words. Neither the government, nor the administration and the public. The Centre, more so the ruling party, added fuel to the fire by organising huge rallies. Despite the fact that the scientists had warned of the inevitable second wave of the virus, as had happened in the US and Europen There is another problem of vaccine shortage. The government exported nearly eight crores of vaccines doses to other countries. So, the results are before us. Now, it's time to take some strict measures, which many state governments are doing. There was vaccine hesitancy among people, in the initial stages, which is still being seen in the rural areas. As the people are being made aware of the efficacy of the vaccine, they are thronging the vaccine centres in hordesn The government and the administration should warn and advise people of dangers of such crowding at vaccine centres. The government should properly and systematically inform the public about the availability of the vaccine at particular centres and also make them aware of the time of their turn to get the jab. Covid appropriate behaviour should also be observed at these centres. The public address system should be used to inform the people the availability of the vaccines at particular place.Dr JS WadhwaQUESTIONThe state government is preparing to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions. Do you think that holding online counselling is a more appropriate method in the present scenario?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raising-vaccine-production-distribution-need-of-the-hour-261171
31-05-2021||Open House||Raising vaccine production, distribution need of the hour||Set up centres at school buildingsA strategy, which is applied at the time of the General Election, should be applied for Covid vaccination. When due to shortage of police personnel, elections are held in phases, similarly due to shortage of vaccines, this vaccination programme should be divided into phases. Amid the pandemic as schools and educational institutes are closed and even vacations are declared in schools, the government must set up vaccination centres there as in case of elections. Crowding at vaccination centres can be prevented in this way making them open to public in their locality. One day before the scheduled vaccination at a particular area, announcements should be made in streets regarding this to carry out the drive effectively. People who miss it due to any reasons, should be allowed to move to civil or government hospitals for the same.Naresh JoharNeed to end shortage of vax dosesPeople assembling in large number at vaccination centres without caring about social distancing norm is all due to scarcity of vaccines. There is a huge gap between demand and supply. To address the problem, the Central Government has put the responsibility on the shoulders of state governments and private hospitals. In response to their demand, Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna and Sputnik V have refused to entertain the demands raised by state governments or private hospitals. All leading manufacturers have confirmed that they would supply the vaccine to the Centre only. Why is the Centre running from its duty? The government had allocated Rs35,000 crore in the Budget for vaccination, using which they can buy 233 crore doses sufficient for more than 116 crore population. Even if extra money is required for import, the PM Cares fund is also there, which should be used for the purpose. The Central Government must take full responsibility to meet the demand of vaccines.Harsh N JoharAdopt token system at all vax centresFor smooth vaccination process at the centres, availability of doses should be ensured at the centres. Generally, it is observed that the reason behind huge rush of people waiting at the centres is non-availability of doses, which needs to be addressed. The authorities must adopt token system and beneficiaries must be administered the vaccine on first-come-first-serve basis. A portable public address system should be made available to repeatedly convey information among masses. This too will help in avoiding people to visit centres and return empty-handed. A sufficient sitting arrangement should be provided with proper shade and drinking water facility.Sanjay Sen BudhrajAdministration must upgrade CoWIN appA chaos is witnessed at vaccination centres due to reported shortage of vaccine doses in the state. People are seen rushing to the centres in order to not miss getting inoculated at the earliest. The ongoing raging pandemic has added to the public’s worries as they find getting vaccinated as the only effective way to keep the virus at bay. In order to stop overcrowding and boost confidence among people, digitisation of CoWIN app must be augmented. People should be administered the same vaccine in both their doses and the gap of required time period also should be ensured using the app. People should be given assurance by the authorities that there would be judicious administration of the vaccine to all without any favour or deprivation. This centralised system will build people’s faith in the administration and ensure authenticity. People should also understand the constraints of the government and cooperate, they should wait patiently for their turn while recognising the perils of overcrowding which could prove to be a super-spreader event despite adopting necessary protocols to keep the virus at bay. Social organisations also must rise to the occasion in educating people and assuring them of their support, meet the local authorities for taking necessary steps to ensure that everyone gets vaccinated fairly according to an orderly schedule.Anil KhannaSet up multiple centres in cityCovid vaccination centres should be set up at multiple places so that gathering of huge crowds can be avoided and the risk of people contracting the virus is minimal. After registration at the app, beneficiaries should be sent a message about the time slot and all necessary details about the vaccination day. Hand sanitiser and sitting arrangement with respect to social distancing should also be provided at the jab centres for the convenience of the beneficiaries.Rohit Kumar SehdevEnsure enough staff at health centresThe government should ensure that adequate supply of vaccines to centresand it should be the duty of the centres to manage the crowd and make them follow norms such as social-distancing and turn-wise getting inoculated with the help of security force and also without any back-door entries of VVIPs which cause chaos. Also, enough staff should be provided with them to handle crowds. Shortage of vaccines is the main cause for panic among people waiting for their turn and this causes harassment to doctors and staff trying to explain non-availability of vaccine. The government is at fault for this mismanagement. Vaccine should be made available at all centres so that the public should approach the nearest centre and not run in search of it causing chaos at a particular centre.Indu AuroraUse educational institutions for driveEarlier, people were hesitating over getting inoculated but now they are flocking to vaccination centres and crowds of beneficiaries can be seen daily at the vaccination centres. Another reason for people being panicky is the surfacing of reports of wastage of vaccine doses and their low stocks throughout the nation in the recent past. Finding it as the only way to stay safe and not be affected by the deadly virus, people can be seen in a hurry to get their first and second dose of the vaccine. The government not providing vaccines to private hospitals is also a reason why people fear of not being left behind to get inoculated, resulting in chaos at vaccination centres. Owing to the pandemic, as the educational institutes are closed during this period, vaccination centres should be set up various schools or colleges to lessen the burden of major vaccination centres. This will also facilitate local beneficiaries and make it convenient to handle rush at local jab centres. The Civil Surgeons can order private hospitals to spare some staff for the vaccination drive and in this way huge rush at government hospitals can be avoided.Prem Parkash PunjIncrease number of local centresThe pandemic is raging and the second wave has proven to be more fatal. Vaccination and following norms are the only effective ways to keep the virus at bay. The administration should make efforts to vaccinate maximum eligible residents. It is not just public ire that has hospital staff worried. With huge crowds, doctors and healthcare workers are worried about the spread of Covid among the beneficiaries and other visiting the hospital or vaccination centres. While the government recently announced that vaccination centres would be shifted to college and school premises, a system is yet to be rolled out. In some cases, people above the age of 45 secure an appointment on the CoWIN app to go to a vaccination centre, but when they arrive they are informed that there are no stocks. Others who had lined up outside the centres from morning also wait for hours only to be told that the stocks have exhausted. The government must set up more vaccination centre for timely inoculation of masses to prevent the third wave. Door-to-door vaccination campaign should also be launched to cover maximum number of beneficiaries under the drive.Amarjit KalsiBeneficiaries must cooperate with staffThere are several reasons behind the chaotic scenes witnessed at vaccination centres almost every day. Among these is shortage of vaccine. Only 15.87 per cent of the total population has been inoculated in the state so far, which is significantly low and the drive needs to be ramped up. The number of people being administered the dose is also low this month as compared to the past month. To deal with these issues, the administration must take steps and devise ways to make the drive more effective. Prior information about fewer stocks should also be given to beneficiaries so that people are informed about no stocks and be prevented from coming to centres by wasting their time and resources. Furthermore, the administration should monitor the condition of all vaccination centres in the city and security and convenience of the beneficiaries should be ensured there. People who don’t co-operate with the staffshould be dealt with strictly.Ekamnoor SinghOpen more centres in localitiesEarlier people were reluctant to get themselves vaccinated. But now, the second lethal Covid wave has caused consternation and a sense of mortal vulnerability among them. Consequently, inhibitions about the vaccine have vanished and people have thronged the vaccination centres to arm themselves as the deadly virus is spreading its tentacles fast. The unusual heavy rush at vaccination centres has caused a chaos by making the task of doctors and observers an arduous one. Resultantly, Covid-appropriate behaviour is bearing the brunt of the on-rush. It is feared that the centres might become super-spreader venues where a single infected person can transmit it to a large number of people. Therefore, people should be assured that everyone will be inoculated, come what may but they need not rush in panic. More centres in the peripheral areas should be opened to lessen the burden on the city centres. New registration should be stopped till the existing backlog is cleared. For spot registration, only a limited number of tokens should be issued to avoid chaotic conditions prevailing at the vaccination centres. The government should carry out door-to-door inoculation drive to overcome the problem of rush that has turned everything topsy-turvy at vaccination centres. People should be impressed upon to maintain discipline and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the centres. It is the responsibility of people to ensure social-distancing outside the centres as it concerns to their own safety. The entire process of vaccination should be streamlined if the gains of the vaccination campaign are not to be nullified. The Health Department should clearly and effectively communicate to people about the short supply of vaccines, assuring that they would not be left in the lurch. The government should allocate an exclusive fund to purchase vaccines for the state to ease the rush at the vaccination centres.Tarsem S BumrahPeople must strictly follow normsAs the pandemic has spread its tentacles beyond urban areas to semi-urban and rural settlements with increased fatality rate, it is instilling fear of infection in the population. The government and voluntary organisations are also creating awareness through media and advertisements to dispel the fear of vaccine. The subsequent rush at the vaccination centres should have been foreseen by the government authorities as a foregone conclusion of the above factors. And adding to this panic is the shortage of vaccines. Covid protocol of wearing mask and practising social distancing at vaccination centres is also sometimes ignored. Reports of discontentment and even skirmishes, when people have to wait in long queues bearing the sun, with no arrangements of waiting areas, despite prior appointment through the CoWIN app, also have surfaced recently. Can one blame people only? The government needs to ramp up the supply of vaccine, increase the number of vaccination centres, make the CoWIN app glitch-free, make provision for walk-in people as well, and inform about the centres in time. The vaccination centres should include clear-cut guidelines and information about type of vaccine to be given (Covaxin, Covishield, or Sputnik V) and the age group being catered to. The councillors of the respective wards should ensure successful vaccination drive, like during elections. Similarly, in villages, panchayats and chaupals should guide people by imparting Covid-prevention protocol and getting them vaccinated.Dr KS ManchandaValue of jab known after 2nd waveWhen the vaccination drive was rolled out, masses shirked from getting the jab, fearing its adverse effects and complications and also fatalities reported in some cases after getting inoculated. Due to this, a mammoth number of doses were left on the shelf and many were even wasted for no beneficiary showing to get the shot. State and central agencies tried their best to lure people for getting the jab but very less percentage of people conceded. This in turn led to laxity in manufacturing and even exporting large amounts of doses to other countries. Now when the second wave struck with blatant ferocity, inflicting and snuffing out inordinate numbers with those vaccinated being spared from the clutches of death or being serious. People realised the value and benefits of getting vaccinated. Following this, scores of panicky crowds started thronging centres to get the jab. But the government was not prepared to cope up as per the previous scenario. To end this chaotic scenario at vaccination centres, both the state and Centre need to adopt various measures and keep this agenda on its priority. Companies manufacturing vaccines need to be pushed and provided utmost support in terms of subsidy, easing out unnecessary red tapeism and procuring raw materials from other countries to scale up the production as high and fast as possible. The number of jab centres and health personnel involved also needs to be increased manifold considering the population load.Dr Raman GuptaNeed to set up more vaccination centresThe devastating pandemic second wave has prompted public in large numbers to go for vaccination after the lukewarm response shown at the very beginning of the drive due to hesitancy and lack of awareness. The sudden rush for vaccination post-second wave has led to chaotic scenes at vaccination centres which happened to be located at the very same hospitals treating the fresh Covid cases. To ease the rush and chaotic scenes, the need of the hour was to shift the current vaccination centres to a separate location. Since most of the colleges and schools are shut due to lockdown, the authorities should set up vaccination centres at these places. At least 40 vaccination centres/booth can be set up in the district after taking data from local election office. Not much rocket science is needed but a doctor, nurse and a trained ASHA workers can take up the vaccination work as they did in the pulse polio campaign. Similarly, Suvidha centres can be utilised for setting up additional vaccination centres in case of need.Anil VinayakVaccinate people at their doorstepThe mankind started looking at the scientists to invent a medicine to save them from the pandemic last year itself. It has taken the world about a year to see the vaccine, which could deliver it from this fatal disease. India also produced the vaccines in sufficient numbers, but unfortunately, the estimates of reappearance of the disease went haywire and the vaccines were also exported to many other countries. The second wave has proved more dangerous and Indians have suffered its adverse effects the most. The only saviour is vaccine. But the available stock of vaccines was consumed speedily. Initially, the pricing policy of vaccines, was criticised by one and all and then the diffidence and confusion at the central level has made the problem of insufficiency of vaccines to create panic among masses, who have the innate desire to live. The unmanageable crowds at vaccination centres, civil hospitals and dispensaries remind one of the shortage of foodgrains, sugar, and kerosene in the 1960s, resulting in rationing of these articles. In the present scenario, if crowds appear in the vaccination centres, then the worst victim would be Covid protocol and if this protocol is not followed then, instead of containing the disease, these centres may turn into super-spreaders. Sufficient number of vaccines must be procured at emergency level and supplied across the nation for universal free vaccination. I remember, during our childhood, the health authorities would vaccinate its citizens at their doorsteps. Even now, detailed programme must be chalked out and people must be vaccinated at their houses.Anaya KularMonitor vax centres continuouslyCCTVs must be installed at all vaccination centres in the city and monitored by a control room set-up by the police. In case of any wrongdoing, immediate action must be taken by sending the police to the spot. Moreover, the healthcare staff must create awareness among people at regular intervals regarding the rules to be followed while getting a jab. The authorities must be strict and people should be sincere so that mass vaccination drive can be a success in these trying times.Jatinderpal Singh BatthMass vaccination is the need of the hourThe earlier response to vaccination drive was lukewarm and even the health workers were not interested in getting the jab, however, during the second wave, the scenario changed and all want to inoculated as soon as possible. The government at present though is facing shortage of doses, it is trying its best to provide maximum coverage to beneficiaries. The solution to chaos at centres is that these should be shifted to a place which is huge, has good ventilation and all necessary facilities. Prior registration on the portal should be mandatory so that nobody has to wait for a longer period in long queues. No influential person should be allowed to come and get the jab out of turn. Number of doses to be given in a day should be fixed and displayed. Also, the number of doses left should also be displayed.Jaspreet GroverAct responsibly to fight the diseaseThe problem of crowding at vaccinating centres is basically an administrative issue temporarily precipitated by non-availability of the vaccine which is the consequence of Government of India’s frittering away the country’s huge vaccine-potential. Adequate and satisfactory arrangements for maintaining physical distance and drinking water etc. are the basic requirements at such centres. On the other hand, after adequate supplies have arrived, round the clock jabbing should be carried on by roping in staff from private hospitals, if required, and priority should be given to CBSE teachers, and students who are to sit in the possible forthcoming Board examination. It is not difficult. The programme for the allocation of tokens for the following group or groups should be clearly displayed inside as well as outside the centre premises ensuring that it is not mutilated by mischievous elements. Perhaps BLOs (Booth Level Officers) can be consulted if school premises can be utilised for vaccinating purposes during the summer vacation. The idea is that vaccine is our only defence and following Covid protocol is our duty, yes, but no more time should be lost in administering the same. The staff of the healthcare department are imaginative and innovative enough to handle the situation as they have already been handling, on the forefront of the battle against this virus. Vaccination apart, care should be taken to nip any rumours or false propaganda against modern medicine like the one recently triggered by Ram Dev and others of his ilk. Remember that Covishield and Covax are Indian discoveries by our own scientists and they rose to the occasion by manufacturing it so fast.Prof Mohan SinghAsymptomatic carriers pose a serious threatDuring these extremely difficult times caused by the ongoing pandemic, high turnout at hospitals for vaccination has resulted in a situation where social distancing is not being followed. This situation is worrisome as there are high chances that those who are asymptomatic carriers of Covid may spread the infection. Moreover, elderly, who are quite vulnerable to the deadly virus becomes fatal to their life, are waiting at the hospital environment thereby increasing the risk of contracting the deadly virus. To improve this chaotic system at centres strict monitoring should be done to ensure physical distancing is being followed at the centres. Such a system should be devised wherein vaccination can be given as per fixed slot basis. No random walk-in should be encouraged. Door-to-Door vaccination can be implemented wherein people can be vaccinated at their homes only. Camps may be organised at big organisations where they can handle individually like Khanna Paper Mills Limited for their employees so that people don’t go out to crowded places. Also, nearby residing people can be accommodated at such camps.Suneet Kochhar Covid appropriate behaviour must be adoptedDr JS WadhwaQUESTIONThe state government is preparing to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions. Do you think that holding online counselling is a more appropriate method in the present scenario?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raising-vaccine-production-distribution-need-of-the-hour-261159
31-05-2021||Amritsar||BJP celebrates 7 years at Centre||Safai sewaks lodge protestTarn Taran: Safai sewaks of the local self government institutions in the district took serious note of the alleged threats by sanitation contractors to the safai sewaks of the Nagar Panchayat, Bhikhiwind. Romesh Kumar Shergill, state leader of the Safai Sewak Union, Punjab, said the union was on strike for an indefinite period stressing on the current demands which was their constitutional right. The union leader said the demand include regularisation of their services, implementation of the pay panel report, giving details of the deduction being made from the salaries of the employees, restoration of the old pension scheme, etc. OCCentral Jail inmate bookedAmritsar: A prisoner lodged at the Amritsar Central Jail has been booked for attacking another inmate on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Talwinder Singh, alias Jassi, a resident Kazi Kot road, Tarn Taran. Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, said Talwinder attacked another prisoner Sahil Kumar, alias Sunny, at Barrack No. 1, with a sharp-edged weapon. He said Talwinder had old enmity with Sahil, who was rushed to the Jail Hospital, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital. Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurpinder Singh of Fatahpur police post said a case under Section 52 of the Prisons Act has been registered against Talwinder. TNS4,500 tramadol pills seizedAmritsar: The Ajnala police nabbed a person and seized 4,500 tramadol tablets from his possession here on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Shubam Kumar of Sant Singh Nagar. Investigating Officer ASI Gagandeep Singh said a police team was on patrol duty near Sai Mandi. On seeing the police, the accused tried to escape the spot and on finding his move suspicious, the police chased him. On being nabbed, the police seized 4,500 tablets of Tramadol Hydrochloride from his scooter. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-celebrates-7-years-at-centre-261157
31-05-2021||---||IIM Amritsar students get MBA degree||Amritsar, May 30IIM-Amritsar awarded MBA degree to students (2018-2020 and 2019-21 batches) virtually on May 29.Chief Guest Shrikant Vaidya, Chairman, Indian Oil Corporation Limited, called upon students to contribute meaningfully during the course of their professional career so as to brighten the name of their alma mater.Sanjay Gupta, Chairman, Board of Governors (IIM Amritsar), appreciated the faculty headed by Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM Amritsar, for efficiently switching over to online mode of instructions. He said new generation must take care of elders at home and in their immediate environment to help create a just society.Professor Ramamoorthy said the IIM, Amritsar, was rapidly growing among third generation IIMs, which could be judged from the constant rise in number of students getting enrolled. There were 254 students in 2019, 358 in 2020 and in the current academic year the strength rose to 500. He added that 60 per cent of students come from professional backgrounds and geographical diversity was taken care of during the time of admission.Despite the pandemic hitting economy, 88 companies came for final placement IIM, Amritsar, recorded 100 per cent placement during the 2020-21 session. Keshav Gupta from batch 4 and Puneet Kakkar from batch 5 were awarded gold medals for academic excellence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-students-get-mba-degree-261156
31-05-2021||GS Paul||Content on SGPC’s new website stirs controversy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s move to remove religious and informative content from its upgrade website has invited criticism from devotees. A complaint reached Akal Takht alleging that files of ‘puratan katha kirtan’ (ancient ballads) have been removed in the upgraded version.Prof Sarchand SinghNowhere is any information about the Sikh philosophy, ideology, history or doctrines of Sikh Gurus. Ironically, photographs of celebrities visiting the Golden Temple feature on its opening page. Why PDF files of books on the Sikh history, Gurbani and philosophy have been removed?Activist Prof Sarchand Singh of the Sikh Federation said ‘Rashbhinna kirtan’ and stories related to ‘Hukumnama’ command immense importance as devotees keenly listen and download them, but now these have been deleted. He also objected the decision to convert format of the website into English by replacing Gurmukhi.“Nowhere is any information about the Sikh philosophy, ideology, history or doctrines of Sikh Gurus. Ironically, photographs of celebrities visiting the Golden Temple feature on its opening page. Why PDF files of books on the Sikh history, Gurbani and philosophy have been removed. Even telephone numbers of Singh Sahibs, members and office-bearers of the SGPC are missing. Similarly, details of important days and festivals, too, have been reoved,” he said.Countering the allegations, Sukhminder Singh, additional secretary, SGPC, said as work on the website was still on, the entire data of old website, including Sikh principles, Sikh rehat maryada, recorded kirtan, katha, mukhwak and books would be made available on a new format.He said SGPC chief Jagir Kaur had constituted a committee of experts comprising Dr Balwant Singh Dhillon, Dr Paramvir Singh, Principal Prabhjot Kaur, Dr Inderjit Singh Gogoani, Dr Amarjit Singh and Dr Jogeshwar Singh, who have been supervising the content. “Numerous books related to the Sikhism will also be uploaded on new website,” he said. He said the new portal would centralise all institutions, departments and trusts of the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/content-on-sgpcs-new-website-stirs-controversy-261154
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Stimulus package out of bounds for these construction workers||Tarn Taran, May 30Confusion prevailed among construction workers as they were unable to receive the relief provided to them by the state government in their respective bank accounts as these were not linked with Aadhaar. The issue was discussed during the meet of the Punjab Nirman Mazdoor Union at Pahuwind village on Sunday.Dharam Singh Patti, convener, Punjab Nirman Mazdoor Union, said the state government had provided a compensation of Rs 3,000 to each construction worker two weeks ago due to the Covid-19 restrictions.The workers had received messages on their mobile phones regarding the amount being sent to their bank accounts by the Labour Department. Nirmal Kaur and Narinder Singh said whenever they approach their bank officials concerned, they were told that their bank accounts were not linked with Aadhaar number and as a result, the amount was not deposited in their accounts.Gurmeet Kaur and Balkar Singh said they had already completed the entire process of linking their Aadhaar cards with their bank accounts, but it has been delinked. Inspector Rajbir Singh of the Labour Department said the list of rejected beneficiaries has not been received at the local office so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stimulus-package-out-of-bounds-for-these-construction-workers-261153
31-05-2021||---||Stigma still a hurdle in undertaking Covid tests||Amritsar, May 30Though it has been around 15 months since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, people are still afraid of revealing their condition to their neighbours fearing that they might have to face problems. Such is the stigma associated with the disease.Baljit Kaur (name changed), a senior citizen, when contracted Covid-19 earlier last month thought it better to keep the information to herself.“I stopped going out for a stroll and confined myself within the precincts of the house. I would cook for myself and idle away my time watching television or talking to my children who live abroad,” she said, adding that for supplies she called her friend who visits her routinely. “She used to come and drop supplies at the entrance. I did not allow even her to enter the home,” she said.She said she would extensively search online search engines to know more about the disease. Asked why she had not passed on the information to her neighbours, she said, “When the pandemic had just begun, I heard about a young couple living on rent in the nearby area. I still remember how people had blamed them and feared that they would spread the disease.” She said that the couple had moved to their native place but even when they returned, the behaviour of nearby residents was strange.She said though she did not tell her neighbours, she stayed away from them. She said she had developed fever a few days after taking the first dose of the vaccine. “I consulted my doctor and so I gave a sample. The first report was positive. Then I again gave my sample after 17 days and the report was negative,” she said.In such a situation where society is still to learn to act compassionately, a large number of people avoid going for tests as they feel that if they tested positive it would create unnecessary trouble for them and their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stigma-still-a-hurdle-in-undertaking-covid-tests-261152
31-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 19 succumb, 152 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, May 30With 19 Covid deaths reported in Amritsar district on Sunday, the toll has increased to 1,450. The health authorities reported 152 new cases with which the total count has increased to 44,538.The new cases include 86 influenza-like illness cases and 66 contacts of positive patients. The health authorities reported recovery of 300 patients with which the recovery count has increased to 39,794. At present, the district has a total of 3,294 active cases.Those who fell prey to the virus include Kiran Sethi (58) of Batala Road, Santosh Mehra (74) of Green Avenue, Surdeep Singh (42) of Basant Avenue, Manjit Singh (74) of Sudarshan Nagar, Kuldeep Singh (61) of Dharar Village, Baljit Kaur (52) of Baba Bakala, Gurdial Singh (88) of Chheharta, Mangal Singh (65) of Kohali, Niranjan Singh (65) of Dolo Nangal Village, Harpal Kaur (72) of Rajasansi, Pawan Kumar (68) of Ram Nagar, Bhinder Kaur (60) of New Amritsar, Gajadhar (57) of Railway Colony, Jagir Chand (50) of Sultanwind village, Mohinder Pal (50) of Chowk Laxmansar, Lakhbir Singh (75) of Dashmesh Nagar, Vidhya Devi (71) of Tilak Nagar, Krishan Gopal (70) of Mohini Park and Mukhtar Singh (50) Chogawan village.Meanwhile, 1,877 persons were inoculated on Sunday as part of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. Health officials said 25,961 healthcare workers (HCWs), 49,369 frontline workers (FLWs), 2,07,887 residents above 45 years and 21,418 residents in the age group of 18-44 years have been partially vaccinated.2 deaths in Tarn TaranThe district reported 21 positive cases and two deaths due to Covid on Sunday. With this, the death toll has increased to 308. There are 537 active cases in the district, out of which 320 are under home isolation. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department had collected 808 samples on Sunday and total 2,54,638 samples had been collected so far. As many as 7,440 patients have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-19-succumb-152-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-261151
31-05-2021||---||Amritsar residents flout lockdown norms as district administration looks the other way||Amritsar, May 30As the district administration provided some relaxations in the weekend lockdown and night curfew on weekdays, after observing a fall in Covid-19 cases, residents have started violating the guidelines on weekend curfew. They can be seen assembling in grounds to play cricket, football and volleyball games on weekends. After having fun, they assemble near the nearby vendors selling kulchas. Not only this, even the residents of walled city areas, especially the elderly, have been assembling at parks and gardens to play cards. Though, the police have closed the entry for the public in Company Bagh on weekends, residents manage to enter the garden and several of them have been found to be playing cards on weekends.The footfall in religious places also revived after the report of dip in the Covid-19 positive cases. With the rise in temperature, the youngsters can be seen swimming in canals and some swimming pools are also functional.On weekdays, no one takes care of the recommendations in markets especially in sabji mandis and wholesale markets of the walled city. A large number of people can be seen carrying face masks but wear it only while driving to avoid the interception by police.Harvinder Singh, a cop on the patrolling duty on the bypass road, stated that the residents, who get vaccinated, are violating the restrictions and often argue that they have been safely vaccinated and hence pose no danger to anybody.Meanwhile, the city police registered two cases of violation. Gate Hakima police booked 20 persons, who had assembled at a swimming pool at Mulechak Village. The pool owner was identified as Parminder Singh of Mulle Chak village. Ranjit Avenue police booked Kanav, a native of Tamil Nadu for opening his shop “South Indian Madrasi Dosa” in A Block of the Ranjit Avenue.Amritsar Rural police booked two shopkeepers in Majitha and Jandiala under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Act 1897, 51 of the Disaster Management Act-2005 for opening their shops.All shops open from todayA day ahead of the lifting of restrictions, all traders geared up for opening of their outlets from Monday. Jagdish Arora, President of Shastri Market Cloth and Dealers Association, welcoming the move, said doing away with alternate day opening of shops would bring regularity in their trade. He said traders would be in a position to sort out their stocks and update their accounts on a regular basis, which had been missing earlier. A large section of dealers is of the view that introduction of the GST has increased the amount of paperwork and filing of frequent returns. Delay in jotting down details will only complicate the situation.People associated with the wedding industry rue apathy of the government for the industry which gives impetus to the economy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-flout-lockdown-norms-as-district-administration-looks-the-other-way-261149
31-05-2021||---||No more ‘patasha parsad’ and ‘siropa’ at Golden Temple, activists fume||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30The discontinuation of the age-old tradition of offering ‘patasha parsad’ and ‘siropa’ in the Golden Temple by the SGPC has irked Sikh activists who sought intervention of Akal Takht.Like ‘karah parsad’, the ‘patasha parsad’ holds significance in Sikh religion. It is believed at the time of initiation of Khalsa by Guru Gobind Singh, the Panj Pyare stood before the Guru for amrit sanchar ceremony. It was then that the Guru’s wife brought ‘patashas’, which were put in an iron bowl and stirred with a two-edged sword by the Guru to make amrit, the nectar of immortality.As the tradition goes, in order to honour someone, the ‘patasha parsad’ along with ‘siropa’ and ‘sehra’ (garland) is presented after they pay obeisance in the sanctum sanctorum. Generally, when the devotees offer ‘rumala’, the priest offers ‘patasha parsad’ as a special gesture.The ‘parsad’ is distributed to other gurdwaras too. Unlike the ‘karah parsad’, it is a non-perishable item that can last long and beneficial for devotees who come from far-off places and take it back home for family members. But, for the past few years, the SGPC had started offering ‘pinni parsad’ at the temple for its long shelf life.Yet, the withdrawal of ‘patasha parsad’ and ‘siropa’ custom has not gone down well with the Damdami Taksal supporters. Spokesperson Prof Sarchand Singh has submitted a letter to Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, urging him to make SGPC restore the practice. “What was the logic behind stopping the Sikh tradition that was prevalent during Guru’s period? The Golden Temple is the supreme religious destination for Sikhs from all over the globe. It was a violation of Sikh rehat maryada and we urge Jathedar to intervene,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-more-patasha-parsad-and-siropa-at-golden-temple-activists-fume-261046
