01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta: Cop killed, several injured as bus hits Fort William gate||A police constable died and 13 others suffered injuries on Thursday when a bus carrying passengers hit the wall adjoining a gate of Fort William -- the Army's Eastern Command headquarters -- with its driver having lost control on the wheels, an officer said. The minibus, which was on its way to Howrah from Metiabruz, mowed down the motorcycle-borne police constable before it crashed into the brick wall of the British-era fort near Hastings area around 12.30 pm, he said. Vivekananda Dab, who was employed with the Calcutta Police Reserve Force, was declared 'brought dead' by doctors at the nearby SSKM hospital, the officer said. "We had to use a crane to pull him out from under the bus," he explained. Passengers who sustained injuries were also taken to the state-run SSKM hospital, and the condition of at least four of them have been stated to be "critical", the officer said. "It seems the brakes had failed, and the driver, in its bid to stop the speeding bus, hit a tree and then the brick wall," he added. Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra, who visited the site of the accident, said the matter was being looked into, and more details will be available after a thorough investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||What’s on & what’s off with Covid curbs easing from Thursday||Public transport, barring trains and Metro, is set to be back from Thursday following some relaxations in the Covid-19 curbs announced a couple of days ago. Gyms and salons have also been green-lighted to resume operations in a curtailed manner and the timings of markets and retail shops have been extended. The number of vehicles could be on the lower side on Day 1 because it is a state holiday. July 1, the birth anniversary of Bidhan Chandra Roy, celebrated as doctors’ day, has been declared a state holiday as a mark of respect to healthcare workers’ contribution to the fight against Covid-19. Here’s a primer on what’s on and what’s off from Thursday: Transport The state government has decided to partially lift the ban on public transport by allowing them to run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. But the spiralling fuel prices have cast a shadow on the resumption of private buses and taxis. Around 500 of the government’s fleet of 1,100 buses in Calcutta are expected to be on the road with the relaxation of curbs. But a significant section of the 7,500-odd private buses are expected to keep off the roads. Several taxi operators, bleeding because of the diesel price, are also likely to stay off the roads. In the absence of enough buses and taxis, autos are likely to be the saviour. Markets Shops selling vegetables, fish, meat, groceries, fruits, milk and eggs can remain open between 6am and noon. Till now, they were allowed to open from 7am to 11am. Retail All other retail shops, including those in malls, can open from 11am to 8pm, instead of 6pm. The existing condition on stores in malls and shopping complexes remains — 25 per cent workforce and 30 per cent visitor capacity. Gyms Gyms can open in two slots — 6am to 10am and 4pm to 8pm — from Thursday. They have to operate with a cap of 50 per cent visitors in each session. Shut for two months, many gyms in the city have downed shutters for good. The ones that are likely to open are sceptical about the footfall. “Our membership is dwindling. People are seeking refunds,” said the owner of a gym in south Calcutta. Salons Salons and beauty parlours can open between 11am and 6pm at 50 per cent capacity. Social assembly A cap of 50 people for weddings and 20 for funerals. Night curfew Remains from 9pm to 5am What’s off||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to set up two cancer hospitals in association with Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital ||The state government will set up two cancer hospitals in the state, at SSKM Hospital and the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, in association with the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Around 25 per cent of the cancer patients from the state go to the Mumbai hospital for treatment, Mamata said. Such patients and their families have to struggle hard to get appointments and arrange their stay in Mumbai during the treatment. The Bengal government, she said, wants to create conditions so the patients can be treated here. “Twenty-five per cent of our cancer patients go to the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. They face a lot of difficulties in finding a place to stay there, in establishing contacts and in securing dates in the hospital. Thinking about their plight, we contacted the Tata Memorial Hospital,” the chief minister said. “The government of Bengal and the Tata Memorial Hospital will jointly set up two cancer hospitals, one at SSKM and the other at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Cancer patients from Bengal will no longer need to go outside the state. They can undergo the treatment in Bengal.” State health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the basic in-principle approval for the joint initiative had come from the state government. “We will now work out the contours of how to set up the two centres at these two hospitals,” Nigam said. The Tata Memorial Hospital runs several cancer hospitals and centres across the country. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, a former student of the hospital, said the Mumbai institute had set up cancer hospitals in Visakhapatnam and Varanasi. It has also taken over and is now running a cancer hospital in Guwahati. The Mumbai hospital is run by the central government. The website of the hospital mentions that it is a grant-in-aid institution under the department of atomic energy. More government-run facilities are badly needed for cancer treatment because of their low cost of treatment, some doctors said. “Many patients start their treatment in corporate hospitals but are eventually forced to shift to a government hospital as they fail to bear the cost of treatment at the private set-up,” Mukhopadhyay said. “Cancer treatment involves many phases and takes about a year. After an initial surgery, the patient needs to undergo chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Many patient families fail to carry on with the full treatment at a corporate hospital. They shift to a government hospital mid-way,” said Mukhopadhyay, the clinical director of the department of surgical oncology at Peerless Hospital. It is advisable, he said, that the full treatment is done in the same facility and under the same doctor. According to him, between 80,000 and 85,000 cancer cases are detected in the state in a year. There are more than 3 lakh cancer patients in Bengal. Among women, the bur-den of breast and cervical cancers is the highest. Among men, lung, prostrate and mouth cancers account for the maximum number of patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC glare on Debanjan Deb’s blue light||Three public interest litigations moved by three petitioners seeking court's intervention in the fake vaccine camp case came up for hearing before the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee on Wednesday. A lawyer for the state informed the court that the government had initiated a probe and five persons, including key accused Debanjan Deb, had been arrested. During the hearing, the acting Chief Justice asked how a man could pose as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, referring to the allegations against Deb. “How was the person using a blue light atop his car and why did police not take action against him?” the acting Chief Justice asked. The state’s lawyer sought time till Friday from the court to file a status report on the case. The court granted the time and scheduled the hearing on the matter for Friday. According to the police, Deb had masqueraded as an IAS officer and CMC joint commissioner and organised a series of “Covid vaccination camps” in the city without the mandatory approval of the health department. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients were given an antibiotic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Spotlight on misuse of beacon lights, cops arrest one||A young man was arrested on Tuesday night for travelling in a beacon-fitted car and claiming to be a vigilance officer, which he was not. The light had apparently allowed him to escape pandemic curbs in the past, he has told police. This is the second arrest in a week of someone wrongly using a beacon. The two arrests have once again turned the spotlight on the rampant misuse of beacons and how they provide an easy way to bypass pandemic curbs. In a city where the chief minister does not use a beacon, instances of misuse of red and blue beacons are common: “It is not always possible to stop beacon-fitted cars and check the veracity of the person sitting inside. We often get rebuked or scolded if the person inside turns out to be one who is entitled to a beacon-fitted vehicle,” said a sergeant in south Calcutta. Beacons have always been a peeve point for ordinary citizens and even a section of the police but the pandemic has made them useful to a section of the people more than ever before. Not just vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, who allegedly moved around in a beacon-fitted car, or Asiful Haque, who was allegedly caught misusing a beacon-fitted vehicle on Theatre Road on Tuesday — there are several others who use the beacon as their “legitimate weapon to move around in the city” at a time when other cars are being prosecuted for being on the road. “I came across several beacon-fitted vehicles carrying families. Even if the car may belong to a government official, how can it be used to ferry their families? And who knows whether the beacon has been installed as an eyewash?” said a doctor who drives every day from Anandapur on EM Bypass to Alipore. An officer in the traffic department said the Tuesday night arrest followed an instruction from Lalbazar to clear up the illegally encroached “no-parking zones” before the volume of traffic increases from July 1. “The vehicle with a blue beacon was parked on Theatre Road last night. On inquiry, the occupant was found to be masquerading as a government official,” said an officer of the traffic department. Not a privilege A Supreme Court order states that “men in uniform, operational agencies which require unhindered access to roads for performance of their duty, those engaged in emergency duties… Emergency maintenance etc… and police vehicles used as…pilots or for law and order duties” will be entitled to lights other than red. A Calcutta police officer said: “The rule clearly mentions that beacons can be used only for official purpose in the presence of the official concerned. Else, the beacon should be wrapped in a black cover.” No vehicle with or without a beacon is eligible to jump signal or be parked in a no-parking zone unless it is an ambulance with a patient, a fire tender on call or a police vehicle in an emergency operation. Who’s eligible? The list of officials entitled to a beacon is long. “It is long because officials from the central government or other state governments who are of the rank equivalent to those mentioned in the list of eligibility for beacons in Bengal will be entitled to use the light during their visits to the state,” an officer said. Red beacon with flasher: A state transport department notification on June 19, 2014, and its amendment notified by the state on February 9, 2016, state that the governor, chief minister, chief justice of high court, Assembly speaker, cabinet ministers of the state, advocate-general, leader of the Opposition and judges of the high court are eligible to use the red beacon and flasher. An officer said there had been an amendment to the list by the Centre in 2017. But in the absence of a notification by the state on the amendment, city police are sticking to the 2014 notification and the 2016 amendment. Red beacon minus flasher: The state transport department notification states that the ministers of state, deputy speaker, mayor of Calcutta and the state chief secretary can use the red beacon without the flasher. Blue beacon with flasher: On the list are the additional solicitor general, state election commissioner and the chairpersons of the state administrative tribunal, state minorities commission, commission for backward classes and the state public service commission. Blue beacon minus flasher: On the list are 18 more categories of government officials like secretaries to the government of Bengal, heads of police agencies, directorates, commissionerates, district magistrates, SPs or officers of equivalent ranks. Ministerspeak: Transport minister Firhad Hakim on Wednesday instructed senior officials to pull out the list of entitled users of blue beacon and check whether the number had gone up. Officials said they would collect information on all officials using beacons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court issues interim stay on teacher recruitment process for upper primary schools||A high court judge on Wednesday issued an interim stay on the Bengal government’s ongoing process of recruitment of teachers for upper primary schools till Friday, when it will hear three petitions moved by three aggrieved aspirants. Because of the three petitions, the jobs of over 22,000 eligible candidates are at stake. In April, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the government would recruit 22,000 teachers in upper primary schools, many of them by October, on the basis of a list of successful candidates who had appeared in the 2016 TET (Teachers’ Eligibility Test). Accordingly, the merit list was prepared and selected candidates were being called. The three petitioners came to court with three different allegations of irregularities in the recruitment process. The first petitioner alleged that candidates who had secured less marks than him were called for interviews. The second petitioner claimed that the SSC had no authority to recruit teachers from the merit list prepared on the basis of the 2016 test, bypassing seven such lists prepared since 2008. The third petitioner claimed that even though her name figured on the merit list, she was not called for an interview. Justice Abhijit Ganguly decided to hear all three cases in detail on Friday and restrained the state from going ahead with the recruitment process till the date of next hearing. Asked about the stay, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was becoming “a pattern” in Bengal to move court whenever the state government was getting ready to appoint teachers. “I am watching this pattern…. Whenever students are going to be appointed as teachers, a case is being filed in the court instantly. Anyone can move court but those who are filing the cases are committing an injustice because they should not toy with the future of so many students,” she said. “Who are these litigants? Are they well wishers of the students? Are they well wishers of society? We don’t make any discrimination while making appointments. Everything was being made ready so that 35,000 boys and girls could be appointed. All of a sudden a case was filed.” Mamata asked school education secretary Manish Jain to plead the case in the court. “Instead of deputing a lawyer… I would want you (Jain) to plead in the court that our 35,000 students are waiting to get appointments. How long will they wait? I will also ask you not to waste any time. Whatever you have to do, do it immediately,” she said. On December 11, 2020, Calcutta High Court had quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit nearly 15,000 teachers in upper primary schools. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get preference. On Wednesday, an education department official said: “The commission was getting ready to release the appointment letters. Now again the process has been stalled.” The chief minister said she was not commenting on court proceedings. “Still, I will say this, please look at the future of the students,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Rush for Covid-19 vaccine returns after dosage tweak||The rush for Covid vaccines, which had eased a bit after the Centre increased the gap between the two doses of Covishield, has multiplied manifold as thousands of people who were made to wait for 84 days are now desperate for the second jab. Many private vaccination centres are witnessing a huge jump in the turnout and most of the people queuing up are waiting for the second dose, officials said. At most private hospitals on Wednesday, people had to wait for two to three hours to get vaccinated because of long queues. Some hospitals said they had to turn away many prospective recipients because the infrastructure was not adequate to handle the sudden surge. Promila Ghosh, from Howrah, had to wait for nearly two hours for her second dose at Belle Vue Clinic. “The wait for the first shot was much less,” her son-in-law Pallab Biswas said. Bondel Gate resident Shyamaji Kumar Mishra had to wait for more than two hours on Wednesday at the same hospital for his second jab. “I had to wait for 45 minutes for the first dose. The crowd was much less then,” said Mishra. The Centre had on April 1 opened vaccination for everyone above 45. In Calcutta, most private hospitals were administering Covishield doses because of easier availability. Of those who took their first dose of Covishield on or after April 1, many have their second dose schedule coming up. The Narendra Modi government has changed the gap between two doses of Covishield twice. First, the gap was mandated at four weeks. Then it was increased to six to eight weeks. On May 12, the gap was again increased to 12 to 16 weeks following a recommendation from a government panel. Many had wondered whether the new norms were in line with international protocols or whether the announcement by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) was made in view of the nationwide shortage of Covid vaccine doses. The NTAGI had not suggested any change to the dosage interval of Covaxin. A problem that had been pushed back has now come back to haunt. The desperation for a quick second dose for those who have already completed 84 days stems from recent doubts expressed by a section of scientists about the long gap between the two doses. The Modi government’s decision to set 16 weeks as the limit for the gap between the two doses of Covishield “lacked scientific basis”, multiple medical experts have said. The Centre insisted that the decision to increase the gap was based on scientific evidence but allegedly relied on studies that had resear-ched the impact on efficacy for up to 12 weeks, not 16. “Earlier, when the gap between two Covishield doses was six to eight weeks, many people would have taken their second doses after 45 days and the crowd would have been lesser. But, since the gap was increased to at least 84 days, more people got clustered in one large group and they are coming together. That is leading to lengthening of queues and longer waiting period,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital had 220 recipients of Covishield on June 17 and most of those were between 18 and 44 years, waiting for their first dose. On June 28, it had recorded 550 recipients. On Wednesday, there were 513 in the queue. Mitra said the hospital had to turn away 50 people daily on an average because of crowding. A Kasba resident and his wife had gone to Peerless Hospital last Monday for their second dose. “I arrived at the hospital around 2pm and left around 4.30pm. There were hundreds of people in the queue and many of them were shouting at officials because they had to wait for hours,” said the man, who had taken his first dose on April 2. Mitra said the hospital had been starting the day’s vaccination programme at 8am, instead of 9am, which was the norm before. “From next week, we’ll open three more counters. Now there are only two,” he said. The scene was similar at Belle Vue Clinic on Wednesday. The hospital is conducting it’s vaccination drive at the adjoining La Martiniere campus. “A month back, we were vaccinating around 700 people a day, when there was a rush for the first dose among people between 18 and 44 years. The rush came down over the past month and the vaccine footfall had reduced to around 330,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. On Wednesday, the count shot up to 485. Around 90 per cent of the recipients had turned up for the second dose, said Tondon. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, around 800 people were being vaccinated daily for the past month. Over the last five days, the number has crossed thousand. “We were having barely 30 people taking the second dose of Covishield. Over the past five days, the number has been more than 200,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The hospital has three sites. When the turnout had come down, it was using one-and-a-half sites. “Now all three will be needed as the crowd is building up,” Venkatesh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government appeals to bus operators to resume services with fare assurance||The Bengal government on Wednesday appealed to private bus and minibus operators to resume their services on Thursday and assured the owners that their demand for a fare hike would be looked into. Beginning July 1, the state government has decided to lift the partial ban on public transport with 50 per cent passenger capacity. The owners of private buses and minibuses, which comprise nearly 72 per cent of the buses in Bengal, are not happy with the government’s stand. The owners want the government to allow them the freedom to fix fares, much like autorickshaw and app cab operators. “We understand the challenges private bus and minibus operators are facing. We have informed the state government about their demands. No decision has been arrived at as yet,” state transport minister Firhad Hakim said. “We would request the private bus and minibus operators to resume their services considering the plight of the daily commuters.” Hakim on Wednesday met senior officials of the transport department to assess the state of preparedness ahead of resumption of bus services from Thursday. “A mere appeal doesn't make sense. No bus or minibus owner is prepared to roll out their vehicles if the fares remain unchanged. The price of fuel has gone up and there won't be enough passengers since the suburban and the Metro rail services are yet to resume,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. Senior officials of the transport department said a committee had been set up to look into the demands of fare revision by private bus and minibus operators. The panel will take some time to come up with recommendations. Bus and minibus operators said the state government could amend the Motor Vehicles Act and change the way fares were decided. Several government buses in various depots across Calcutta were sanitised on the eve of the resumption of service. Employees were called in to ensure that the service could resume early in the morning. A control room of the West Bengal Transport Corporation has been set up for police personnel and transport department officials. Officials involved in the operation of state buses said on Thursday that around 500 buses would be initially pressed into service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Uber, Ola decide to increase fares; state government not informed||App-cab aggregator Uber has decided to increase its fares by 15 per cent because of the rising fuel prices. The state government on Wednesday said the company had not informed the transport department about the revision. The company, which recently took the decision, did not make an official statement but its “drivers” said messages they got said the aggregator had put in place a new pricing system. Several users said the new pricing model would pinch them, more so during this period when options for mass transportation were limited. In the new model, Uber has increased the per kilometre rate from the existing Rs 10 to Rs 14.7 and the base fare from the existing Rs 47.25 to Rs 48. The charge per minute has been reduced from Rs 1.58 to Re 1. The minimum fare has been kept unchanged at Rs 85. What does this translate into? For a 10-km ride spanning 30 minutes, the new fare would be Rs 225 against the old one of Rs 194.85 — a 15.6 per cent jump. The aggregator has told its driver partners that in the new pricing system, 25 per cent of the total fare would go to the company’s account and the remaining to the partners. This would help the driver-partners as well as the car-owners absorb a part of the losses because of hike in fuel prices. On Wednesday, the price of diesel and petrol per litre stood at Rs 92.03 and Rs 98.64 respectively. On January 1, the price of diesel per litre stood at Rs 77.44 while that of petrol, at Rs 85.19. On Wednesday, the state government said the company had not informed the transport department about its new fare structure. “We are the licensing authority and according to the terms and conditions, it is upon the aggregator to inform the state government ahead of any fare revision,” said transport minister Firhad Hakim. “We have already sent them a letter.” Several drivers on the Ola platform also said the company had decided to increase its prices. Neither Ola nor Uber responded to queries. “This new system won't be of any help to the driver-partners or car owners. Instead, if the aggregators had decided to cut down on their commission from every trip, it would have helped both passengers and driver-partners,” said Indranil Banerjee, the secretary of the West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Time limit set for Jadavpur University BTech exams ||The faculty of engineering and technology at Jadavpur University has resolved that BTech students have to write and submit their ensuing semester examination on digital platforms within four-and-a-half-hours. The faculty council that met on Tuesday evening took the decision after a section of teachers last week had told vice-chancellor Suranjan Das that students “are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams. The teachers suggested that the stipulated test duration be enforced across faculties to curb the malpractice. In the engineering faculty, where students in the last semester examination held in May had taken as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — several instances of shared answers were reported, said a section of teachers. Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, a pro-VC and former dean of the faculty who attended Tuesday’s meeting, said, “It has been unanimously decided that students will have half-an-hour for downloading the question papers, three hours for solving the questions and an hour for uploading the answer scripts. This will be implemented in the first year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams due in July.” The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association had told VC Das last week in an email that “they strongly believe that the duration of an examination is an important factor for proper evaluation of students”. Last September, UGC had hold the universities — after the Supreme Court approved the regulatory body’s directive on holding final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30 — that the duration of terminal semester/final year examination could be timed for two or three hours. “However, the university may consider to give half-an-hour or so for downloading the question paper and uploading the answer sheet,” the guideline said. An official of the AICTE that regulates the engineering education across the country told Metro on Wednesday that whatever be the mode of exam — open book or the traditional pattern — instances of submission of identical answer scripts have to be dealt with strongly by the institutions. Several IITs and NITs are holding open book assessment over digital platform amid the pandemic. “But the institutions have to take steps so that instances of sharing of answers are not reported,” the official said. A teacher of the engineering faculty at JU said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. But in reality that they were misusing the option, by copying the answers solved by some bright students and holding consultations, he said. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ Association, said, “During the undergraduate first-year first semester exam held in February, a student took photos of the answer scripts of three other students and submitted them through a PDF file. He did not even want to waste time on copying the scripts.” The teachers of all three faculties — engineering, science and arts — said they gave the suggestions to VC Das last week on stipulating the examination duration so that nobody could raise question about the quality of the students or question the validity of their degrees from a legal point of view. “We expect that decision of the engineering and technology faculty will be able to maintain the sanctity of the examination system,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to 'wet lease' twin-engine aircraft ||The Bengal government has decided to take on a “wet lease” of three to five years a twin-engine aircraft with a “minimum seating capacity of 8-10 passengers”, according to a tender floated by the West Bengal Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (WBIDC). Senior officials of the transport department said the aircraft would be for ministers and senior bureaucrats on official trips. In a wet lease, the owner provides the aircraft as well as the crew to the lessee and is responsible for maintenance. The Bengal government will assure a minimum business of 45 hours every month, the tender document states. Senior transport department officials said several states, including Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, had this arrangement. They stressed that there was no scope for any irregularity as the e-tender was a public document and could be accessed by any willing participant. The tender, floated on June 11, invites an earnest money of Rs 10 lakh for a three-year contract, which could be extended to five years on “mutual agreement”. The WBIDC has spelt out that the aircraft operator should have a minimum of five years’ experience in operating a fixed-wing twin-engine aircraft with stand-up cabin space and capable of flying any distance within India. “The aircraft and crew as appointed to operate should be technically and appropriately qualified enough to undertake day as well as night operations..." the tender document states. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in the Assembly, tweeted: “Pushpak Rath for (self proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with helicopter's range, process of acquiring a 10 seater Airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical criss-crossing of the entire country for upcoming Loksava poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” Transport minister Firhad Hakim reminded Adhikari that the process had been initiated when he was the state transport minister. "The file (for hiring the aircraft) was moved during his tenure as transport minister." said Hakim. “The file bears his signature and today he is criticising the move.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Commissioner sign forged in job fraud, three persons arrested||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly forging the Calcutta municipal commissioner’s stamp and signature to purportedly recruit a group C employee in the government office. When the candidate who was fraudulently appointed went to join work, CMC officials told him that the appointment letter he was carrying was fake, police said. Based on a complaint lodged by the overseer of the conservancy department, officers of New Market police station initiated a case against a man named Rajib Mallick. Mallick had allegedly taken money from the candidate and provided him with a purported appointment letter carrying the CMC commissioner’s signature. Mallick, a resident of central Calcutta’s Eden Hospital Road, was arrested on June 27. Based on his statement, cops picked up his accomplices Joydeb Sarkar and Siddhartha Saha. Investigators seized a fake rubber stamp of a senior CMC official and six fake letter-heads of the corporation from them. Till Wednesday, the police said they had not found any connection with the Debanjan Deb case. The modus operandi through which Mallick had allegedly cheated the candidate bore a resemblance with that of Deb, who not just feigned the identity of an IAS officer posted as a joint commissioner in the CMC, but also gave purported appointment letters to several people using forged government documents, seals and stamps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-07-2021||Business||Alert: Banks to remain closed for 15 days in July||Reserve Bank of India has notified that banks across India will remain closed for a total of 15 days in the month of July. The official holiday list released by the banking regulator has listed nine holidays under the category of religious, festival and state-wise leaves, thereby making them state-specific. The remaining six off fall under the category of weekends off. According to an NDTV report the holidays fall under Negotiable Instruments Act, Holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act and Real-Time Gross Settlement Holiday and Banks’ Closing of Accounts. These 15 days holiday, for the month of July fall under the bracket of Holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act indicated the report. Also, public sector, private sector, foreign, cooperative and regionals banks will remain closed. Money lenders across India will remain shut on July 21 on account of Eid-Ul-Adha or Bakri Id. It must be noted that bank holidays are state specific, and may not be observed by all banks. These holidays will be applicable on festivals being observed in the state. 12 July 2021: Kang (Rathajatra)/Ratha Yatra 13 July 2021: Bhanu Jayanti 14 July 2021: Drukpa Tshechi 16 July 2021: Harela 17 July 2021: U Tirot Sing Day/Kharchi Puja 19 July 2021: Guru Rimpoche's Thungkar Tshechu 20 July 2021: Bakrid 21 July 2021: Bakri Id (Id-Ul-Zuha) (Eid-UI-Adha) 31 July 2021: Ker Puja||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||RBI governor flags data breach risk, says economy recovering well||The second wave of the pandemic took a "grievous toll" on India, but the dented economic activity has started recovering from late-May, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. In a first, Das flagged the rising data breaches and cyber attacks as a risk facing the economy, along with others like firming global commodity prices. "The recovery that had commenced in the second half of 2020-21 was dented in April-May 2021, but with the wave of infections abating as rapidly as it had set in, economic activity has started to look up in late May and early June," Das wrote in his foreword to the bi-annual Financial Stability Report prepared by the RBI. The report said the gross non-performing assets of banks have been stable at 7.5 per cent in March 2021 -- the same level as six months ago -- but are expected to go up to 9.8 per cent in March 2022, as per its baseline scenario. Das said the dent on balance sheets and performance of financial institutions in India have been much less than what was projected earlier, but was quick to add that a clearer picture will emerge as the effects of regulatory reliefs fully work their way through. He also said capital and liquidity buffers at financial institutions are "reasonably resilient" to withstand any future shocks. The financial system is on the front foot to aid recovery, but the priority is to maintain and preserve financial stability, he said. Domestic financial markets are also boosted by the strengthening signs of the pandemic's abatement, the growing pace and breadth of the vaccination drive and renewed hopes of the economy clawing back lost ground as it unlocks, he said. "...while the recovery is underway, new risks have emerged on the horizon and these include the still nascent and mending state of the upturn, vulnerable as it is to shocks and future waves of the pandemic; international commodity prices and inflationary pressures; global spillovers amid high uncertainty; and rising incidence of data breaches and cyber attacks," he said. The governor emphasised that sustained policy support accompanied by further fortification of capital and liquidity buffers by financial entities remain vital to tackle the risks. The financial system can take the lead in creating the conditions for the economy to recover and thrive, he said, adding that stronger capital positions, good governance and efficiency in financial intermediation will be the touchstones of this endeavour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Nirav Modi's sister has sent Rs 17 crore to Indian government, says ED||The ED on Thursday said fugitive businessman Nirav Modi's sister has "remitted" over Rs 17 crore from a UK bank account to that of the Indian government after she was allowed pardon from criminal proceedings in lieu of extending help in the investigation into the over Rs 13,000 crore PNB loan fraud case. Purvi Modi alias Purvi Mehta (47) and her husband Maiank Mehta were made approvers -- granted 'tender of pardon' -- in the case by a Mumbai court in January on the condition of making full and true disclosure. Purvi and her husband are British citizens and have never joined the probe. "On June 24, Purvi Modi intimated Enforcement Directorate that she had received the knowledge of one bank account in London, United Kingdom in her name, which was opened at the behest of her brother Nirav Modi and that the funds did not belong to her." "As Purvi Modi was allowed tender of pardon on conditions of making full and true disclosure, she remitted an amount of USD 23,16,889.03 from her UK bank account to the bank account of the government of India, Directorate of Enforcement," the central probe agency said in a statement. With the "cooperation" of Purvi Modi, it said, the ED has been able to recover about Rs 17.25 crore (USD 2316889.03) from the proceeds of crime, it said. According to the agency, Purvi Modi had assured the ED that she would help the agency in getting confiscated assets worth Rs 579 crore that included flats in New York and London and swiss bank deposit. The ED had earlier got issued an Interpol arrest warrant against her in 2018 and had filed two charge sheets under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in which she and her husband were arraigned as accused in the alleged bank loan fraud case. In her application made to the court for pardon, Purvi Modi had said that she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency. She had said that she fully cooperated with the ED in this investigation by providing all requisite information and documents. Her plea said that on account of being Nirav Modi's sister, she was in a unique position to provide "substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings". The ED had earlier said the assets in the names of Purvi Modi or her companies, that are expected to be repatriated with her help are: A Rs 19.5 crore worth flat near Breach Candy on Bhulabhai Desai Road in Mumbai, two flats in Central Park south area of New York (in the name of a trust) wroth Rs 36.52 crore and Rs 182.82 crore respectively, two swiss bank account deposits worth Rs 168.08 crore and Rs 108.23 crore, a Rs 62.1 crore flat at Marylebone Road in London and bank deposits worth Rs 1.96 crore kept in a Syndicate Bank branch at Nariman Point in Mumbai. Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over USD 2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai. Nirav Modi, 50, is presently lodged in a UK jail and has lost his extradition plea to India in connection with this case that is also being investigated by the CBI. The ED had issued a statement last month saying that about 40 per cent of the money lost by banks in alleged frauds perpetrated by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Choksi and businessman Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far due to its "swift" action in attaching and freezing their assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||India-Bangladesh thermal project to get first consignment from Calcutta port||The first consignment of coal for a thermal power plant being developed by state-owned NTPC Ltd through a joint venture in Bangladesh is getting ready at the port in Calcutta and will be shipped to Mongla Port in the neighbouring country in the next 2-3 days, an official said on Thursday. The 1,320-MW Rampal Power Plant is being built by BIFPC, the joint venture between India's NTPC Ltd and Bangladesh Power Development Board. "The first full rake of coal has arrived at Calcutta docks from Dhanbad and is now getting unloaded. It will be shipped to Mongla Port in the next 2-3 days for Rampal Power Plant," Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port (formerly Calcutta Port Trust) Deputy Chairman A K Mehera told PTI. The is the first shipment for a trial run, he said. "Each rake consists of about 3,800 tonnes of coal. It will be the first export of coal cargo from this port," Mehera said. The coal-fired unit of Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company was supposed to be completed by December 2020, but the work got delayed, sources said. The time for completion of Bangladesh's largest power plant, also known as Maitree Super Thermal Power Project, has been extended by a year, they said. Once the unit will run in full capacity, there will be transportation of 20,000 tonnes of coal cargo per month from Kolkata port, the sources said. Spread over 1,834 acres of land, the power plant is situated 14 kilometres north of Bangladesh part of Sundarbans, the world's largest mangrove forest and an ecologically sensitive area. Environmentalists had raised voice against the development of the Rampal Power Plant close to Sundarbans, which is also a UNESCO world heritage site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||GST Council maintains status quo on alcohol taxes||The GST Council has decided to continue with the status quo on states taxing extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), which is used for manufacturing alcoholic liquor for human consumption, a senior official said on Thursday. The Council, chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state counterparts, in its 43rd meeting on May 28 decided that for now ENA would not be brought into GST ambit and states will continue to levy Value Added Tax (VAT) and sales tax on ENA. Joint Secretary in the GST Council S K Rahman said the issue of whether GST is to be charged or state governments will continue to tax ENA has been discussed in about three or four GST Council meetings so far. "To a large extent it has been finally decided, let's not take up the issue again and again. Let the status quo continue that the state governments will continue to levy VAT and ... CST on ENA, which is going into manufacture of alcohol for human consumption. It is a decision that has been taken in the 43rd GST Council meeting," Rahman said in an interactive session of the PHD Chamber of Commerce. Currently, alcohol for human consumption or potable alcohol is out of the ambit of GST and states are free to levy taxes on them. However, industrial alcohol is within the Goods and Services Tax (GST). ENA a is derivative of sugarcane molasses and is not an alcoholic liquor for human consumption but can be used as raw material or input, after processing and substantial dilution, in the production of whisky, gin, country liquor etc. The pharmaceutical industry also uses ENA to manufacture cough syrups and the cosmetics industry to make perfumes. The pharma industry has been demanding inclusion of ENA in the GST so that it can avail input tax credit. However, states have reasoned that if ENA is brought under the GST, it would be difficult to monitor alcohol production in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 164 points to close at 52,318||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 164 points on Thursday following losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in Asian peers.  The 30-share BSE index ended 164.11 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 52,318.60. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 41.50 points or 0.26 per cent down to 15,680.  Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma, Asian Paints and NTPC were among the gainers.  "Domestic equities continued to trade range-bound as rebound in auto, pharma and FMCG was overshadowed by profit-booking in financials and IT space," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Strong June month dispatches reported by the automobile companies aided auto index to see sharp rebound, he noted.  However, weak cues from global markets also weighed on sentiments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.90 per cent higher at USD 75.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on flat note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a flat note on Thursday amid a weak trend in Asian peers and foreign fund outflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 36.88 points or 0.07 per cent lower at 52,445.83 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 5.50 points or 0.03 per cent down to 15,716.  Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Asian Paints, Maruti, Titan, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 66.95 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 52,482.71, and Nifty slipped 26.95 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,721.50.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,646.66 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended with gains in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.20 per cent higher at USD 74.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry extends ban on international commercial flights||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended by the civil aviation ministry till the end of July — a decision that is at odds with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s plan to issue 5 lakh free visas to foreign tourists to help the tourism industry get back in business. The Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular on Wednesday that the ban on international commercial flights has been extended till July 31. The ban was to end on June 30 after a 15-month gap. Dedicated cargo flights, flights under the bilateral air bubble pacts with select countries will continue to operate, the civil aviation watchdog said. Etihad, meanwhile, has suspended all flights from India till July 21. Sitharaman had tried to lure tourists from abroad by waiving the tourist visa fee to five lakh tourists or till March end, whichever is earlier. She claimed that the financial implication of the tourist visa fee waiver would be Rs 100 crore. Around 10.93 million foreign tourists visited India in 2019 and spent $30.098 billion on leisure and business, Sitharaman had said. A foreign tourist spends 21 days in India on an average and spends around $34 daily. Sources in the tourism sector said Europe, Australia and Canada have issued travel advisory asking citizens not to travel to India because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “In the absence of a date for the issuance of e-tourist visas and of the resumption of scheduled international flights, we cannot revive tourism and free visas will be meaningless. “Tourists who are spending on air fare can easily pay for the visa fee. This will only benefit tourists from Myanmar, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The money could have been used to give grants to tourist guides and tourism workforce,” Subhash Goyal, president of the Confederation of Tourism Professionals of India, said. The government has also announced a scheme for the industry, under which Rs 10 lakh loan will be given to travel agencies, while registered tourist guides will be eligible for a loan of Rs 1 lakh. Sanjay Sharma, president of the Tour Guides Federation of India, said: “There is no business at all. Our guys have not earned a penny over the last one-and-a half year. A lot of us have already taken loans for automobiles or houses. The government is trying to make a mockery of us by announcing this package.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Worry over skillsets for board posts||Market regulator Sebi’s directive to companies to disclose the skillsets they seek in a director’s position and explain to shareholders how the appointee has attributes that fit those skillsets have drawn mixed reactions. On Tuesday, the market regulator tightened rules on independent directors. It said that their appointment, re-appointment or removal should only be through a special resolution. Sebi also laid out the process to be followed by the nomination and remuneration committee while selecting the candidates for appointment. It made the procedure more transparent, including enhanced disclosures regarding the skills required to be appointed as an independent directors and how the proposed candidate fitted into that skillset. Some experts feel the idea will work only if the skillset brought in by an independent director complements those possessed by the others on the board. Others are of the view that the main job of an independent director is not to bring in a particular skillset to a company, but to protect the interests of its minority shareholders. According to Shriram Subramanian, founder and managing director, InGovern Research Services, the decisions taken by the Sebi board on independent directors are incremental steps in a positive direction. He pointed out that one of the key positives is that the appointment of independent directors will be done only through a special resolution. At present, only their re-appointment or removal are done through such resolutions. Another good step is that the entire resignation letter of an independent director will be put in the public domain. “I don’t think it will overhaul promoter influence and the spectrum of promoters from good to bad will remain the same. While Sebi has also stressed on skillset, the key is whether the skillset of an independent director complements other members on the board,” he added. Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database Group, told The Telegraph that the primary role of an independent director is to safeguard the interests of minority shareholders. “In bringing in a special resolution in place of an ordinary resolution earlier, the regulator has achieved a fine balance between empowering minority shareholders while not adding to the burden of companies of getting a majority of minority investors to vote in favour, like was suggested in the discussion paper.” He pointed out that there is an inherent conflict in the process of appointment of independent directors. Independent directors are supposed to safeguard minority investors from the very people who appoint and pay them. This measure undertaken by Sebi shall help in addressing this issue to some extent. Promoter  holding in most listed firms is 50-75 per cent. Though the influence of promoters will not reduce significantly, they will now have to engage more with minority shareholders to get the appointment done, he added. On the skillset criteria, Haldea said, “A company can instead have an advisory board or hire consultants to bring in domain expertise.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea’s consolidated loss narrows to Rs 7,022.8 crore||Debt-ridden telecom operator Vodafone Idea’s consolidated loss narrowed to Rs 7,022.8 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, mainly on account of cost optimisation. Vodafone Idea (Vi) had posted a loss of Rs 11,643.5 crore in the same period a year ago. Total income declined about 19 per cent to Rs 9,647.8 crore from Rs 11,920.4 crore in the year-ago period. “We enter financial year 2022 with a renewed focus on executing our strategy to keep our customers ahead, and our cost optimisation plan remains on track to deliver the targeted savings. “We are in active discussion with potential investors for fund raising to achieve our strategic intent,” Vi managing director and CEO Ravinder Takkar said in a statement. The company attributed the decline in revenue to the scrapping of domestic interconnect usage charges from January 2021 and an around 2.2 per cent dip on account of lower number of days in the quarter. For the year ended March 31, 2021, the company’s loss narrowed to Rs 44,233.1 crore from Rs 73,878.1 crore in 2019-20. The subscriber base of the company dipped to 26.78 crore during the reported quarter. SpiceJet numbers SpiceJet on Wednesday reported narrowing of net loss to Rs 235.3 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, and announced that it will raise up to Rs 2,500 crore to ensure long-term growth and sustainable operations. The budget carrier had suffered a net loss of Rs 807 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||SC allows CA aspirants to opt out of upcoming exams||The  Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed candidates scheduled to appear for the upcoming CA exams to opt out if they or their family members have suffered from Covid-19. A three-judge bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose also made it clear that a candidate need not produce an RT-PCR test report if a medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner for his family members is produced along with a request for opting out. “A candidate who has suffered Covid-19 personally or any of his family members …as a result of which he is unable to appear for the exam, or was disabled from preparing for the exam, is entitled to exercise the option of opting out. It will not be considered as an attempt. Such a candidate will be permitted to appear for the next examination for both the old and new syllabus,” the bench said. For candidates affected by a lockdown during the exam, the apex court said according to an ICAI scheme they will also be allowed to opt out and it will not be treated as an attempt and the candidate will be allowed to appear in the next examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Jet Airways lenders to take steep haircut on their admitted claims||Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for the grounded Jet Airways, will make a total cash infusion of Rs 1,375 crore in the airline and lenders will take a steep haircut on their admitted claims of over Rs 7,800 crore under the approved resolution plan. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on June 22 approved the consortium’s resolution plan for Jet Airways, which has been undergoing insolvency resolution process since June 2019. The carrier shuttered operations in April 2019. The consortium has proposed a total cash infusion of Rs 1,375 crore, including Rs 475 crore that will be used for payment to stakeholders, including financial creditors. An amount of Rs 900 crore would be invested for capital expenditure and working capital requirements for smooth functioning of the airline, according to a detailed order published by the tribunal on Wednesday. The amount of Rs 475 crore includes CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) costs. According to the resolution plan, assenting financial creditors would get Rs 380 crore, which means a haircut of 95 per cent compared with the admitted claims of a little over Rs 7,807 crore. Among others, there would be an upfront payment of Rs 185 crore to the financial creditors. Zero-coupon bonds worth Rs 195 crore would be issued to them and the lenders stand to have a 9.5 per cent equity stake in the airline. Among others, they would get a 7.5 per cent stake in Jet Privilege Private Ltd. Further, the consortium would invest a maximum of Rs 600 crore in the equity of Jet Airways. About slots, the NCLT noted that the facts and circumstances would indicate that at present the slots cannot be restored to Jet Airways on a historic basis. “The thumb rule being ‘use it or lose it’. Be that as it may, we must remember that running an airline, much less reviving one, is not a facile business.” “It involves the entire gamut of complex and diverse activities from land to sky and everything in between... when the airline is sought to be revived, which is the sole object of the Code, all concerned need to make concerted efforts to see that the move succeeds,” it said. The Code refers to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Over 96% complaints Google received in April related to copyright violations||Over 96 per cent of the 27,762 complaints that Google received in April this year were related to copyright violations, much like the one which resulted in the  blocking of the Twitter accounts of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and IT parliamentary committee head Shashi Tharoor. While Twitter blocked their accounts for violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the US, the search engine has done so for violating the Indian law. In its maiden monthly transparency report, the search engine giant said it received 27,762 complaints alleging violations of Indian laws or personal rights that resulted in the removal of 59,350 posts or messages. Giving the break-up of the complaints in April, Google said 96.2 per cent of the complaints were related to copyright issues, 1.3 per cent were over trademarks, 1 per cent for defamation, 0.4 per cent were for counterfeit issues and 0.4 per cent over circumvention. “These complaints relate to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google’s SSMI platforms. This data also includes individual user complaints accompanied by a court order,” the report said. Google said there will be a two-month lag for reporting to allow sufficient time for data processing and validation. Google is among the first large digital platforms to release such a report in compliance with the IT rules that came into force from May 26. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms — with over 5 million users — will have to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Ratan Tata lauds Tata Steel's stellar performance ||Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of Tata Group, made an unscheduled address to the shareholders of Tata Steel at the company’s annual general meeting on Wednesday, lauding the stellar performance of the company and also recognised the achievements of Natarajan Chandrasekaran and the ‘new team’ headed by him. The short speech, which surprised many as few could recall if he ever spoke at an AGM after stepping down from the role of the chairman of Tata Group in 2012, appeared to be a ringing endorsement for Chandrasekaran. “Today, I stand before you to recognise the achievements of Tata Steel and the new team headed by Chandrasekaran and others who are looking into the future to take the leadership of the Tata Group where it hopes to be in the years ahead,” Tata said at the start of the AGM which was held on a virtual platform. Tata Steel is now one of the bright spots of the Tata empire, which had to face the brunt of the pandemic like many others. The company posted the highest EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation) and also declared the highest ever dividend of Rs 25 a share (250 per cent). Tata Sons will be the biggest beneficiary of the dividend bonanza and, in turn, it will benefit Tata Trusts, which collectively hold the largest stake in it. Tata is also the chairman of Tata Trusts, the controlling shareholders of Tata Sons, the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate. Chandrasekaran was plucked out of TCS, the most profitable company of the group, and made the chairman of Tata Sons in February 2017 following the acrimonious exit of Cyrus Mistry from the leadership post. Tata said ‘Chandra’ should be proud of what the new team has been able to achieve and hoped it would continue in the future. “I am very very proud of what this Group has been able to do and I look forward to hearing of the continued success of Tata Group in the years ahead. Chandra, you ought to be exceedingly proud of what your team has achieved,” Tata said. The endorsement for Chandrasekaran comes at a time the group is making big bets in the digital space, acquiring several businesses such as online grocer Bigbasket and online pharmacy 1mg. He also appears to be pushing the century-old group to digitise operations, bringing in knowledge of big data and analytics. The octogenarian also fondly recalled his stint with Tata Steel where he began his career more than half a century ago. “Tata Steel has a special place in my heart. This is where I began my career in Tatas 57 years ago, where I had the opportunity of working on the shop floor for three years, watching the company grow, seeing and interacting with people like J.R.D. Tata, Russi Mody, and Nanavati,” he said. Responding to shareholders later, Chandrasekaran said Tata Steel Europe is going to post solid results in terms of EBIDTA, profits and cash flow after years of losses. Tata led the charge of taking the conglomerate to the global stage with audacious and big ticket acquisitions, such as TSE, formerly Corus Group Plc. Chandra said the team is trying to make the TSE performance sustainable by taking a strong operational rigour. The underperformance of TSE was touted to be a major conflict point between Tata and Mistry who questioned the acquisition at a high cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Centre's gross market borrowings may dip below budgeted level: CEA||In an indication that the Narendra Modi-government is unlikely to crank up spending to revive the economy, chief economic adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian has said that gross market borrowings of the Centre may even dip below the budgeted level of Rs 12.05 lakh crore this fiscal. While the CEA made these comments in an interview to a TV channel, data released by the Controller-General of Accounts (CGA) on Wednesday showed the fiscal deficit at Rs 1.23 lakh crore or 8.2 per cent of the budget estimate at end-May against around 58.6 per cent a year ago. The central government on Wednesday also asked various ministries and departments to restrict expenses to a maximum of 20 per cent of their annual budgetary allocation in the September quarter.  The restrictions for the second quarter would not be applicable for select ministries and departments, including health, agriculture, fertilisers, pharmaceuticals and food. Subramanian’s comments also come just days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package that was dominated by guarantees. Though the size of the stimulus measures was put at Rs 6.3 lakh crore, the actual fiscal hit would be much lower, economists said. “The quantum of fresh measures comes to Rs 2.67 lakh crore. Since this package mostly consists of guaranteed loans (which do not result in immediate fiscal outgo), its actual impact on the fiscal in 2021-22 is estimated at just Rs 100 crore,’’ says Anagha Deodhar, research analyst at ICICI Securities. Sitharaman had budgeted for a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of GDP for this year, though many brokerages estimate it will higher. Due to the severe impact of the second Covid wave, there were suggestions that the government should spend its way out of the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||India opposed to idea of global minimum corporate tax||The G7 nations recently agreed on a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15 per cent but India is starting to have second thoughts. At their talks held on Tuesday, US treasury secretary Janet Yellen and finance minister Nirmal Sitharaman discussed the issue but it is becoming clear that India is opposed to the idea of allowing the US — which is backing the tax plan — to dictate the country’s tax laws. “(Janet) Yellen discussed that the US and India have a shared interest in implementing a robust global minimum tax,” the US Department of Treasury in a release said late Tuesday night. During the call, Yellen stressed on the importance of partnership with India in the G20 and the OECD to seize a once-in-a-generation opportunity to remake the international tax system and help the global economy thrive, the US release said. The G7 leaders in their communique also stated that multinationals with a 10 per cent profit margin will be taxed on at least 20 per cent of the profits that exceed this margin in the countries where they operate. The G7, however, said, countries such as India would have to abolish the equalisation levy of 2 per cent it charges on foreign online companies. The minimum tax is designed to prevent countries such as Singapore and Ireland which have lower tax rates to draw multinationals to set up regional bases. It will be a while before the 139 nations agree to such a tax which will be one of the two pillars propping up the larger plan to ensure MNCs pay fair taxes in the jurisdictions in which they operate. North Block officials have pointed out that the government had already cut corporate tax rates on existing and newly incorporated companies to 25 per cent and 15 per cent in September 2019. They feel any further tweaks to reflect a tax rate understanding among the G20 countries at a time of Covid-19 induced economic uncertainty will not help business sentiment. Tax experts said India’s effective tax rate is still above the global minimum tax rate, which would not impact companies doing business in India. “Even the recently announced lower rate of 15 per cent for new manufacturing units in India just about meets this new threshold, thus, not affecting this much-needed boost to manufacturing in India,” EY India national tax leader Sudhir Kapadia has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||India||Vaccine: All states will be taken care of, says Finance Minister||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured on Thursday that everybody in the country will be vaccinated against Covid-19 even as states reported a shortage of the jabs. According to a Hindustan Times report, Sitharaman while speaking in Bengaluru said, "Every state gets allocation as per the density of the population/number of the vulnerable population. Centre supplies vaccines well in advance to the states… All states will be taken care of.” Her comments come as the Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts due to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Meanwhile, Assam on Thursday said it could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45% less than the target set by state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. As per state officials, the figure is way below the ambitious 30-lakh target set during Sarma's meeting with all the stakeholders of the districts on June 19. In Maharashtra, the administration suspended the vaccination drive across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government-run centres in Mumbai due to shortage of stocks. Several other states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, etc have also said that they are facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, reports Hindustan Times.com. Meanwhile, India has administered around 33.57 crore vaccine doses so far under the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive. In a daily bulletin, the Union health ministry also said, more than 1.24 crore vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories. It also said that over 94,66,400 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days. It also informed that more than 32.92 crore vaccine doses were provided to states and UTs so far through the government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 31,67,50,891 doses, the ministry also informed. In the release, the Centre also said it is committed to accelerating the pace and working to expand the scope of vaccination drive throughout the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Centre's review plea on Backward Classes list verdict rejected by SC||The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 majority verdict which held that 102nd Constitution amendment took away states' power to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the NCBC, while 342A deals with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC and power of Parliament to change the list. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, We have gone through the review petition filed against the judgment dated May 5, in Writ Petition... The grounds taken in the review petition do not fall within the limited ground on which review petition can be considered . The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, said that the various grounds taken in the review petition have already been dealt with in the main judgment. We do not find any sufficient grounds to entertain this review petition. The review petition is dismissed, the bench said in its order uploaded on Thursday. The top court also rejected the Centre's application for open court hearing in the matter. On June 28, the five-judges had taken up the matter in chambers. Justice Bhushan who was set to retire on July 4, had bid adieu to the top court on Wednesday to attend the post-last rites ritual of his mother, who passed away last week. On May 13, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment had issued a press release saying that the Centre has filed a review petition against the May 5 verdict of the top court. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had unanimously set aside Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and had refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50 per cent on reservation to a larger bench. The bench in its 3:2 majority verdict had ruled that 102nd Constitution amendment, which also led to setting up of National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), gives exclusive power to the Centre to identify and declare SEBC as only the President can notify the list. All the five judges of the bench, however, had held the amendment as valid and said it did not affect the federal polity or violate the basic structure of the Constitution. The Centre in its review plea has said that the majority verdict had upheld the validity of Article 342A but in doing so, the bench has interpreted that the provision denudes the states from exercising the power which they undoubtedly have for identifying and declaring SEBC in their respective states. The government in its plea had said that the minority of two judges, including presiding judge, has expressly held that Article 342A does not have in any manner deprive states of their power and jurisdiction and competence to identify and declare the socially and educationally backward classes, which is the correct interpretation of Article 342A of the Constitution. The majority verdict was rendered by Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, while the minority verdict was of Justice Ashok Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer, who said that under the constitution amendment both Centre and states have power to declare and identify SEBC. Justice S Ravindra Bhat had written a 132-page long verdict and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta, in their separate judgements, concurred with Justice Bhat and his reasoning in holding that states have lost their power to identify SEBC under their territory after 102nd Constitutional amendment. Writing the majority judgement on this aspect, Justice Bhat had said, By introduction of Articles 366 (26C) and 342A through the 102nd Constitution, the President alone, to the exclusion of all other authorities, is empowered to identify SEBCs and include them in a list to be published under Article 342A (1), which shall be deemed to include SEBCs in relation to each state and union territory for the purposes of the Constitution". Justice Bhat had opined that the states can, through their existing mechanisms, or even statutory commissions, can only make suggestions to the President or the Commission, for "inclusion, exclusion or modification of castes or communities" in the SEBC list. "The states' power to make reservations, in favour of particular communities or castes, the quantum of reservations, the nature of benefits and the kind of reservations, and all other matters falling within the ambit of Articles 15 and 16 - except with respect to identification of SEBCs, remains undisturbed," the judgement, endorsed by two other judges had said. "Article 342A of the Constitution by denuding states' power to legislate or classify in respect of 'any backward class of citizens' does not affect or damage the federal polity and does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution of India, Justice Bhat had said. The five-judge bench has also concurred on the issue that the Maharashtra law granting 12 and 13 per cent reservation for Maratha community in addition to 50 per cent social reservation is not covered by exceptional circumstances as contemplated in Mandal judgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||India's drug regulator refuses to approve Sputnik Light for emergency use||India's drug regulator has refused to grant emergency-use authorisation to single-dose COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik-Light, while ruling out the need for the conduct of the phase-3 trial of the Russian vaccine in the country. According to the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) meeting held on July 30, which have been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V and as its safety and immunogenicity data in the Indian population has already been generated in a trial here, there seems to be inadequate data and justification for conducting a separate, similar trial. According to the SEC recommendations, which were uploaded on the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) website on Thursday, Dr Reddy's Laboratories had submitted a proposal to the DCGI seeking market authorisation of Sputnik-Light, along with the interim safety and efficacy data generated from the phase 1/2 clinical trials in Russia, and presented the protocol for conducting the phase-3 clinical trial of the vaccine in India before the committee. The SEC of the CDSCO, which deliberated on the application, noted that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V. Furthermore, the firm has already generated the safety and immunogenicity data of component-1 in the country. The committee also noted that the phase-3 efficacy trial is ongoing in Russia and the efficacy data is yet to be generated, read the recommendations of the SEC. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of the phase-3 clinical trial of Sputnik-Light that is being carried out in Russia for considering the proposal for the grant of MA (market authorisation) in the country. "Further, as the safety and immunogenicity data of the component-1 in Indian population has already been generated in the country in another trial, there seems to be inadequate data and justification in conducting a separate, similar trial," the recommendations read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Stray dogs have right to food, citizens have right to feed them: Delhi HC||Stray dogs have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community canines, the Delhi High Court has said while observing that in exercising this right care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon others and causes no harassment or nuisance. The high court, while laying down guidelines regarding the feeding of stray dogs, said every dog is a territorial being and it has to be fed and tended to at places within their territory which is not frequented by the general public. "Any person having compassion for stray dogs can feed them at their private entrance or driveway of their house or any other place not shared with other residents but no one can restrict the other from the feeding of dogs, until and unless it is causing harm or harassment to them," it said. "Community dogs (stray/street dogs) have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community dogs but in exercising this right, care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon the rights of others or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of the society," Justice J R Midha said in a recent 86-page verdict. The court's order came in a case of dispute between two residents of a locality on the issue of feeding stray dogs. One of them sought direction to restrain the other from feeding street dogs near the entrance of a property. Later, a settlement took place between the two and a designated place was fixed for feeding the canines. The verdict also discussed dog categories based on the roles they play service, therapy, rescue, hunting, tracking, cadaver, detection, police, and cancer detection dogs. The court formed a committee, comprising the Director of Animal Husbandry Department or his nominee, senior officers of all municipal corporations, Delhi Cantonment Board and certain advocates, to implement the guidelines and asked it to hold its first meeting within four weeks. The court said there is a need to spread awareness that animals have a right to live with respect and dignity and asked the AWBI to carry out an awareness campaign in association with media. "Animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect and dignity. Animals are sentient creatures with an intrinsic value. Therefore, protection of such beings is the moral responsibility of each and every citizen including the governmental and non-governmental organisations. "We have to show compassion towards all living creatures. Animals may be mute but we as a society have to speak on their behalf. No pain or agony should be caused to the animals. Cruelty to animals causes psychological pain to them. Animals breathe like us and have emotions. The animals require food, water, shelter, normal behaviour, medical care, self-determination," it said. The court said street dogs perform the role of community scavengers and also control rodent population in the area thus preventing spread of diseases like Leptospirosis and they also provide companionship to those who feed them and act as their stress relievers. The court said despite the clear position of law prohibiting cruelty to the animal including stray dogs, there is an increasing tendency of the citizens to defy the same. The court said it shall be the duty of the resident welfare association (RWA) or Municipal Corporation and all government authorities including enforcement authorities like police to provide assistance and ensure that no hindrance is caused to the care-givers or feeders of community dogs and every canine has access to food and water in the absence of care-givers. It said the Animals Welfare Board of India (AWBI) shall ensure that every RWA or MCD shall have an animal welfare committee responsible for ensuring compliance of provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and ensure harmony between care-givers, feeders or animal lovers and other residents. It said community dogs have to be fed at areas designated by the AWBI in consultation with the RWAs or MCDs and while doing so, the authorities have to be conscious of the fact that every community dog is a territorial being and they must be fed and tended to at places within their territory. It said the MCDs, at the request of the RWA or local authority or volunteer, shall be responsible for having the stray dogs vaccinated or sterilised and the canines shall return to the same area and they cannot be removed by the municipality. "No hindrance, whatsoever, shall be caused to the persons in carrying out any activities in respect of the street dogs at the said spot... If any of the street dogs is injured or unwell, it shall be the duty of the RWA to secure treatment for such dog by the vets made available by the MCD or privately from the funds of the RWA," it said. Noting that street dogs are sometimes subjected to abusive treatment by some residents because of the misplaced beliefs that they carry rabies virus, the court said it is the responsibility of the community residents to get their dogs vaccinated against rabies every year to prevent the spread of rabies. It said every RWA should form Guard and Dog partnerships' and in consultation with Delhi Police Dog Squad, the dogs can be trained to make them effective as guard dogs as being territorial animals, they live in certain areas and play the role of guards by protecting the community from the entry of outsiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi likely to rejig Cabinet soon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reshuffle his Cabinet for the first time in his second term and factor in polls in five states next year and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections as he does so. According to a report by ndtv.com, among the likely additions are Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose defection from the Congress last year helped the BJP wrest Madhya Pradesh; and Sarbananda Sonowal, who was replaced by Himanta Biswa Sarma as the new chief minister of Assam two months back. (This is a breaking news story. More details to be added soon.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
01-07-2021||India||Centre ready to talk to farmers, but not on repeal of laws: Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday asserted that the three central agriculture laws would bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers, and made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting cultivators, except on the demand of the repeal of these laws. He also claimed that in most parts of the country, most of the unions as well as farmers support these laws. His statement comes a day after BJP workers and anti-farm law protesters clashed in Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, in which some people from both sides suffered injuries. "We have told the Kisan Union that we are ready to talk on any of their proposal, barring the repeal (of these laws)," Tomar told reporters after inaugurating a hostel at an agriculture university in Gwalior. He was replying to a question that the agitators were firm on their demand of repealing the three laws. "The farm laws are going to bring in revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers. They were brought in after a 30-year exercise by agriculture experts," he said. "The state government and the Centre had taken efforts in this direction, and as a result, these farm reforms bills came into existence under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he added. "Most parts of the country, most of the unions, most of the farmers are in support of the bills. The government had held a series of talks with those opposing them," he said. However, Tomar did not respond to a question over an allegation that BJP workers reached the protest site carrying swords. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with their demands that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||No political discussions in meeting with Maharashtra CM, says Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Thursday said his recent meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray focused on how to expedite development programmes of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and maintained nothing else should be deciphered from it. Talking to reporters here, Pawar said, "No politics was discussed. Our view is that some decisions need to be taken fast. My meeting with the Chief minister was to deliberate on how to expedite the state government's development programmes. There was no political discussion." The NCP leader, whose party is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, had called on Thackeray here two days ago amid speculation in political circles about differences among the ruling coalition partners. The Congress is the third partner in the MVA, a coalition of parties which have different ideologies. The 80-year-old former Union agriculture minister refused to respond to questions on speculation that there was pressure on the NCP to withdraw from the MVA and that several firms belonging the Pawar family were being served notices by the ED. "This question is not relevant here," he said. Pawar was talking to reporters here after a virtual inauguration of the DY Patil Agriculture University in Kolhapur. Asked about the election for the post of assembly speaker, Pawar said the MVA allies will discuss the candidate suggested by the Congress and take a decision. "When the MVA government was formed, the speaker's post went to the Congress. Whichever candidate's name the Congress gives, it should be finalised by all the allies after discussion," the veteran politician said. The post fell vacant after Congress MLA Nana Patole resigned in February to take over as the party's state unit president. Pawar said the Centre should hold talks with farmers from North India who are protesting against the new agriculture laws for the last seven months. "The Centre should step up dialogue with them. Bringing political differences in the issue was wrong," he added. The NCP leader said the Maharashtra government favours amendments in the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre last year before their implementation in the state. "A dialogue has begun in that direction. A cabinet sub-committee headed by Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat is looking into it. I am not sure whether amendments will be introduced in the two-day monsoon session of the state legislature beginning from Monday (July 5)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Sanchit Shokeen, aka TechBar, on importance of being socially responsible as a successful YouTuber||The rapid convergence has led to the digitalisation of almost all media sectors. Let it be news or entertainment, the first tap to garner information or elevate interest is always through the phone. Thus, people on the sender's end, i.e the ones who initiate the stories or create the content always have a great responsibility to play. So, in today's date the social media sensations, the content creators, the YouTubers, the influencers, the bloggers and everyone working on and for the web has an eminent role to play in the influencing and functioning of the society. When asked about the same to famous YouTuber Sanchit Shokeen, popularly known as "Techbar" he shared his parallel thoughts on the same. Sanchit has more than 2 million-plus subscribers on his Youtube channel and creates tech videos of various types. Besides Youtube, he also has a wide fan base on social media who follows him closely. So, Sanchit believes that as he is a public figure and is followed by so many closely, he has the duty to guide and channelise people in the right way. Following the principle of "With great powers come great responsibilities", Techbar tries to maintain his integrity in both personal and professional space. He feels that once a person is successful, the success is no more individualistic but is shared by many. They are going to idolise that person and follow his or her footsteps. People who succeed become examples and that is why it is important to set good examples. The first step starts by being honest at work. Since people recognise or know them by their work so it is very important, to be honest, and true to his ground. There should not be any hoaxes or false stories kept or put forward, it should be the truth and that should be transparent. Even failures or insecurities must not be hidden and proudly owned up as it would instill strength among many others. Even when in the personal space, a successful YouTuber or a person should still be socially aware and active. He should abide by his social duties. As people follow them very closely, they take note of every action of them. So, one should always try to harness good habits and qualities that can help others become a good person. Performing actions that portray the basic virtues of life like truth, honesty, kindness, patience, cleanliness, commitment, love, respect and many more should be a part of their lives. Techbar explains this with daily activities. For example, if he comes out one day and does some social and public welfare by helping the needy, then the ones who follow him might also do the same. Or if another famous YouTuber probably educates people on Environment Day and makes a video of him planting a tree and starts a social media campaign with the same, many people are going to follow that. It doesn't matter if all of them are planting the tree from their heart or just doing it for social media but the fact that they are planting a tree makes a difference. India is a country that lags a lot of elements. There are many things that are being shut even before it comes to the limelight. If these digital creators start talking about rights, equality, justice, peace, no prejudices, the society is definitely going to get better. People on the web have a lot of power. They hold the power to change, the power to create or break a story. So, if these people can be the advocates of society, the society would be a lot greener literally as well as metaphorically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Some leaders making irresponsible statements on Covid vaccines, claims Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday alleged that various leaders were making "irresponsible statements" about the COVID-19 vaccination drive and requested them to desist from the "shameless urge to play politics" in the midst of a pandemic. Taking to Twitter he urged these leaders to spend "more energy in planning and not in creating panic". "I'm seeing irresponsible statements from various leaders regarding the largest vaccination drive. Stating facts so that people can judge intentions of these leaders. "After GoI (Government of India) provided 75 per cent of vaccines available for free, vaccination speed picked up and 11.50 crore doses were given in June," Vardhan said in a tweet. He said if there are issues in states, it shows that they need to plan their vaccination drives better. "Intra-state planning and logistics are the responsibility of the states." "If these leaders are aware of these facts and are still making such statements, I consider it most unfortunate. If they don't know, they need to focus on governance. Will again request state leaders to spend more energies in planning and not in creating panic," he said in another tweet. According to Health Ministry's inoculation data published at 7 am on Thursday cumulatively 33.57 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Modi hails doctors' contributions in fighting Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hailed the contribution of doctors in saving lives from coronavirus and announced Rs 50,000 crore credit guarantee scheme for the improvement of healthcare infrastructure. He asserted that his government gave paramount importance to augmenting healthcare infrastructure to combat the pandemic. While stressing that losing even one life is saddening, Modi said India saved the lives of lakhs of its people and a big credit for that goes to doctors, healthcare and frontline workers. Addressing doctors on the occasion of National Doctors' Day, he also highlighted "limitations" of the kind of medical infrastructure that was created in the country over several decades and how medical infrastructure was neglected in earlier times. "In our country, the population pressure makes this challenge even more difficult. But despite this, India's per lakh population rate of infection and death rate has still been manageable compared with more developed countries," Modi said. "Losing the life of even one person is very saddening but India has also saved the lives of lakhs of its people from coronavirus. A big credit for it goes to our hard-working doctors, healthcare workers and front line workers," he said. Noting that the virus is new and is mutating, the prime minister said India's doctors, with their knowledge and experience, are fighting the challenges posed by the virus. "Our government has given paramount priority to healthcare. Last year, during the 1st wave, we had allotted Rs 15,000 crore to improve our health infrastructure. This year, allocation of budget for healthcare is over Rs 2 lakh crore," Modi said. Till 2014, where there were only six AIIMS in the country, work on 15 new AIIMS has already started in the last seven years, he pointed out. The number of medical colleges has also increased by about one and a half times, he said. Now, the government has come up with a Credit Guarantee Scheme of Rs 50,000 crore to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas where there is a lack of health facilities, Modi said. "To further improve healthcare structure, we're starting a Rs 50,000 crore credit guarantee scheme in areas where medical infrastructure is lacking," he said. "Our government is committed to safeguarding our doctors. Last year, we brought in several provisions against crimes against doctors," he said. We are also providing free insurance cover to our COVID warriors, Modi added. The way our doctors have served the country is an inspiration in itself, he said and expressed gratitude to all doctors on behalf of 130 crore Indians. Today, when the country is fighting such a big war against Corona, doctors have saved millions of lives by working hard day and night, he said. Modi also paid tributes to doctors who lost their lives while combating the covid pandemic and expressed condolences to their families. Doctors' Day is observed in honour of noted doctor and former Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||North India has no respite from heat wave till another 48 hours||North India is unlikely to get any relief from the sweltering heat as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Thursday that heat prevailing wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two days in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, north Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. To add to the misery of people, the southwest monsoon is not expected to reach Delhi, Punjab and other northern states before another one week or so. Not before July 7, indicated officials at IMD’s New Delhi forecasting section. The north-western part of the country has been reeling under heat wave conditions for the last few days due to a “break phase” of the monsoon, something that occurs when the monsoon has already covered most parts of the country. "The conditions are unfavourable for the advancement of monsoon further into northern India. Monsoon currents are expected to surge ahead only after July 7," said a duty officer at IMD-New Delhi. Heat wave conditions prevailed for the fourth consecutive day in Delhi and other neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and northern Rajasthan due to dominating westerly winds. The situation was unlikely to change in another 48 hours or so. On Thursday, Delhi sizzled under heatwave conditions with the maximum temperature settling at 43.1 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal. The minimum temperature was 31.7 degrees Celsius, also four notches above the normal. The relative humidity in the evening was 29 per cent. A thunderstorm with rain is predicted in the city on Friday. "Due to likely dry westerly/south-westerly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels, heat wave conditions in isolated/some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh (are likely) during next two days," the IMD said. Heat wave conditions prevail when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least five notches above normal. A severe heat wave is declared if the maximum reading is 6.5 degree Celsius above normal. IMD said heat wave to severe heat wave conditions were observed in isolated places over Jammu on Wednesday. Also, heat wave conditions were recorded in most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, northwest Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh. Severe heat wave conditions were observed at isolated places over northeast Rajasthan as well, it said. On Tuesday, Delhi experienced a severe heat wave condition with the day's reading crossing an oppressive 43 degree Celsius. Met data of previous few years suggest that usually, the national capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this year is due to delay in the arrival of the monsoon. Under normal circumstances southwest monsoon usually hits Delhi by June 27. This year, the southwest monsoon had arrived in Kerala on June 3, a delay of two days. But due to favourable conditions, the season of rains reached Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Bihar well within schedule. IMD-New Delhi has predicted that the monsoon this year is likely to be normal in the country as a whole. As of June 30, IMD’s monsoon data shows 10 per cent excess cumulative rainfall over the country as a whole, thanks to surplus rains in east, northeast and central India during the first month of the season. The southwest monsoon has covered the entire country but has so far eluded Haryana, Delhi, parts of Punjab, west Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Indian military developing capabilities to deal with drone threats, says army chief||Easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges and the Indian military is developing capabilities to effectively deal with the threats, be it from state-sponsored elements or by states themselves, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday. In an address at a think-tank, Gen Naravane said the security establishment is well aware of the challenges and certain measures have already been put in place to deal with them. "We are developing capabilities to deal with the threats whether they are state-sponsored or by states themselves. We are developing capabilities to deal with drone threats both in the kinetic and non-kinetic realm," he said. Gen Naravane was asked about the recent drone attack on Jammu Force Station. On the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, the Army chief said there has been no infiltration along the LoC after a ceasefire understanding was reached between Indian and Pakistani militaries in February. Since there is no infiltration, number of terrorists in Kashmir is lesser and so number of terrorism-related incidents also came down, he said. "There will always be elements who will try to sabotage process of peace and development; we have to cater for that," he said without elaborating. "We have a strong counter-terrorism and counter-infiltration grid in Jammu and Kashmir and our operation to ensure peace and tranquillity will continue," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||SC rejects plea of Delhi Police against HC order in Chief Secretary assault case||The Supreme Court Thursday dismissed the police plea against the Delhi High Court order asking it to supply the copy of the statement of a witness to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and 11 other MLAs in a case related to alleged assault of the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chyandrachud rejected Delhi Police's plea, saying that as per the basic principle of natural justice, there must be a robust common sense that the accused must have a copy of the statement of the witnesses. The criminal case relates to alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. The other two MLAs, Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, were granted bail earlier by the high court. The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Bombay HC upholds producer's acquittal in Gulshan Kumar murder case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday upheld the acquittal of film producer and Tips Industries co-founder Ramesh Taurani in the case of murder of music baron Gulshan Kumar in 1997, and also confirmed the conviction and life sentence imposed on accused Abdul Rauf Merchant. A division bench of Justices S S Jadhav and N R Borkar also quashed the acquittal of another accused in the case- Abdul Rashid Merchant, brother of Rauf, and convicted him to life imprisonment. Gulshan Kumar, the founder of T-Series music company, also known as the 'Cassette king', was shot dead in August 1997 outside a temple in suburban Andheri. According to the prosecution, his rivals had paid money to gangster Abu Salem to eliminate him. On April 29, 2002, a sessions court acquitted 18 of the 19 accused. The trial court convicted Rauf under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 392 (robbery) and 397 (causing grievous hurt in robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and section 27 (possession of arms) of the Indian Arms Act. Rauf subsequently appealed against the conviction, while the state government filed an appeal against the acquittal of Taurani. On Thursday, the high court dismissed the state government's appeal and upheld the acquittal of Taurani. The bench, however, upheld the conviction of Rauf and also the life sentence imposed on him, but quashed and set aside his conviction under sections 392 and 397. "The acquittal of another accused Abdul Rashid Merchant is quashed. Rashid is convicted under sections 302, 120(b) of the IPC and section 27 of the Indian Arms Act. The accused is sentenced to life imprisonment. He is directed to surrender forthwith to the trial court or the D N Nagar police station," the high court said in its order. The bench also said Abdul Rauf Merchant would not be entitled to remission, considering his conduct during the trial. "The appellant (Rauf) shall not be entitled to remission considering his criminal antecedents and in the interest of justice and public at large, he is not entitled to any leniency, the court said. The court noted that after the killing, Rauf had absconded and was arrested only in 2001. "In 2009, he (Rauf) was granted furlough, but he did not surrender and had to be arrested in 2016 again, the bench said. The court said if Rashid fails to surrender, then the sessions court can issue a non-bailable warrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Data, demographic dividend present huge opportunity, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that data and demographic dividend combined with India's proven tech prowess presents massive opportunity for the country, and exuded confidence that this decade will be India's techade'. Speaking at a virtual event to mark the completion of six years of Digital India, Modi said India is also conscious of its responsibilities as a data powerhouse and noted that work is underway on all aspects of data protection. Data and demographic dividend present a massive opportunity for India... together, we will be successful in making this decade India's techade', Modi said. Modi also spoke - via video conference - to beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India programme, including Diksha, eNAM, eSanjeevani solution for telemedicine, DigiBunai and PM SVANidhi scheme. The Prime Minister spoke of the critical role that technology had played during the pandemic to ensure continuity of education, access to healthcare, and other citizen services. Digital solutions created by India during COVID-19 pandemic are being acknowledged globally, he said adding that contact tracing app, Aarogya Setu, has played a key role in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Six years of Digital India programme marks rapid strides that the country has taken in adoption of technology, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
01-07-2021||India||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav hospitalised||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav on Wednesday was admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital While the hospital is yet to release a statement on this, a report by ndtv.com said that he was being treated for some age-related ailments. Mulayam Singh Yadav, the founder of Samajwai Party, has served as Uttar Pradesh's chief minister thrice. He has also served as India's defence minister from June 1, 1996 to March 19, 1998. The seasoned leader has been facing health issues for the last few years. Last year too, he was briefly hospitalised after an infection in the urinary tract. His son Akhilesh Yadav, who has also served as UP's chief minister, is preparing for the state elections, due in a few months. Last month, he ruled out any tie-ups for the polls while speaking to ndtv.com. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh asserted. He also ruled out a "Bua-Bhatija" repeat act after his 2019 alliance with Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) flopped. "The BJP is going to lose the upcoming UP elections... they failed the people of UP in the biggest test of their leadership. People were abandoned by the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Seven EU nations approve Covishield amid travel pass row||Nine European nations are accepting Covishield vaccines for travel to their countries, sources said on Thursday. Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Spain are among the countries allowing travel by people who have taken Covishield vaccines, the sources said. They said Switzerland is also accepting Covishield as a Schengen state. Separately, Estonia has confirmed that it will recognise all vaccines authorised by the government of India for the travel of Indians to that country, the sources said. India has already asked the EU member countries to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and want to travel to Europe. The European Union's Digital Covid certificate or "Green Pass" is coming into effect on Thursday with an aim to facilitate free movement during the COVID-19 pandemic. Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU region. The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or those recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme. The EU Digital Covid certificate or 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against COVID-19. An EU official on Tuesday said individual member states of the European Union will have the option to accept vaccines authorised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) like Covishield for obtaining the bloc's digital Covid certificate. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the EU digital Covid certificate scheme during a meeting with Josep Borrell Fontelles, the High Representative of the European Union. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila applies for emergency nod for its Covid vaccine||Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for its COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The company said it has conducted the largest clinical trial for its COVID-19 vaccine in India so far in over 50 centres. "The company has applied for EUA to the office of DCGI for ZyCoV-D - its Plasmid DNA vaccine against COVID-19," Zydus Cadila said in a statement. Dr. Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare, said the vaccine when approved will help not only adults but also adolescents in the 12 to 18 years age group. The company said it has also evaluated a two dose regimen for ZyCoV-D vaccine using a 3 mg dose per visit and the immunogenicity results had been found to be equivalent to the current three dose regimen. This will further help in reducing the full course duration of vaccination while maintaining the high safety profile of the vaccine in the future, the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||India adds over 48,000 fresh Covid cases, 1005 casualties in a day||India added 48,786 new cases of coronavirus taking the total tally to 3,04,11,634, while the national recovery rate improved to 96.97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The COVID-19 death toll rose to 3,99,459 with 1,005 fresh fatalities. According to the data published at 7 am, cumulatively 33.57 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. The active cases have further declined to 5,23,257 comprising 1.72 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.97 per cent. As many as 19,21,450 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,20,21,494. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.54 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.64 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 49th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,94,88,918, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 1,005 new fatalities include 221 from Uttarakhand, 142 from Kerala, 141 from Maharashtra, 113 from Tamil Nadu and 111 from Karnataka. A total of 3,99,459 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,21,945 from Maharashtra, 35,040 from Karnataka, 32,619 from Tamil Nadu, 24,977 from Delhi, 22,591 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,708 from West Bengal and 16,052 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Modi, Kejriwal express gratitude towards doctors on National Doctors' Day ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed their gratitude to all doctors on National Doctors' Day on Thursday. Remembering the contributions of the doctors, Modi said India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making the planet healthier. The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1. "On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier," Modi tweeted. He also shared an audio clip from his 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast last Sunday in which he talked about Doctors' Day. "We are all grateful for the contribution of doctors in the Corona period. Our doctors have served us without caring about their lives. Therefore, this time National Doctors' Day becomes all the more special," Modi had said in his radio broadcast. Thanking all doctors for their service during the pandemic, Arvind Kejriwal said the debt of doctors who served people day and night during the coronavirus pandemic cannot be repaid.  "Our doctors served people day and night during the pandemic. We cannot repay their debt throughout or lives. Salute to all the doctors on National Doctors' Day who saved lives of lakhs of people and prevented their families from crumbling, " Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 such deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Father feeds rat poison with ice-cream to three children, one dies||A six-year-old boy died while his two siblings were hospitalised after their father allegedly gave them rat poison in ice cream following a dispute with his wife in Mumbai, a police official said. The incident took place on June 25, but came to light on Tuesday when the boy died at the government-run Sion Hospital and doctors informed the Mankhurd police, the official said on Wednesday. The children's mother, Nazia Begum, told the police that she and her husband, Ali Naushad Ansari (27), a daily wage worker, often fought over money-related issues. On June 25, she left their home at Sathe Nagar in Mankhurd and went to stay with her sister after yet another quarrel, the woman said. Ansari took the three children -- two boys and one girl -- out, promising them ice cream and allegedly gave them poison, she told the police. Later, when the kids started complaining of stomach pain, Nazia Begum, who had returned home in the meanwhile, took them to Sion Hospital, the woman said. Initially, she lied to doctors that the children had eaten rat poison accidentally, but when her son died, she decided to tell the truth to police, she said. The police have also recorded the statements of the two surviving kids, who are recovering in the hospital, the official said. A case has been registered against Ansari, who is absconding, under sections for murder and attempt to murder, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||India's ultimatum to EU: accept Covaxin, Covishield or face mandatory quarantine||The European Union's reluctance in accepting Indian-made vaccines for its 'vaccination passport' has triggered a face-off with New Delhi. Sources in the foreign ministry said India will begin a reciprocal policy when it comes to exemption from quarantine. This would mean that unless the European Union accepts Covishield and Covaxin certificates, their certificates will not be accepted in the country and people from EU will face mandatory quarantine upon arrival in India, NDTV.com reported. European Union has been told that Covishield and Covaxin must be notified in its digital Covid certificate, sources said. Under the new "Green Pass" scheme, people vaccinated with Covishield are unlikely to be allowed to travel to the member states of European Union. The EU countries accept only the vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency, which are Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Janssen. But Covishield, which is the Indian version of AstraZeneca, is yet to get their clearance. Asked about the discrepancy by news agency ANI, Ugo Astuto, the European Union ambassador to India, said, Every approval process of vaccine must be conducted on its own merit". On Tuesday, Serum Institute sources said has applied for EU's nod for Covishield through its European partner, AstraZeneca. But European Medicines Agency said they have not received a request for the approval of Covishield. On Tuesday, foreign minister S Jaishankar took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the Vaccination Passport with a top EU official. "Discussed vaccine production and access. Took up 'Covishield' authorisation for travel to Europe. Will be following up," Mr Jaishankar tweeted. So far, only those vaccinated with either of the four vaccines -- Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and Johnson & Johnson's Janssen – do not face travel restrictions. Without the approval of the EMA, nations importing Covishield will face legal issues. Indigenously made Covaxin is awaiting approval from the WHO for emergency use authorization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Hospital deaths jump during India’s second wave||Hospitalised Covid-19 patients faced significantly higher death rates during India’s second wave than during the first, a new study has found, corroborating anecdotal accounts of a fiercer epidemic, but health researchers say the reasons remain unclear. The study that examined the outcomes of over 19,000 patients admitted across nine hospitals in five north Indian states recorded an increase in mortality across all age groups with an overall 45 per cent increase — from 7.2 per cent in wave 1 to 10.5 per cent in wave 2. India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among patients who have tested positive — has remained relatively stable, between 1.2 and 1.3 per cent through the surge in daily new infections during the second wave that peaked in early May. Doctors at the Max hospital network who led the study say overwhelmed healthcare services, admission delays and shortage of critical care beds likely contributed to the increased disease severity and mortality, but the impact of novel coronavirus variants cannot be ruled out. They have observed the sharpest increase in mortality among patients aged below 45 years, rising to 4.1 per cent during the second wave, mainly in April and May, from 1.3 per cent during the first wave between July and November last year. But the rise occurred across all age groups. Sandeep Budhiraja, senior director for internal medicine at a Max hospital in Delhi, and his collaborators analysed the disease features and outcomes of 14,398 hospitalised patients during the first wave and 5,454 during the second wave. The mortality was higher among patients admitted in both intensive care units as well as in wards. The doctors suspect this was because many sick patients on high-flow oxygen had to be treated in wards as there were no ICU beds available during the second wave’s peak. The hospitals also received a higher proportion of patients with severe illness — 39 per cent during wave 2 compared with 32 per cent during wave 1. Admission delays amid extreme shortage of ward and ICU beds could have contributed to this increase. “By the time they could get (beds) in the hospital, they were already in moderate or severe hypoxemic (low oxygen) failure,” Budhiraja and the collaborators said in their study not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online repository for research preprints. They observed higher mortality among patients in wards (3.1 per cent during wave 2 versus 0.5 per cent during wave 1), ICUs (25.1 per cent versus 19.8 per cent), and on invasive ventilation (68.4 per cent versus 62.5 per cent.) “This study puts numbers on what we’ve suspected through anecdotal accounts and experience,” said Aakanksha Chawla, a senior pulmonary medicine specialist at the Apollo Indraprastha hospital in New Delhi, who was not associated with the study. “The healthcare system was just not equipped to handle the dramatic rise in the surge from mid-April to mid-May — amid the bed and ICU shortages, we saw more severe disease, more deaths, and more younger people coming in,” Chawla said. Sections of medical researchers, however, caution that while the hospital-based study appears to corroborate suspicions of higher mortality and greater levels of severe disease, it might still be premature to declare the second wave as inherently worse than the first. Rajesh Pandey, a critical care medicine specialist and one of the study team members, said that while the hospital analysis pointed to higher mortality, higher inflammatory disease and greater secondary bacterial infections among the patients during the second wave, the reasons remain unclear. “While the much larger numbers of patients posed a challenge, we know that the second surge also coincided with the emergence and growth of the variants, particularly the delta variant,” Pandey said. Although scientists know that the delta variant is highly transmissible and has the potential to cause infections in people believed protected by vaccination or prior Covid-19 infections, virologists say there is no clinical data yet to suggest that it causes more severe disease than earlier variants. But a citywide study has spotted a mortality dip. An independent study of an entire city’s Covid-19 patients’ outcomes in Pune has found that the case fatality rate fell from 2.5 per cent during the first wave to 1.1 per cent during the second wave. The Pune study by health researchers at the Johns Hopkins University Clinical Research Site at the BJ Government Medical College, Pune, measured the death rates among over 162,000 patients last year and 275,000 patients this year. The rise in mortality among hospitalised patients and the lower case fatality rate in an entire city while appearing contradictory are not comparable measurements, according to health researchers, because they probe two different subsets of patients — those hospitalised and all those positive. “Hospitalised patients represent a only small subset of the population that has tested positive,” said Prasad Bogam, a public health specialist and a team member of the Pune study. “Mortality measured among hospitalised patients cannot be compared with case fatality rates in a population.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir ends 149-year-old darbar move tradition||The administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha appears to have formally put an end to a 149-year-old biannual tradition of shifting offices between summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu. The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday cancelled the residential accommodation of “darbar move” employees in Jammu and Srinagar, implying the employees will remain stationed in either Jammu or Kashmir. The officials have been asked to vacate their quarters in the twin capital cities within three weeks. The move came days after Sinha’s administration said it has completely transitioned to an e-office, after which the “darbar move” was no longer needed. “Now both the Jammu and Srinagar secretariats can function normally for 12 months. This will save the government Rs 200 crore per year, which will be used for the welfare of the deprived sections,” the lieutenant governor had said. The decision appears to make the concept of two capitals — summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu — irrelevant. The government is yet to clarify whether the Union Territory will have one or two capitals. An order issued by the commissioner secretary of the estates department, M. Raju, said a sanction had been accorded to the cancellation of the allotment of residential accommodation of officers and officials in Srinagar and Jammu. Since the practice was started by erstwhile Dogra rulers in 1872, hundreds of employees from Jammu and Kashmir divisions used to shuttle between the two capitals every six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Supreme Court nod to ex-gratia for kin of Covid dead||Relatives of patients killed by Covid will have to be paid ex gratia under a central law, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday after brushing aside the Narendra Modi government’s contention that such payouts are not mandatory. But the court declined to fix the amount at Rs 4 lakh each, which the petitioners had sought on the basis of central guidelines issued in 2015 for disaster victims’ survivors. The court asked the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to decide the size of the payment within six weeks. At least 3.98 lakh people in the country have succumbed to Covid so far but the Centre has been stonewalling payment of ex gratia — meant to tide over immediate exigencies — by splitting semantic hairs, insisting that the word “shall” in a section of the Disaster Management Act should be read as “may”. The contention did not cut ice with the court. The apex court directed the NDMA to frame within six weeks uniform guidelines for payment of the Covid ex gratia to the relatives. A special bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said the NDMA could fix a reasonable amount while keeping in mind the funds and resources available with the country. The court directed the government to simplify the procedure for issuing death certificates in Covid cases to avoid harassment of the ex gratia claimants. In this context, the alleged attempts by some state governments to tamper with the Covid casualty figures assumes an additional dimension that has a direct bearing on the affected families. The appropriate authority is directed to issue simplified guidelines for issuance of death certificates and other official documents stating the exact cause, that is “death due to Covid-19”, to the families of the deceased, the court said. Such guidelines may also provide for remedy and corrections in the certificates if the families are not satisfied with the cause of death, the bench added. Usually, payments under the Disaster Management Act are given by the Centre. The State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) — funded 75 per cent by the Centre and the rest by the respective general category state government — is also tapped. Once the NDMA frames the guidelines, it will be clear from where the Covid ex gratia payouts will be made. The court said the “national authority” (the NDMA) had failed to perform its statutory duty. The court pointed out that the government had in a letter dated March 14, 2020, declared the Covid-19 pandemic as a “notified disaster”, which falls within the purview of the Disaster Management Act. The court did not agree with the government’s submission that the word “shall” in Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act that deals with payment of ex gratia should be read as “may”. “To construe the word ‘shall’ as ‘may’ and as directory/discretionary, the very object and purpose of the Act will be defeated. The word ‘shall’ used twice in Section 12 significantly imposes a duty cast upon the National Authority to issue guidelines for the minimum standards of relief, which shall include ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life as also assistance on account of damage to houses and for restoration of means of livelihood,” the court said. The court, however, agreed with the Centre’s stand that the plea for a directive to pay a minimum of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the Covid patients who died could not be mandated as the government had various other related financial commitments. The government listed among these commitments free vaccines, anti-viral drugs and foodgrains amid the pandemic, besides a stimulus to the Covid-battered economy. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal and a couple of other interveners pleading for a minimum ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to every family that has lost a member to Covid. Justice Shah said: “It cannot be disputed that these (pandemic) deaths have affected families from all classes…. Many have lost the sole bread-earner. “However, at the same time… the impact and effect of the present pandemic/disaster would be different from the other disasters/natural disasters for which ex gratia assistance is provided. There shall not be any justification to provide for the same/similar amount by way of ex gratia assistance as provided in the case of other disasters/natural disaster, i.e. Rs 4 lakh.” Justice Shah added: “No state or country has unlimited resources. That is why it only announces the financial relief/packages to the extent it is possible.” The court said the Centre should take appropriate steps on the recommendations made by the Finance Commission in its 15th report on providing social security to certain targeted groups such as health workers, post-mortem workers, cremation and burial site worker. The stakeholders and experts will have to be consulted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Several states face vaccine shortage following Centre blitz||Multiple states, including Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, are facing shortages of Covid-19 vaccines after a sharp rise in the nationwide average daily doses administered for a week starting June 21 when the Centre resumed responsibility for vaccine procurement. Bengal on Wednesday decided to prioritise second doses amid what a state health official has described as an “acute shortage” of vaccines; a Jharkhand official said the state had no doses left for Wednesday and the inoculation drive was halted at several centres; and Mumbai’s municipal corporation said there would be no jabs on Thursday because of inadequate stocks. Several vaccination centres in Ahmedabad witnessed long queues and chaotic scenes as people turned up in large numbers for jabs amid supplies a city official said were not sufficient to meet the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s target of vaccinating 100,000 people daily. A Press Trust of India report quoted AMC medical officer Bhavin Solanki as saying the city is vaccinating people, depending on the supply that varies daily. “Like yesterday (Tuesday) we received 35,000 doses. Some days we receive 20,000 doses or even 13,000 doses.” Health experts say such intermittent episodes of acute vaccine shortages are occurring against the backdrop of a vaccination campaign that was expanded in April this year for all adults without provisions for extra doses it would require. The June 21 policy change allows anyone to seek walk-in registrations across the country. “Wherever the demand from the public on specific days exceeds supplies, there are bound to be shortages,” a public health expert said. “Another possible explanation — the shortages we’re seeing this week might be the result of efforts to substantially increase daily doses administered in the week starting June 21,” said R. Ramakumar, a professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The Union health ministry had said 120 million doses were available for June. That would allow on average four million daily doses. Any attempt to raise the daily doses significantly during the month could impact availability for the subsequent days of the month — unless additional doses are available — either from earlier unused doses or fresh supplies. While the campaign had administered a nationwide average of 2.99 million doses daily during April, 1.96 million daily during May and 4.03 million daily from June 1 to June 20, the average from June 21 to 28 rose to 5.7 million doses. Two senior health officials had said last week that the record of over 8 million doses administered on June 21 had been “orchestrated” to demonstrate the nation’s capacity to deliver large quantums of doses. The Centre on June 21 resumed the responsibility of procuring vaccines for states and facilitating doses for private hospitals after a 50-day experiment during which states and private hospitals were expected to procure 50 per cent available doses. The health ministry has said 120 million doses — 100 million Covishield and 20 million Covaxin — would be available for distribution to states and private hospitals in July, the same quantum as was available during June 2021. “The quantum of doses available has not changed from June to July — a total of 120 million doses for a month would allow an average of about 4 million a day, not the average of over 5.7 million administered over the past week,” said Ramakumar. Public health experts say decisions to prioritise second doses amid vaccine shortages is in line with the health ministry’s guidelines. Vaccination advisers have said the Centre had tried to caution states that independent procurement by them would not be practical but had to give in under intense demand from states and sections of public health experts. “A certain environment had emerged in April — states pointed out that health is a state subject — the option (state procurement) was offered,” a senior health official guiding the vaccination policy told The Telegraph. The shortages reported by multiple states come amid assertions by health officials that India’s vaccination campaign is already among the fastest in the world and still gaining speed. India has so far administered more than 335 million doses, but only about 6 per cent of the estimated eligible population of 944 million is fully vaccinated with two doses. A senior health official had said on Tuesday that the average of 5.7 million daily doses administered between June 21-28 was equivalent to inoculating more than the entire population of Finland or Norway in a single day. The official also said the US had taken 193 days to reach The 320-million-dose mark, while India took 163 days. Experts, however, underline that the US has fully immunised over 46 per cent of its population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Ladakh: Rajnath Singh informed of China's refusal to disengage from Line of Actual Control||The military leadership has informed defence minister Rajnath Singh of China’s refusal to disengage from India-claimed lines at the remaining friction points in Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said on Wednesday. “Senior commanders of the army’s northern command briefed Singh during his three-day visit to the region about the security situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. During the closed-door meeting, the commanders made a PowerPoint presentation to show massive build-up by China at the remaining friction points inside India-claimed lines,” a ministry official said. Singh, who was in Ladakh since Sunday, said the matter would be taken up again with the Chinese army during the next military and diplomatic-level talks, the official added. After a “partial” disengagement from Pangong Lake in February, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has so far refused to disengage from Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. India has been pressing for disengagement from the remaining friction points, but the Chinese are said to have set conditions and have refused to disengage if their demands are not met. Sources said the Chinese PLA during the 11th round of military-level talks in April had claimed that the occupied zones on Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and wanted Indian troops to move further back within the India-claimed territory. “They want disengagement on their terms and have asked the Indian side to create demilitarised zones at the remaining friction points similar to the ones on the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. This condition amounts to further territory loss for India,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. In July last year, China had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but has since gone back on its word. Four days after the clash at Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian and at least four Chinese soldiers on June 15 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss allegations of border transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Justice Ramana asserts the need for complete judicial freedom||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday asserted that the judiciary needed “complete freedom” from any extraneous influence to be “able to apply checks on governmental power and action” and enforce the rule of law. “For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the rule of law would become illusory,” Justice Ramana said while delivering the 17th Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture in New Delhi on Wednesday evening. The CJI said: “At the same time, judges should not be swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion either, which is getting amplified through social media platforms. Judges have to be mindful of the fact that the noise thus amplified is not necessarily reflective of what is right and what majority believes in.” “The new media tools that have enormous amplifying ability are incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake. Therefore, media trials cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases,” the CJI said. “It is, therefore, extremely vital to function independently and withstand all external aids and pressures. While there is a lot of discussion about the pressure from the executive, it is also imperative to start a discourse as to how social media trends can affect the institution,” Justice Ramana added. He made it clear that he was by no means suggesting that judges and the judiciary needed to be completely disassociated from what is happening around them. Judges cannot stay in “ivory castles” and decide questions that pertain to social issues, the CJI said. Since 2014, there has been frequent friction between the judiciary and the executive. That year, the Narendra Modi government had introduced the National Judicial Appointments Commission for selecting judges instead of the prevalent system of appointments made by the Supreme Court collegium. The NJAC was struck down as unconstitutional by a five-judge Supreme Court bench in October 2015. The Centre has been accused of sitting on several recommendations of the Supreme Court collegium for elevation of judges to high courts and the apex court although around 40 per cent of judge posts are lying vacant in high courts. The Supreme Court has on multiple occasions queried the government on the status of the recommendations. Justice Ramana pointed out that in the 17 Lok Sabha elections held so far, the people have changed the ruling party or a combination of parties eight times. In spite of large-scale inequalities, illiteracy, backwardness, poverty and alleged ignorance, the people of independent India have proved themselves to be intelligent and up to the task, the judge said. “The masses have performed their duties reasonably well. Now, it is the turn of those who are manning the key organs of the State to ponder if they are living up to the constitutional mandate,” Justice Ramana said. “It has always been well recognised that the mere right to change the ruler once every few years by itself need not be a guarantee against tyranny. The idea that people are the ultimate sovereign is also to be found in notions of human dignity and autonomy. “A public discourse that is both reasoned and reasonable is to be seen as an inherent aspect of human dignity and hence essential to a properly functioning democracy,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI quoted Rabindranath Tagore: “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high. Where knowledge is free…” He also quoted Telugu poet Gurujada Appa Rao to say: “A nation is not merely a territory. A nation is essentially its people. Only when its people progress, the nation progresses.” Justice Ramana said a judge’s “ultimate responsibility” was to uphold the Constitution and laws. “The oath we took, to perform our duties ‘without fear or favour, affection or ill-will’, applies equally to governmental and non-governmental entities. The ultimate responsibility of a judge is, after all, to uphold the Constitution and the laws. Reason, reasonableness and protection of human dignity are the values that will serve us well,” he said. Observing that law was a double-edged sword, Justice Ramana said: “It can be used not only to render justice, it can also be used to justify oppression.” The CJI said an “unjust law” might not have the same moral legitimacy as a “just law”, but it might still command the obedience of some sections of the society to the detriment of others. Justice Ramana noted that during colonial rule the British used the law as a tool of political repression, enforcing it unequally on the British and the Indians. “It was an enterprise famous for ‘rule by law’, rather than “rule of law” as it aimed at controlling the Indian subjects. Judicial remedies lost their significance as they were administered keeping in view the best interests of the colonial power, rather than what was just or legal,” Justice Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Covid: India asks EU to allow travel with Covaxin or Covishield vaccines||India is working with the European Union member countries to extend the exemption granted on travel restrictions under its Digital Covid Certificate framework to Indians who have taken Covaxin or Covishield vaccines. As a reciprocal gesture, India is offering to waive mandatory quarantine requirements for EU nationals holding the EU Digital Covid Certificate from those countries which agree to relax travel restrictions on Indians who have taken Covaxin or Covishield. The digital certificate is scheduled to come into force on Thursday and seeks to facilitate safe and free movement of citizens in the European Union during the pandemic. As of date, only four vaccines have been authorised for use in the EU by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) — Comirnaty, Spikevax (previously Moderna), Vaxzevria (previously AstraZeneca) and Janssen. Though Covishield is using analogous production technology to Vaxzevria, it does not have EMA authorisation; raising the spectre of Indians facing difficulties in travelling to the EU nations. Till last weekend, Serum Institute of India had not applied for marketing authorisation for Covishield which is mandatory as EU law necessitates assessment of manufacturing sites and production process. According to the European Commission, the executive branch of the EU, “when travelling, the EU Digital Covid Certificate holder should in principle be exempted from free movement restrictions: Member states should refrain from imposing additional travel restrictions on the holders of an EU Digital Covid Certificate, unless they are necessary and proportionate to safeguard public health’’. New Delhi, sources said, has requested EU member states to individually consider extending similar exemption to those persons who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India and accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal. Once an EU country agrees to this exemption, India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the digital Covid certificate. “Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities would reciprocally exempt the EU member state concerned for exemption from mandatory quarantine for all those persons carrying digital Covid certificate,’’ a source said. Amid concerns that the vaccines produced in India will not be acknowledged in the EU and create problems in travelling to member countries, an EU official on Tuesday clarified that the digital Covid certificate “is not a pre-condition to travel’’. Further, member countries have the option to accept vaccinations authorised by the World Health Organisation, including Covishield. “For travelling to the EU from India, temporary restrictions on non-essential travel are currently in place from many non-EU countries, including India, due to Covid. The EU member states shall gradually lift these temporary travel restrictions at the external borders, based on developments of the health situation,’’ the official in Delhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Jammu: Police experts worry over increased drone attacks||Several drones have been sighted over Jammu skies since Sunday’s attack on the heavily guarded Indian Air Force station that was suspected to have been perpetrated through such unmanned aerial vehicles, leaving police experts worried about the “ease” with which they were being deployed. Adding to the intrigue is the fact that the security agencies are still at a loss over whether the drones are flying in from across the border or are being operated through remote control by people on the Indian side of the Line of Control. Officials said drones had been spotted at various locations from Monday to Wednesday. The army has officially confirmed only two sightings — over the Kaluchak and Ratnuchak cantonment areas in the small hours of Monday. They are to the south and north of the IAF station that was targeted in Sunday night’s explosion that caused damage to a building and injured two personnel. Sources in the security establishment said another drone was sighted at the Miran Sahib area of Jammu at 9.25pm on Tuesday. Two more were sighted over Kaluchak and Kunjwani early on Wednesday, they said. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to frame a policy to deal with emerging security threats and futuristic challenges facing the country. On Monday, the defence spokesman in Jammu, Devender Anand, had said two separate drone activities were spotted over the Ratnuchak and Kaluchak military areas by troops and a high alert was sounded immediately. He said quick reaction teams fired at the drones, which flew away. Anand told The Telegraph on Wednesday that it was being investigated where the drones landed. “It is not known. At night you cannot make out whether it had come from (Pakistan) or where it had gone. It is less likely something will come that far (from Pakistan), although some agencies are presuming that,” the spokesman said. The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the attack on the IAF station. An official in Jammu said the security agencies had taken a slew of measures to prevent a repeat of Sunday’s attack. He said drone monitoring and jammer systems had been installed at the IAF station in Jammu, and that other vital installations were also being secured. “It is suspected that the attack was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Toiba terror outfit,” the official said. The sources said the security forces had conducted searches at multiple places in Jammu but had not been able to locate even a single drone or the men operating them. Police officers handling drones in Kashmir for the past several years said they were surprised how such machines could be used to carry out the attack on the IAF installation in Jammu. “They are flying at ease (in Jammu),” an officer said. Another officer explained that drones are connected to two systems, a remote controlled by a person on the ground and a satellite. “How does the drone know I have to operate from one point to another? It knows through satellite, this mapping is on satellite. Remote control does help in flying but ultimately the route is viewed by the satellite. If a command goes through the satellite that the drone should not go from point A to B, it will not go.” The officer said only a handful of countries — the US, Russia and China — had such satellites and they could be tapped to geo-fence all the vital installations. The officer refused to say whether the police had geo-fenced its vital locations. The police have been using drones since 2015 in Kashmir in its fight against pro-azadi protesters and militants. The police have procured dozens of “unmanned aerial vehicles”, or drones. Kashmir police have at least 50 DJI MAVIC2 drones, which have infrared-sensing systems with a fully stabilised three-axis camera, providing infrared and visual images simultaneously. The officer said it was possible that militants were operating the drones sighted in Jammu from either Pakistan or India. “Non-industrial drones, which I believe are being operated in Jammu, can fly at a height of 500 metres. They have 360-degree vision and can see if they are fired upon and manoeuvre accordingly. They cannot be detected by radar because they are small and can fly up to 7km. It is a lot of aerial distance,” he said. “It is quite possible that the two drones used in the attack on the IAF station came from across the border as the aerial distance would not be more than 7km. The other possibility of someone remotely controlling the device from our side of the border is always there,” the officer said. Experts said drones could be converted into bombs by using sticker bombs or by air-dropping the explosives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Sidhu meets Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi||Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu kept the Congress first family busy on Wednesday as the party sought to battle factionalism in the Punjab unit ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. Sidhu began his day with what he described as a “long meeting’’ with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. He wrapped up the day with a meeting with former party president Rahul Gandhi. Priyanka was also on the premises when Rahul and Sidhu met but it is not clear whether she attended the meeting. In between, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi was seen going to her son’s 12 Tughlaq Lane residence. However, after the hectic parleys throughout the day, there was no official word on the fate of these meetings. Sidhu left Rahul’s residence after an hour without speaking to the media. All he did was hold up folded hands from the front seat of his chauffer-driven car. Sidhu is eyeing the post of the Punjab Congress chief but chief minister Amarinder Singh is not in favour of such a move. As an alternative, the Congress is understood to have offered Sidhu the post of deputy chief minister in Punjab, campaign committee chairmanship and membership of the central election committee which clears candidates for the elections. Both Amarinder and Sidhu are opposed to the proposal of making the former cricketer deputy chief minister. Sidhu, who entered politics with the BJP, joined the Congress in 2017 before the Assembly elections and was made a minister. However, he stepped down from the council of ministers two years later, upset with the manner in which Amarinder downgraded him. While the Sidhu-Amarinder strain has drawn the maximum attention — primarily because of the ex-cricketer’s flamboyant ways and caustic jibes — the chief minister is facing criticism from several other leaders in the state unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Centre to prepare real-time  social registry with information on assets||The Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) that collected economic and caste data of households in 2011-12 will not be updated, sources said. Instead, the Centre will prepare a social registry of households with information on assets and benefits reaching them through government schemes. The registry will be drawn up using household data being collected under the ongoing population census. The central government is not keen on maintaining caste data in the registry, two senior government officials said. Leaders of different social groups have threatened agitation if their demand for inclusion of caste data in the social registry is not met. The decision on the social registry has been taken by the Prime Minister’s Office after the ministry of rural development proposed the conduct of the SECC for the second time. “The idea is that all relevant data of every household will be maintained under the social registry. For example, homelessness, landlessness, employment status, benefits being received by the family and the number of persons in a family will be maintained on a real-time basis to help the government implement welfare schemes,” an official said. The Registrar General of India (RGI) is currently collecting population data under the routine decadal census. The population census collects data on certain economic aspects but is not as comprehensive as the SECC. The population census also collects data on the population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but not any other social community. The official said developed nations maintained social registry on a real-time basis. The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has been entrusted with coordinating with other ministries for the development of the social registry. “The MeitY and other ministries will decide how detailed information of households would be gathered after the basic household data are obtained from the RGI,” said the official. The SECC 2011-12 collected data on caste of the households apart from assets such as telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house, landlessness and tax payment. The government in 2015 released the economic data and set up a committee under then vice-chairman of Niti Aayog, Arvind Panagariya, to classify the caste names returned in the SECC with details of households. The committee has not given its report till date. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), said the government must include caste under the proposed social registry. “Nearly 85 per cent of people who are mulnivasi of the country are poorly represented in public services and higher education. Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar has talked about proportionate representation of every community in public services and education. Caste data are crucial for equitable development of communities,” Eswaraiah said. He said if caste data were not included, various organisations such as the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation, Backward Classes Federation, Rashtriya OBC Mahasangh and All India Federation of OBCs would launch an agitation. Former National Advisory Council (NAC) member N.C. Saxena said a real-time social registry was a good initiative if updated efficiently. “Data collected under any survey become old after one year. The government continues to use the old data for its welfare schemes while new eligible beneficiaries get ignored,” Saxena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha government eases curbs in 20 districts||In a bid to strike a balance between life and livelihood, the Odisha government on Wednesday eased a number of coronavirus-related restrictions to provide the much needed thrust to business activities. However, it has extended the partial lockdown, which was scheduled to end on July 1, by another 15 days, to July 16. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra told a news conference: “The threat of Covid-19 still persists. But at the same time, we are worried about the livelihood of people. The state has been divided into two categories — A and B. The (20) districts that come under category A are those where the test positivity rate is below 5 per cent and category B districts (10) are those where the rate is still above 5 per cent. Mostly districts in the coastal belt come under category B. We need more time to ease restrictions in the category B districts.” In category A districts, the shops will remain open from 6am to 6pm. “There will be no weekend shutdown (Saturday and Sunday) in the category A districts,” the chief secretary said. According to the revised guidelines, bus transport is also allowed in category A districts under strict Covid guidelines. Buses will be allowed to carry passengers upto their seating capacity. “Taxis and autos can carry a maximum of two passengers,” said Mohapatra. Considering the demands of the artistes’ association, the state government has allowed outdoor film shooting in category A districts. Daily markets and weekly haats can open, small salons can function while street food vendors can operate takeaway businesses in these districts. The category A districts are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Boudh, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Sonepur, Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Baragarh, Kalahandi, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri, Rayagada, Angul, Dhenkanal and Keonjhar. The category B districts — Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Puri, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj — are those where the number of Covid cases are still high. Capital Bhubaneswar falls under Khurda district. “In these districts, shops will remain open from 6am to 2pm,” Mohapatra said. But shopping malls, spas and beauty parlours shall continue to remain closed in the category B districts. The state government has entrusted the job of maintaining Covid guidelines in the market areas to the shopkeeper associations and shop owners. “We have given the responsibility to (shopkeeper) associations to ensure that their members adhere to the Covid guidelines. The shopkeepers will engage their staff to ensure that people follow social distancing and other norms on their premises. We have empowered the collectors and municipal commissioners to make surprise checks to find out whether the guidelines are being adhered to or not. They can seal the market building (if norms are being violated) and also initiate criminal action,” said the chief secretary. Mohapatra made it clear that night curfew would continue across the state from 6pm to 6am. “Only authorised people will be allowed to move (at night). The threat of Covid-19 still persists. Hundreds of cases are being still reported every day across the state,” he said. The restrictions on the number of people who can attend marriages (maximum 25 people) and funerals (maximum 20 people) will continue. Religious and educational institutions and cinema halls shall continue to remain closed, while the ban on public gatherings, trade fairs, exhibitions and jatra (theatre) shall continue across Odisha, Mohapatra said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep sniffs bid to skirt Kerala HC order on Kavaratti ||The Lakshadweep administration accorded the deputy collector’s powers to the block development officer of Kavaratti hours after Kerala High Court stayed the notice issued by the BDO for demolition of several houses on the island. The court had on Tuesday stayed the demolition of houses until further notice citing the “lack of authority of the 4th respondent (block development officer) in issuing such a notice”. Director of services S. Asker Ali, who is also the district collector, has issued the order stating that the BDO would hold the charge of deputy collector until further orders as the deputy collector was on leave. The islanders see this as a way to override the court order by empowering the BDO with the authority to demolish houses. Two islanders had on Monday moved the court seeking relief from the showcause notice through which the administration planned to demolish over 70 houses in Kavaratti and several other structures after the deadline of June 30. Issued by the BDO, the notice had cited violation of Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands Land Revenue and Tenancy Regulation, 1965, and the Integrated Island Management Plan. The notice cited the regulation to claim that the landowners did not possess diversion certificates to claim full ownership of the land. The notice also alleged that the buildings flouted the Integrated Island Management Plan that had declared all constructions within 20 metres of the high tide line as a “no development zone”. But the petitioners had argued that the BDO did not have the jurisdiction to issue such a notice, and that the regulation contained provisions against demolishing dwellings belonging to the islanders as they were classified as Scheduled Tribes. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party said the administration was bent on carrying out its plans. “The collector issued the order giving the jurisdiction to the BDO within hours after the high court stayed the demolition,” Ali told The Telegraph on Wednesday. While the majority of the houses in the isles are on properties owned by their occupants, there are vast tracts of land along the shore that come under a different ownership system. Once ruled by the Arakkal kingdom of Kannur — Kerala’s only Muslim kingdom — Lakshadweep was later ruled by the British until Independence. “Since the shoreline usually changes its width depending on the tide, the 20-metre margin from the high tide line cannot be maintained all the time. So we are careful enough not to build our homes close to the shore,” Ali said. Only temporary sheds to park fishing boats and coconuts are built closer to the shore. Advocate R. Rohith, who appeared for the petitioners, said it won’t be easy for the administration to demolish the houses by empowering the BDO. “The same set of arguments that we made before the high court would still be valid to protect these houses. The fight is for clear ownership of these properties to their respective occupants.” Even an amendment made to the regulation provided only for “possession” and not ownership. While the regulation was published in the official gazette in March 2020, it is yet to be notified in Lakshadweep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||India||Ayodhya: Journalist assaulted for report on lack of development||A journalist in Uttar Pradesh was knocked off his motorcycle by an SUV and hit on the head with iron rods by five men on Tuesday evening after he had written about lack of development in the Ayodhya constituency of a BJP legislator. Pateshwari Singh, a freelance reporter who writes for newspapers and web portals, has been admitted to the district hospital in Ayodhya with serious injuries to the back of his skull. The attack on Singh comes a fortnight after the death of ABP News and ABP Ganga journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgargh town, a day after he had written to police expressing fear that the liquor mafia would “harm” him and seeking protection. The police registered a murder case after initially claiming that Srivastava, who was found on a road with multiple face injuries and his clothes torn on June 14, had died in an accident. No arrest has yet been made. Singh, the Ayodhya journalist, said he had written some articles about the alleged lack of development in the constituency of Gosainganj MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Kahbbo Tiwari, an accused in several criminal cases including murder. Tiwari denied any involvement in the attack on the journalist. Singh alleged that Tiwari’s henchmen had been threatening him with consequences for his articles. “Recently, I had written some articles against Gosainganj MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari. Since then, I was being threatened by goons,” Singh said from his hospital bed. “A man I did not know had approached me two days ago and threatened to punish me for writing against the BJP MLA. On Tuesday evening when I was returning home from work around 6.30pm, a black Tata Safari hit me from behind. As I fell off my bike, five men came out of the car and pummelled me with iron rods. They said this was punishment for writing against Tiwari,” Singh said. “Earlier too, an aide of the MLA had registered a false assault case against me. Tiwari wants me to write whatever he says and never highlight in my reports the lack of development in his constituency,” the journalist said. Tiwari denied the allegations. “I don’t know the journalist. They are free to write against me. I am into politics and have not committed any crime,” the MLA said. Vijay Pal Singh, the superintendent of police of Ayodhya, said a case had been registered against unidentified persons for attacking the journalist and an investigation was on. “Some local people rescued the journalist. We are trying to collect more details from them,” the officer added. Police sources in Ayodhya said there were a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, criminal intimidation and loot against MLA Tiwari. In a video that had been widely shared on social media in January, Tiwari had been seen saying that he did “not care about the BJP’s constitution”. “I am a Brahmin and I care for Brahmins only. I forget the party and other things when I hear that a Brahmin is being harassed. I can’t see anything other than the welfare of Brahmins. This is my face and this is my character,” he was heard purportedly telling a gathering. Tiwari had initially been in the Samajwadi Party. He joined the Bahujan Samaj Party in 2012 and switched to the BJP in 2017, following which he won the Assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Debanjan plot twist: TMC accuses Dhankhar of having connection with fake IAS||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday intensified its attack on Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, wondering why he is silent for two days after the ruling party of the state brought up charges of corruption against him. The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that the TMC is levelling charges against the governor without any proof as it cannot tolerate him. TMC Deputy Leader in the Rajya, Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, said that the governor is yet to clarify whether or not the name "Jagdeep Dhankhar" which allegedly finds mention on page 3 of the "Hawala diary" was his. Dhankhar is also yet to respond to the tweet by TMC MP Mohua Moitra claiming that he was a "beneficiary of illegal residential land allotment" which was cancelled by the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in 1997, Roy said. Both the allegations were raised on Tuesday. While Roy had showed a purported copy of a page of a Hawala diary, Moitra attached an order the high court on the matter with her tweet. "A person who keeps tweeting from morning to night is yet to respond to the charge. What is the reason behind this silence?" Roy said in a press conference. The TMC Rajya Sabha MP also alleged that Debanjan Deb, the arrested prime accused in the dubious Covid-19 vaccination camps, has some rapport with Raj Bhavan. Roy showed purported photographs of Debs private security guard at a function in Raj Bhavan participated by Dhankhar, and demanded a probe on the matter. "The governor peddled half-truths after our honourable chief minister said that his name figured in the Hawala case on Monday. He fell silent when we specifically mentioned the name of one Jagdeep Dhankhar is on the page of the Hawala diary," Roy said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that Dhankhar was involved in the Jain Hawala case, provoking a sharp rebuttal from the governor who accused her of propagating "lies and misinformation". The Jain Hawala case was a scandal in the mid-90s centred around a diary that mentioned alleged hawala payments of about Rs 65 crore. The names of the recipients allegedly matched the initials of some top political leaders. However, the CBI could not prove the charge of hawala payments to these persons. "Before appointing such a person as governor, the Centre should have checked his credentials. We think the state government must be consulted while appointing someone in the gubernatorial post," Roy said. Banerjee, also the TMC supremo, earlier said that she has written to the Centre thrice seeking Dhnakhars removal. "We will demand the governor's ouster in both houses of Parliament," Roy told the press conference. To a question on the visit of a committee set up by the NHRC to probe the allegations of human rights violation during the post-poll violence in the state, Roy said, "Why is the NHRC silent on attacks on opposition activists after the BJP won the assembly polls in Tripura?" The NHRC panel visited the state on the order of the Calcutta High Court. "Why (Union Home Minister) is Amit Shah silent on attacks on women in Tripura? Are human rights apply only to non-BJP ruled states? Why is the Centre silent on the human rights of the Sitalkuchi firing victims?" the TMC MP said. Four persons were killed in firing by central forces outside a poll booth during voting at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on April 10. It was alleged that local people attacked the security personnel. Roy said when a TMC delegation went to Silchar in Assam to visit those left out in the NRC exercise in 2018, "we were not allowed to go out of the airport." Reacting to the allegations against the governor, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "TMC leaders are levelling baseless charges at governor without any proof as they cannot tolerate him." The vaccination scam brought to the fore the nexus between the TMC and corrupt elements, he claimed. "Desperate to come out of the situation, TMC leaders are resorting to all sorts of slander campaigns towards those who raised their voice against the misdeeds of the TMC," he said. Several persons, including the mastermind who was masquerading as an IAS officer, were recently arrested for organising dubious camps in Calcutta where people were administered fake vaccine doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||State buses hit Bengal roads as restrictions ease, private ones stay garaged ||Public road transport services resumed in Bengal on Thursday, with the state government having relaxed Covid-19 restrictions, but private buses were few and far between as owners refused to ply them, citing high fuel prices and non-revision of fares as reasons. State-run buses were back on the roads with West Bengal Transport Corporation, south and north Bengal state transport corporations running their full fleet, but these proved to be inadequate during the peak hours. An official of the transport department said the three corporations ran approximately 5,000 buses together. Tapan Banerjee, the general secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, one of the organisations representing the owners of private buses, said, "We have been demanding an increase in fares since 2020, but the government has not taken any decision yet. We are unable to run our fleet at the moment as that will lead to huge losses." He claimed that their private vehicles ferry around 85 per cent of all bus passengers in the state. Commuters were seen boarding jam-packed buses during the day to reach their destinations, with zero regard for Covid-19 norms. The state government has ordered that buses, taxis and auto rickshaws can ply with 50 per cent occupancy from July 1. Local and metro rail services continue to remain suspended. "There are not many buses, so we have no option but to travel without maintaining any physical distance," said Samarjit Das, who alighted a crowded vehicle in Esplanade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||SC admits plea for President's Rule in Bengal, issues notices to Centre, EC||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear a plea seeking direction to the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal in view of deteriorating law and order situation due to the post-poll violence which started on May 2, the day of assembly election results. The plea also sought direction to the Centre to deploy armed/paramilitary forces in the aid of the administrative authorities to bring normalcy in the state and to save it from internal disturbances. Besides, the PIL has sought setting up of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for probing the causes and reasons of post-poll violence in West Bengal. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari issued notice to the Centre, West Bengal and Election Commission of India on the plea, which also sought to central and state governments to award compensation to the victims and their family members after ascertaining the nature of loss sustained by them in post-poll violence in the state. Advocate Hari Shankar Jain -- appearing for petitioners Ranjana Agnihotri, a UP based practicing lawyer and social worker Jitender Singh -- said that the plea is against post-poll violence in West Bengal. The bench said, We are issuing notice to respondent number 1, (Union of India), respondent number-2 (West Bengal government) and Respondent number 3 (Election Commission of India)." The bench, however, did not issue notice to respondent number 4 -- Mamata Banerjee as the president of Trinamool Congress Party (TMC). The plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said that the PIL has been filed in extraordinary circumstances as thousands of residents of West Bengal are being terrorized, penalised and tortured by the workers of TMC for supporting the opposition party- Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) during the assembly polls. The petitioners are espousing the cause of thousands of citizens of West Bengal who are mostly Hindus and are being targeted by Muslims to take revenge for supporting BJP as they want to crush Hindus so that for years to come the power may remain with the party of their choice, the plea said. The plea sought from the court directing the central government to exercise its power conferred by Article 355 and Article 356 keeping in view the deteriorating condition posing a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India. It said that soon after the declaration of assembly polls result on May 2, the TMC workers and supporters started creating chaos, unrest and setting the houses and properties of Hindus on fire, looting and plundered their belongings for the simple reason that they had supported BJP in assembly polls. The plea said that in an attempt to create terror and disorder in the society at least 15 BJP workers/sympathisers/supporters have lost their lives and a number of them were seriously injured. The government and administration remained silent spectators and no protection was provided to the victims by them. The government, officials and the administration and the police are supporting workers of TMC, due to which the life, liberty, prestige, dignity and modesty of women are being taken away as is evident from the fact that number of persons were harmed and mercilessly murdered and no steps were taken for their safety, the plea said. It added that no appropriate action was taken against the culprits, due to which the life, liberty, dignity of the women and children are in peril and the future of Hindu residents is in jeopardy. In these circumstances, immediate intervention of the court is required and the court may issue command to the opposite parties is required and the court may issue command to the opposite parties so that the government of West Bengal functions in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and in case of continued violation the government of India may be directed to take appropriate action under Article 355 and 356 of the constitution, it said. The plea alleged that during the assembly elections which were held in April, the TMC party had contested the polls purely on communal basis arousing the feelings of the Muslims and appealing to them to remain united and vote for their party for their better future. It said that subsequently BJP made a complaint to ECI against the communal appeal made by TMC party and the poll panel failed to hold free and fair election conforming the democratic norms and failed to enforce the mandatory provision of section 123 of Representation of People Act which has to be implemented during the election. The plea said that a seven-judge bench of the top court had in 2017, in the Abhiram Singh case, ruled that no person can be allowed to contest election by making religious appeal. The election commission remained a silent spectator and the provision (of RP Act) was flagrantly violated , it said, adding that the Muslim population is about 30 per cent in West Bengal due to illegal Bangladeshi migrants and Rohingia Muslims have been registered as voters without making any proper scrutiny and enquiry and in about 100 constituencies Muslims votes decide the fate of the candidates. The top court is already hearing a batch of pleas related to post-poll violence in the state and seeking probe by an independent agency into the alleged killing of BJP workers and sympathisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Kerala MP seeks probe against Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty||T.N. Prathapan, the Congress MP of Kerala’s Thrissur and a member of the education ministry’s parliamentary standing committee, has written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, asking for a fact-finding committee to probe alleged financial and administrative irregularities of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. The letter on June 28 stated 12 allegations, ranging from fraudulent use of Santiniketan Trust funds to the VC’s many suspension orders. The MP on Wednesday said allegations from Visva-Bharati teachers and students prompted him to write the letter. “I’ve been receiving allegations from teachers and students of Visva-Bharati on the VC’s malpractices and undemocratic actions. The Sangh Parivar (VC Chakrabarty is deemed close to the saffron camp) does the same in all premier institutions....It should be addressed and resisted.” He added Visva-Bharati has a legacy, and one who doesn’t respect it shouldn’t be the VC. “Numerous teachers and students were suspended or faced other action for...dissent. It is not acceptable,” he said. In his letter, the Thrissur MP sought Chakrabarty be sent on leave till the probe, by a panel with a retired high court judge on it, ends. Varsity public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to calls or texts from this paper on the MP’s allegations. The MP’s letter also accused Chakrabarty of not appointing persons in key posts (registrar, finance officer and five directors) during his tenure of two-and-a-half years, and of misbehaving with faculty members and enforcing pay cuts without their consent. Prathapan attached documents to support his allegations. The Kerala MP’s letter prompted some Visva-Bharati teachers to ask MPs from Bengal and other states to write similar letters to the Centre too. Protest SFI activists on Wednesday demonstrated in front of Visva-Bharati’s central office against “hike” in exam and mark sheet fees for research scholars amid the pandemic. They said last year only Rs 50 was charged for mark sheet, but this year students are being charged Rs 1,400 overall. Varsity sources denied any hike and said last year exam fees had been waived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches student credit card scheme||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday launched the student credit card scheme and announced her government’s decision to repeat distributing bicycles among Class IX students and cash among Class XII students to buy tablets or smartphones for online studies. The announcements, many observers said, captured her attempt to please the teens, most of whom will become voters by the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Mamata launched the student credit card scheme from Nabanna in the presence of state education minister Bratya Basu and top government officials. “Students up to the age of 40 years can avail an education loan of up to Rs 10 lakh. One has to be at least a Class X student to avail this loan,” she said. Sources said the key element of the scheme was that students would get loans without a guarantor. “The state government will be the guarantor,” a senior official said. “This will help poor students who often are denied educational loans.” Mamata said she had promised the scheme ahead of the polls and had to keep her word after Trinamul’s win. She added her government would distribute 12 lakh bicycles to students of Class IX this year. “Of them, 9 lakh bicycles will be given to students in Class IX in 2021 and 3 lakh to students who had been in Class IX in 2020 but didn’t get the bicycles,” she said. Sources said last year the state government could distribute only 6 lakh bicycles amid the pandemic, not 9 lakh as planned. Mamata added: “Last year, we gave Rs 10,000 each to 8.86 lakh students of Class XII. This year too, we will give Rs 10,000 each to 8.94 lakh students so that they can buy tablets or smartphones to continue their studies online.” Classes online have become the lifeline for students amid the pandemic. “She wants to win their (students’) hearts to ensure the new voters (in 2024) keep her in mind,” an official said. An official recalled that the Mamata Banerjee government had extended several facilities to students since she came to power in Bengal in 2011. “Schemes like Kanyasree and Sabuj Sathi have helped her in the past few elections. It is clear that giving tabs to students of Class XII paid her huge dividends in the 2021 Assembly polls. Now, she is eyeing to strengthen her support base keeping the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total active cases fall by 531, to reach to 20,585||Bengal on Wednesday reported a fall for the 10th day in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 531, to reach to 20,585. Active cases in all had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, they rose again by over 56 per cent, before falling by around 11 per cent again in these 10 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,980 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,478 new infections and 29 deaths, including seven from Calcutta and 10 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. With Calcutta logging 135 new infections and North 24-Parganas 154, Wednesday was the third successive day since the second wave hit the state, when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen Bengal districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day. Kalimpong, North Dinajpur and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate or the percentage of positive cases from samples tested, which was nearly 33 per cent at the height of the second wave, is now 2.74. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.45 per cent, with the national rate at 96.94 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday, while four others reported only one each. Bengal now has a total of over 14.99 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.61 lakh recoveries and 17,708 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court fines CM for Narada affidavit delay ||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak for their delay in filing affidavits in the Narada arrest case. The fines were imposed by a five-member special bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. The affidavits had been filed in response to the CBI’s plea before the special bench. The CBI had made the state government, Mamata and Ghatak respondents in the Narada case, alleging that they had interfered with the probe following the arrest of four politicians, including two Bengal ministers, on May 17. As the three parties had filed the affidavits late, the high court refused to accept them. The affidavits were filed afresh this week and the high court accepted them following a Supreme Court verdict. A committee set up by the chairman of the National Human Right Commission on Wednesday filed a status report on post-violence before the high court. The court fixed the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: State health department plans more specialised test labs in every district of north Bengal||The state health department has planned to set up Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL), a specialised lab for Covid-19 tests, in every district of north Bengal to encourage hassle-free tests for the disease for residents. As of now, there are four VRDL labs functional in the region — the first was opened at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri, after the pandemic had hit the state last year. “After NBMCH, such labs (one each) were set up at the medical colleges of Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur and Malda districts. Now, we have decided to set up four more VRD laboratories, one each in Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and South Dinajpur districts,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. “In Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts, the infrastructural work required for the labs are already done. The work for setting up the labs in Kalimpong and South Dinajpur districts will commence soon,” Roy added. Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, said more VRDL in the region would ease the workload of existing labs and help in carrying out more tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Body recovered from Ganga, Mamata brings up Uttar Pradesh||A decomposed body was recovered from the Ganga in Malda on Wednesday, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to mention it at a news meet in Nabanna and refer to bodies in Uttar Pradesh floating downstream amid the pandemic. “Bodies (of Covid patients) were floated in the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh. Those are flowing downstream…..and even today (Wednesday), a body has been recovered in Manikchak (Malda district). So far, seven such bodies were found floating in the river (five in Malda and two in Murshidabad). We don’t know how many more bodies have gone untraced and have floated further downstream,” said Mamata. Political observers said that Mamata, by referring to Uttar Pradesh, tried to highlight the Covid mismanagement of the BJP-ruled state in comparison with Bengal. Mamata’s reference to the floating bodies was part of a strategy to drive home the point that in Bengal, her government was managing the Covid situation better than in BJP-ruled states, said an observer. Her statement came a day after BJP national party chief J.P. Nadda said Bengal was doing the worst in vaccination, without the numbers backing his claim. During the news meet, the chief minister was also critical of the Narendra Modi government’s supply of vaccines to states. “The central government is acting in a biased manner. It is sending more vaccine doses to states like Uttar Pradesh and less to us,” she said. Sources in Malda administration said that over the past seven-eight weeks, constant vigil is on the Ganga, especially in Malda’s Manikchak where the river enters Bengal from Jharkhand. Police said that on Wednesday, some residents spotted the decomposed body floating in the Ganga at Jotepatta of Manikchak around 12.30pm. The body was recovered and sent for post-mortem while maintaining Covid protocol,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. Since June 5, five bodies have been found floating in the Ganga in Malda district. According to police sources, none could be identified as that of any resident of Malda district. “That’s why we suspect the bodies have come down from upstream,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Probe into deals at banks linked to Suvendu||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the state government would conduct an inquiry into the financial activities of three cooperative banks in Tamluk, Contai and Midnapore, which are headed by Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari. “We have received some complaints related to these banks. The finance department would conduct an internal inquiry into the complaints,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources said the complaints lodged with the government suggested that there were some ghost accounts dealing in huge funds at the three banks. “The chief minister has ordered an inquiry to find out the original account holders and how much money was parked in these accounts. The finance department would try to find out the details of the accounts,” said a senior Nabanna official. Mamata said she was surprised to know that a writ petition had already been filed in the court to prevent any kind of audit at the banks. “Why is this panic? The government can carry out internal inquiries through the finance department. It is the responsibility of the government to inquire into the complaints lodged with it,” she said. Sources said although Suvendu had resigned from most posts he used to hold before joining the BJP, he did not quit the positions at the three cooperative banks. Dilip Ghosh said financial dealings at all cooperative banks in the state should be probed. “Why is the chief minister conducting a probe at a handful of cooperative banks? Is it only because some people joined the BJP after leaving Trinamul? I would say the state should conduct an inquiry into all cooperative banks in the state,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Central prod on Jalpaiguri cases||The Union health ministry has expressed in writing its concern to the state government on the rise in Covid-19 cases in Jalpaiguri district during some days in June. In a letter to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the positivity rate of Covid tests in Jalpaiguri was more than 10 per cent between June 21 and 27 compared to previous weeks, and attached data on rapid antigen tests (RAT) and RT-PCR tests of the district. “You are therefore requested to kindly ensure strict enforcement of...interventions to control transmission....” he wrote. He also instructed the district action plan, which includes mapping of cases, reviewing ward- and block-wise indicators, effective surveillance and quick hospitalisation or isolation of patients, be implemented in the district. Last year during the first wave, most Covid-19 cases from north Bengal were reported from Darjeeling and Malda. But the second wave this year saw a rise in cases in Jalpaiguri. According to the data with the state health department, till Tuesday 38,130 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district since the onset of the pandemic and in all 497 infected persons have died. “In Darjeeling, till Tuesday, over 50,000 infections and 455 deaths were reported till Tuesday. The number of deaths is higher in Jalpaiguri,” said a health official. He said that from the onset of the pandemic to January 31 this year, the total number of Covid cases in Jalpaiguri was 14,629 and the number of deaths was 160. By April 30, the number of cases in the district was 17,668 and the toll 191. By Tuesday, the number of Covid cases was 38,130 and deaths 497, which means in May and June, over 20,000 persons got infected and over 300 persons have died in the district. “This spurt seems to have put the health ministry on alert,” the official said. A senior official in Nabanna said they are in close contact with the district administration and health officials of Jalpaiguri district. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department for Covid-19 in north Bengal, has been asked to look into the issue. However, daily infections have fallen from three-digit numbers to 61 on Tuesday. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu also said the situation was mending. “When the second wave was at its peak, the number of cases had increased. But we are seeing a dip now, much to our relief. We have sent all the relevant details to the state government. Our officers are putting every effort to keep the situation under control.” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata calls Centre's report demand on fake jab duplicitous||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday suggested that the Centre’s demand for a report from Bengal on fake Covid vaccination camps organised by Debanjan Deb smacked of duplicity and wanted to know if the Narendra Modi government had probed into alleged inoculations at BJP offices in Gujarat. Citing a letter from BJP leader and Mamata’s bete noire Suvendu Adhikari on the fake vaccination camps, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, seeking an urgent probe and a report on the matter in two days. “I don’t care who wrote what to whom. It doesn’t matter. I don’t care…,” was Mamata’s response to questions on the letter from Adhikari, a Trinamul Congress turncoat. “What was done (by Deb, allegedly posing as an IAS officer) was very wrong. I have said on record, that it was more dangerous than an act of terrorism… such cheating,” she added. Mamata’s reaction has come soon after the Centre sought the report from Bengal. “In Gujarat, vaccines were distributed from the BJP’s party office… how many letters from the (Union) health ministry? How many probes?” asked a visibly agitated Mamata. “The state (Bengal) that does the most work, always spreading canards about it. Only lies… only forgery. What is the proof that these things were not staged by the BJP?” IAS officer Bhushan opened his letter with a request to the state government to refer to the letter from Adhikari, which was attached to it “for ready reference”. “… attention has been drawn to the instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people. It is also pointed out that in some of these camps, and notably in Kasba locality of Kolkata Municipal area, none of the beneficiaries have received any vaccination certificates generated from Co-WIN, giving rise to apprehensions about the genuineness of these vaccination camps,” wrote the Union health secretary in the letter dated June 29. Addressed to chief secretary Dwivedi, the letter was copied to state health-secretary N.S. Nigam. Apparently responding to how the BJP-led Opposition had been going to town over the fake jab camps, the chief minister said at Nabanna: “This is a serious offence, posing as an IAS officer. But this wasn’t the first, this doesn’t happen in Bengal alone. There are instances from across India, many cases. It is nothing new, therefore. Everybody must be careful and alert.” “When fake videos are circulated (allegedly by key constituents of the saffron ecosystem) what do you do, for how many do you take responsibility? When “incidents” of violence are fabricated, concocted (allegedly by the BJP), how many do you act against? Only when a handful of BJP leaders are tweeted against, you file FIRs, arrest their critics…. Other than that, how many instances of action?” asked the Trinamul chief on Wednesday. She also responded to BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s allegation — during his virtual address to the party’s state unit on Tuesday — that an all-time low vaccination was taking place in Bengal. “Yesterday, I heard a lot of big lectures by some leaders, appropriating the role of rescuers. Bengal, remember, already has given 2.17 crore vaccine doses, till yesterday. It was said we didn’t put whatever vaccines we got to use… I challenge it. We got 1.99 crore vaccine doses, we have already administered 1.9 crore doses from the same,” said Mamata. “We bought vaccines worth Rs 59 crore, paying from the state treasury. I had promised that the state government would buy if the Centre fails us…. We procured 18 lakh doses directly,” she added. “On the basis of whatever vaccines we got, in terms of utilisation, implementation, execution, we are number one in the country.” On Tuesday, Nadda had said: “I am very sorry to inform you that if an all-time low vaccination is taking place anywhere, it’s in Bengal.” The facts and the vaccination figures till now, however, are loaded against his claims. “Dwivedi (the chief secretary who was sitting next to Mamata), prepare a letter today itself. Show it to me, have it sent,” she added. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, requesting the state government to take up strict measures to control Covid-19 in Jalpaiguri district. Bhushan said the positivity rate had been more than 10 per cent between June 21 and 27 in the district, compared to previous weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||West Bengal||Rivers swell in north Bengal, rain to continue||Strong showers continued to pound north Bengal on Wednesday, swelling rivers, submerging low-lying areas and snapping connectivity. “Water levels of most rivers increased. We have already issued an yellow (primary) alert for unprotected areas on either bank of the Teesta and the Jaldhaka which pose flood threats. The Torsha and the Mansai are in spate and we are monitoring water levels,” said a state irrigation department official. The India Meteorological Department said it had rained above 200mm in a 24-hour period till 8.30am on Wednesday at many places. The IMD forecast rain in the next 48 hours. Around 400 bighas of farmland at Bhojanpur, on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, were eroded as the Torsha was in spate because of the rain. “It is now eroding banana plantations spread over an area of around 100 bighas. The river has breached the embankment and is gobbling land. Hundreds of farmers are in distress,” said Ashraful Ali, a Trinamul Congress leader at Bhojanpur Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan said the situation was being monitored. “If rivers rise further, we will shift people from the banks to safer places. Relief materials have been sent to blocks and will be distributed as and when required,”  said the DM. In Alipurduar, the rainfall led to waterlogging in at least six wards of the town on Wednesday. The civic body engaged pump sets to flush out the water to the Kaljani river that skirts the town. Waterlogging was reported at places like Kalchini, Birpara and Kumargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
01-07-2021||North East||Assam fails to achieve 30 lakh inoculation target due to short supply of vaccines||The BJP-led Assam government could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45 per cent less than Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma's target of inoculating 30 lakh people, due to a massive shortage of COVID-19 vaccines, a senior health official said on Thursday. As per the daily COVID-19 bulletin issued by the National Health Mission under the state Health Department, a total of 16,63,405 people were inoculated across the state from June 21 to June 30. This figure is way below the ambitious 30-lakh target set during Sarma's meeting with all the stakeholders of the districts on June 19. "This is a part of our Enhanced Immunisation Drive. From June 21, we shall be targeting three lakh vaccinations daily till June 30," the chief minister had said in a press meet after reviewing preparations with the districts. According to the NHM data, the government could touch the daily target of three lakh vaccines only on two days -- June 21 (3,30,667 jabs) and June 23 (3,60,315 jabs). The state government could vaccinate more than two lakh people on one day, one lakh on four days and less than one lakh on three days, a compilation of the bulletins showed. The Health Department even witnessed one of the lowest vaccination figures till now -- 14,551 doses on June 30, NHM said. The administration vaccinated 3,30,667 people on June 21, 2,84,643 on June 22, 3,60,315 on June 23, 1,79,595 on June 24, 1,66,934 on June 25, 1,52,956 on June 26, 19,924 on June 27, 1,08,623 on June 28, 45,197 on June 29 and 14,551 on June 30, it said. When contacted, NHM Mission Director Lakshmanan S told PTI that the supply of COVID-19 vaccines dropped after three days of commencement of the Enhanced Immunisation Drive on June 21, leading to a lower number of vaccinations. "During the first three days, we had enough vaccines and inoculated more than 9.75 lakh people. However, the numbers went down as we did not get enough supplies," he said. Initially, there was a short supply of only Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, but later the availability of Covishield by the Serum Institute of India also became an issue, Lakshmanan said. "Yesterday, we got six lakh doses of Covishield. We immediately distributed these to the districts. So, you will see the vaccination numbers rising again in the next three days. However, we do not have any idea when we will get the next supply in the coming 15 days," he said. The NHM mission director also said that the government had prepared more than 2,000 centres to achieve the daily target of vaccinating three lakh people, but many of them became inactive after the supply declined. "These centres were opened mostly in local hospitals and health centres. Now, they are engaged in giving other vaccines like polio and TB to children and other people under the Universal Immunisation Programme. "We also have in stock 40 lakh Japanese Encephalitis vaccines for adults, but we could not start the drive due to engagement with COVID-19 inoculation programme," the official said. On June 19, the chief minister had said that if the Assam government could meet the target of inoculating at least 2.80 lakh to 3 lakh people daily for 10 days from June 21, the Centre would ensure that the state continues to get more vaccines in July as well. To meet this humongous target at a time when the state was vaccinating only 50,000 to 1 lakh people daily, he had even said that there would be no government work for one week and the entire machinery would be involved in the inoculation exercise. The launch of the programme coincided with the day when the Centre restarted free vaccination for all people in the country. According to the NHM bulletin issued on Wednesday night, a total of 70,22,282 doses of vaccines have been administered in Assam. This includes 57,91,586 first doses and 12,30,696 second doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
01-07-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi cleared of all charges by special NIA court||Assam legislator Akhil Gogoi on Thursday walked free after more than a year-and-a-half in captivity as a special NIA court cleared him of all charges under UAPA for his alleged role in the violent anti-CAA stir in the state in December 2019. Gogoi, an Independent MLA from Sivasagar constituency, walked out of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where he was being treated for various ailments, after the special NIA court sent the release order to the Guwahati Central Jail. "Truth has finally prevailed, though no efforts were spared to keep me behind the bars," the Raijor Dal chief told reporters after his release. Gogoi said that after keeping his bag at home, he will visit the parents of "first CAA martyr" Sam Stafford at their residence in Hatigaon area of Guwahati. "From there, I will visit the offices of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and Raijor Dal today. I leave for my constituency Sivasagar tomorrow early in the morning and thank people for electing me while I was in prison," he said. Gogoi and his associates were accused in two cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged role in violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam in December 2019. The NIA court has cleared all of them of the charges in the two cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
01-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Breathless praise||Evaluation of any sort needs to be objective. Without objectivity, assessments lack clarity and teeth and can fall prey to partisanship. This kind of impartiality is especially critical when it comes to evaluating the performance of the government in combating a pandemic and the associated challenges to healthcare. It is thus shocking to note that a task force put together at the behest of the highest court of the land has lavished fulsome praise on the Centre for its handling of the medical oxygen crisis during the second wave of the coronavirus. In its report, the National Task Force, comprising experts and bureaucrats, mentioned the Centre’s “hard work and efforts” towards combating the crisis even though the ground realities tell a starkly different story. India reported at least 512 oxygen-related deaths earlier this year; given the lack of accurate data, it would not be unreasonable to infer that the actual number of deaths on account of the paucity of oxygen is likely to be much higher. It is not just the loss of lives that points to the unequivocal failure of the Central government. In spite of signs of rising infections, the Centre pushed ahead with densely-packed political rallies in poll-bound states — Bengal is one example — as well as with religious functions like the Kumbh Mela. Further proof of administrative culpability lay in the way in which the State cracked down on citizens — and hospitals — for raising concerns about the oxygen shortage: the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, ordered the seizure of properties of citizens who chose to blow the whistle on oxygen shortage or deaths. It can be argued that this kind of intimidation, coupled with the Centre’s lapses, dented India’s standing in the international fraternity. The prime minister’s rhetoric of Atmanirbhar Bharat is bound to ring hollow when his government is found wanting in terms of fulfilling even the most rudimentary needs of public healthcare. That is not all. The NTF has ended up making a series of recommendations for the future. Among  them are the proposals to equip all 18 metro cities to be self-sufficient in terms of oxygen supply and the setting up of a war room to monitor the movement of oxygen and its distribution in a transparent and timely manner. What is the need for such guidelines if the Centre has indeed performed credibly in its ‘oxygen test’? The NTF, much like the Centre, seems to have tied itself up in knots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Dowry deaths in Kerala, animal cruelty in Cambodia ||Act now Sir — It is shameful that even after 60 years since Parliament enacted the Dowry Prohibition Act and 16 years after the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, dowry deaths continue to be a major cause for concern (“Just fight”, June 29). A series of recent suicides and deaths of women in Kerala, allegedly because of dowry-related demands and violence, has revealed the social and economic cracks in the state. Kerala, which has the highest literacy rate in the country, was considered to be far more progressive considering the history of social movements in the state. But none, including the Left, took the question of gender inequality seriously, even though poor women played a central role in many of these struggles. While social evils like class and caste have been addressed, questions of gender-based exploitation have often been swept under the carpet. Women have significantly contributed to Kerala’s success in improving social indicators such as literacy, education, birth rate and life expectancy. Yet their presence in leadership roles continues to be minimal. The state government has finally taken note of the growing dowry deaths, following the recent unfortunate suicide of a number of young women. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has announced a round-the-clock police helpline for women to report dowry harassment, domestic violence and other gender crimes. The administration has also promised to strengthen domestic conflict resolution centres in all districts. It will, however, take more than executive interventions to end the dowry system that continues to prevail within the private space of the family. Resistance arising from within the institutions of marriage and family will be more effective in curbing the practice. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is astonishing that discrimination against women continues unabated in Kerala in spite of the state having a high literacy rate for both men and women. This proves that the belief that development and education can always bring an end to discriminatory practices is not true. The government must urgently implement measures to curb this malpractice and ensure that stringent punishments are meted out to the guilty. Vinay Asawa,Howrah Sir — The situation of women in Kerala must act as an eye-opener to policymakers that formal education means little if it is not accompanied with progressive thinking. It is of utmost importance that lessons on gender equality are imparted to children from a very young age. Vibha Dutt,Mumbai  Matter of shame Sir — Recently, the authorities in Cambodia confiscated a defanged and declawed pet lion after the owner displayed the animal on social media. While there were no other indications of cruelty, removing the teeth and claws of any animal is  barbaric and drastically reduces their quality of life. The government must be lauded for swiftly taking action. It is hoped that the young male lion will be appropriately rehabilitated. Ashmita Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Smarting city||A lucky mascot deserves ardent dedication. So the Bharatiya Janata Party’s plans for Ayodhya are bigger than those for any other city so far. According to the prime minister at a recent review of these plans, Ayodhya is being developed as a spiritual centre, a global tourism hub and a sustainable smart city. Perhaps the burgeoning of Ayodhya is expected to obliterate the blood, sweat and tears of the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir dispute, the destruction of the mosque and its painful aftermath. Otherwise, the prime minister’s remark that Ayodhya should manifest the finest of traditions — did he mean India’s or the BJP’s? — and the best of developmental transformations would be riddled with irony. The most striking transformation has been achieved by the destruction of the structure on the site where the Ram temple is being built. Could that be the finest tradition? The prime minister described Ayodhya as spiritual and sublime; to establish its spiritual status, enormous material investments are being made to develop infrastructure for better communication — airport, railway station, roads, river banks — and a greenfield city with space for ashrams, maths, hotels, lodgings for devotees and so on. The prime minister’s paean to Ayodhya was well-timed. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, in charge of the funds to build the temple, is facing allegations of shady land deals and misuse of funds from certain Opposition parties as well as from some mahants, three of whom had been party to the Ram Janmabhoomi land dispute case. There is a rising demand for official investigation and a transparent rendering of accounts: the funds came from devotees countrywide. Earlier there had been complaints about deception in funds collection: persons posing as authorized collectors had apparently made off with people’s contributions. The glory of the Ayodhya-to-come visualized by the prime minister may perhaps erase all this sordidness but this represents, ironically, those traditions that Indians recognize most easily. At the bhoomi pujan last August, the prime minister had said that Ram belongs to all. In the same vein, he proclaimed this time that Ayodhya is etched in everyone’s consciousness. He may have been indirectly urging people to envision India as a single religio-cultural entity. But Ayodhya has become unforgettable for reasons of deliberate divisiveness, not unity. The prime minister may have been right — for the wrong reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion|| Listen to the dissenters||Dissent — defined by Collins as a (strong) disagreement or dissatisfaction with a decision or opinion, especially one that is supported by most people or by people in authority — is the cornerstone of governance and democracy. Like cornerstones, dissent is not very attractive, least of all to those inhabiting the building; often ignored until it becomes wildly disruptive and threatens imminent instability. Like cornerstones, too, the removal of dissent renders the structure precarious and often dangerous. Indeed, one might consider dissent, and the ability to tolerate dissent, the litmus test of governance. Metaphors, after all, are meant to be mixed. For while a democracy is undoubtedly governance of the people, for the people and by the people, it is also, by nature, governance representing the majority of these very people. Which is laudable, of course. Democracies function best when they come closest to representing as many people as they can. And the more people they represent, the closer they come to realizing their hopes and aspirations. And, of course, by nature, they will never truly represent all the people, because there will always be some differences of opinion, some diversity in choices, in value systems, in beliefs and in the expression of these. If this sounds glorious and paradoxical and quixotic, it is because democracies are all these things, and more. It is at the same time both an expression of a consensus and an expression of dissent by the consensus. It is dependent upon both a fulfilment of our responsibilities and an exertion of our rights. So it has been from its earliest recognizable forms, when groups of people engaged in discussion to take important decisions as they settled down from hunter-gatherer to agrarian societies. India, with its rich diversity of cultural heritage, is oft-quoted to the extent of becoming a trope. Our earliest settled democratic republic states in the subcontinent are now believed to date back to the 6th century BCE, very close to the earliest traceable origins in Athens in the 7th century BCE. This naturally lends itself to an ability in the subcontinent to live together peacefully while respecting diversity (at least most of the time) while also tolerating the differences that are expressed as plurality and as dissent. Of course, democracies work best when situations — environmental, economic, social and political — are favourable. They are less systematic in times of adversity, when this very plurality and dissent lend themselves to chaos, perhaps even anarchy. This, too, is laudable, because the chaos then becomes a potent indicator that the democracy can function better, and, in fact, may need to, in order to respond conclusively to a crisis. The chaos itself, may, in taking itself apart and putting itself back together, show us potential ways out of the crisis. Such is true not just for countries, but for any and all sorts of enterprises where large groups of people come together and work together towards achieving a common goal — from sports teams to housing colonies to work places. The human body, too, tends to resemble a democracy based upon what most of its constituent organs decide — in both health and disease. Diseases lend themselves to discomfort, manifested by signs and symptoms, often anarchic. Yet, the signs and symptoms themselves are also potent indicators that the body is not functioning as it should and that it can do better. The distress they cause leads us to treatment, which, if all goes well, may lead us out of the crisis caused by the disease. If this sounds like an oversimplification, it is because it probably is. All metaphors are. They bring out what is common and gloss over what is different. As do democracies, often. Dissent is not always constructive to democracy, certainly not when it leads to death and destruction. There are limits to its expression by citizens as well as limits to the tolerance shown to it by nations. It may not be desirable or even convenient, particularly when nations and institutions already have a fair amount to deal with, during a crisis. However, like diseases, they are potent indicators that there is something of concern, something which would merit improvement or fixing. As with diseases, they are always worth paying attention to, and unwise to ignore or dismiss. Why is this fairly lengthy exploration of how dissent reflects diversity and shapes democracy and mirrors disease important? Because, as much of the world endures the second wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic, it is clear that there is great heterogeneity. The symptoms vary widely, as do the profiles of people affected, as do theories about the modes of transmission. So too, do recommended treatment regimens, vaccine availabilities, mutations, rates of transmission, resources available, outcomes and disabilities resultant therefore. Teeming groups of experts from various fields have been trying, and will continue to try, to examine this heterogeneous data and decipher the signal from the background noise. There is great diversity in exposures, courses and outcomes. Some of this diversity is natural. Much more is man-made, and perhaps could have been avoided with better mask hygiene and consistent social distancing. The world’s two largest democracies conducted rallies and elections, on differing scales, during this period, for instance. And where there is such diversity in a pandemic, including in access to vaccines and treatment, it was perhaps inevitable that there would be dissent and differences of opinions on the best way to go about addressing the disease itself. Covid-19 may have often been called the great equalizer but it has often been anything but, often amplifying existing social and economic disparity based upon age, sex, race, religion, community, urbanization and several other factors, all across the world. Where there was a widening of such disparity, amidst disease and death, there was bound to be dissatisfaction and dissent. There has been discussion about whether such dissent is to be tolerated or not, or if expressing criticism of how healthcare systems or governing bodies are handling the crisis is disloyal or even anti-national. Based upon recent verdicts by the Supreme Court of India and addresses by Justice D. Gupta and Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, dissent continues to fall well within the purview of the constitutional rights of the citizens of India. That said citizens may express this right to dissent and thus express disapproval of, dissatisfaction with, and disagreement with governance while grappling with disease and death is perhaps, to be expected. In fact, the rule of psychosocial and political well-being is mutually respected dissent or agreeing to disagree for better solutions. That most people with Covid-19 may be asymptomatic or recover uneventfully is true. It is, however, of very little comfort until lasting solutions to the pandemic are found. Reports of the pandemic, whether in scientific literature or in popular media, may undoubtedly be distressing, but even more so would be turning our faces away from our fellow humans in their suffering. This is as true of developed countries as it is of developing countries. Unhappiness does not occur in a vacuum. There is usually a very real, very evocative context. Our current context is the long Covid. Positivity and productivity may be possible in this context, but are often accompanied by privilege and must be recognized as such. Dissent is certainly not convenient at present. It is, however, a potent indicator of this unhappiness and that things could and should certainly be better. It may not be welcome, but it exists. It is certainly worth paying attention to. It is certainly worth listening to. May we listen — to ourselves and to each other. Debanjan Banerjee and Migita D’Cruz are consultant psychiatrists in Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
01-07-2021||Opinion||Estranged partners||Five years after the fateful referendum on June 23, 2016, what is the current balance sheet of Brexit? Answer: two weakened unions, the British and the European, and bad-tempered relations between them. The weakening of the British union is obvious. There will be another referendum on Scottish independence within the next few years. Scottish nationalists may win it with the argument that Scotland should leave the British union to rejoin the European one. A vote in Northern Ireland on Irish unification seems more likely than at any point since it was first provided for in the Belfast agreement in 1998. Boris Johnson’s government is full of rhetoric about keeping the union together but has no strategy for doing so. The negative economic consequences of Brexit have been hidden by the impact of the pandemic but some are now emerging from the Covid fog. Official figures show that British exports of food and drink to the European Union declined by nearly 50 per cent in the first quarter of 2021. An academic study has estimated that the United Kingdom’s exports of services were cumulatively £113 billion lower over the four years of 2016 to 2019 than they would have been if the country had not quit the EU. Despite the glorious photo opportunities offered by the recent G7 summit in Cornwall, Britain’s international influence is clearly diminished. In Cornwall, the UK and the United States of America promulgated a New Atlantic Charter to mark the 80th anniversary of the original Atlantic Charter signed by Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1941. An inoffensive catalogue of good intentions, it nonetheless invites a painful comparison between the global influence of Britain then and now. Countries like Germany and France see their strategic future in the ‘European sovereignty’ of the EU, the very organization that Britain has just left. It is less immediately obvious that the EU has been weakened. Some in Brussels and Paris even suggest the opposite, arguing that it is easier to agree on further steps of European integration after getting rid of the pesky Brits. Indeed, perhaps the greatest unity ever achieved between member states of the EU has been in their negotiations with Brexiting Britain. But if you want a ‘geopolitical’ Europe, one that can hold its own against a superpower like China, then losing a large member state with the financial, diplomatic, military and other assets of the UK is a big loss. Objectively, the Union’s external strength is diminished at precisely the moment it needs to be increased. Moreover, levels of Euroscepticism are alarmingly high in core member states. The vote share of Eurosceptic parties in the EU has more than doubled in the two decades since 2000. In a recent ECFR poll, more than 50 per cent of French, Germans, Italians and Spanish said they think the political system of the EU is ‘broken’ rather than ‘working well’. Only 46 per cent of German respondents and just 38 per cent of French said it was a good thing for their country to be a member of the EU. These views are not a result of Brexit. Rather, they are a product of concerns similar to those that drove many Brits towards Brexit. But they are sharpened by the fact that there is now a large former member state with which to compare the EU’s performance. The figures in that ECFR poll are almost certainly so high because it was conducted in April this year when the contrast between the UK’s and the EU’s vaccine roll-out performance was most stark. In polling done by eupinions for my Oxford research group a month earlier, 45 per cent of Europeans said they thought that the European commission had handled the procurement and distribution of vaccines badly. According to the Dutch scholar, Catherine E. de Vries, Euroscepticism across the continent works by benchmarking  and Brexit provides a big new benchmark. Even if most Europeans think that Brexit is a mistake overall, they can still see post-Brexit Britain doing better in individual areas. Vaccines are not the only one. This brings us to the problem of bad relations across the Channel. Most continental Europeans talk very little about Britain at the moment and then only with bewilderment, irritation or contempt. In the most astonishing finding in the ECFR poll, just 14 per cent of German respondents said they see the UK as an ally of Europe, an ally being defined as “a country that shares our interests and values”. A larger number (20 per cent) preferred to describe Britain as a rival. True, 34 per cent viewed Britain as a “necessary partner” of Europe, but then 31 per cent said that about Russia and 28 per cent about China. Here, you have to distinguish between inevitable and avoidable cross-Channel tensions. It is inevitable that there will be increased competition, especially as regulatory regimes diverge in some sectors. On Northern Ireland, it is a logical impossibility to have a closed border between Great Britain and the EU but an open border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, and the Republic of Ireland and the EU. The Northern Ireland protocol tries to square this circle with an awkward fudge. It was always going to need a lot of trust and goodwill to make it work  but that is precisely what is now lacking. The current level of mutual distrust and mud-slinging was anything but inevitable. Ninety per cent of the blame for this lies with the British government, especially with Boris Johnson and Britain’s lead negotiator, David Frost. The bombast. The point-scoring. The twisting and turning. The declared willingness to breach international law. The refusal to have any structured relationship with the EU as such beyond narrow implementation of the withdrawal and free-trade agreements. But a small part of the responsibility lies on the continental side, and particularly with the European Commission. I recently participated in an online meeting with a senior Commission official closely involved in relations with the UK. In tones of constant irritation, she repeatedly stressed that Britain is simply “a third country”. Of course that is the legal position, just as when two people divorce they become, legally speaking, third parties. But Britain and the EU were married for more than 45 years. Imagine someone who had been married for 45 years speaking of their former spouse as just “a third party”, a complete stranger. A more historically aware and strategic language should be heard from the EU’s political leaders, including the new German government after this autumn’s election. In the long run, we must work towards a Britain where a clear majority sees the point of being in the EU and an EU that is doing so well that even the sceptical, cussed English want to rejoin it. In the meantime, however, what we need in cross-Channel relations is the political equivalent of the famous prayer of the theologian, Reinhold Niebuhr: the courage to change what can be changed, the serenity to accept what cannot be changed, and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.  Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis cases, fatalities drop significantly in Jharkhand||Jharkhand has witnessed a significant drop in cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis and fatalities caused by the fungal infection, which the state notified as an epidemic last week following a heads up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state has not reported even a single mucormycosis-triggered casualty in the past fortnight, records with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlight. So far, the state has reported 26 mucormycosis deaths and the last casualty occurred on June 17, about 14 days ago. As many as seven confirmed and 11 suspected cases of the fungal infection have been reported in the state in the past 14 days, indicating that mucormycosis cases were gradually falling, health officials said on Thursday. IDSP data highlights that the recovery rate has also jumped to almost 70 per cent from around 45 per cent a fortnight ago. Of the 86 confirmed cases of infection reported in the state, at least 60 patients have recovered. However, at least 64 people in the state were under observation after suspected mucormycosis. “The recovery rate for mucormycosis is above 69 per cent now, and the fatality rate too has dropped significantly. But we cannot afford to be complacent as early diagnosis helps save a lot of lives and prevent complications,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per records with the health department, Ranchi reported 31 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and eight fatalities – the highest in the state. East Singhbhum reported 20 cases and five casualties, while Dhanbad reported six cases and two deaths. At least three of the four mucormycosis patients found in Ramgarh could not survive. Hazaribag also reported four cases and three casualties. Koderma and Bokaro reported three cases each. Even though black fungus cases and fatalities have dropped in the state, doctors warned against any complacency. Any person, especially Covid survivors and people with diabetes, experiencing symptoms of mucormycosis should immediately seek medical attention, they said. “Symptoms of fever, nasal congestion and partial facial swelling should not be taken lightly,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India in the past couple of months and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel foundation trains mountaineers for Olympics||A select group of young climbers are sweating out to iron out flaws under experienced hands at a special camp organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF). The 10-odd climbers, including an 11-year-old village boy, are training in the mornings and afternoons for nearly a month now at a cradle run by TSAF at the JRD Tata Sports Complex as the elite Jamshedpur-based adventure wants to prepare them for the state, zonal and national competitions. The climbers at the camp, among others, include siblings Aman and Anisha Verma who have donned India colours in international competitions. Others have claimed medals in zonal and national events. The sport climbing events will start getting on the tracks since the second wave of pandemic is waning and things are opening up. The TSAF has given accommodation to the campers inside the JRD Tata Sports Complex and also provided them with the required diet. “The camp is aimed at keeping our climbers prepared for the events ahead. We want them to be in fine fettle and fully fit to sustain the load of competitions. The camp is going on very well,” said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. The camp is being supervised by Bibhas Roy, a Calcutta-based route setter and assisted by two senior climbers.The campers are getting trained in the three separate categories of sport climbing – bouldering, speed and lead. With sport climbing included as one of the disciplines for next month’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, JapanTSAF is serious about backing its climbers to the hit by providing them adequate training and exposure front. The training is being imparted by keeping future Olympics in mind. “Olympic is a big event. We want to adequately train and provide exposure to climbers so that they can represent the country in the Olympics in future,” a TSAF official said. The adventure outfit, which boasts the only sport climbing in Jharkhand, sends its climbers to zonal and national competitions and also trains them under experienced hands. The climbers have proved their mettle in both zonal and national competitions and won all round applause for their skills. The TSAF has also planned a residential academy for sport climbing on the lines of archery and football cradles run by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. The spadework for the academy had started but things got stuck in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sport climbing has gained popularity in the steel city. School kids are showing interest in the event and a good number of them have joined the cradle run by the TSAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM geologist gets international recognition for work on Mars ||The research paper of P.K. Padhy, a 1979 batch MSc (Applied Geology) of IIT-ISM, highlighting the probable generation of oil and gas on Mars 3.5 billion years ago has drawn the attention of the world community. The Martian process of hydrocarbon generation highlighted in his paper is akin to the geological condition of the earth of the period of 1600 to 500 million years ago. The paper, titled Presence of Hydrocarbons on Mars, which was published in peer-reviewed international journal of American Association of Petroleum Geologists DEG, ‘Environmental Geosciences’ recently was appreciated by Michael Thorpe, the renowned NASA scientist as innovative during a Zoom meeting with Padhy, who is presently settled in Bhubaneshwar following retirement after 38 years of service in ONGC. Sharing the achievement during telephonic talk with The Telegraph Online today from Bhubaneswar, Padhy who has immense contribution to the hydrocarbon exploration scenario of India said the my research paper is based on a comparative geological phenomenon between Meso-Neoproterozoic (1600-540 million years) petroleum geology of Earth and the equivalent Amazonian and older periods of Mars of around 3.7 billion years ago. The comparative analysis of geological phenomenon of the two solar planets having a fair degree of geological similarity between the internal structure, orbital cycle, and axis tilt points enumerates the generation and entrapment of Hydrocarbons in Mars. “The research of mine based on the study conducted during my service of over 38 years further points that depositional morphology like alluvial fans, debris flow fans, deltas and lacustrine fans implies possible sedimentation processes active on early Mars like that of our own Earth” said Padhy. “The organic matter on Mars could be in-situ or could have been delivered by meteorites,” further said Padhy and added that deposition of source rock and subsequent decomposition of organic matter could have generated hydrocarbons in early Mars. “Similarly,the biogenic remains, amorphous organic matter, and algal filaments associated with the Proterozoic strata have generated hydrocarbons on Earth,” said Padhy. By analyzing the petroleum systems of Earth during Meso-Neoproterozoic (1600-540 million years) time, the research paper enumerates that Earth analogous early hydrocarbons might have been generated and  preserved  in ideal locales like the ancient Valles Marineris rift and crater-induced basins. Padhy carried out extensive geo-scientific interpretation work on various petroliferous basins of India. He published a number of scientific papers in national and international journals. He is amongst the earliest pioneers in evolving the concept of Oil Shale Exploration and Scope for “Neoproterozoic Oil Exploration” in India. Besides science, he has a special interest in literature, especially poetry (mainstream poetry and Japanese haikai), and has seven collections to his credit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu vows to keep her fight on against timber mafia||Green crusader Jamuna Tudu has renewed zeal in her fight to save forests even after a recent incident when over 40 plants sown by Van Suraksha Samity were stolen by unidentified individuals from Sunsunia jungle in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum. “We had sown plants in the jungle earlier last month. But most have been stolen while some were destroyed by unknown persons. But my team members are not going to stop our mission of saving forests. Plants would have helped increase the forest cover,” said the feisty Jamuna, a Padma Shri awardee. Speaking to The Telegraph Online from her village Maturkham in Chakulia block, 90 km from Jamshedpur, the well-known environmentalist pointed out incidents of tree felling has come down in her area. “I think people are slowly and steadily understanding the importance of conservation but still we are not going to sit quietly. I think some villagers must have stolen and damaged the plants sown by us. We have intensified our daily patrolling in  Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests to prevent such incidents in future,” the 35-year-old Jamuna said. Known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia, Jamuna would shortly plan a trip to West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan for spreading the wings of VSS. “The pandemic has stopped me from undertaking tours. Now things have begun to improve and travel restrictions have been lifted. It is time for me to venture out of Chakulia to spread the wings of VSS. I have already talked with some groups who are keen to join us in our mission,” she added. Formed in 1998, the Samiti is currently limited to East Singhbhum. It has over 300 women members in the district, including Bahragora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dalbhumgarh. VSS committees were formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Very few buses leave steel city on Day 1||A few intra-state buses, for various destinations like Ranchi, Bokaro and Ramgarh, plied from the Sitaramdera bus terminus here on Thursday, but passengers were too few in number. Chief patron of Jamshedpur Bus Owner's Association Upendra Sharma said, "The government notification regarding relaxations in lockdown rules reached us late in the night. Many bus operators were not aware of the lifting of restrictions on inter-district bus services. They came to know about it only on Thursday morning. Therefore, less number of buses plied." Sharma said they were expecting good seat occupancy in the next two to three days. Around 350 inter-district buses operate from Sitaramdera, Kolhan's largest bus terminus, on a daily basis. Sharma also hinted at a hike in bus fare. "We are contemplating a bus fare hike due to rising fuel costs. A minimum of 40 per cent hike has been proposed. A decision in this regard will be taken soon," he said. Members of the association also demanded concessions on road tax. "We have been facing a difficult time since last year because of the pandemic and lockdowns. Unable to bear losses, several bus owners shifted to other businesses to earn their livelihood," said another member of the association. Passengers seemed relieved over resumption of inter-district bus services after almost three months. "I had to hire a car to go to Ranchi for business purposes which was expensive. But now with restoration of the inter-district bus services, I can opt for a bus journey to the capital," said Akhilesh Pandey, a local trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cinemas will reopen on July 27, banking on 'Bell Bottom'||Cinema halls in Ranchi are unlikely to resume operations until this month-end even though the state government has allowed their opening  with 50 per cent capacity after over two months of lockdown in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. While announcing certain relaxations on Wednesday, the Hemant Soren government did not allow inter-state bus services to resume, but intra-state buses have been allowed to start plying. A few buses plied between Ranchi and Jamshedpur on Thursday, but the bulk of the operations are expected to start from Friday. Anand Jalan, chairman of the film, art & culture sub-committee of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said that following discussions with most hall-owners in Ranchi, it has been decided that film screeings will resume from July 27. “No major films are likely to get released immediately. Akshay Kumar-starrer Bell Bottom is the next big release on July 27. So, that is the time when most of the screens in the capital are expected to sizzle again. Opening halls any earlier will mean unnecessary expense as no one is expecting any immediate footfall," he said. Jalan said cinema managements would use this time to reorganise logistics and manpower. Ranchi has around 20 film screens comprising big multiplexes and single-screen theatres. There are 80 movie halls in the state in all. “We are looking at a similar reopening schedule in other towns of the state too,” Jalan said, adding that the business of flim screenning had suffered the most in last  year owing successive lockdowns. An official of Popkorn Cinema, a multi-screen facility at Ratu Road, said, “Per month, our fixed monthly bill is at least Rs 1 lakh. In the last 12 months, the hall barely functioned even for 30 days. Imagine our plight,” he said. Among the other relaxations announced on Wednesday, bars and restaurants were permitted to reopen with 50 per cent capacity while markets can stay open till 8pm everyday. But the state government will continue with the practice of a complete lockdown over the weekend from 8pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday. As for bus services, close to 2,000 buses that ply from Ranchi daily are expectd to resume operations from Friday. Krishna Mohan Singh, president of Ranchi Bus Owner’s Association, said, “We will resume from tomorrow (Friday) as everyone was busy today (Thursday) getting the fleet ready for operations.” On the prescribed protocols, Singh said, “As per our understanding, buses will run to full capacity from Thursday with Covid appropriate norms in place. The state government notification hasn't put a cap on number of passengers. Even if we were to run on 50 per cent capacity, people will suffer as they will have to pay extra in the light of high fuel prices.” A few eateries of Ranchi began dine-in facilities from Thursday with 50 per cent capacity. Others are expected to open in the next few days. A staffer with Kanha, a restaurant at Morabadi, said, “We have started dine-in operations, but people are still in favour of home delivery. Barely three persons  came to our restaurant for lunch. But we got 30 orders for home delivery."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 85 new cases, but 5 districts draw a blank ||Jharkhand reported as many as 85 new  Covid-19 cases on Wednesday while 120 Covid patients recovered, bringing the state's active caseload down to 914, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least five districts – Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamau, Pakur and Dumka – did not report fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Wednesday, while East Singhbhum reported the highest spike of 17 cases. However, East Singhbhum also reported 22 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 103, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Covid-19 vaccination numbers dropped significantly in the state on Wednesday owing to a crisis of vaccines. As per government data, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to only 13,775 residents and the second dose to 4,150 residents. In the past one week, the state vaccinated at least 1 lakh residents every day on an average. As per data with the health department, Bokaro reported 10 cases and Ranchi reported eight cases of Covid-19 on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 251 on Wednesday as at least nine patients recovered from Covid-19. As many as 48 patients were battling the viral infection in Bokaro by the end of Wednesday. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 47,995 residents and less than 0.2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.25 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. The growth rate of Covid cases on Wednesday dropped to 0.02 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 2878.86 days against the national doubling rate of 639.68 days, NHM stated in its bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt mulls ordinance for panchayati raj institutions||The Jharkhand government is likely to bring in an ordinance soon to ensure that panchayati raj institutions can continue functioning in the state. The present term of the rural bodies expires on July 15. “We will surely find a way out before that,” state rural development and panchayati raj minister Alamgir Alam told The Telegraph. Sources said an ordinance is being considered unavoidable because the panchayat elections that were due in December last year could not been held due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As the term of the office-bearers of the rural bodies was scheduled to end by the first week of January this year, the government took a decision to set up working committees with the elected representatives as members for another six months, expecting the panchayat elections would be conducted within that time. But the polls could not be conducted as the country and the state had to grapple with the ravaging second wave of the pandemic and the situation remains far from favourable for holding elections to nearly 4,400 gram panchayats and other rural bodies at block and district levels. The situation has put the government in a fix. While the term of the working committees constituted in January expires on July 15, the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act also does not have any provision for granting a second extension of their term. Asked if the issue was taken up at the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Alam said: “It would have been done but we had to withhold because approval from certain other departments couldn’t be received.” “At this stage, passing an ordinance seems like the only alternative left,” said Ajay Kumar Singh, mukhiya of Bundu panchayat under Petarwar block of Bokaro district which has won national awards for best performing rural bodies in different categories. “Its true that the situation is not favourable for holding panchayat polls. But the government also couldn’t keep development process in rural areas on hold indefinitely,” he said. “Besides, the Centre would not release more funds for rural development if the previous allotment was not spent under the supervision of elected representatives and unless the utilisation reports were signed by them,” he added. He also pointed out that the absence of panchayat bodies would mean that the government would be deprived of the contributions of a huge number of representatives at the gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad level who implement welfare schemes in rural areas. “But an ordinance is surely not a solution and the panchayat elections have to be held whenever the situation improves,” Singh said, adding that he hoped the pandemic would end soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Elgaar Parishad case: NHRC seeks report on Swamy jail care||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought an action taken report from the superintendent of prisons in connection with the alleged denial of medical facilities to octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. Fr Stan, 84, is presently undergoing treatment under custody at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. The NHRC has sought the report from the prison authorities within four weeks from the date of receipt of the letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph. NHRC assistant registrar (law) Subhra Tyagi had sent an email to the prison authorities on June 26. Jesuit lawyer from Tamil Nadu, Father Santhanam A, had moved the NHRC in May drawing attention to the alleged denial of medical facilities to Fr Stan during the pandemic despite showing Covid-like symptoms of cold, fever, body pain and diarrhoea. He had also said an ayurveda doctor was treating Fr Stan and sought the intervention of the NHRC in the matter. The lawyer had also claimed that a majority of the jail staff, especially those working in the kitchen, and a number of undertrial prisoners had tested Covid-positive. Fr Stan was also diagnosed with Covid on May 30 after an RT-PCR test at the Holy Family Hospital, Bandra. He had been vaccinated on May 18 at the jail when he allegedly had fever. “Father Stan Swamy is suffering from Parkinson’s, loss of hearing and was also having fever, cough and trouble in his stomach. He was not even vaccinated. It was only after (the) Bombay High Court order on May 28 that he was shifted to Holy Family Hospital and was diagnosed as Covid positive. He has been in prison since October 9, 2020, and was vaccinated despite him having fever which is against medical protocol. The situation is the same with other 15 co-accused in the same case. We want the prison authorities to know that they cannot escape as an independent body is now watching over them,” said Fr Santhanam. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. Father Joe Xavier, director of Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, who is coordinating with Jesuits on Fr Stan’s matter, told this newspaper that the priest was shifted to the ICU at Holy Family Hospital on Tuesday because of health complications. Bombay High Court had on June 17 extended Fr Stan’s stay in the private hospital till July 5 as he continues to remain critical and requires intensive care. The next hearing of the bail petition of Fr Stan will be taken up by the high court on July 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand DGP’s plan to reduce digital divide||⚫A second-year student of mathematics honours at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College, Aishwarya Reddy, 19, had asked for a laptop, even a second-hand one, to continue her online classes during the Covid lockdown. But her father, a motorcycle mechanic, could not fulfil her request. In November last year, Aishwarya allegedly committed suicide at her home in Telangana, calling herself a “burden to her family” in a purported suicide note. She had scored 98.5 per cent in Class XII. ⚫ Eleven-year-old Tulsi Kumari, a Class V student at the government-run middle school in Bagunhatu in Jamshedpur, sold mangoes by the roadside so that she can buy a new smartphone to attend online classes. Her father had fractured his legs in a mishap and she was staying at an outhouse in Bistupur. Her video was shared widely on social media leading to a Mumbai-based businessman not only buying a dozen mangoes from her for Rs 10,000 each but also arranging a smartphone and a tutor. The two cases have made Jharkhand director-general of police Niraj Sinha take an innovative step to bridge the digital divide hampering students by constituting “smartphone banks” in all police stations across the state. “These two cases really disturbed me and made me think about developing smartphone banks for helping our meritorious and poor students who are deprived of online classes due to lack of devices as almost all educational institutions are closed due to the Covid-induced lockdown. I have asked my colleagues for suggestions based on my request for setting up smartphone banks. We shall make improvements and carry the initiative forward after gauging the response,” Sinha, a 1987-batch IPS officer, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. A directive issued by Sinha on Wednesday to the senior superintendents of police of Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Dhanbad and superintendents of police in the remaining 21 districts asked them to start smartphone banks at all police stations (over 527 in the state). “The smartphone banks have to be set up at all police stations and also at the district-level where (interested) people can deposit their second-hand and used laptops, smartphones and even desktops. The police station officials will have to maintain a daily register of the equipment deposited and also submit a receipt of the items to the users so that they can be assured that in case of misuse of the gadgets they will not be held legally responsible,” the directive said. The daily register would contain the name and address of the depositor, IMEI number of the mobile phone, unique identity number of laptop, date and time of depositing the gadgets, etc. The collected gadgets should be deposited at the earliest to the district-level smartphone banks. “The gadgets would be given to poor but meritorious students based on the written recommendation of principal or educational institution heads. The principal or institutional heads should provide written certification about income group of the student, unavailability of gadgets and academic performance,” the directive said. While giving the gadgets, the district police should take a letter from the students containing their name, address, educational institution’s name, smartphone IMEI number or laptop unique ID and date and time of receipt of the items. According to Manis Kumar Jha, principal scientist at the CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur, who is doing research on electronic waste recycling, Jharkhand generates four million metric tonnes of e-waste annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand relaxes lockdown curbs, bars and restaurants to open with 50% capacity||Cinema halls, bars and restaurants will now be able to resume with 50 percent capacity in the state as the Jharkhand government on Wednesday gave its nod for their operations as part of the unlock ahead of the expiry of the ongoing phase of partial lockdown (health safety week) at 6am on Thursday. While the state government has decided to go for another edition of complete lockdown from 8pm on Saturday night till 6am on Monday, it has allowed extension of time frame for all kinds of business entities in the state to 8pm from the existing 4 pm cap on normal days, as per the communiqué from the state IPRD department. The state government has also provided its consent for resumption on intra-state bus movements but curbs will continue on interstate bus movements. Private and public offices can operate with 50 percent capacity whereas banquet and community halls cannot have gatherings of more than 50 persons, thereby allowing more assimilation of people than the existing cap of 11 persons for marriage or other activities. However, organisation of socio-religious processions will remain banned in the state. All examinations held by the state government stands suspended but those held by the union government are allowed with prescribed Covid-19 norms, informed the communiqué. Religious places will continue to remain closed for devotees. While e-passes are not required for moving in private vehicles between one district to another within the state, it will continue to remain in force for inter-state movements. The state government has also ended 7-day mandatory quarantine rule for those coming into the state but they will be subjected to thorough Covid-19 testing, read the communiqué, adding that all other prescribed Covid appropriate behaviour will continue to remain functional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
