02-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Block resident committees asked to be on watchdog duty after New Town security scare||The shootout at Sukhobrishti has once again raised concern about security in the twin townships. While New Town residents are rattled at the thought of criminals staying in their midst for months, those in Salt Lake are alarmed at learning that the gangsters killed in the June 9 encounter had lived in a CL Block guest house in May before moving out. The police and administration are now holding discussions with committees of blocks and complexes, asking them to collate and share details of all tenants living in their guesthouses and PG accommodations. The committees, however, say this is easier said than done. A meeting was held at the New Town police station on Wednesday evening where block representatives voiced their problems in presence of deputy commissioner, New Town, Bishop Sarkar, inspector in charge (IC), New Town police station, Sanat Das and IC, Technocity police station, Anindya De. Assistant commissioner of police, Rajarhat, Paresh Ray also attended the meeting. New Town security scare Some New Town blocks, like AE Block, had started taking protective measures even before the police meeting. “Right after the Sukhobrishti incident, we had asked residents on our WhatsApp group to submit details of their tenants. Barely six or seven responded. This Sunday, a governing body meeting was held to discuss ways of implementing the directives. We have seven-eight lanes of our block and will hold four camps to hand over the forms to each house. We will also float a Google form to collect details of presidents and secretaries of co-operative housings within a week,” said Debmalya Shome, assistant secretary of New Town AE Block Cultural and Social Welfare Association. CE Block has appointed a representative in each lane who will distribute the forms to the houses. “Though the police have asked information only on tenants and brokers, we have also added caretakers to the list,” said Alok Das, secretary of CE Block Cultural Association. But the police’s insistence on proof of their permanent address countersigned by the local panchayat pradhan is proving to be a hurdle. “If they now ask the tenants to produce proof of permanent residence as well, the process will get delayed.” Das suggests connecting Aadhaar cards to the forms in lieu of address proof. Blocks under duress CE Block is also appointing two night guards. “There was a theft in our block last night. That has expedited the decision,” Das said, adding that they expected the whistle-blowing guards to act as deterrents against wrong-doers and be in touch with the local police station in emergencies. “Mark my words, once the gated communities become hard to penetrate, miscreants will choose to stay in residential blocks where vigil is lax,” said Shome. Indeed the police had come to search a guest house in AI Block, New Town recently. “A combined team of New Town and Midnapore police reached the block around 11pm, looking for a miscreant in a guest house. Though he could not be found there, it struck us later that the manager of the guest house had misbehaved with our members when they went there to collect puja subscription last year. ‘Amader byabostha achhey. (Apnara) Dakleo keu ashbe na,’ they had said, dropping dark hints of connections in influential quarters. It is alright if people do not want to pay chanda but it is difficult to accept such rude behaviour. How will we make such people share information with us?” says Anjan Sarkar, general secretary of ALAKAI Block Cultural and Welfare Association, which comprises three blocks. AI Block, he pointed out, has a large number of individual plots. “There are 40-50 guesthouses in that block alone. The location is very convenient, being close to the Major Arterial Road and Salt Lake. Many people have bought plots or apartments simply as investment without any plans of settling here,” said Sarkar. The lack of information can lead to panic under the pandemic situation. “In AK Block, a big vehicle used to come at night, dropping off strangers and picking up a few. “This was at the height of the national lockdown last year. Much later we found out that they were staff members of Tata Medical Center, which had rented the house.” Missing landlord There is a building in AE Block where not a single owner lives. It has been handed to a company which lets out rooms to paying guests. “We have faced problems in such buildings. The paying guests do not listen to the caretaker and have strangers coming in. We failed to elicit any response from the owner. Now that the administration is also taking an interest, we will push for data collection,” Shome said. Many doubt whether the data collection drive will be a success. “We are toothless,” said Parthasarathi Adak acidly. The former assistant secretary of BD Block Cultural Association attended the police meetings with the current secretary. “They should have spelt out what we can do if residents refuse to comply.” Sarkar of ALAKAI pointed out that many residents either do not take membership of the block association or do not bother to renew the initial membership. “I have never seen the owner of the building opposite mine. All three floors are let out and even the tenants keep changing. Forget membership, we have no clue about the identity or whereabouts of the owners in such cases.” Shome pointed out that the block committees lacked authority. “If any landlord refuses to share tenant information with us, we can’t force their hand. Who knows who enjoys what kind of political influence! Will NKDA or the police protect us if there is an altercation?” he said. The only way there will be positive impact, he feels, is if the authorities provide adequate support. “I hope the police keep their promise of meeting us periodically. That way, the message will percolate, both to the landlords and the brokers.” Sarkar wants the authorities to keep strict vigil on buildings being used for commercial purposes. “People bought the plots at cheap rates and turned them into wedding venues and guest houses.” He also wants the police to knock at the doors of defaulters. “If they tick off the first few who fail to share information with us, the others will comply.” Lack of para culture Adak of BD Block feels the NKDA needs to make membership of the block association mandatory for the committee to have any voice. “Out of 200-plus occupants in 450-plus ready flats, we have 105 members. Of them, about 50 bothered to take membership only recently, lured by our vaccination initiatives and other help amid the pandemic. Unless we are invested with some authority, this handing of papers will be an eyewash.” The lack of a place to meet is something every block committee was itching to bring up in case they were given a chance to speak at the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre meet with the NKDA and police top brass. Adak, a former resident of EE Block in Salt Lake, misses the block association-run community centres keenly. He rules out holding meetings in residences of members amid the pandemic. “We have to meet in small numbers in the garage spaces of buildings or spend from our pockets to erect a pandal if we have to call everyone. Such is the situation that we might have to install a bamboo pole macha permanently at the street corner for us to sit on in the evening,” the BD Block resident adds acidly. Shome is ready to compromise to get a community hall. “If the NKDA is unwilling to hand over control to us, let them keep the booking rights but give us a place to meet. How else do they expect para culture to grow here?” he suggests. Banking on brokers Information on brokers is another responsibility the block RWAs are unwilling to shoulder. “Are we going to walk up to youths having tea at roadside stalls and ask if they were brokers? We can at best ask the co-operative buildings to share information on the broker involved if any of their members are letting off their flat,” said Das of CE Block. The muscle man-like profiles of the brokers also make many uneasy. “Golay chain, hatey bala… Who is going to face up to them?” Sarkar wonders. “Why don’t the police run background checks on them and issue identity cards instead of leaving it to us? We are just a bunch of retired folk volunteering for the job,” he says. Debashis Ghosh, who has been a broker in New Town for nine years, says the police has had a word with them after the shootout. “Ethical brokers always include details of both the landlord and tenant in the contract agreement and hand over a copy of the same to the police. There must have been some lacuna in the Sukhobrishti case,” says Ghosh. “Either way, we have become more vigilant after the incident. I’m entertaining only families of IT or government sector employees. Single men or businessmen are a no-no for the time being. We don’t want trouble.” Another broker, who operates in Salt Lake and New Town, said he always shares the identity documents of tenants with the police. “The cops even demand a bribe to give us the go-ahead,” he said, adding that he had not received any briefing from the police after the shootout. Police speak At Wednesday’s meeting with the police, the block representatives further pointed out that the guidelines handed to them at the meeting of block and housing complex representatives convened at the convention centre on June 24 were geared towards the gated communities. “We do not have the financial resources to install CCTV cameras at entry and exit points or maintain a register of visitors,” they said. Several also complained of non-cooperation from building owners or caretakers when they approached them with the forms to be filled up with details of tenants and brokers. DC, New Town, Bishop Sarkar, assured them that a fresh set of guidelines would be framed keeping the requirements of the blocks and co-operative housing complexes in mind. Officers of the police stations would visit the blocks at regular intervals to meet and maintain liaison with residents. “To minimise chances of forgery, you can ask tenants to download their Aadhaar card using the one-time password on their mobile number linked to the card and submit a colour photocopy of that to you.” He also promised to speak to the NKDA on the complaints voiced by several blocks of guest houses coming up on residential plots. “There is a practice of youngsters renting a flat in a group while the agreement of the landlord is with just one of them. In such cases, you might add a line in the agreement you draw up with your tenant or paying guest mentioning the names of the other adults who would be staying there. That way, we have a record of all the people staying there.” “You have to be our eyes and ears. We do not have a magic wand to gain access to information that even you do not have about your next-door neighbour. Report to us whatever seems amiss in the neighbourhood,” urged Sarkar. Salt Lake canal-side alert The blocks along the Kestopur Canal and Eastern Drainage Canal said they were rather vulnerable. “Ours is the last block in Salt Lake and criminals can easily escape by crossing the canal and heading any which way they please. No wonder the Sukhobrishti gangsters took refuge here,” said Dipankar Mitra, assistant secretary of CK-CL block. He added that the guest house in question had been a nuisance for years. “Their guests threw loud parties late at night, smashed liquor bottles outside…. We have been complaining about them for long but no action was taken.” The committee is now determined to turn things around. “Push has come to shove. We shall hold drives in the block and, if need be, assign volunteers in different lanes but we have to be up to date with information,” said Mitra, adding that they were also expecting a police post around the Metro station in their block to deal with the post-pandemic crowd of outsiders. Thefts have been reported over the past few days in blocks like CJ, CG blocks and Sarat Abasan. “The other night someone tried to steal the battery of a car parked in our block. The owner raised an alarm and the thief fled but we are living in fear. Our block has three footbridges across the canal and the canalside too has got encroached. Not just PGs, we want to know the antecedents of these slum dwellers,” said secretary of Sarat Abasan Soumen Kumar Dutta. “We want CCTVs and police patrol too.” Doubtful Response Salt Lake’s CD Block had tried to float a “know your neighbourhood” form in 2018-19, asking residents to submit details of domestic helps, their cars etc. “We didn't get back enough response to make a solid report and so there’s little hope of success now,” says executive committee member Arunabha Hazra. “Moreover, most landlords are elderly and will not make the trip all the way to the police station to submit documents. Had the form been online, they could have at least requested someone to fill it up for them.” Pabitra Biswas, secretary of AJ blocks, admits they may fail. “Salt Lake has two kinds of residents. Those who have lived here for decades have a sense of belonging and want to contribute to the community’s safety but the PGs only return home to sleep at night. They neither know the block committee members nor care to fill up any form,” he says. Tax trouble It’s an open secret that many homes in Salt Lake do not declare their tenants and paying guests, in a bid to save on taxes. “Such residents will get caught if they fill up the police’s forms now,” explains secretary of CA Block, Jibadip Bhadury. “We have no authority to force them. At most we can inform the police about these houses and ask them to keep a close watch.” HA Block executive committee member Tarasankar Chatterjee agrees. “Taxes are the reason no one wants to share details of tenants in their houses and garages. Plus, at a time when we aren’t even able to hold block meetings for fear of Covid, how can the authorities expect us to go ringing every doorbell asking for Aadhar cards and the like! I doubt the success of this initiative,” he says. Where there’s a will Then again there is Jal Vayu Vihar, a complex at the edge of Salt Lake bordering the EM Bypass and Eastern Drainage Canal, that has always been particular about safety. “I am proud to say that we have never reported a theft in our complex and we take many measures to ensure this,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice-chairman, board of directors, Jal Vayu Vihar. First, they do not allow brokers to find tenants and only go by personal references. “We prefer families with defence background and allow them in only after interviews and police verifications. Our domestic helps need to submit their ID proof, attested by the local councillor. I strongly encourage other blocks to enforce this.” What are your suggestions to ensure that a Sukhobrishti-like incident does not happen in your locality? Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||NKDA gets machine for free dengue tests||An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) reader was installed for testing of dengue at New Town Health Centre at the Utility Building last Friday. “We intensify our dengue clean-up drives in monsoon. Our door-to-door influenza-like-illness survey has begun with the onset of the rains. Since Aedes mosquitoes that transmit dengue breed in clear stagnant water, we are also creating awareness about not allowing water to stagnate on rooftops of people’s houses or at construction sites. We also monitor Metro Rail tracks using drones,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen after the inauguration of the machine on Friday. The first lot of reports were handed over on the day. The test samples will be collected from 10am to 12noon and reports will be given out the same day between 3pm and 5pm. “Emergencies will be attended to beyond this hour,” an official said. The test, which costs around Rs 1,200 in private laboratories, will be free here. So long, samples for dengue detection in New Town were sent to Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid screening camp organised at Labony containment zone||A screening camp was held for immediate neighbours and contacts on Monday after four residents tested positive for Covid-19 at Labony Estate. The building in D Block, facing the street outside, has been barricaded as a micro containment zone. With the administration trying to put a cap on the spread of Covid 19 in the township, this is the third such zone to come up in Salt Lake over the last seven days. While the first zone was demarcated on June 24, with four houses — BF 166 to 170 — cordoned off on First Avenue, two more were added the next day. The second is in the same block, at BF 315. Four pavement stalls have been removed due to their proximity to the first floor of the building which overlooks them. Three of the stalls, two of them selling milk and the other fruits, have been relocated but a tea stall has been asked to shut down. Tea stalls, where clients habitually take their masks off, have always been considered super spreader venues. “The lady running the stall had herself been infected with the virus last year, towards the start of the first wave,” a resident recalled. On Monday, rapid antigen tests were conducted by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on 56 people, including sweepers and stall-keepers of the area. Though the results came negative for everyone, the police is keeping strict vigil. Commissioner Supratim Sarkar himself visited the area on Saturday. PCR vans with two cops from the Bidhannagar north police station have been stationed at each of the three containment zones round the clock. Residents are happy with the arrangement. “Labony had been majorly affected in the second wave, with a period at the peak of the wave in May seeing as many as 20-22 families testing positive around the same time,” said Sumit Sarkar, general secretary of Labony Abashik Samity. The complex has 700 flats. At the BF Block containment zone, five members of a family had tested positive soon after another in the adjacent house got infected. “Though the first patient has recently recovered, we did not want to take a chance and included the neighbouring houses too in the containment zone,” said a police officer. The building at an extremity of the barricade houses a pre-school and offices, so is shut anyway. North 24-Parganas has the highest number of micro containment zones in the state, numbering 83.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||World Yoga Day marked through online events||A webinar held on World Yoga Day discussed how the practices can clear lungs, build immunity and also keep co-morbidities at bay. “The pranayam of controlled breathing through a nostril at a time — anulom vilom — has become quite popular during the pandemic and many are performing it, but there are others like jalandar bandha and sheetali pranayam that are beneficial too,” said Mriganka Sankar Poddar, an ardent practitioner of yoga and professor of philosophy at Mahadevananda Mahavidyalaya in Barrackpore. Poddar was a speaker at the webinar conducted jointly by the college and AB Block-based Rama Ghosh and Sunil Chandra Ghosh Memorial Trust. He explained how the jalandar bandha (chin lock) increases the capacity of the lungs, sheetali pranayam (cooling breath) increase lung power. “The bhastrika pranayam further clears congestion from the lungs,” he said, demonstrating asanas like noukasana (boat pose) and bhujangasana (cobra pose) that would help reduce obesity and control co-morbidities. “But yoga is not just about physical health. Consistent practice makes one spiritual.” A student, Sonali Nag, then performed a dance to Shivtandav stotra exclusively using yogic asanas. “While I have never learnt yoga formally, I learn Bharatnatyam, a dance that requires much flexibility. While choreographing the song, I realised many poses are similar. I used the Natarajasana and steps from the surya namaskar,” said the undergraduate student. Students of physical education demonstrated some asanas and explained their benefits and Pratiti Ghosh, head of the department of physiology, West Bengal State University, debated whether yoga and modern medicines are contradictory or complementary. “Modern medicine is used more in times of emergency. It is curative, used after one acquires a disease. Yoga, on the other hand, is preventive and, if practised consistently for some months, improves aspects like one’s cardio vascular and neurological state as also endocrine gland secretion, digestion, posture, immunity etc,” she said. She added that modern medical tests like MRI and EEG had scanned the brains of people in meditation and during pranayam, and found them to become calmer, more alert, with increased concentration. “Today yoga has been moulded into gymnastics, dance, Bikram hot Yoga… In its true form, the difference between sports and yoga is that the latter also provides mental and spiritual benefits.” Principal Nayan Kumar Sarkar advocated not just starting yoga young but incorporating it in one’s daily routine. “People are usually too lazy to work out, say they have no time or lack the motivation after one or two days. But if it becomes a part of your routine like brushing your teeth you will never skip it,” says the daily practitioner of asanas. “Also, just like many turn to Rabindrasangeet only on pochishe Baisakh, they turn to yoga only on June 21. This must change.” Arijit Karmakar, a teacher at the college and managing trustee of the AB Block-based Trust that partnered the webinar, said one of the aims of their group was to promote health and wellness. “If it wasn’t for the pandemic, we might have held yoga camps across blocks in Salt Lake but for now online events will have to do,” he said. On the eve of World Yoga Day, enthusiasts signed up for an online contest organised by the Uniworld City-based Art of Mind and Body Yoga. The centre is run by instructor Ritu Singh, who has shifted to online classes during the pandemic. “We held the contest on June 20 as it was a Sunday,” said Singh. “We had two categories — for those over and under the age of 40. Contenders had to perform a set of four compulsory asanas and one of their choice. I, along with two more judges, watched and marked the online event on Zoom.” The contest drew about 50 participants. Mukti Gupta, a resident of Rosedale Garden, won in the 40-plus category. “I was an athlete in college but my five years of practising yoga with Ritu has increased my flexibility and made me fit. That I managed all chores without a domestic  help during the lockdown is all thanks to yoga,” she said. Kirti Parashar of Uniworld City came second in the category and credited yoga for keeping her thyroid in check. There were participants from the US, Europe and Australia too. Ragini Bhowmik, a former student of the institute whose parents still live at Uniworld City, won best chakrasana, having performed it from Switzerland. The contest gave students something to look forward to, said Singh. “They started practising their asanas ever since the contest was announced. In fact, they perfected tougher asanas like Natarajasana and chakrasana while stumbling with easier ones like paschimottanasana and gomukhasana.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town Citizens Welfare Fraternity distributes oxygen, oxymeter at Rajarhat villages||Oxygen cylinders and pulse oxymeters were handed over to eight club representatives from villages on the fringes of New Town on June 24. “New Town will prosper only if villages around us prosper. Tackling this pandemic is a public health movement. So we need to work unitedly,” said assistant secretary of New Town Citizens Welfare Fraternity Sudarshan Ray at a programme held at Eastern Centre, the community hall of Eastern High on the Major Arterial Road. The forum of New Town residents also offered to hold awareness drives in the areas. “Many of you have suggested printing and distributing leaflets in the vernacular in simple language. We can also do announcements on loud hailers. We can also sanitise your area and do intensive sanitisation in homes of the Covid-affected,” said Lutful Alam, the forum’s joint convenor. Satya Gopal Dey of Vikramshila Education Resource Society urged the club members to enforce Covid protocol in the area. “We cannot change the world but I can change myself. Also inspiration works much better than force. If you inspire the local shopkeepers and shoppers to wear masks in your local market, there will come a time when you will see there are zero Covid cases in your area for months,” said Dey told the club members. Roy, a doctor, pointed out some home truths. “Vaccine is not a medicine but a shield. Even if we take vaccine, we need to wear mask. Also it is better to wash hands with soap than use sanitisers repeatedly.” The recipients, the organisers pointed out, had been handling oxygen cylinders as Red Volunteers in their respective areas and so would not need training. The cylinders would have to be refilled at their own cost and returned after six months. Surab Mondal, a member of Jagadishpur Amra Sobai in Rajarhat Bishnupur, was happy to receive the cylinder. “Six people have died of Covid in our area. We arranged for oxygen for over 30 residents. At the peak of the second wave, when entire families were getting affected, oxygen suppliers told us that they could refill only if we could arrange for empty cylinders. Once we had to hire an ambulance just for the use of the oxygen in it. Having a cylinder in hand will be a big boost,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||DM Sumit Gupta inspects micro-containment, “high-risk” zones for dengue, Covid measures||Not just Covid, the authorities are also taking measures to check the incidence of dengue in the township. District magistrate of North 24- Parganas, Sumit Gupta, went for an inspection of micro-containment and “high-risk” zones of Salt Lake and Duttabad on Tuesday and also looked into the the measures being taken by the corporation to counter the outbreak of dengue in the township. Gupta was accompanied on his inspection by Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, Biswajit Panda, sub-divisional officer, Bidhannagar, and other senior civic and health officials. “This inspection was organised as monsoon is here and the dengue-causing Aedes Ageypti mosquitoes breed in stagnant fresh water. After a spell of rain, water accumulates in tyres, flower pots as well as ditches,” said a senior civic official. “The district administration wanted to find out the steps taken on the ground to check the increase of dengue as well as Covid-19.” Gupta said that although the number of dengue cases was quite low in the areas falling under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's 42 wards, the review survey was carried out to ensure that cases do not increase anyhow. “We want to ensure that no water is allowed to accumulate. We shall spray larvaecide and conduct door-to-door surveys to keep tabs on the dengue situation. Last year, dengue was well under control and we want to ensure the safety of residents this time too.” The team visited the Duttabad area and also CK and EC block markets to take stock of the measures taken by the civic body. Nirmal Dutta, ward co-ordinator of Duttabad, pointed out to the team that there were multiple ponds in the area and requested for guppy fish to be released in the ponds. “I asked the officials to help me procure guppies so we can release them in the ponds. I have also undertaken a drive to clean the open drains in the area,” Dutta said. Chakraborty said they were indeed planning to release guppy fish in all ponds as well as the Kestopur and Eastern Drainage canals. Apart from the fish, larvicide will be poured in the canals using rowboats. “We are already spraying larvicide and will also start an awareness campaign. I will place a request with the irrigation department to release water from the Ganges into the canals,” Chakraborty added. Last year, the dengue count in Salt Lake was within 200. Chakraborty also has a roadmap to control Covid. “We are not taking any chances and are setting up micro-containment zones in areas where cases have gone up suddenly and are monitoring them regularly,” she said. “The number of fresh Covid cases being reported in the corporation area is less than 30 a day now,” a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation”s health department said. There are more than a dozen micro-containment zones in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Ashwininagar and parts of Rajarhat. Is micro-containment zone demarcation an effective way to control the pandemic? Write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Elahe Gupta on having ‘Indie’ dogs as pets||If Elahe Gupta starts giving Bhootu a belly rub, Casper comes running. If she gives Casper a belly rub, Bhootu comes running. And before long the girl finds herself sitting between two dogs, petting both on either side. Not that she’s complaining. Elahe has always lived with pets and calls them her best friends. Their previous dog Aasra passed away when she was in kindergarten and a couple of years later, they got Casper and Bhootu. “We found them as puppies outside our house and after some coaxing, my parents agreed to bring them in,” says the 12-year-old. She named them Bhootu, after a TV serial she would watch back in the day about a child-ghost, and Casper, another friendly fictional child-ghost. The jet black Bhootu was born smaller in size than the black-and-white Casper and so Elahe, who herself was knee-high then, would find it easier to handle the former. “I would practise my ballet steps holding Bhootu for support,” she laughs. The seventh grader has now switched to learning the keyboard and the dogs diligently attend her online music classes with her. “When the lockdown began, they were a little confused as to why I was cooped up in a room instead of being at school and why I would stare at a screen that emitted voices of my teachers. Now they have got used to it,” she says. The dogs are the best of buddies but also like to get back at each other. Bhootu is scared of thunder and once it strikes, scurries to hide under the bed. Casper will then pull her out by the legs. “Then again, if we are ever late in serving them lunch, Casper, the foodie, goes and chews leaves on the terrace. Then Bhootu goes and pulls her away by the legs,” Elahe laughs. The dogs have a convenient arrangement at mealtimes. Casper eats half her bowl and stops to see how Bhootu is faring. Usually Bhootu leaves mid-way without eating her entire share. Casper will then attack her sister’s portion first and then return to her own bowl at leisure. Elahe is quite proud of having “Indie” dogs as her pets. “Pedigreed dogs may be prettier,” reasons Elahe, “but Casper and Bhootu are as loving as they can get.” If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Travel travails for furry folk||Pet lovers were heartbroken recently to hear about Gultu, a Chow Chow dog, who died while being transported from Calcutta to Mumbai by flight. Travelling can be strenuous for animals but pet-owners often have no choice but to go ahead with it. Gultu was a patient of vet Krishanu Ghosh,  who runs the VetAssure clinics in Salt Lake’s AE Block and New Town’s BF Block. Ghosh himself isn’t a proponent of air travel for pets but in this case he says there was no choice. “Snoutless dogs like Chow Chows, Pugs and Boxers have difficulty breathing in high altitudes and one really doesn’t know of the oxygen level in the cargo of an aeroplane. But Gultu had corneal ulcer that needed immediate surgery in Mumbai. Alas! He died of a stroke,” says Ghosh. Risks of air travel Vet Abhiroop Banerjee says another problem in being sent to the cargo in a cage is separation anxiety. “Pets are extremely attached to their families and even a two-hour flight alone can be traumatic for them,” says the vet who sits at GD Block’s Pet Mall & Murphy Veterinary Hospital and Oh My Paws in Uniworld’s Downtown Mall. “Elderly dogs can have cardiac issues and flying isn’t safe for them either.” Airlines need a “fit to fly” certificate from a vet before allowing a pet on board. “For this, we check the pet’s medical history, determine whether he has any long-term chronic illness, if his reflexes are alert, if his temperature is normal, vaccines are up to date, periodical deworming has been done, lungs and heart are normal,” says Banerjee. In case of foreign travel, microchipping is a must. Upon landing at the airport, Banerjee says the first thing to do is to reunite the pet with his family. “Once the pet has calmed down, take him out for some fresh air and then give him water,” he says. Rail ride Ghosh prefers trains and has himself travelled with his Lhasa Apso on the Rajdhani Express. “One has to book all four seats in an AC first class coupe to take along pets. In my case, we had got great service with the pantry folk even cooking boiled chicken for my dog’s meals,” he said. Some dogs prefer to relieve themselves only in familiar corners and this can be a problem on trains but despite this, vets say trains are safer than flights. On the road Road travel is by far the best. “A journey of up to two hours is no big deal — I have patients travelling that much from Howrah to my New Town clinic. Any longer than that and you should pull over now and then to walk the dog and offer him water. You can call the vet if you need help and make a detour to a medicine shop in case of an emergency,” says Banerjee. “Feed them small meals to avoid nausea.” Ghosh has some standard guidelines for dogs on the road too. “I suggest canned food that is low in volume and high in calorie content. Consuming this, dogs don’t feel nauseous. I also ask families to carry medicines for vomiting, diarrhoea and a pain killer. Anti-anxiety pills are also available,” he says. Banerjee asks owners of snoutless breeds to be careful even on road trips. “Don’t keep the AC on for too long. Roll down windows once in a while for fresh air. Also, halt frequently and let him walk,” he says. Gone there, done that In the pre-pandemic days, vets in the twin townships would get 25 to 30 requests a month for “fit to travel” certificates. “That’s how common pet travel has become, especially in New Town, that has a large population hailing from other states,” says Banerjee. FE Block’s Vivek Vikram Singh travels extensively with his French Mastiffs, especially with Bruce, who would even take the train to Darjeeling. When the lockdown got called last year, Vivek and Bruce got stuck in Darjeeling. “We later managed a curfew pass and drove 12 hours home. I had a special mattress made for him to fit the back of our SUV and he was very comfortable on it,” says Vivek. Prasenjit Ghosh had such a harrowing experience flying their Shih Tzu Coco in from their previous residence in the US, that he has sworn never to do it again. “Many airlines would not allow pets and even fewer allowed snoutless pets due to their predisposition of respiratory issues,” says the resident of DLF New Town Heights. The formalities were labyrinthine, but in the US and Dubai, where the flight halted, they  got excellent service. “It was Calcutta airport that was a nightmare and we were allowed to take Coco him home 12 hours after landing!” Coco and their Lhasa Apso Sasha now travel long distance comfortably with them by car. Pratyusa Banerjee, who calls herself the sister of the deceased Chow Chow Gultu, urges for better facilities for animals on flights. “The flight charged us Rs 14,000 — double a passenger ticket — to ferry him and we had paid Rs 7,000 more to assure his safety. If they are charging us for it, they should provide a vet and oxygen facilities in the flight and airport,” she says. The family is distraught without Gultu and has decided to get two Chow Chow puppies from Chandigarh to help them cope with the loss. “But we have told the breeder the pups cannot come by air. They must come by road,” says Pratyusa, a student of Inifd Saltlake. Have you faced trouble in transporting your pet? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Tagore remembered||“I cannot see you, I cannot hear you, why is this live teleceast not showing on Facebook?” And so the celebration of Rabindrajayantis continued online for yet another year. Newtown Citizens Welfare Fraternity held their event recently and around 35 participants logged in. The evening began with Lutful Alam, president of the group, garlanding Rabindranath Tagore’s picture on behalf of all members. Taposhree Pramanik was the first to perform. The six-year-old sang Jagorone jaye bibhabori. Mousumi Bhoumick recited Duhsomoy, Sonali Chakraborty Ghosh sang Dui hate kaler mondira je. Anchor Kakali Majumder kept asking viewers to mute their microphones so the performers could be heard. The search for Pradeep Kumar Ghosh went on for long time and it was only after an hour that he could join. Even then there was an issue with the video. “We cannot see you dada, we can only hear your voice,” said Kakali. Eventually the CA Block resident sang Jodi tor dak shune keu na ase and was both visible and audible. Sreeja Basu and Ishani Basu danced to Prothom adi tobo and Angira Dutta danced to Gahana kusuma. “Online events have become a part of our lives now. The only problem is network — the audio often isn’t clear,” said Gargi Chatterjee, before singing Nai rosho nai. “If it wasn’t for the pandemic, we would have organised Rabindrajayanti in an auditorium but could have only entertained a limited audience. On the online platform, there can be unlimited participation. Friends and family living out of town can join too,” said Samir Gupta, secretary of the group. “People are locked at home for almost a year now and these events, even if for a short while, refresh our minds,” he added. Tribute to bards Residents of New Town CD Block came together and dedicated an evening to Tagore and Nazrul Islam in a show titled “Hridoye Rabindranath, chetonay Nazrul”. Amalabha Dutta made a special request to anchor Purba Kar to be allowed to perform early as he had a meeting to attend and began the show with the Nazrulgeeti Antore tumi achho chirodin. Sumi Pal recited Tagore’s Bhul swargo, Sithi Kana Ghatak recited Tagore’s Khadanaki and Chandrani Sanyal sang Nazrul’s Kon kule aaj bhirlo tari. When Gouri Sanyal was struggling with her video, others suggested that she log out and log in again. “Absolutely not!” she snapped. “I took great pains in logging in the first time. You don’t have to see me. I’ll be singing and so it’s enough if you hear me,” she laughed before crooning Ami ki gaan gabo je  bhebe na pai. When they realised they had some extra time at hand, Sathi Bairagi was requested to sing two songs. She obliged with Tagore’s Ganer surey and Khelichho e bishwa loye. A search for Rita Basu ensued, after which she concluded the show singing Ami bonophul go. Play time Township-based theatre group Britya put up three plays based on social issues, and no, they were not online. The event took place before the current restrictions and so was held at Rabindra Okakura Bhavan. “Our booking was actually for spring 2020 so the hall offered us a slot to conduct it this year in lieu. We had thought the seats would go empty but we got a decent audience,” said secretary Bijan Ghosh, who directed the plays along with Arup Ghosh. The first play Porichoy, scripted by Arup Ghosh, was about a failing businessman (played by Arijit Roy) about to commit suicide. A stranger (played by Arup Ghosh) stopped him and made him change his mind. In the comedy Hay Kopal, an elderly man and his wife (played by Soumitra Maity and Nibedita Dhar) were so desperate to settle down their unemployed son that they contemplated committing suicide so the son (played by Supantha Ghosh) got his father’s job on compensatory grounds. Se Esechilo, by Chandan Sen, was about marital discord between a couple played by Arup and Nandita Chatterjee. Their younger selves were played by Sanjay and Gargee Maitra. “Our group shall complete 35 years in December and if the situation normalises, we want to host a theatre festival,” said Bijan Ghosh. If you want to get a programme, even an online one, featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Autorickshaw fares almost doubled on Salt Lake routes||Autorickshaw drivers on four routes originating in Salt Lake charged nearly double the earlier fares on Thursday, Day 1 of resumption of public transport following relaxation of curbs imposed on May 16 as a precaution against Covid. A ride from the Sovabazar Metro station to Karunamoyee in Salt Lake cost Rs 50 on Thursday. It was Rs 29 in March. Commuters headed to Phoolbagan from the Karunamoyee bus stand were asked to shell out Rs 30. In March, the ride cost Rs 16. An autorickshaw driver charged Rs 30 for a ride till Ultadanga from the Sovaba-zar Metro station, while another took Rs 20 for a ride from Ultadanga to Karunamoyee. Passengers on multiple routes said they had no option but to shell out the extra money as buses were infrequent. Only a handful of buses rolled out on Thursday, with owners claiming that the government’s refusal to hike fares for now and rocketing fuel price have made their business unviable. “I had to travel from Karunamoyee to Phoolbagan. An auto driver told me the ride would cost Rs 30. The driver told me to pay or wait for a bus,” recounted Suresh Pandey, a resident of Phoolbagan who works at a Salt Lake shop. “I waited for nearly 15 minutes before deciding to pay the amount and travel by auto. I had travelled on the same route a few days back, be- fore autos were officially allowed to ply, and I had to pay Rs 40.” Drivers on the Karunamoyee-Ultadanga, Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan, Karunamoyee-Kankurgachi and the Karunamoyee-Beleghata Bypass routes said they were being forced to charge extra because of a rise in the LPG price and to compensate for the lack of passengers. The price of a litre of LPG on Thursday was Rs 51.65. A year back, it sold for Rs 35.71. “The price of LPG has been steadily increasing. Moreover, we have been told to ply with only two passengers, although at times we are ferrying three or four like before. But the number of commuters has dropped drastically,” said Bikram Dhali, an auto driver on the Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route. Many ran their autos on truncated routes. Nirmal Dutta, a leader of the Trinamul-affiliated auto union, said: “We have not hiked fares and no new fare chart has been issued. However, we have to keep in mind the rising fuel cost and the fact that people were stepping out only in the morning and evening,” said Dutta. Nearly all autos were spotted carrying more than two passengers, in violation of the state government’s Covid curbs. Most of the drivers were wearing masks and some had even kept sanitisers for passengers. “We washed the vehicles thoroughly in the morning,” said Dasarath Samanta, a driver on the Ulta-danga-Karunamoyee route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Shortage of doses makes CMC suspend vaccination for a day ||Many people who had booked their vaccination slots at select Calcutta Municipal Corporation facilities through a WhatsApp chatbot for Thursday learnt that jabs would not be administered during the day only after they arrived at the centres. The recipients said they did not get any message on cancellation of vaccination. A CMC official said the information was posted on the social media pages of the civic body. “Shortage of doses was the primary reason why the drive at all CMC centres had to be suspended for a day,” the official said. The vaccination at all civic body-run centres will resume on Friday. “With the available stock, we will be able to vaccinate a substantial number of people on Friday and Saturday. Sunday is a holiday. More vaccines are expected and vaccination will not suffer on Monday, too,” said another CMC official. An official of the state e-governance mission that manages the chatbot said all people whose appointments were cancelled on Thursday would receive WhatsApp messages about their new slots. “The time slots are the same. The date has been moved to July 5.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab shortage stalls IIEST vaccination drive||IIEST, Shibpur, has suspended the Covid vaccination camp it was running on the campus with support from the state government because of shortage of doses. A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in-charge of the institute’s hospital, on June 29 said: “The vaccination for the employees and their family…., scheduled on June 30 has been suspended. This is due to non-availability of required vaccines from the office of CMOH (chief medical officer of health), Howrah”. An IIEST official said the vaccination programme on the campus would remain suspended till further orders. The district health office told the institute on Thursday that doses would not be available. An IIEST official said they had enlisted 600 of its students for the first dose. “Many of our employees are scheduled to get their second dose from July 6. They cannot be vaccinated,” he said. “There is a shortage in supply of doses. Whatever stocks are available will be administered through the district and sub-divisional hospitals. We cannot allocate any of our stocks for the IIEST,” an official of the district administration said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times ||Focus on feathers This summer vacation has not been the same as other years since everyone has been locked in at home due to the Covid-19 outbreak. I have been spending my days doing many activities. One such is bird watching. Due to the lockdown, I cannot go out birding so I have to do bird watching from my Salt Lake residence terrace. My father and I started birding last summer. He started photographing birds and I used to help him with a pair of binoculars. Till now, we have spotted over 30 species of birds from our terrace, which include Red Vented Bulbul, Purple Sunbird, Red Whiskered Bulbul, Black Hooded Oriole, Black Rumped Flameback Woodpecker etc. I love watching the Rose Ringed Parakeets feeding on Guavas and the Purple Sunbird feeding on nectar of flowers. I have also seen a couple of mammals. The most interesting one was the Indian Flying Fox Bat perched on a tree and eating Guavas opposite my house. I also spend time on mobile gaming and listening to music. I used to play games earlier also on the mobile with my friends. I always used to listen to K-pop music of BTS (the South Korean boy band) and used to love them. But in this pandemic, I have become addicted to their songs and joined their fan club Army. One day, suddenly all of us got sick and tested Covid-19 positive but we had mild symptoms. We didn’t panic and isolated ourselves. We recovered soon by taking medicines at proper time. In spite of all the restrictions of lockdown, I really enjoyed my summer holidays and learned a lot of new things and gained many new experiences. Rupsha Datta, 11 years, AA Block Birth of a writer The lockdown of 2021 seemed boring initially. I can’t remember the last time I stepped out of my home or met my friends. Now online classes have also lost their charm, and it’s very stressful to look at the screen for long hours. I really miss being at those physical classes. Despite all this, I have found ways to keep myself busy and entertained. I have started spending more time with music, which earlier I couldn’t, due to academic pressure. Singing and practising with my harmonium always lifts my mood when I feel low. I take a stroll on my terrace in the evening while listening to some melodious songs. Since I can’t go out, the terrace has now become my favourite spot of openness. I have read quite a lot of books in this lockdown and look forward to reading some more. I’m also helping my mom with some chores and tried my hand at cooking new dishes. My father has brought in a lot of indoor and flowering plants for the balcony, and it’s really soothing to have them around. Recently there had been a micro story-writing contest on social media arranged by a popular author, and I discovered the writer in me while participating in it. Inspired by all the novels and fictions I have read to date, I have written quite a few micro stories and articles. I’m glad to have discovered this creative side of me, and look forward to writing more. I dream of publishing a book some day! Besides nurturing these hobbies, I am also focusing on my studies and preparing for all the upcoming exams. I hope that we all stay positive in this difficult time, and pray that this phase gets over soon and we all return to our old normal lives. Sinjini Sinha, 21 years, School Road, Rajarhat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Fare double standard on auto and bus in Calcutta||Distance between Ultadanga and Sovabazar: Around 3km Bus fare: Rs 7 Auto fare: Rs 20 The result: Many autos and only a handful of buses hit the roads on Day 1 of resumption of public transport following relaxation of Covid curbs. The sufferer: The “common” commuter Tens of thousands of people in Calcutta and its adjoining areas depend on private buses for their daily commute. But the state government does not allow bus owners the freedom to fix fares, a privilege auto operators are entitled to. On Thursday, auto fares on several routes were nearly double the rates commuters were charged before stricter Covid norms came into force in May. Auto operators on the Kidderpore-Hazra route charged Rs 20 for travelling the entire stretch. The fare was Rs 12 before the curbs were introduced. In the north, auto operators on the Salt Lake Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route charged between Rs 25 and Rs 30 for the entire stretch, compared with the earlier fare of Rs 15. Bus owners, however, are yet to be allowed any hike, though the diesel price has gone up from Rs 77.44 a litre on January 1 to Rs 92.03 on July 1. In Bengal, 72 per cent of the buses are privately owned. The government had on June 7 announced a three-member committee to look into the demand for a fare hike raised by private bus and minibus operators. That committee hasn't met even once. If the government wants to hike fares, it doesn't need a committee to do so. Many operators suspect the decision to form the committee was aimed at placating them. Between 2012 and now, at least four committees have been constituted to look into demands for a hike in the fares of buses and minibuses. Not one has come up with any specific suggestion. In 2018, the state government had last agreed to revise bus fares. “How many committees are we supposed to see?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “In 1990, the then trans-port minister had formed a committee to consider fare revision. The committee had recommended that autos should ply only within Calcutta and on meter. No one paid heed to it.” The organisation of auto operators in Calcutta has always been controlled by the ruling party of the state - first the CPM and now the Trinamul Congress. Asked about the auto fare hike on Thursday, transport minister Firhad Hakim said: “I can't comment about autos and their fares. The government doesn’t decide their fares.” And why no fare hike for buses? Hakim said: “The government can't decide in haste. Aaj bolley kaal ki kore hoye jabey (How can it be done tomorrow if you tell me today)? The private operators have already placed their demands with the transport department… We would like to talk to private bus and minibus operators and find out how much their operating costs have gone up because of the hike in the prices of fuel and other items.” Unlike autos, he said, the government has a fare-chart for buses. The chart is based on stages of journey. Auto operators said their fares for a particular route were decided by union leaders of that route. In the existing order, whatever the auto union leaders decide is final, a system that bus owners are demanding for themselves for their survival. Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association, said: “The state government is not realising that given the current fuel price, only a minuscule fraction of private bus and minibus operators will roll out their vehicles over the next few days....The passenger count has dwindled and except for the morning and evening office hours, there aren't much crowds on roads. What’s the point in bringing out a bus?” he added. Commuters were angry at the government. “They should allow a fare hike or run their own buses in larger numbers. We should not be made to suffer,” said a passenger at Esplanade, desperately looking for a bus to Sodepur. “I had to wait for over 30 minutes at Bansdroni in the morning rush hour on Thursday. A few government buses that arrived were full,” said Niladri Roy, a private bank executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Fear of public transport drives sales of small cars in Calcutta||Many people in Calcutta are buying small cars despite reduced income because they want to avoid the public transport for their daily commute to minimise chances of infection amid the Covid pandemic. Several car dealers have reported a spurt in sales. A 60-year-old Garia resident bought a Renault KWID last week. He is a retired state government employee and his wife, 55, works at MR Bangur hospital. “My son is pursuing higher studies and I have just retired. Despite that, we decided to buy a car because we don’t feel safe anymore travelling in buses and app cabs,” he said. Monotosh Sinha has a family of six — wife, two daughters and two senior citizen sisters. His mother died last year after contracting Covid. A sales executive with a multinational firm, Monotosh had been planning to buy a car for two years but financial difficulties made him shelve the plan repeatedly. Recently he took delivery of a brown Wagon-R. “I had to buy a four-wheeler despite my financial difficulties. I have had salary cuts. My sisters, who were school teachers, have retired recently. For us, a car was a luxury but now it has become a necessity,” said Monotosh, who has hired a garage for his car. There are others like Monotosh who have been forced to buy personal cars. Lack of garage space notwithstanding, people are opting for personal mobility to keep the virus at bay. “There has been an increase in first-time buyers by five per cent (from 44 to 49) and a rise in the demand for additional cars by three per cent (from 29 to 32), according to our survey. But there has been a drop of seven per cent in exchange of cars (from 26 to 19) as people are holding on to their old purchases,” said Shashank Srivastava, director, marketing and sales, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. In Bengal, inquiries for small cars are increasing every week. Maruti is recording 220 bookings daily in Bengal, compared with 135 last week. “We had no sales in May. In June, 55 of our rural outlets were closed. So most of our bookings are from our dealerships in Calcutta,” said Srivastava. Hyundai is reporting an increase in enquiries, too. Akhil Agarwal of Gajraj Hyundai said: “We are witnessing an increase in enquiries and bookings across our models. Demand for cars in the Rs 10-15 lakh price band is as good as the demand for hatchbacks.” Vinod Agarwal of Lexus Motors, a Tata Motors dealership, said: “We have been witnessing an increase in enquiries across the range, from Tiago, to Altros, to Safari. We have first-time buyers, additional car buyers too. We have a 10 per cent market share in the city.” Public health experts said the fear of Covid was preventing many from travelling by public transport. "Despite being fully vaccinated, many are scared,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Police constable killed in bus accident on Red Road||One of the few buses that rolled out on Thursday hit a biker in front of Fort William and crashed into the balustrades along Red Road on the way to Esplanade. The motorcyclist was Vivekananda Dab, a constable of the reserve force of Calcutta police. He died on the spot. At least 14 passengers on the minibus, plying on the Metiabruz-Howrah route, were injured. They were taken to SSKM Hospital, where doctors said the condition of some of the injured was critical. Several passengers told police the driver appeared to have lost control of the bus. “Many of the passengers are saying a brake failure led to the accident. But this can be ascertained only after the bus is subjected to a mechanical test,” an officer in the traffic department said. Witnesses said the bus and the motorcycle both were heading towards Esplanade, when the bus apparently hit the two-wheeler from the rear seconds before crashing into balustrades outside Fort William. The motorcyclist fell under the bus and could be extricated only after three cranes lifted the mangled remains of the bus. Such was the impact of the crash with the concrete guard wall that the seats of the minibus were dislodged. A critically injured Dab, 45, was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The police said all the injured who were taken to SSKM had been identified. None of them was apparently the driver. “The driver is yet to be identified or tracked down,” an officer said on Thursday night. Ten of the injured, some of whom suffered fractures, have been admitted to the hospital. The remaining four were discharged after treatment. Buses were back on the roads, though in far fewer numbers than expected, on Thursday for the first time since May 16, when a temporary ban was imposed on public transport as a precaution against Covid. Several automobile engineers and maintenance experts Metro spoke to said vehicles that remain stationary for weeks should undergo checks before they are allowed to ferry passengers. The rubber of the tyres tends to go dry if left unused for several weeks. So, the tyres need a thorough check. Else, the tube may burst or parts of the rubber from the edges will come off, resulting in a disbalance. “The mobile content of the engine needs to be checked and the steering must be examined to ensure it is properly lubricated. The steering may get locked or the engine may get heated causing various problems,” said an official in the transport department who oversees fitness tests of heavy vehicles. “There can be a world of issues starting with steering lock to uneven flow of fuel to the engine from the tank. Most bus drivers are aware which items demand maintenance but tend to overlook the issue,” he said. “The fatal squad of the traffic police has taken over the investigation of the case. A case has been started. The sequence of events will be clearer once the driver is found,” said an officer. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and deputy commissioner, traffic, Arijit Sinha went to the spot. The bus will be sent for a mechanical examination to ascertain whether a mechanical or a manual fault caused the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab boost for Day 1 at Calcutta salons and gyms||Covid vaccine has made a difference, showed day one of the reopening of salons and gyms in Calcutta. Despite the gloomy weather and rains, most gyms and salons were busy on Thursday. People, most of whom had at least taken one Covid-19 jab, shrugged off the hesitancy that was there a year ago and visited their favourite places after two months. One of them was Soumya Basu, 29, a New Alipore resident who dropped in for a haircut at the Eye Catchers salon at South City Mall. "I have taken both the shots. Covid is not going to disappear overnight. There is no point in living in perpetual fear," said Basu, a central government employee. Inside the store, Muskan Ali, the manager, kept answering a phone every now and then. The callers sought appointments. "The response has been very good. Several people who wanted a slot today had to be booked tomorrow or day after because of the 50 per cent cap on visitors," said Ali. Trisha Chatterjee, a beautician at the salon, said sitting at home for two months was "terrible". "We had been getting a partial salary. But the anxiety of an uncertain future was very much there," said Chatterjee, who lives in Howrah's Shibpur with her parents. Her father is a retired state government employee. Along with his pension, Trisha's income is crucial for the family. When salons reopened after two months in the middle of May 2020, many patrons hesitated to visit their favourite outlets. The unavoidable physical contact with stylists made people think twice before visiting salons and parlours. But the availability of vaccines seems to have changed that perception. "Premium salons are maintaining all the Covid-19 norms. Their staff are vaccinated. So am I," Bhaswati De, a Dhakuria resident, told Metro outside AN John in Park Street. She got her hair smoothened inside. Moumita Panda, the manager of the store, said they started getting flooded with calls and online bookings since the announcement of the relaxations on Monday. Till 4pm, the salon had catered to 25 customers. Salons have to operate between 11am and 6pm. Julie Chung, the business head of the Eye Catchers chain, which has six outlets in Calcutta, said the last two months had been very taxing. "We tried our best to help our staff to tide over the crisis. But since this is a service industry, their income is dependent on tip and commissions. That had stopped completely," said Chung. Day One at gyms was also reasonably busy, albeit not as much as it was at salons and parlours. The gym owners were bleeding because of the prolonged shutdown and several gyms in the city have shut down for good. But for those who reopened on Thursday, the number of visitors was a ray of hope. "In the morning slot, there were around 15 people at the gym in Dum Dum. I had not expected so many people," said Rupam Sinha, the owner of the Physiomax chain, with gyms in Salt Lake and Dum Dum. Monday's notification has allotted two slots for gyms - 6am to 10am and 4pm to 8pm. Sinha's assessment was that a gym session was a stressbuster for many. "They don't need a drink to have a sound sleep. An hour of solid workout is enough for that. The mental toll that the pandemic has taken on people has prompted many to bank on workout sessions more than ever," he said. Kronos, a gym on Sarat Bose Road, had five young men working out around 4.40pm on Thursday under the watchful eyes of Chinmoy Roy, a former strength and conditioning coach of the BCCI and the National Cricket Academy (NCA). Roy said the cash crunch created by the pandemic had dwindled the membership at several gyms, including his. "People are better off because of the vaccine but financially, their condition has worsened. Members are demanding that their membership fee for May and June is adjusted because the gyms were shut.  Despite our empty coffers because of rent and other fixed costs, we are having to give them what they want," said Roy. Addlife gym on Camac Street was also busy throughout the day. "We have been constantly getting calls since Monday from members," said Minu Budhia, the director of the Addlife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Shops across South Dum Dum to remain shut on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays till July 14 ||Shops and markets across Bangur, Kalindi, Sreebhumi, Dum Dum and several other areas under South Dum Dum Municipality will remain shut on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays till July 14 because multiple Covid cases are being reported from there. The authorities of the civic body took the decision following an alert from the health department. Some areas under the municipality are recording over 150 cases daily and there is a need to break the transmission chain, health department officials said. “On other days, shops and markets will be open till 2pm,” said Panchu Gopal Roy, the chairman of the board of administrators of the municipality. “After July 14, we will review the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Kite string injures Calcutta scooterist on Parama flyover||A scooterist was injured when he got entangled with a kite string, lost his balance and fell on the Parama flyover on Thursday morning. A major accident was averted because he spotted the kite string in time and pressed the brakes, police said. He was also lucky because there were no vehicles trailing him on the flyover that could have hit him, the police said. Rajeswar Banerjee, 42, a resident of Dum Dum, was heading towards Park Circus from EM Bypass around 8.25am when the accident took place. Banerjee was taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. “The only way to stop accidents by kite strings is to put up wire fencing along the parapet of the flyover at least in the accident prone stretches,” said a senior officer in the traffic department. Earlier this year, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had installed wired fencing on a 25-meter stretch near the Parama flyover and AJC Bose flyover connector as a pilot project to prevent kite string accidents. At least two letters have been set to the CMDA in the last four months, the last one less than 10 days ago, Lalbazar sources said. The letters requested CMDA officials to install wired fencing between the Topsia-cut out and Gobinda Khatick crossing. A senior official of the CMDA said the fencing project had started. “The tender process for selection of the agency that will carry out the work has already started. We are expecting to complete the project in two months,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||India||Facebook actioned 30 million content pieces during May 15-June 15 under new rules||Facebook "actioned" over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories during May 15-June 15 in the country, the social media giant said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.  Instagram took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period.  Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools.  While Facebook actioned over 30 million content pieces across multiple categories during May 15-June 15, Instagram took action against about 2 million pieces.  A Facebook spokesperson said over the years, Facebook has consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further its agenda of keeping users safe and secure online and enabling them to express themselves freely on its platform.  "We use a combination of artificial intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies. We'll continue to add more information and build on these efforts towards transparency as we evolve this report," the spokesperson said in a statement to PTI.  Facebook said its next report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  "We expect to publish subsequent editions of the report with a lag of 30-45 days after the reporting period to allow sufficient time for data collection and validation. We will continue to bring more transparency to our work and include more information about our efforts in future reports," it added.  Earlier this week, Facebook had said it will publish an interim report on July 2 providing information on the number of content it removed proactively during May 15-June 15. The final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  The July 15 report will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is part of Facebook's family of apps.  Other major platforms that have made their reports public include Google and homegrown platform Koo.  In its report, Facebook said it had actioned over 30 million pieces of content across 10 categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to spam (25 million), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million), and hate speech (311,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (118,000), suicide and self-injury (589,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (106,000) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (75,000).  'Actioned' content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning.  The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 96.4-99.9 per cent.  The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 36.7 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content.  For Instagram, 2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (699,000), violent and graphic content (668,000), adult nudity and sexual activity (490,000), and bullying and harassment (108,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (53,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (5,800), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (6,200).  Google had stated that 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in removal of 59,350 pieces of content.  Koo, in its report, said it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June.  According to the IT rules, significant social media intermediaries are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be resident in India.  Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.  Facebook recently named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer in India.  India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government recently, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-07-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 4-day losing streak, ends 166 points higher||Snapping its four-session losing run, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 166 points on Friday, led by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC.  After trading in a range through the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 166.07 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 52,484.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.20 points or 0.27 per cent up at 15,722.20.  Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Titan and Infosys.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities continued to trade in a rangebound with benchmark indices witnessing marginal gains," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  While financials, pharma and realty indices recovered modestly, profit-booking was visible across metals and FMCG counters, he said, adding that midcap and smallcap indices continued to outperform as improved earnings visibility attracted investors towards this space.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul closed in the red, Tokyo ended with gains.  Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was quoting marginally lower at USD 75.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Goyal reviews critical infrastructure projects||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects, with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore, an official statement said on Friday. The minister issued directions and timelines to ensure expeditious resolution of pending issues for timely commissioning of projects, it said. Among the projects that were reviewed include dedicated freight corridors along eastern and western routes, and Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC), it said. The minister also emphasized the importance of regular multi-level monitoring of infrastructure projects that are critical to the economic growth and employment generation in the country, the statement added. "The minister reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore," it said. Senior officials of key central ministries including Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Road Transport and Highways, Environment, Forest and Climate Change were also present in the meeting. The meeting was held on June 29. AKIC traverses through seven states and would facilitate development of industrial manufacturing in the region of eastern dedicated freight corridor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on weak note amid sustained FII outflow||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Friday amid sustained foreign fund outflow and a mixed trend in Asian peers.  The 30-share BSE index started on a slightly positive note, but soon turned negative to trade 46.89 points or 0.09 per cent lower at 52,271.71 in early deals.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 9.90 points or 0.06 per cent down to 15,670.10.  TCS was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, PowerGrid, Tata Steel and HDFC.  On the other hand, ICICI Bank, M&M, Reliance Industries and Titan were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 164.11 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 52,318.60, and Nifty inched 41.50 points or 0.26 per cent down to 15,680.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,245.29 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, sustained FII selling and high valuations are the major reasons for the weakness in the market now.  "It is normal and rational for FIIs to sell and book profits at the present elevated valuations. High-net-worth individuals (HNIs) also might be tempted to partially book profits," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was quoting flat at USD 75.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Gross non-performing assets ratio of scheduled commercial banks may increase to 9.80% by March 2022||The Reserve Bank of India’s financial stability report released on Thursday has shown the gross NPA ratio of banks to rise by March 2022 compared with a year ago but will improve vis-a-vis September 2021. According to the stress tests of the RBI, gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) ratio of scheduled commercial banks may increase to 9.80 per cent by March 2022 from 7.48 per cent in March 2021 under the baseline scenario; and to 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. This is lower than the GNPA ratio of 14.8 per cent by September 2021 under a severe stress scenario and 13.5 per cent under the baseline scenario. These stress tests were done in January. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the GNPA ratio of banks stood at 8.4 per cent. In PSU banks, the bad loan ratio was forecast to rise to 12.52 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario against 9.54 per cent in March 2021. In January, the stress tests had shown that the PSU banks’ GNPA ratio may increase to 16.2 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario from 9.7 per cent in September 2020. This is an improvement over earlier expectations with the report pointing out that it indicates “pandemic proofing by regulatory support’’. According to the report, unprecedented policy support has contained the impairment of the balance sheets. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in the report the second wave has taken a “grievous toll’’ and that the recovery which commenced in the second half of 2020-21 was dented in April-May 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Sebi floats consultation paper on certain aspects of the Superior Voting Rights Share Framework||Markets regulator Sebi on Thursday floated a consultation paper on certain aspects of the Superior Voting Rights Share (SR share) Framework, including net worth requirements of SR shareholders. In addition, suggestions from the public have been sought with regard to issuance of SR shares to trusts and other entities on behalf of promoters and the timing of the issuance of such shares, according to the consultation paper. Market participants are of the view that certain aspects of the current framework on SR shares are onerous, which delays such issuer companies from raising funds from capital markets. Sebi’s Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) deliberated the matter and considered mandating the net worth requirement of SR shareholder on an individual basis. The threshold for such net-worth requirement can also be enhanced, the consultation paper noted. Sebi has sought suggestions till July 30 on several aspects, including whether net-worth requirement for SR shareholders be determined individually or as part of the promoter group. The regulator also asked whether the net-worth threshold for SR shareholders should be retained at Rs 500 crore or enhanced. If it is to be enhanced then suggestions have been sought on the new threshold and whether the proceeds from sale of shares of the issuer company should be excluded while determining the net-worth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business|| Indian tribunal put hold on directive to ban Vivek Kudva of Franklin Templeton||An Indian tribunal put on hold on Thursday a directive to ban Vivek Kudva of Franklin Templeton after he challenged it saying the market regulator had“overstepped” its powers in taking the decision. Kudva, head of Asia Pacific distribution at Franklin Templeton, was barred last month by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which said he and his family members used non-public information to sell holdings worth about $4 million in Franklin debt funds that were shut down weeks later and caused investor panic. The regulator had imposed a one-year market ban on Kudva and his wife and fined them a total of $1 million. It said it was not “fair conduct” as Kudva was privy to non-public information. In an appeal heard by the Securities Appellate Tribunal on Thursday, Kudva argued he acted only on public information. Sebi objected to his position, but the tribunal judges decided to put the ban on hold while his appeal is heard. But Kudva will still need to deposit half of the penalty imposed on him, the tribunal said. In his 232-page appeal filing,  Kudva had argued that Indian law prohibits unfair trade practices, but mutual fund redemptions were not a “trade” and were akin to withdrawing one’s own money from a bank. Sebi had “overstepped its authority and misused the discretion” while passing its order and there was no reasoning in the regulator’s decision “to justify the draconian directions and restrictions,” said the filing by Kudva.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules may need further clarity on fallback liability||The draft Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 may need further clarity on the fallback liability of an e-commerce marketplace. Under the draft rules, a marketplace e-commerce entity shall be subject to a fallback liability when a seller registered on its platform fails to deliver goods and services due to negligent conduct, causing loss to consumers. The e-commerce firms, however, can get exemption from liability against lawsuits from irate consumers as set out in the IT intermediary rules. However, industry is waiting for greater clarity on the fallback liability that could spill over to the platform. Industry observers argued that e-commerce platforms could not be blamed or become liable for a fraud committed by a seller over whom they have no oversight. “The liability is going to be that of the seller, it cannot be on somebody who is transmitting the information as provided by the seller,” Aruna Sharma, former secretary to the government of India, said at a session organised by public policy think-tank — The Dialogue — on Thursday. Consumer activist Jehangir Gai said both online and offline markets should be able to always coexist. “There is a need to check the methodology. Let’s have regulations that safeguard consumers without impacting the industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea approaches govt to seek a one-year moratorium on spectrum instalment||Cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) has approached the government to seek a one-year moratorium on the payment of spectrum instalment of over Rs 8,200 crore, due in April 2022. VIL, in a letter to the telecom secretary on June 25, has said it will be “unable to pay the instalment of Rs 8,292 crore due on April 9”, because of “cash being used for payment of AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues and the inability of the operations to generate the required cash in a predatory pricing situation”. According to the letter, the company has requested the department of telecom to grant it another year of moratorium to pay this instalment in April 2023 instead of April 2022 and has made it clear that “it is almost inevitable” that the firm will not be able to pay the said amount in April 2022. VIL has also said that while it is working on raising new funds for the last six months, “investors are not willing to invest in the company because they believe that unless there is a significant improvement in consumer tariffs, the health of the industry will not recover and they will incur a loss on their investment”. In its communication to the DoT, VIL said after the grant of a two-year moratorium earlier, the AGR judgment was pronounced, which has taken away Rs 7,854-crore cash as upfront payment. Based on the current demands of the DoT, it will also have to pay AGR instalments of about Rs 9,000 crore in March 2022. Meanwhile, Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal on Thursday said the telecom industry was under tremendous stress. “I hope the government, the authorities and the telecom department focus on this issue and ensure India’s digital dream remains intact through the provision of at least three operators, ” he said. Airtel would “not hesitate” to raise tariffs but it cannot be done “unilaterally”, Mittal added. Bengal spectrum Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has deployed additional 21.6MHz spectrum in the Bengal circle secured in the last round of auction to beef up its network to 65MHz in the circle. The telecom major had paid Rs 783.6 crore for spectrum in the Bengal circle. “With the largest spectrum bank of 65MHz in Bengal, Airtel is well positioned to meet the surging demand for high-speed data,” said Siddharth Sharma, CEO — Bengal and Odisha, Bharti Airtel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||West Bengal govt extends Re 1-a-litre rebate on petrol and diesel prices||The Mamata Banerjee government has extended the Re 1-a-litre rebate on petrol and diesel prices for three more months, delaying petrol’s uninhibited march towards a century. The discount on both the fuels, announced before the Assembly elections, will now be in place till September 30. The measure that came into effect from February 22 was in place till June 30. A fresh notification was issued by the state administration extending the rebate, without which petrol would have crossed the unenviable Rs 100-a-litre mark in Bengal. Petrol will retail at Rs 99.04 a litre on Friday in Calcutta after central oil marketing companies raised prices by Rs 0.40 a litre. Diesel retails at Rs 92.03 in Calcutta. Chennai, which sells petrol at Rs 99.80 a litre, is also likely to touch the Rs 100-mark on Friday after the hike. Bengal imposes a 17 per cent and a 25 per cent sales tax on diesel and petrol, respectively, on an ad valorem basis. Additionally, it imposes a cess of Rs 1,000 per kilo litre or Re 1 a litre on both the products. Following the rebate, no cess is being imposed on these fuels. In contrast, the Centre collects Rs 32.90 a litre from petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre from diesel. However, it does not share most of the levies collected with states according to the formula of devolution of central taxes. The Centre bypasses the states by imposing a cess, which stood at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel. Cooking gas price up PSU oil marketing firms have raised prices of non-subsidised cooking gas by Rs 25.50 a cylinder from July 1, putting an additional burden on consumers. Following the latest round of hike, a 14.2 kg cylinder will cost Rs 861, going up from Rs 835.5 a cylinder. Similarly, the price of a 19kg cylinder is going up to Rs 1,629, up by Rs 76. In the past nine months, LPG prices have gone up by 38.8 per cent in Calcutta. Consumers were paying Rs 620.5 for a 14.2 kg cylinder as on September 1, 2020. Moreover, the Modi government has all but put an end to the subsidy even though some consumers continue to get Rs 19.5 in their bank account. Retailers report a drop in demand for LPG especially from consumers of the economically weaker section. “Many people are alternating with kerosene which they can buy on a daily basis instead of blocking a lump sum on a cylinder,” a distributor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Factory activity contracts for the first time in almost a year||India’s factory activity contracted for the first time in almost a year in June as restrictions to contain the deadly second wave of the coronavirus triggered declines in demand and output that pushed firms to cut more jobs, a private survey showed on Thursday. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index declined to an 11-month low of 48.1 in June from May’s 50.8, moving below the 50-level separating growth from contraction. The Services PMI had contracted in May to 46.4 for the first time in eight months —from 54 in April. “The intensification of the Covid-19 crisis in India had a detrimental impact on the manufacturing economy,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima said: “Of the three broad areas of the manufacturing sector monitored by the survey, capital goods was the worst affected in June.” “Output here declined at a steep rate because of a sharp fall in sales. The sector also saw the fastest contraction in buying levels and was the only to cut jobs.” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said: “The drop in India’s manufacturing PMI in June suggests that the recent plunge in new virus cases is yet to translate into a pick-up in manufacturing activity. The recovery should get back on track as containment measures are still being scaled back, but could come at the cost of a relapse further ahead.” India Inc has been peeved with the capricious manner in which the Centre and states have announced lockdowns but have refrained from voicing their views vociferously. The exception has been Bajaj Auto chairman Rahul Bajaj who has once again slammed the practice of introducing lockdowns to control the pandemic. “Let us also hope that we do not react to the epidemic by declaring more lockdowns, as we did the last time. For these will destroy business, employment and the economy without necessarily controlling the spread of the disease,” Bajaj said in his letter to shareholders published in the company’s annual report for 2020-21. “We were looking forward to another quarter of positive growth in January-March 2021. With the second wave that started in March 2021, I doubt whether we will see that growth. “More worryingly, I am concerned about the first quarter of the 2022 financial year and what a series of state-wide lockdowns might do to businesses and economic growth. “Let us hope that rapidly accelerated vaccinations coupled with a strict enforcement of masks and social distancing will soon bring the second wave under control,” Bajaj added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||India||'Pogonotrophy': Tharoor drops another new word, takes dig at PM Modi while explaining meaning||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, known for his penchant for rarely used English words, sent the Twitterati running for their dictionaries on Friday with another head scratcher -- pogonotrophy. Tharoor said he learnt of the new word pogonotrophy, which means the growing or cultivation of a beard, from a friend. He also used the word to take an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  A Twitter user reached out to Tharoor, saying she was waiting to learn a new word and the former Union minister was quick to oblige.  "My friend Rathin Roy, the economist, taught me a new word today: pogonotrophy, which means 'the cultivation of a beard'. As in, the PM's pogonotrophy has been a pandemic preoccupation," he said in a tweet.  Tharoor's tweet left many bemused with a Twitter user saying, "If the world has Oxford dictionary Why not India has Tharur Dictionary (sic)?"  "Thanks for sharing this one from Tharoorictionary," said another user. This is not the first time Tharoor has sent Twitterati scurrying for their dictionaries. In May, Tharoor engaged in a friendly banter with TRS working president K T Rama Rao over COVID-19 medicine names and threw in another head scratcher -- floccinaucinihilipilification. Oxford dictionary describes floccinaucinihilipilification as the action or habit of estimating something as worthless. Tharoor has been a man of many words earlier too. In the past, he has stumped people with rarely used English words such as "farrago" and "troglodyte". While farrago means a confused mixture, a troglodyte means a person regarded as being deliberately ignorant or old-fashioned. Tharoor has also started a new weekly column on words in the Weekend Magazine of the 'Khaleej Times' of Dubai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
02-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat resigns||BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Rawat handed over the resignation letter to Governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11 pm, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet Saturday to elect its new leader, who will be later sworn in as the next CM of the state where assembly elections are due early next year. Tirath Singh Rawat had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat on March 10 after he was similarly asked by the party to step down. The Constitution required Rawat, who is an MP, to get elected as a member of the state Assembly within six months to continue as CM. But there seemed increasing uncertainty over the Election Commission holding bypolls for the two vacant seats in the state when there is less than a year to go before the next assembly elections. Rawat met party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi, amid speculation of another leadership change in the hill state. Returning to Dehradun, he addressed a press conference in Dehradun on Friday night. Contrary to expectations, he did not announce his resignation there. But shortly after the press meet he drove to the Raj Bhawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
02-07-2021||India||We expect vaccinated Indians to be treated on par with those inoculated in EU: India||India on Friday said it expects that its CoWIN vaccination certificate would be recognised by the European Union on a reciprocal basis for travel and it is in touch with member states of the bloc over this issue.  Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the European Union has now instituted what is called an EU digital COVID certificate for exempting restrictions on the movement of vaccinated people.  "Our expectation is that Indians who have been vaccinated through our domestic vaccination programme would be treated at par with those vaccinated in the EU and the CoWIN vaccination certificate would be recognized by the EU on a reciprocal basis," he said at an online media briefing.  "As you are aware, such CoWIN vaccination certificates can be authenticated on the CoWIN website itself. We are in touch with the EU member states in this regard for reciprocal acceptance," Bagchi said, noting that a number of EU countries have already taken "positive steps" in this direction.  His remarks came a day after sources said nine European nations are accepting Covishield vaccines for travel to their countries.  Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Spain are among the countries allowing travel by people who have taken Covishield vaccines, the sources said.  They said Switzerland is also accepting Covishield as a Schengen state.  Separately, Estonia has confirmed that it will recognise all vaccines authorised by the government of India for the travel of Indians to that country, the sources said.  India has already asked the EU member countries to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and want to travel to Europe.  The European Union's Digital Covid certificate or "Green Pass" came into effect on Thursday with an aim to facilitate free movement during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU region.  The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or those recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO).  There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme.  The 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against COVID-19.  Asked about the issue of vaccination norms in various countries and seeking of re-vaccination by some of them, Bagchi said this would depend on the country concerned.  To queries on imports and exports of vaccines, he said the government is making all efforts to augment vaccine availability in the country, be it through domestic production or imports.  "As regards the specific vaccines and the status of their imports into India, this is a matter for the concerned regulatory authorities," the MEA spokesperson said.  On supply of vaccines abroad, Bagchi reiterated that India's current priority remains purposing domestic production for its domestic vaccination programme which he said is progressing rapidly.  To a question on travel into India, he said such issues are being dealt with by the Health Ministry and the Ministry of Home Affairs.  Asked how many countries have recognised made in India vaccines in Latin America, Bagchi said a large number of countries in that region are already using made in India vaccines.  On a proposal of India and South Africa for a temporary waiver of certain intellectual property rights provisions in the TRIPS Agreement to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, he said India is continuing to pursue its proposal for COVID-related TRIPS waiver.  "We are happy with the large support for text-based negotiations. However, I would refer you to the Ministry of Commerce for the latest updates," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Hawala money case: Kerala BJP chief summoned for questioning, say sources ||Kerala BJP chief K Surendran summoned by the state police next week for questioning in a case linked to the theft of alleged hawala money ahead of the April 6 Assembly poll, sources have said. Sources said Surendran has been directed to appear before the police on July 6. A day after voting, a man lodged a police complaint claiming a gang had stolen ₹ 25 lakh on the Ernakulam-Thrissur highway. The police later claimed that the amount was part of around ₹ 3.5 crore hawala money. According to police, the man had been transporting the money for the BJP, a charge vehemently denied by the party. “It is only because we are 100 per cent confident that this has nothing to do with the BJP that we have welcomed any probe by the police. Whoever calls, we will cooperate,” Surendran said last month. However, the Left and the Congress have been targeting the BJP over the matter, accusing it of using black money in the election. Several people, including BJP leaders of the state, have been questioned in the case. K Surendran is also facing two cases for allegedly bribing candidates. Both the cases were filed last month. The first FIR against Surendran was filed for allegedly bribing a rival candidate into withdrawing his election nomination. The second FIR, filed days after the first, probes the allegation that the politician gave ₹ 10 lakh to a tribal leader to return to the National Democratic Alliance as a candidate. The Left front scored a landslide win in the Assembly polls, while the BJP couldn’t win a seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Kerala: Police summon BJP chief for Hawala money theft case||Kerala police have have askedd state BJP chief K Surendran to appear on July 6, for questioning in a case linked to theft of alleged hawala money ahead of the April 6 assembly elections, sources told NDTV. A man filed a complaint claiming a gang stole ₹ 25 lakh on the Ernakulam-Thrissur highway, a day after the polls. Kerala police later claimed that the amount was part of around ₹ 3.5 crore hawala money. The police have also claimed the man had been transporting the money for the BJP, a charge vehemently denied by the party. "It is only because we are 100 per cent confident that this has nothing to do with the BJP that we have welcomed any probe by the police. Whoever calls, we will cooperate," Surendran had said last month. The Left and the Congress, however, have been targeting the BJP over the matter, accusing it of using black money in the election. Several people, including BJP leaders of the state, have been questioned in the case. K Surendran is also facing two cases for allegedly bribing candidates. Both the cases were filed last month. The first FIR against Mr Surendran was filed for allegedly bribing a rival candidate into withdrawing his election nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 8,753 new Covid-19 cases, 156 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday reported 8,753 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 60,79,352, while the death toll rose to 1,22,353 with the addition of 156 fresh fatalities, a state health department official.  The state reported 442 fewer cases and nearly 100 less fatalities as compared to Thursday, when it had recorded 9,195 infections and 252 deaths.  The official said as many as 8,385 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,36,920.  The state now has 1,16,867 COVID-19 patients under treatment, he said.  Maharashtra's recovery rate of COVID-19 cases is 96.01 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, the official said.  According to the official, out of 4,20,96,506 COVID-19 tests conducted so far, 60,79,352 have come out positive, indicating a positivity rate of 14.44 per cent.  The official said currently 6,24,745 people are in home quarantine and 4,472 in institutional quarantine across the state.  According to the official, Mumbai recorded 673 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,23,551, while the death toll increased to 15,499 after 27 patients succumbed to the infection.  The official said 296 new cases were detected in Pune municipal limit, taking the tally to 4,94,943, while the death toll rose to 8,279 as nine more fatalities were reported in the city.  Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 105, 277, 68, 17 and three new COVID-19 cases, respectively, he said.  Out of 1,16,667 active COVID-19 cases across the state, the highest - 17,013 - are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 16,339 and 12,905, respectively, the official said.  According to the health department, of the total 58,36,920 recovered patients, the highest - 10,23,450 - are in Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 6,92,841 and 5,53,925, respectively.  The department official said that in the Mumbai circle, which includes the city and its satellite towns, 1,951 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 15,99,306, while 32 fresh fatalities took the death toll to 32,140.  In the Pune circle, 2,356 new COVID-19 cases were added, increasing the tally to 14,27,110, while 30 fresh fatalities took the death toll to 26,085, he said.  With 667 new cases and nine fresh deaths, the tally of COVID-19 cases in the Nashik Circle rose to 8,91,626, while the death toll increased to 17,480.  In the Kolhapur circle, 3,306 new cases were reported, pushing the COVID-19 tally to 4,20,590, while the death toll increased to 11,579 after 68 patients succumbed to the infection, the official said.  The official said with 105 new cases and one death, the coronavirus tally in the Nagpur circle increased to 7,69,118 and the toll to 13,521.  In the Aurangabad circle, 146 people tested positive, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,81,368, while the death toll increased to 6,371 with the addition of two fresh fatalities, the official said.  The official said with 164 new infections and eight fatalities, the tally of COVID-19 cases in the Latur circle increased to 3,35,658 and the toll to 9,130.  The Akola circle added 88 new cases, raising the COVID-19 tally to 3,54,430, while the toll increased to 5,929 with one fresh death, the official said.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 60,79,352, new cases 8,753, Total deaths 1,22,353, Total recoveries 58,36,920, Active cases 1,16,867, Tests conducted so far 4,20,96,506.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Assets of Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, Dino Morea, DJ Aqeel attached in money laundering case: ED||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached assets of late Congress leader Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, actors Dino Morea and Sanjay Khan and DJ Aqeel in a criminal investigation into a money laundering case linked to an alleged bank fraud.  The case involves a Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company called Sterling Biotech group and its absconding main promoter brothers, Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara.  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has alleged that this is a bigger bank scam in volume than that of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud by fugitive diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, as it involves fraud to the tune of about Rs 16,000 crore.  A consortium of banks led by Andhra Bank were alleged to have been duped, it said.  The amount involved in the PNB case is pegged at about Rs 13,400 crore.  The federal probe agency said four separate provisional orders were issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to attach the assets of the four people which are worth a total Rs 8.79 crore.  Out of this, the value of attachment of assets for Khan is Rs 3 crore, for Dino Morea it is Rs 1.4 crore, for Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali, popularly known as DJ Aqeel, it is Rs 1.98 crore and for Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui, who is Patel's son-in-law, it is Rs 2.41 crore, the central probe agency said in a statement.  It added that the attached properties include three vehicles, several bank accounts, shares and mutual fund.  Siddiqui, Morea (45) and Aqeel (44) have been questioned by the agency in the past in this case.  The ED had recorded the statement of Sunil Yadav, an employee of the Sandesara family, where he told the agency that Siddiqui "occupied" a house in Delhi's Vasant Vihar, which reportedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara.  The agency had then said that it has evidence to say that Morea and Aqeel were paid some money in an alleged unauthorised manner by the Gujarat-based pharmaceutical group between 2011-12 when they reportedly attended some family events organised by the Sandesara brothers.  While Morea, also a model, has worked in a number of Hindi films, Aqeel is a popular DJ.  Aqeel is married to the eldest daughter of veteran actor and director Sanjay Khan (80).  Late Ahmed Patel and his son Faisal were also questioned and their statement was recorded by the ED last year in July in this case. Patel, after the fourth round of questioning, had told reporters that the ED action was "political vendetta and harassment against me and my family and I do not know under whose pressure they (investigators) are working."  He died on November 25 last year at the age of 71 resulting from complications linked to COVID-19.  The ED statement linked the four to the Sandesara family.  "Investigation by ED revealed that Sandesaras' diverted proceeds of crime of Rs 3 crore, Rs 1.4 crore, Rs 12.54 crore and Rs 3.51 crore to Sanjay Khan, Dino Morea, Aqeel Bachooali and Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui respectively," it alleged.  The Sandesara brothers, Chetan's wife Dipti Sandesara and Hitesh Patel have been declared fugitive economic offenders by a special court, the ED said.  They are stated to be based abroad and India is trying to extradite them.  The total attachment of assets in this case now stands at Rs 14,521.80 crore.  The ED had registered a criminal case in connection with the alleged bank-loan fraud in 2017 on the basis of a CBI FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till July 12, relaxes curbs||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday extended the ongoing lockdown by a week till July 12. According to a report by ndtv.com, restaurants in the state have now been allowed to serve dine-in customers at 50 per cent capacity and while adhering to Covid protocols. Hotels, lodges and guesthouses, too, can function. Amusement parks in the state have been allowed to open as well, with 50 per cent capacity and ensure that Covid SOPs are followed. The state government has also allowed gymnasiums to open. Offices in the IT and IT-enabled sectors can now function with 50 per cent attendance. Buses have been given the nod to operate within districts and between districts with the number of passengers capped at 50 per cent of seat capacity. Use of air-conditioners in buses remains prohibited. The state government has removed the requirement of e-passes for inter-district travel. Cinema halls, theatres, swimming pools, schools, colleges and zoos continue to remain shut and political and social gatherings are also prohibited. Research scholars, including those pursuing MPhil and PhD courses, can now visit campuses of education institutions for work relating to their research. Weddings and funerals are now allowed in all districts. A wedding function can be attended by a maximum of 50 guests and not more than 20 people can take part in a funeral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||J&K: Delimitation commission to hold separate meetings with parties||Taking forward the initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the delimitation commission has invited leaders of all national, regional and registered political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for separate meetings during its visit to the Union Territory next week, officials said here on Friday. The commission led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai and Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra may also hold separate meetings with civil society groups and similar organisations after they obtain prior approval and time slots through their respective deputy commissioners (DCs). The commission will undertake a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir from July 6-9 and will interact with leaders of political parties and officials to gather "first hand" inputs on the conduct of the mega exercise to carve out new constituencies there. The prime minister, during the June 24 meeting with 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, had said the ongoing delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held to install an elected government that gives strength to its development trajectory. In a series of tweets after a three-and-a-half-hour-long meeting with the leaders that included four former chief ministers, the prime minister said, "Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in JK. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and JK gets an elected government that gives strength to JK's development trajectory." The delimitation, therefore, has attained an urgency amid indications that the Centre is keen to hold early assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that the polls could be held in the next six to nine months. Officials said the commission, during its visit next week, has asked the chief electoral officer of the state to ensure that representatives of each registered, national and regional political party is provided a separate time slot so that separate discussions can be held with each one of them. The commission will be interacting with the political parties and their leaders in Srinagar on July 6 and those in Jammu on July 8. The three-member commission, with the JK CEO being the third member, will also have separate interactions with the DCs, they said. A statement from the delimitation commission had earlier said that during the visit, it will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials including district election officers/deputy commissioners of 20 districts to gather first-hand information and inputs concerning the ongoing process of delimitation as mandated under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019. It had said that the commission expected that all stakeholders will "cooperate" in this endeavour and provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the Assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Charred body of student found inside IIT-Madras campus, suicide suspected||The charred body of a project staff of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was found on the premises on Thursday night in a suspected case of suicide due to depression, police said on Friday. The deceased was identified as Unni Krishnan (22) from Ernakulam, Kerala, and he is suspected to have taken the extreme step "probably out of depression," a police official said. Police obtained CCTV footage and a suicide note which the deceased left behind. "He decided to end his life abruptly, probably he was depressed, and did not blame anyone in particular in the suicide note," an official involved in the probe said. Enquiries by the police revealed he had left his rented residence in Velachery to IIT-Madras on Thursday evening. "From the scene of crime it appears to be a case of suicide," a senior police official said. According to sources, the charred body was recovered from a hockey stadium at the premier technical institute by the police on Thursday night after some players alerted them. Inflammable material found at the scene has also been sent for testing. The police have registered a case of suspicious death and later sent the body to the Government Royapettah Hospital for postmortem. Meanwhile, the IIT management said the police is investigating into the incident and that the institute was fully cooperating with the authorities. "An unfortunate and tragic incident occurred yesterday (Thursday) on IIT-Madras campus, involving a temporary project staff. The project staff whose body was found had joined the institute in April 2021 and was living outside the campus," it said in a statement. "We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the departed soul," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Amid leadership change buzz, Uttarakhand CM hints on decision by BJP||Amid speculation over a change of leadership in Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday indicated that the BJP will take a call depending on the Election Commission's decision on holding a bypoll in the state. Uttarakhand is abuzz with speculation that the BJP could pick a new leader as CM, given the possibility that the Election Commission may not hold a bypoll enabling Rawat's election to the state assembly. Tirath Singh Rawat needs to be elected as an MLA in the next two months to continue in the post, which he got after the BJP leadership removed Trivendra Singh Rawat from the helm. But observers say with the term of the assembly in any case coming to an end in less than a year, the EC may not order a bypoll for the vacant seats in Uttarakhand. Scathing criticism by the courts of the string of elections held during the coronavirus pandemic may also contribute to the EC decision on Uttarakhand bypolls, it is felt. Speculation over a change of guard in the state was fuelled by Rawat being summoned suddenly on Wednesday to Delhi, where he meet the BJP's top leaders including party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He was supposed to return here on Thursday but stayed back. After meeting Nadda on Friday, Rawat told reporters that it is the EC's prerogative to hold or not conduct the bypoll, and the party will move forward accordingly. According to the Constitution, Rawat, an MP from Pauri Garhwal who was sworn in as CM on March 10, needs to become a member of the state assembly before September 10 to continue in office. Section 151A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 mandates the Election Commission to fill vacancies in Parliament and the state legislatures through bypolls within six months from the date of their occurrence, provided that the remainder of the term of the new member is one year or more. The term of Uttarakhand Assembly is scheduled to come to an end in March, only about nine months away. Going by some Uttarakhand BJP leaders' interpretation, however, the law neither prevents nor makes it mandatory for the EC to hold bye-elections in such circumstances. "It is within the scope and ambit of the Election Commission to take a call on whether or not to hold a bypoll in the state. Everything depends on the Election Commission of India," said Munna Singh Chauhan, BJP MLA from Vikasnagar and former spokesperson of the party's state unit. Rawat has little to worry if a bypoll is held but doubts are being cast on its constitutional feasibility as the current assembly completes its tenure in less than a year. There are two vacant assembly seats in Uttarakhand -- Gangotri and Haldwani. Gangotri fell vacant after the death of BJP MLA Gopal Singh Rawat and Haldwani after the death of Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh. "Even if there are no constitutional hurdles, the Election Commission may not find it easy to go for a bypoll in Uttarakhand," observers here said, recalling court observations against the EC for risking people's lives through elections amid a pandemic. Political observers said the Centre may also not press for a bypoll in Uttarakhand as bye-elections are also due in other parts of the country and the hill state cannot be made an exception. "If a bypoll is not held then the only option left for the BJP's central leadership is to replace Rawat with someone who is already an MLA," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
02-07-2021||India||Scattered rains in Delhi bring in relief||Reeling under heatwave for the past three days, the national capital got much-needed relief after some parts of the city received rainfall on Friday. The meteorological department predicted rain and thunderstorm in the evening. The maximum temperature for the city has been above the 40 degrees Celsius-mark, with 43.1 degrees Celsius being recorded on Thursday, the highest in July since 2012. The minimum temperature on Friday morning was recorded at 27.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was 25 per cent. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said there is "no chance" of monsoon reaching the city till July 7. The national capital on Friday evening experienced the sudden change in weather as high velocity winds swept the city, with some areas experiencing rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Pregnant women eligible for Covid vaccines now: Govt||Pregnant women in India are now eligible to get vaccinated against Covid with the union health ministry Friday giving the approval based on recommendations of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). The decision empowers pregnant women to make an informed choice on taking the Covid vaccination, the ministry said, adding these women can now register on CoWIN or walk-in to the nearest Covid vaccination centre to get themselves inoculated. "The decision has been communicated to all the states and union territories to implement it under the ongoing National Covid Vaccination Program," it said in a statement. India's Covid vaccination program incorporates recommendations of the foremost experts in the field of immunization, public health, disease control and information technology. "Based on scientific and epidemiological evidence, the programme gives priority to strengthening the country's healthcare system by protecting the professionals, health and frontline workers, manning it, as well as protecting the most vulnerable population groups," the ministry said. "Till now, all groups except pregnant women were eligible for Covid vaccination. Now, it is expanded to even pregnant women in the world's largest immunization drive," the statement said. "Studies have shown that Covid infection during pregnancy may result in rapid deterioration of health of pregnant women and they are at an increased risk of severe diseases and it might affect fetus too," it said. "The matter has been examined by domain knowledge experts based on the evidence that indicate that pregnant women are at an increased risk for severe illness from Covid compared to non-pregnant women in case they get infected. "Further, pregnant women with COVID-19 infection are at an increased risk for preterm birth and other adverse pregnancy outcomes including higher chances of neonatal morbidity. Additionally, the experts have also highlighted pre-existing co-morbidities, advanced maternal age, and high body mass Index as factors for severe COVID-19 in pregnancy," the statement said. The NTAGI has recommended vaccination for pregnant women. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) too has unanimously recommended it. Further, a national level consultation on Covid vaccination for pregnant women was also convened by the health ministry to build consensus on Covid vaccination of pregnant women. "The consultation unanimously welcomed the recommendation of NTAGI to vaccinate pregnant women. The consultation included professional bodies like FOGSI, representatives of state governments, CSOs, NGOs, Development Partner agencies, technical experts etc. "The ministry has accepted these recommendations and prepared an operational guideline for vaccination of pregnant women, counselling kit for medical officers and frontline workers, and information education communication material for general public to equip the states and union territories to carry out the vaccination of pregnant women," it said "Pregnant women, who opt for vaccination, can be inoculated with Covid vaccines available in the country any time during their pregnancy at the nearest government or private vaccination centre after registration on CoWIN or by walk-in registration at the nearest centre," the statement said. "The procedures and modalities like registration, generation of certificates after vaccination etc. will remain the same as it is for any beneficiaries above 18 years of age under the Covid vaccination programme," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Covid second wave not over, must not lower guard: Govt||The government on Friday stressed on vaccination and following COVID-19 protocols as it noted that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet. Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation, an official said people cannot and should not lower their guard. Seventy-one districts reported Covid case positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week from June 23 to 29, the government said, adding that the second wave of COVID-19 is not over. On the ongoing vaccination drive, the government said India is vaccinating on an average 50 lakh individuals daily since June 21, which is equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day. Till date 34 crore people -- the equivalent of the entire population of the US -- have been vaccinated with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine since the drive began on January 16, the government said. Nearly 80 per cent healthcare workers and 90 per cent frontline workers have been administered both doses of COVID-19 vaccine in the country, it said. India saw a single-day rise of 46,617 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,04,58,251, while the national recovery rate has crossed 97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,00,312 with 853 daily fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Krafton launches Battlegrounds Mobile India||South Korea's Krafton on Friday announced the launch of Battlegrounds Mobile India, a successor to the popular mobile game PUBG that was blocked by the Indian government last year. The new mobile game, developed exclusively for gaming enthusiasts and fans in India, had received 40 million pre-registrations that went live on May 18, 2021, a statement said. "After an Early Access period, Battlegrounds Mobile India is now available for download as a free-to-play multiplayer game on Google Play with an amazing array of maps, game modes, and exciting launch week challenges," it added. In September last year, the government blocked 118 mobile applications, including PUBG, terming them prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the nation. Following the ban, PUBG Corporation -- a subsidiary of Krafton -- had said China's Tencent Games would no longer be authorised to distribute the PUBG MOBILE franchise in India. At that time, PUBG Corporation had said it will take on all publishing responsibilities within India. In November, PUBG Corporation said it was preparing to launch a new game for the Indian market. In its statement on Friday, Krafton said the Early Access for the game started on June 17, 2021, and saw 20 million players trying out the game and providing feedback. "We at Krafton are delighted to introduce Battlegrounds Mobile India for our fans in India today. Designed exclusively for our Indian fans and gamers, Battlegrounds Mobile India will provide a superlative gaming experience," Krafton Inc CEO CH Kim said. This is just the beginning of a series of new content, collaborations and esports tournaments coming users' way, and the company will strive to ensure that fans and community in India can fully enjoy the battlegrounds experiences, he added. The game was recently caught in a controversy after concerns were raised around data of Indian players being allegedly sent to servers in China. Krafton, at that time, had said it has "taken immediate, concrete actions to address this issue". It had also stated that it will continue to closely monitor and protect any data being transferred to "unexpected and restricted IP addresses". Krafton has over 2,000 employees worldwide with around 20 global offices, including India. It has five independent studios - PUBG STUDIOS, Bluehole Studio, Striking Distance Studios, RisingWings, and the recently acquired Dreamotion. Aligned with its commitment to invest USD 100 million in India, Krafton has already started collaborating with a host of partners and organisations to build India's esports ecosystem. Krafton had made a minority investment of USD 22.5 million in NODWIN Gaming earlier this year. The company also carried out a seed funding worth USD 9 million in the gaming live streaming platform Loco, together with other investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||TMC seeks removal of Solicitor General over meeting with Suvendu, top advocate denies||The Trinamul Congress on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the removal of Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta over his meeting with West Bengal Opposition Leader Suvendu Adhikari in Delhi. The letter, written by TMC MPs Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Maitra, stated that the meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general "reeks of impropriety" as the BJP MLA is an accused in the Narada and Saradha cases where investigations are underway. According to the letter, the meeting "curiously" took place subsequent to Adhikari's meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah. The TMC MPs claimed that Adhikari was accused in various cases of cheating, bribery and illegal gratification, related to Narada and Saradha. The Solicitor General is appearing for the CBI in the Narada case in the Supreme Court and the high court, besides advising the investigation agency in the Saradha chit fund scam, they said. The meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general "not only reeks of impropriety, there is a direct conflict of interest and also taints the position of the second highest law officer of the country, the Solicitor General", they added. To maintain the "neutrality and integrity" of the office of the Solicitor General of India, necessary steps be taken for the removal of Mehta from the post, the TMC MPs said in the letter to the prime minister. Mehta, however, rejected the claims later in the day. "Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence-cum-office yesterday at around 3 pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea," he was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "When my meeting was over and thereafter my (personal secretary) informed me about his arrival, I requested him to convey to Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Adhikari, therefore, did not arise," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Rahul flags jab deficiency again, BJP hits back||In a swipe at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that July has come but vaccines have not, drawing a sharp retort from the BJP which cited figures to ask if spreading "confusion" is the opposition party's undeclared policy. "July has come, vaccines have not. Where are vaccines," Gandhi tweeted. The BJP hit out at him and claimed that people often ask why maturity, wisdom and responsibility have not come to the Congress leader despite the passage of 51 Julys, a reference to his age. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said 41.60 lakh Covid vaccine doses were administered on July 1 while a total of 6.85 crore jabs have been given between June 21 and July 1 with an average daily dose of over 62 lakh. These statistics tell a different story and show that the government has been working at a "war footing" to give vaccines to people, he said, adding that the pace of vaccination will gather more speed in the coming days. Is there any country with a better average in the last 11 days, he asked, adding that India by administering over 34 crore doses has surpassed countries like the US, Canada and other. The central government has begin providing free vaccines to all adults since June 21. "While the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving citizens safety shield in form of vaccines, the Congress and some other opposition parties do not want India to defeat Covid," Bhatia claimed. The government is committed to administering jabs to all adults by this year end, he reiterated. "You may hate Modi but why hate people... Is spreading confusion the undeclared policy of the Congress," he said, attacking Gandhi. Bhatia also hit out at the alleged corruption and irregularities in Covid management in the Congress-ruled states and questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi about it. He cited media reports to accuse the Congress government in Rajasthan of buying oxygen concentrators at an exorbitant rate and alleged that many of them were defunct. He claimed that even Congress leaders in Maharashtra have alleged corruption by the coalition government in the state. Answering a question related to Uttar Pradesh, Bhatia lauded the Yogi Adityanath-led government in the state and expressed confidence that the BJP will win the assembly polls in the state next year with even a bigger margin than 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Drone spotted over Indian High Commission in Islamabad||A drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex in Islamabad late last week, prompting India to lodge a strong protest with Pakistan over the incident, people familiar with the development said on Friday. They said India considered the incident as a breach of security that triggered concerns in the mission. The Indian mission has already taken up the issue strongly with the Pakistani authorities through a note verbale. There was no official comment on the incident yet that came to light amid growing concerns in the security establishment in India after explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station on June 27. According to security officials, it was the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges from both state and state-sponsored actors. A day after the attack on the Air Force station attempts to target the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military station in Jammu with drones was thwarted by soldiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Over 34 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in country so far, says Centre||The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 34 crore on Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. A total of 9,41,03,985 persons in the age group of 18-44 across all states and UTs have received their first dose and 22,73,477 received the second dose, it said. The ministry said 34,00,76,232 vaccine doses were administered as per the provisional report till 7 am, with over 42 lakh (42,64,123) doses being given in a span of 24 hours. On Day-167 of the vaccination drive (July 1, 2021), out of the total 42,64,123 vaccine doses that were given, 32,80,998 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 9,83,125 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, it said. The ministry said 24,51,539 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 89,027 vaccine doses as second dose in the age group 18-44 on Thursday. "Eight States -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44," it said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||ED summons actor Yami Gautam for questioning in FEMA case||Actor Yami Gautam has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in a case related to alleged contravention of the foreign exchange law, official sources said on Friday. They said the 32-year-old actor has been asked to appear before the central probe agency next week in Mumbai. She has been summoned earlier too but she could not depose, the sources said. The case, they said, pertains to transactions of about Rs 1.5 crore deposited in a bank account. The investigation is being done under the civil proceedings of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), the sources said. Gautam has worked in a number of Hindi films apart from a few made in Tamil and Telugu. Last month, she got married to filmmaker Aditya Dhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay further proceedings against Ayesha Sulthana||The Kerala High Court on Friday refused to stay further proceedings in the sedition case registered against Lakshadweep filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana. Considering a plea filed by Sulthana seeking to quash the FIR registered against her by the Kavaratti police, the High Court said investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage and more time may be required for completing the probe. Refusing to stay further proceedings in the case, the court directed the Lakshadweep administration to provide details of the investigation. When the matter was taken up, the counsel for the administration opposed the plea, submitting that the investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage. A case was registered on June 9 under Section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti. Last week, the High Court had granted anticipatory bail to Sulthana in the sedition case. Granting bail, Justice Ashok Menon had said there was no apparent indication in her statement, which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police thrice last week in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
02-07-2021||India||Covid first wave led to increase in antibiotic misuse in India, finds Study||Antibiotic sales soared during the first COVID-19 wave in India last year, according to a study which suggests that the drugs were used to treat mild and moderate cases of the viral disease. The researchers at Washington University in the US estimated that COVID-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics and 38 million more doses of azithromycin in adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a period of peak COVID-19 activity in India. Such misuse of drugs is considered inappropriate because antibiotics are only effective against bacterial infections, not viral infections such as COVID-19, the researchers said. Overuse of antibiotics increases the risk for drug-resistant infections, they said. "Antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to global public health," said the study's senior author, Sumanth Gandra, an associate hospital epidemiologist at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in the US. "Overuse of antibiotics lessens their ability to effectively treat minor injuries and common infections such as pneumonia, which means that these conditions can become serious and deadly," Gandra said. The study, published in the journal PLOS Medicine, analysed monthly sales of all antibiotics in India's private health sector from January 2018 through December 2020. The data came from an Indian branch of IQVIA, a U.S.-based health information technology company. The study, conducted in collaboration with McGill University in Canada, examined the total sales volume of all antibiotics as well as the individual sales for azithromycin, a vital drug for treating typhoid fever, non-typhoidal Salmonella and traveller's diarrhoea. Azithromycin was studied because some countries experienced a spike in its sales early in the pandemic after observational studies suggested the antibiotic could help treat COVID-19. However, such a claim was disputed by subsequent studies. The researchers determined that a total of 16.29 billion doses of antibiotics were sold in India in 2020, which is slightly less than the amounts sold in 2018 and in 2019. However, when researchers focused on adult doses, usage increased from 72.6 per cent in 2018 and 72.5 per cent in 2019 to 76.8 per cent in 2020. Additionally, sales of azithromycin for adults in India increased from 4 per cent in 2018 and 4.5 per cent in 2019 to 5.9 per cent in 2020. The study also showed notable increases in the sales of doxycycline and faropenem, two antibiotics commonly used to treat respiratory infections. The researchers used previously published studies to compare India's antibiotic use with that in the US and other high-income countries. In those countries, they found that adult antibiotic use decreased drastically during the pandemic compared with such use in 2018 and 2019. "It's critical to acknowledge that antibiotic use in high-income countries plummeted in 2020," Gandra said. "People isolated, schools and offices closed, and fewer people got the flu and, overall, stayed healthier compared with the pre-pandemic years. This reduced the overall need for antibiotics, as did cancelling dental procedures and outpatient surgeries," he said. The researchers noted that India also had restrictions and experienced dramatic decreases in malaria, dengue, chikungunya and other infections typically treated with antibiotics. "Antibiotic use should have gone down, but it didn't. Not only that but antibiotic use increased along with the rise of COVID cases," Gandra added. The researchers statistically adjusted antibiotic use for seasonality and mandatory lockdown periods. They estimated that COVID-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics for adults and 38 million excess doses of azithromycin for adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a four-month period of peak COVID-19 activity in India. "Our results indicate that almost everybody who was diagnosed with COVID-19 received an antibiotic in India," Gandra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Kerala rainfall deficient even after a month of monsoon||Though it has almost been a month after the South West Monsoon made its footfall, Kerala, the gateway of monsoon into the mainland of the country, has received deficient rainfall so far, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thirteen of the total 14 districts of the southern state received deficient rainfall while only one district received normal rains during the period from June 1-30, it said. The neighbouring union territory Lakshadweep and Mahe, part of union territory of Puducherry, also received deficient rainfall during the period. However, the monsoon is likely to be normal in the country in July, the weather agency said. "Out of 14 districts in Kerala, 1 district received normal rainfall and the other 13 districts received deficient rainfall (during this year's monsoon season from June 1 to 30). Lakshadweep and Mahe received deficient rainfall," K Santhosh, Head, IMD unit here, said in a bulletin. Based on the present synoptic features, fairly widespread rainfall is likely over Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep during the first week of July. "Cumulatively, normal rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe and above normal rainfall is likely over Lakshadweep during the first week," he said. Though the normal onset date for the monsoon in Kerala, which marks the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country, was June 1, it arrived two days late this year. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra had said on Thursday that though the rainfall is not expected to be good in the first week of July, the precipitation activity is likely to pick up in the second half of the second week of the month. The advancement of the monsoon is unlikely to happen before July 7, he said, adding that since June 19, no progress has been observed in the advancement of the monsoon. June recorded 10 per cent more rainfall than normal and a large part of it was received between June 3 and 19, he said. Mid-latitude westerly winds, an unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and the absence of formation of a low pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal are some of the reasons for a break in the monsoon, Mohapatra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||SC dismisses plea against minister, says it is for PM to take care||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea that alleged that union minister V K Singh committed a breach of oath by giving statements with regard to India's official position on the LAC with China, saying if a minister is not good it is for the prime minister to take care, courts can't do anything . A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the plea filed by petitioner Chandrasekaran Ramasamy, a Tamil Nadu resident who claims to be a scientist. At the outset, the bench said, "If you don't like a statement by a minister then does it mean you will file a petition and ask him to be removed." The bench said, "If a minister is not good it is for the prime minister to take care. Courts can't do anything." The bench told the petitioner that it "appears you are a scientist, then you must use your energies to do something for the country." "We are dismissing it," it said. The plea has sought a direction to the Centre to "declare that Union minister Gen (retd) V K Singh committed a breach of his oath" by his alleged remarks on India's position on the border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Centre sends high-level team to 6 states to tackle Covid-19 ||The Centre has deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to six states reporting an increase in Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said on Friday. The teams have been sent to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Manipur, and Chhattisgarh. Each of them will interact with the state/UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities to curb Covid-19 cases, the ministry said in a statement. The two-member high level team to these states consists of a clinician and a public health expert. "The teams will visit the States immediately and monitor the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, including surveillance and containment operations; Covid appropriate behaviour and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen etc., and Covid-19 vaccination progress," the statement said. The teams will assess the situation and suggest remedial actions on public health activities to the respective state governments, the ministry said in the statement. Copy of the report will also be provided to the health ministry, it added. "The team to Manipur will be led by Dr. L Swasticharan, Add. DDG & Director EMR; team to Arunachal Pradesh will be led by Dr. Sanjay Sadhukhan, Professor AIIH&PH; for Tripura Dr. R.N. Sinha Dir Professor, AIIH&PH; for Kerala Dr. Ruchi Jain, Public Health Specialist Gr. II, RoHFW; for Odisha Dr. A Dan, Public Health Specialist AIIH&PH and for Chhattisgarh Dr. Dibakar Sahu, Assistant Professor, AIIMS Raipur," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala released from Tihar jail||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year prison term in a teacher recruitment scam case, was released from the Tihar Jail here on Friday after completing due formalities, prison officials said. The 86-year-old Chautala, who was already out on parole, reached Tihar on Friday to complete formalities after which he was released from jail, they said. Director General (Delhi Prisons), Sandeep Goel, said, "After necessary formalities, he (Chautala) has been released". Last month, the Delhi government had passed an order granting a six-month special remission to those who have served nine-and-half years of their 10-year prison sentence to decongest jails in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials, since Chautala has already served nine years and nine months of his sentence, he was eligible to get out of prison. Chautala was jailed in 2013 in connection with the teacher recruitment scam case. He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020, due to the Covid pandemic and was scheduled to surrender on February 21, 2021. However, his parole had been extended by the high court, a senior jail official had said earlier. As on February 21, he had two months and 27 days of jail time left which has been counted as remitted. O P Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala, and 53 others, including IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, were convicted and sentenced in the case of illegal recruitment of 3,206 junior basic teachers in 2000. They all were sentenced to varying jail terms in the case by a special CBI court in January 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||India registers over 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 853 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 46,617 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,04,58,251, while the national recovery rate has crossed 97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,00,312 with 853 daily fatalities. Over 34 crore vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far, it said. The active cases have further declined to 5,09,637, comprising 1.67 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.01 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 13,620 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 18,80,026 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,42,51,520, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.48 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 25 consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.57 per cent, according to the health ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 50th consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,95,48,302, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 853 new fatalities include 252 from Maharashtra, 124 from Kerala, 102 from Tamil Nadu and 94 from Karnataka. A total of 4,00,312 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,22,197 from Maharashtra, 35,134 from Karnataka, 32,721from Tamil Nadu, 24,981 from Delhi, 22,601 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,735 from West Bengal and 16,072 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav's 48th birthday celebrated across Uttar Pradesh||SP president Akhilesh Yadav's 48th birthday was celebrated by the party leaders and workers in a grand manner on Thursday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also wished the opposition party leader on his birthday. Addressing the Samajwadi Party (SP) workers who turned up in large numbers to wish him on his birthday, Yadav said, "We have many challenges ahead of us and there is a lot more to do. We have a very clever political opponent before us. They make false promises, spread hatred and divide the society. The blessings given by the people today have raised our spirits and given us new energy." "Today, farmers are in trouble. The three agricultural laws (of the Centre) are anti-farmer and anti-farming. Youngsters are facing the brunt of unemployment due to government policies. Their future is bleak. Covid has also caused a lot of devastation. The economy of the country and the state has been ruined. People are suffering due to inflation," a release issued by the SP quoted Yadav as saying. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in the last five years, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has flouted the Constitution. The promises made in its resolution letter were not kept, constitutional institutions were weakened and the voice of the people was crushed, he alleged. Earlier in the day, the chief minister wished his predecessor on his birthday. "Happy birthday greetings to former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and National President of Samajwadi Party, Shri Akhilesh Yadav ji. I wish you good health and long life from Lord Shri Ram," Adityanath said in a tweet. In his reply, Yadav tweeted: "Thanks for the best wishes. May the mercy of Lord Ram be with all of us and may all your wishes be fulfilled."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Dominica PM rubbishes claims that his govt was involved in the abduction of Choksi||Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit has termed "total nonsense" the claims that his government was involved in alleged abduction of diamantaire Mehul Choksi, wanted in Rs 13,5000 crore scam in Punjab National Bank, from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, local media there reported. In his weekly "annou palay" show, Skerrit said his government will allow the court to carry out its process regarding Choksi and gave the assurance that his rights and obligations will be respected, Dominica News Online reported. Skerrit refuted the allegations of a plot between India and Dominica government to kidnap Choksi from neighbouring Caribbean country Antigua and Barbuda, where he was staying since 2018 as a citizen, after fleeing from India, and bring him to Dominica, the news portal reported. "To say that the government of Dominica and the government of Antigua along with India colluded in any way, give me a break, that's total nonsense. We don't get involved ourselves in those kinds of activities, those practices, not at all. I mean that is absurd and we reject it and it is unfortunate that anybody would want to propagate this unsubstantiated claim by a gentleman who is before the courts," he was quoted as saying by Dominica News Online. He further said "whether it would be fair for a local who commits murder in Dominica and flees to another country, is allowed to roam free or instead be apprehended and sent back to Dominica to face his charges". Citing the case of a Dominica citizen wanted by the United States whose extradition proceedings are going on in courts to counter opposition on Choksi, Skerrit said the country cannot treat people differently depending on who they are or how much money they may have. "All of us are subjected to the laws irrespective of our position or how much money we may have or how much we don't have. And I believe that in this circumstance Dominica has a right and obligation to apprehend this person and bring the person before the courts and let the courts determine," he said. "We here in Dominica with the opposition talking about Choksi but there is a young boy from Grand Bay Where there is an extradition request by the United States government on allegations that he committed a crime in St Thomas and we are mandated and obligated to apprehend him. "And the police acted on the instruction of the DPP (Director of Public Prosecutions) arrested the young man and he is remanded at the state prison awaiting his extradition hearing. His lawyers will fight his case. If the courts believe that there is no reason to extradite him to the United States then he will go freely," Skerrit said. Choksi's lawyer in Dominica Justin Simon claimed that United Kingdom's Metropolitan Police, known as Scotland Yard, has started looking into allegations of torture and kidnapping of Choksi as citizens there were allegedly part of the plot, the news site reported. Simon told media that there will be international implications if Dominica or Antigua turns out to be involved in the alleged plot, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||BSF opens fire at surveillance drone spotted near International Border||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday opened fire on a suspected Pakistani surveillance drone after it tried to venture into the Indian territory on the International Border here, officials said. The drone was spotted by the alert BSF personnel in Arnia sector on the outskirts of Jammu around 4:25 am, they said. The officials said the suspected drone returned to the Pakistani side when the border guards fired half a dozen rounds to bring it down. Alert BSF troops fired at a small quadcopter belonging to Pakistan today (Friday) morning as it was trying to cross the International Border (IB) in the Arnia sector. Due to this firing, it returned immediately," a BSF spokesperson said. He said it was meant for carrying out surveillance of the area. Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir are on high alert following the Sunday's drone attack on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station here. Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. Drones were spotted hovering over vital Army installations in different areas of Jammu during night hours on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday as well. While the Army said it thwarted a drone activity on its brigade headquarters at Kaluchak and Ratnuchak during the intervening night of Sunday-Monday, it neither confirmed nor denied the movement of drones over its military stations at Sunjwan, Miran Sahib, Kaluchak and Ratnuchak during the subsequent days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Street dogs guaranteed ‘Right to Food’ in landmark Delhi High Court judgment  ||India’s street dogs have been given their own legal charter of rights and duties in a landmark judgment by the Delhi High Court that includes a right to be fed and an obligation to guard the colonies where they live. “Animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect, and dignity,” the court declared in its ruling that goes strongly in the favour of man’s best friend. “Animals are sentient creatures with an intrinsic value. Therefore, the protection of such beings is the moral responsibility of each and every citizen, including the governmental and non-government organizations,” the court went on to say. The ruling came in a longstanding dispute between a Delhi resident and animal lovers who had been feeding dogs in the colony near the entrance to the plaintiff’s home. In February, the court ordered the two sides to work out a settlement. This resulted in a deadlock and Justice Pratibha M. Singh asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to step in as an arbitrator. The judgment could have far-reaching implications for the millions of “community dogs,” as the ruling respectfully refers to strays, that live across India. The court ruled unequivocally that: “Community animals (stray/street dogs) have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community dogs.” The court warned, however, that in exercising this right “care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon the rights of others, or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of the society.” Although an amicable deal was eventually struck between the two sides establishing fixed feeding areas for the stray dogs, lawyers for the plaintiff and the defendant asked Justice J. R. Midha to set out rules for feeding stray dogs in communities. The issue of feeding strays in India sparks some of the bitterest rows in municipal colonies with some residents seeing them as a threat to safety and health. Justice Midha laid down detailed rules on setting up feeding areas in all Delhi colonies. He also suggested that a pilot project in 10 residential areas should be conducted with the AWBI’s help. Under the scheme suggested by the court, each RWA will have to set up an Animal Welfare Committee. The court’s ruling could have far-reaching consequences because it will involve establishing “feeding areas.” RWAs will also have to make provisions for sterilising animals and treating those that fall sick. “If any of the street/community dogs in injured or unwell, it shall be the duty of the RWA to secure treatment for such dog by the vets made available by the Municipal Corporation and/or privately from the funds of the RWA,” the court ruled. Going beyond those areas, the court also pointed out that street dogs tend to be extremely territorial and attached to the areas where they live. It outlined a way by which, with the help of police, the dogs could be trained to act as guard dogs for the area. “Every RWA should form Guard and Dog partnerships and, in consultation with the Delhi Police Dog Squad, the dogs can be trained to make them effective as guard dogs and yet friendly to those who live in the colony,” the court proposed. The court added: “The importance of street dogs in our community is of great significance. Being territorial animals, they live in certain areas and play the role of guards by protecting the community from the entry of outsiders.” The court said the aim of training the animals should be to “make the community dogs assets to the community instead of them being viewed as a menace.” Back in 2014, the New Delhi Municipal Corporation floated a proposal to turn stray canines into security dogs and even had a plan to get them to attend a police training school. But the project never got off the ground. Keeping in mind the fact that dogs are territorial animals, the court also ruled that feeding must take place in an area where residents are not inconvenienced but also within the dogs’ "territory". “Every dog is a territorial being, and therefore, the street dogs have to be fed and tended to at places within their territory which are not frequented or less frequented, and sparingly used by the general public and residents.” The court ruled that the RWAs and the Animal Welfare Board of India should fix “suitable times” twice a day for feeding the dogs. In addition, the court proposed a dispute mechanism via the welfare board to settle differences between residents and RWAs and animal feeders. To ensure peace between all parties, the court also laid down that, “It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Government officers, particularly the jurisdictional SHO, to ensure that peace and harmony are maintained amongst the residents, caregivers, and community dog feeders.” India already has some of the most favourable laws globally for dogs. For instance, it’s illegal under the Indian Penal Code to kill healthy strays. Stray dogs are also protected by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. In his ruling, the judge quoted Article 48A of the Constitution which lays down that the state must protect forests and wildlife. He also cited Article 51A(g) which enshrines respect for animals, saying people must have “compassion for living creatures”. He asserted that Article 21 offers the Right to Life and that this must also be extended to animals. “The said Article not only protects the life of human beings but also protects the life of animals,” he said. “We have to show compassion towards all living creatures. Animals may be mute but we as a society have to speak on their behalf. No pain or agony should be caused to the animals,” the judge said. “Animals breathe like us and have emotions. The animals require food, water, shelter, normal behaviour, medical care, self-determination,” he declared. In addition, Justice Midha noted that various countries like the UK, Austria, Germany have introduced new laws aimed at protecting and guarding the wellbeing of animals. Animal welfare advocates hailed the judge’s judgment laying out rights for stray dogs as far-sighted and compassionate. But they cautioned that the ruling may be tough to put into practice. Says one expert: “Some RWAs can be obnoxious beyond belief toward people who want to feed strays. But there’s also an issue with some animal lovers who don’t want any rules or regulations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
02-07-2021||India||Monsoon slips into hiatus expected to last a week||The monsoon has slipped into a hiatus expected to last a week, the national weather agency said on Thursday while predicting below-normal rainfall across swathes of the country in July, a crucial month for agriculture. The India Meteorological Department said that while the overall nationwide rainfall during July was expected to be “normal” — 96 to 104 per cent of the average — many parts of northwest, central and eastern India and the southern peninsula would receive below-normal rains. Monsoon rainfall is likely to remain subdued over the next seven days under the current atmospheric conditions, wind patterns and the absence of any low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal that serve as engines for the monsoon’s advance. “This is likely to impact sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling and power requirements,” IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra told reporters. India’s major summer crops include rice, maize, sugarcane, groundnut, pigeon pea and soybean. The normal window for transplanting rice and sowing other crops typically falls during July across central India and the northwestern states, but agrometeorologists have underlined that much of northwest India relies on irrigated farmland and not so much on rainfall. “Early sown crops will require protective irrigation to conserve soil moisture and prevent evaporation,” Mohapatra said. The IMD had earlier this year predicted that the overall rainfall during the four-month monsoon season from June through September would be normal. That forecast for the full monsoon season still stands. The forecast generated by the IMD for July has predicted that parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and northeastern Bihar are likely to receive 65 to 75 per cent below-normal rainfall in July, while some parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra will receive 35-65 per cent below-normal rains. However, the IMD said, heavy rainfall is very likely over parts of Bihar, northern Bengal, Sikkim and the northeastern states, resulting from strong moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal over India’s eastern and northeastern states. Western Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan will continue to bake under a heat wave with maximum temperatures above 40°C and, at places, 5 degrees higher than the average over the next two days. After July 3, the intensity of the heat is likely to reduce with the arrival of moisture-laden winds from the Arabian Sea. But the winds will add to humidity and the “human discomfort will continue over the next seven days”, Mohapatra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||CJI Ramana expresses concern at lack of govt priority for healthcare ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday expressed concern at the lack of government priority for health care and at the way doctors were being attacked in the country “for someone else’s failure”. “It is saddening that our doctors are being brutally attacked while on duty,” Justice Ramana said, addressing the medical fraternity on National Doctors’ Day. He asked: “Why is it that the medical professionals are at the receiving end for someone else’s failure?” Without naming any particular government, the CJI remarked: “Issues such as insufficient number of medical professionals, infrastructure, medicines, outdated technologies, and government not giving priority to the medical sector are issues of immediate concern. It is a fact that the tradition of the family doctor is vanishing.” He asked: “Why is it that the profiteering by corporates and investors is being blamed on doctors?” The CJI said India’s doctors were tirelessly and selflessly fighting the deadly pandemic. “When thousands of physically and emotionally vulnerable patients stood isolated in their hospital wards, it was the doctors who kept the hope alive even in the times of despair,” Justice Ramana said. “Unless you see them working personally, you cannot visualise the discomfort of being in PPE kits non-stop for 24 hours in a day and sometimes even for days together with no rest or proper food.” Justice Ramana said it was sad to see that good and qualified doctors cannot start decent hospitals of their own and survive, and that even after eight to nine years of rigorous learning, doctors struggle to get decent salaries. “The medical bodies and concerned agencies in the government have to put their heads together to address these concerns. Only then can we sincerely greet the doctors on the first of July every year,” he said. He added: “I venture to say that no other professional is capable of rendering services as valuable as those offered by doctors. On this occasion, I pay my humble tributes to Dr B.C. Roy in whose honour Doctors’ Day came to be celebrated in India.” The Indian Medical Association’s data suggest that more than 798 doctors have lost their lives to the deadly second wave, Justice Ramana said, expressing his sympathy for the bereaved families. He said that because of the nature of the pandemic, thousands of doctors and healthcare workers had been separated from their families during these difficult times. No amount of medical training or experience can ever prepare anyone to go through the psychological ordeals of the pandemic, he added. Justice Ramana expressed concern at the increase in the incidence of diabetes, an “opportunistic killer” that affects people across classes and age groups, and said this required immediate attention. He said data revealed that India had the highest number of diabetes patients — 65 million — and that this was projected to rise to 101.2 million by 2030. “Here, one must pause and question the implication... (for) the already strained Indian healthcare system. These issues call for formulating public healthcare policies surrounding the prevention and management of diabetes in India based on intense scientific research,” the CJI said. “However, the path is not easy. Studies have proved that knowledge and awareness about diabetes is very (low) in India. The degree of awareness is negligible in rural areas and among the vulnerable classes. The need of the hour is to bridge this gap in awareness regarding the disease, its prevention and management.” Justice Ramana said it was necessary to evolve methods that suited the Indian context. He said the lack of awareness led to myths being spread such as “those who eat more sugar get sugar disease”; “women are immune to diabetes”; “only obese people get diabetes”; and “diabetes is contagious”. “Where there is room for myths, there is room for quackery; and quackery is the biggest disease that is affecting India. Where the awareness ends, the quackery begins. Due to lack of awareness and resources, people tend to fall for ‘easy solutions’ offered by the quacks,” Justice Ramana said. “The unscientific solutions offered by the quacks push the people into deeper troubles, ultimately leading to additional burden on the individuals as well as the public healthcare system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Minor gang-raped and killed in Bihar||Five men allegedly gang-raped and killed a minor after dragging her out through the window while she was asleep in her house at a village in Vaishali district of Bihar, police said. The police have arrested three of the accused. The incident occurred at Bhagwanpur Ratti village on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Family members and villagers found her body in the morning. Though the villagers said that the girl was 14-years-old, the police have maintained that she was aged 16. Her parents had gone out to attend the marriage function of a relative, while she and her grandfather were at home. When the girl did not come out of her room in the morning, her grandfather knocked at the door. He raised an alarm after not getting a response and a few neighbours rushed to the house. They found the window in the girl’s room was open but she was not inside. The villagers informed her family members and they together mounted a search. They found her body a few hours later in an orchard while looking across the village and farms. “A few men had been loitering around the house over the last few days. She was abducted through the window of her room, raped and then killed,” the girl’s uncle said. Police officials said that prima facie it seemed that the victim was raped and murdered. The doctors who conducted the post-mortem also said that the girl was raped before being killed. Vaishali Sadar sub-divisional police officer Raghav Dayal told The Telegraph that the window of the room did not have a steel grill, and she could have been abducted through it. “We have arrested three out of the five accused. We have not received the post-mortem report yet. The matter is under investigation so I cannot tell more,” Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh, who goes by one name, told this newspaper. Meanwhile, the villagers pelted stones and attacked the houses of the five accused. Police personnel have been deployed in the village to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha halts vaccination drive in 16 districts ||The Odisha government on Thursday halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts because of a shortage of doses. Only 49,000 people were vaccinated in the state against a target of three lakh on Wednesday. “We have only 19,520 doses of Covishield and 3.24 lakh vials of Covaxin with us,” director, health and family welfare, Bijay Panigrahi, told reporters on Thursday. Panigrahi said: “The vaccination programme has been stopped in 16 districts. Though, we will receive one lakh Covishield doses today (Thursday), it is not sufficient. We want to expedite the programme before the third wave hits the state.” The districts where the vaccination programme has been stopped are — Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Baragarh, Bhadrak, Deogarh, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kandhamal, Kendrapara, Koraput, Nabarangour, Sonepur and Sundergarh. Only 114 vaccination sessions were held on Thursday, including 72 in state capital Bhubaneswar. Odisha has so far vaccinated 1.18 crore people. Covaxin is being administered to people in Bhubaneswar, while Covishield is being given to people in other parts of the state. For the last 10 days, Odisha has been vaccinating an average of three lakh citizens per day. The state has built the capacity to vaccinate 3.5 lakh people per day. The number of Covid deaths in the state has touched 4,063, with 45 fresh casualties reported on Thursday. Of the fresh fatalities, nine were reported from Khurda, five each from Nayagarh and Puri, four each from Ganjam and Keonjhar, three each from Bargarh and Sundargarh districts. Two deaths each were recorded in Angul, Cuttack and Sambalpur and one patient each succumbed to the infection in Balasore, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Mayurbhanj and Nabarangpur, an official said. Another 3,087 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the infection tally in the state to 912,887. The state now has 31,231 active cases, while 877,540 patients have recovered from the disease. Of the new cases, 1,775 were reported from quarantine centres, and the remaining 1,312 detected during contact tracing. Khurda district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the highest number of fresh cases at 584, followed by Cuttack (462) and Balasore (246). The state has so far tested over 1.38 crore samples for Covid-19, including 74,000 on Wednesday, and the positivity ratio stands at 6.59 per cent. Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday eased Covid-related restrictions in 20 districts where the test positivity rate is below 5 per cent with bus services resuming in a few places on Thursday. The government had on Wednesday extended the partial lockdown in the state for 15 more days till 5am on July 16. However, the coastal districts are under active watch of the state government as the number of coronavirus cases is still high. The restrictions are yet to be eased in these districts, particularly in the coastal belt. Health minister Naba Kishore Das said: “We have requested the Centre to provide vaccines. We are yet to get supplies according to our requirement.” Odisha has sought six lakh additional doses of Covishield. The state is expecting a consignment of six lakh vials of the vaccine on Friday, an official said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks permission to launch DNA-based vaccine ||Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila has sought permission from India’s drug regulatory authority to launch its DNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, saying the needle-free vaccine has shown 66 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19. The company announced on Thursday that it had applied to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine, ZyCoV-D, after interim results from a clinical trial on over 28,000 volunteers demonstrated its safety and efficacy. The trial has also shown that ZyCoV-D — a three-dose vaccine — is safe for children aged 12 to 18 years who made up around 1,000 of the 28,000 volunteers. “When approved, the vaccine will help not only adults but also adolescents in the 12-to-18-years age group,” said Sharvil Patel, managing director of Cadila Healthcare. The interim analysis has shown a primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic Covid-19 confirmed through an RT-PCR test, the company said, announcing the results of the trial at 50 sites across India. The trial results have yet to be peer-reviewed and published. Under globally adopted standards, a Covid-19 vaccine has to show at least 50 per cent efficacy to be considered for approval. Vaccines already approved have efficacy ranging from 78 per cent to over 90 per cent. It said no moderate case of Covid-19 was observed in the vaccine arm of the trial after three doses, indicating 100 per cent efficacy against moderate disease. No severe cases or deaths due to Covid-19 occurred in the vaccine arm after the second dose. Patel said the company had built a facility designed to produce 10 million doses per month and was hoping to supply 50 million doses between August and December this year, but said it is “too early” to specify the vaccine’s price tag. India’s health ministry has already counted 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D it hopes to receive between August and December this year to make up a total of more than 1.86 billion doses required to fully vaccinate the country’s estimated 944 million people. The needle-free applicator introduces ZyCoV-D through the skin. ZyCoV-D is the first DNA-based Covid-19 vaccine that has sought regulatory approval. Scientists say although the idea of DNA vaccines emerged more than 15 years ago, the technology has been viewed as promising yet challenging with no commercial DNA vaccines out yet. The company said the vaccine platform — a segment of DNA designed to generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus — was “ideally suited” for dealing with Covid-19 as it can be easily adapted to deal with emerging variants of the virus. “I’m pleasantly surprised to learn about the success of a DNA vaccine,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), who was not associated with the vaccine development. In February this year, scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, had reported that ZyCoV-D had generated significant neutralising antibodies and lowered viral loads in rhesus monkeys inoculated with the vaccine and then challenged with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. But Vrati and other medical experts say as new vaccines enter the vaccination campaign, recipients are likely to give more consideration to the efficacy tags placed on them. The other vaccines currently used in the campaign has higher efficacies — Covaxin’s 78 per cent, Covishield’s 81 per cent, and Sputnik V’s over 90 per cent. Multiple research groups across the world have explored candidate DNA vaccines against several other microbes, including hepatitis-B and rabies, but none has moved into the market yet. “Delivery and efficacy have been challenging issues with DNA vaccines,” Vrati said. The immune responses generated by DNA vaccines were “too low to yield therapeutically convincing results,” Dominica Hobernik and Matthias Bros at the University Medical Centre, Mainz, Germany, had written three years ago in a review on progress towards DNA vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Social welfare minister threats to quit over ‘corruption’ in Bihar||Bihar social welfare minister Madan Sahni on Thursday said he would resign in protest against alleged corruption and high-handedness of the bureaucracy under the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. Sahni asserted that it would be better to leave his post than to suffer humiliation at the hands of senior officers and for not being able to properly serve the people. He also demanded a probe into the assets of a senior IAS officer considered close to the chief minister. “I have decided to resign from my post to protest against undue interference and high-handedness of the bureaucracy. I am not satisfied with the residence or vehicle allotted to me. These obstruct my efforts to serve the people. If officers do not listen to me, then the work of the people suffer and if their work cannot be done then there is no need for me to remain a minister,” Sahni told reporters in Patna. Sahni, an MLA from Bahadurpur in Darbhanga district, said he would remain in the Janata Dal United even after resigning from his post. He alleged that he was not consulted for the transfer and posting of officers in his department. “An IAS officer close to Nitish Kumar made a lot of money in the transfer and posting of officials. His assets should be investigated,” he alleged. Hundreds of officers in different departments have been transferred in the state over the last couple of days. Sources said the transfers were done after Nitish’s nod, but Sahni was aggrieved that he was not taken into confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||DU to collaborate with institutions for enhancing teachers' skills ||Delhi University (DU) is planning collaborations with institutions outside the capital for enhancing the skills of teachers and for joint research. Some DU teachers, however, objected to such an arrangement on the ground that the university had inadequate infrastructure and other pressing issues to deal with, including the regularisation of ad hoc teachers. Under the scheme, DU will throw open its faculties, libraries and other facilities at its departments and colleges to the partner institutions for academic cooperation and collaboration under the Vidya Vistar (V2) programme. In an official document, DU said activities like online and offline lectures, workshops, trainings and meetings would be organised under the V2 programme for augmenting the skills of teachers of both institutions. The teachers and researchers of these partner institutions will join the research activities of DU departments and colleges and will be invited as co-investigators in research programmes. Several DU colleges have already prepared their collaboration plans. PGDAV (Evening) College, affiliated to DU, is set to collaborate with Government College, Sheo (Barmer) in Rajasthan; Janki Devi Memorial College has chosen Mahatma Gandhi Government College in Andaman; Daulat Ram College will partner with Government College, Chouthan, in Rajasthan and Government College, Jodhpur. DU-affiliated Shivaji College will partner with Nar Bahadur Bhandari Degree College, Gangtok, while Hansraj College is set to collaborate with Government Post-Graduate College, Chamba (Himachal Pradesh), Government Degree College, Ladakh, and Government College, Yachuli (Arunachal Pradesh). Former DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said these collaborations should have first been discussed with the statutory bodies of DU, like the Academic Council and the Executive Council. He also pointed to some constraints. “DU has 4,500 ad hoc teachers. They are not being regularised. Its own facilities such as classrooms, labs and hostels are inadequate. These problems are not being addressed. The scheme appears to be an attempt to say, ‘Look, we are sitting in Delhi and we know the best. We have the knowhow to improve you’,” Jha said. He said the university always cited funds crunch when it came to green-lighting research and development grants, innovation projects, research journals and lab equipment. A DU official said the bonding envisaged under the V2 project was based on the principles of mutual respect, cooperation and sharing, with all institutions being equal partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||SC overrules objections to sharing statements with Delhi govt leaders in criminal case||The Supreme Court on Thursday overruled Delhi police’s objections to sharing with Delhi government leaders certain statements recorded against them in a criminal case, saying the matter may be a “political hot potato” but the prosecution’s stance had no “legal” relevance. “You know that it is the basic principle of natural justice and common sense that an accused must have a copy of the documents. It might be a political hot potato but legally it is nothing…. It is not worth lingering in this matter,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi. Lekhi was appearing for the Delhi police who report to the central government, which has often been at loggerheads with the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi. “You can’t have the investigating agency pick and choose things which are favourable to you (prosecution).... The purpose of criminal justice administration is not to convict people but to allow criminal justice to run a fair course,” Justice Chandrachud said. The case relates to a February 2018 complaint by then Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash, who had alleged that AAP legislators Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal had beaten him up at the official residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Prakash had claimed that Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia were present during the alleged assault. The allegation set up a political slugfest between the BJP and the AAP and led to cases of assault and other criminal charges being lodged against Kejriwal, Sisodia and 10 other AAP leaders. In July 2019, a trial court rejected a request from Kejriwal and the other accused to be given copies of the statement of one of the witnesses, V.K. Jain, the then adviser to the chief minister. However, last October, Delhi High Court reversed the trial court’s order and directed that Jain’s statements be given to the AAP leaders. The Delhi police challenged the high court order in the apex court. However, the bench of Justices Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the high court directive was a reasoned order and they did not wish to interfere with it. Lekhi cited a technicality, arguing that while statements recorded under Section 161 CrPC had to be given to accused as a matter of their right, Jain’s statement had not been recorded under this section but was part of the case diary. Justice Chandrachud rejected the argument and said that once a statement had been recorded, there was no reason not to share it with the accused unless the prosecuting agency wanted to adopt a “pick and choose policy”. “This is a written statement and it will not be fair to the accused to not give it to them. If there is something which will benefit the accused, they are entitled to access it,” Justice Chandrachud remarked. Statements recorded by the police under Section 161 have corroborative value in the court while other statements recorded in the case diary are for the investigating officer’s own reference. A trial judge can, however, use such statements to make his or her own enquiries. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appeared for the AAP leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Nine European countries to allow travellers with Covishield vaccine ||Nine European countries on Thursday informed India that they would allow travellers who had received the Covishield vaccine but this did not necessarily amount to them extending to Indians the exemptions on travel restrictions granted to citizens of European Union member countries. The EU exemptions, including doing away with quarantine, under the European Union’s Digital Covid Certificate (Green Pass) framework came into force on Thursday to facilitate safe and free movement of citizens of member countries within the bloc during the pandemic. Sources said Germany, Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Estonia had confirmed that they would accept Covishield vaccination certificates for travel purposes. There has, however, been official confirmation from six countries so far — Germany, Spain, Estonia, Slovenia, Iceland and Greece. Estonia will accept Covaxin certificates, too, though it admitted that visa categories being processed for entry “remain strictly limited” owing to the pandemic. India has been approaching EU member countries individually for extension of the exemption granted to its Green Pass holders to those who have taken the Indian vaccines — Covaxin or Covishield — with the promise of reciprocal waiver of quarantine requirements. Four vaccines have been authorised for use in the EU by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) — those manufactured by Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. The Green Pass recognises only these four vaccines. The exclusion of Covishield, which is produced by India’s Serum Institute using analogous methods to the EU-approved AstraZeneca vaccine Vaxzevria but does not have EU market authorisation, stoked anger and the threat of retaliatory measures by India against travellers from Europe. Asked if the acceptance of Covishield by the nine countries amounts to them extending the Green Pass exemptions to travellers from India, sources said easing of travel restrictions would be “deliberated reciprocally”, indicating that this is still work in progress. “Confirming that a double shot of Covishield is fully recognised by GER as valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination (this does nevertheless not modify existing travel or visa restrictions for travellers from areas of concern/virus variants areas),” German ambassador to India Walter J. Lidner tweeted on Wednesday. India remains an area of concern for much of Europe. Air France continues to have mandatory quarantine protocols even for those who have taken the EMA-approved vaccines if they are travelling from India. According to the updated entry requirements for Austria effective from Thursday, travellers from India — barring those in certain select categories — have to take a Covid test and observe mandatory home quarantine for 10 days. “No exceptions for travellers presenting a certificate of vaccination or a certificate of recovery. Quarantine may be terminated upon presentation of a negative result of a molecular-biological test for SARS-CoV-2 taken no earlier than five days after entry (rapid or antigen test not accepted).” Africa relief The decision to recognise Covishield will also impact African and other countries that received the vaccine as part of WHO’s Covax initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala HC issues interim stay on stamp duty hike||Kerala High Court on Thursday issued an interim stay of three weeks on the Lakshadweep administration’s order hiking stamp duty for property transactions. A native of Amini islands in Lakshadweep, Mohammed Salih P.M., had in his petition sought a stay on the collector’s order citing lack of jurisdiction and other improprieties on the native people belonging to the Scheduled Tribes. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan granted the stay against the implementation of the hike in stamp duty from 1 per cent to 6 per cent for women, 7 per cent for men and 8 per cent for others. The petitioner, who is a practising lawyer in the high court, said the stay order would help the local people conduct property transactions at the existing rate of 1 per cent pending further orders. The administration has been given two weeks to file its response after which the case would be heard again. “My contention was that the collector did not have the power to issue such an order as only a state or the Union government can do so,” Salih told The Telegraph on Thursday. Salih had cited violation of the Indian Stamp Act and The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi (Protection of Scheduled Tribes) Regulation, 1964, in arguing against the steep hike in stamp duty. “Since a vast majority of the people of Lakshadweep earn their livelihood from fishing and selling coconuts and its produce like fibre, such a steep and arbitrary hike in stamp duty is unscientific,” he said. Salih said he stumbled upon the revised stamp duty rates and the order dated May 5 while trying to execute a property transfer from his father. It is just one of the many executive orders and draft legislations issued after Praful Khoda Patel, a hugely controversial administrator, took charge in December. The high court had on Tuesday stayed the demolition of over 70 houses in Kavaratti after a petitioner cited lack of jurisdiction as the order had been issued by a block development officer (BDO). That was quickly followed by an order from the collector granting the Kavaratti BDO the powers of a deputy collector in an apparent move to skirt the court order. Kerala High Court had last week stayed two other orders to remove meat from midday meals for schoolstudents and close down dairy farms. The islanders have been on the warpath against Patel and his arbitrary reforms that have affected normal life in the Union Territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
02-07-2021||India||Kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment if abductee gets treated well: SC||A kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment if the abducted person is not assaulted or threatened with murder and is treated well, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy made the observation while setting aside the conviction of an auto driver in Telangana, Shaik Ahmed, who had kidnapped a 13-year-old and demanded a ransom of Rs 2 lakh from his father. The boy and the father had testified that Ahmed had never threatened to kill or harm the child. The top court said there were three essential ingredients to convict an accused under IPC Section 364A (kidnapping for ransom), which needed to be proved by the prosecution. They are — kidnapping or abduction of any person or keeping him or her in detention; threatening to kill or hurt the person; or if the kidnapper’s conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the victim may be murdered or hurt in order to compel the government, a foreign state or any other person to pay a ransom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Work from home ruffles laundry services||Work from home may have smoothened the lives of professionals amid the pandemic but it has furrowed the brows of those providing laundry services. Many of those involved in the laundry business in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad say their earnings have dropped drastically because of the work-from-home culture in vogue since March last year. They say that since many people no longer have to step out of home for work, there is no need for them to wear formal or ironed clothes. Some laundry service providers say they used to iron nearly 200 clothes per day, but the number has come down to 40-50 now. Shirkant Borude from Chikalthana attributed the downturn in his business not only to work from home but also smaller wedding gatherings necessitated by pandemic restrictions. “Markets opened fully twice since the pandemic began, but the work-from-home policy has made employees use less number of ironed clothes. Earlier, I used to iron around 200 clothes a day. Now the number is down to 40-50 a day,” he said. Roll pressing and dry cleaning of saris have almost come to a halt as only a small number of people are allowed to attend weddings, Borude added. Sainath Hajare, who runs a laundry shop in Shivajinagar, said that “people are not ready to pay if we increase the charges”. “Earlier, people would give us clothes for washing and we used to give back ironed clothes to them. For example, a man used to need at least five ironed dresses a week for going to office, now he needs just a couple of dresses as he is working from home. The number of customers who would give clothes to us in bulk has declined by nearly 75 per cent,” he said. Now, people are washing and ironing clothes at home as they are less in quantity, Hajare said. Moreover, schools are shut, so there is no question of ironed uniforms, added Hajare. Shriram Hajare, a laundry owner in Samarthnagar, said: “The number of customers giving clothes in bulk, as well as walk-in customers, have declined. In the past, I used to earn Rs 2,000 a day, which has now come down to Rs 400-500.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Delhi HC grants protection to woman hounded for converting to Islam||Delhi High Court on Thursday granted interim protection till July 5 to a woman who has claimed that she and her family were facing life threats and being subjected to a witch-hunt by Uttar Pradesh police, media and vigilante groups after her wilful conversion from Hinduism to Islam. Justice C. Hari Shankar asked Delhi police to take appropriate steps to protect the woman till a regular bench heard the matter, noting that the petitioner was a young woman who had expressed apprehension regarding her security. “While putting the matter before the regular bench for July 5, I deem it appropriate to issue limited direction to the respondents 1 and 2 (the Delhi police commissioner and the station house office of Jamia Nagar police station) to take appropriate steps to protect the life and liberty of the petitioner till the matter is taken up by the regular bench on July 5,” the vacation bench said. The manner in which the protection is to be given is left to Delhi police, the bench said, making it clear that the court was not expressing any view on the correctness of the claims made in the petition. During the hearing, advocate Sameer Vashisht, representing Delhi police, submitted that officers had been unable to contact the woman, Renu Gangwar alias Ayesha Alvi, because she was not found residing at the address given in the petition and her mobile phone was switched off. Advocate Tanya Agarwal, representing Alvi, said her client had to frequently change her home because of apprehensions and added she would email her current address to the counsel for the police. Alvi, who hails from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, works in Delhi. She has sought protection for her and her family as also safeguarding her right to privacy, saying she and her family are being targeted because of her conversion and malicious content is being published in the media, which should be stopped immediately. “The petitioner (woman) is an adult and she is protected by the Constitution to choose her own faith and she cannot be targeted and harassed for the choice she makes with regard to the religion she follows,” said the petition, filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra and Nitin Kumar Nayak. The plea said Alvi converted to Islam on May 27 in Delhi. Since June 23, when she was in Shahjahanpur, she started getting calls from mediapersons requesting a meeting, which she refused. It said the journalists came to her place without permission and took her photographs and videos. Soon she started getting calls demanding money and threatening that the news of her conversion would be published in the media and she would be arrested, the petition said. Thereafter, one of them forcibly took Rs 20,000 while others tried to extort money from her and her family, the plea alleged, adding that absurd and imaginary details were being reported in the media regarding her conversion. Alva said she had filed a complaint with the Delhi police commissioner on June 24 seeking immediate intervention for her protection but no action was taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Kargil leaders call for Ladakh statehood||Leaders from Kargil on Thursday echoed the Valley leadership in seeking the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A in their first meeting with the Centre after the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 but demanded full statehood for Ladakh. Leh and Kargil are two districts of Ladakh. Leh has a Buddhist majority who supported the abrogation of Article 370 but are fighting for the reservation of land and jobs for local residents. Kargil has a Muslim majority. Overall, Muslims enjoy a slender majority in Ladakh. The Kargil-based alliance of political, religious and social bodies — fighting under the banner of the Kargil Democratic Alliance — had opposed the dilution of Article 370 and the division of the state into two Union Territories. While the Leh leadership had held several rounds of talks with the Centre for a special status of the region, the Kargil leaders were invited for talks for the first time on Thursday. An 11-member delegation met Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy. The meeting comes days after the Centre’s first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir parties. Major J&K parties, including the National Conference and Peoples’ Democratic Party, recently told the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore Articles 370 and 35A. The NC has since indicated it will participate in the proposed Assembly elections if statehood is restored while continuing its fight for the restoration of Article 370. The Valley leadership wants Ladakh to be returned to J&K.Kargil leader Asgar Karbalai, who is co-chairman of the Kargil alliance, said the delegation demanded the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A and full statehood for Ladakh. “We had two demands. Restoration of 370 and 35A and statehood for Ladakh… Since they say it is sub judice, in the Supreme Court, whether you accept the ground reality or not, the fact is J&K has been divided into two Union Territories. We said we don’t accept Union Territory status and if you want to give (anything), give statehood to Ladakh,” Karbalai told The Telegraph. “We are part of a petition (seeking restoration of Article 370). But we do not know how much time it will take. Whenever the decision is taken, we are for Articles 370 and 35A. (As long as it is sub judice), we want the Ladakh state,” he added. Sajjad Kargili, who represented major religious Kargil organisation Jamiat Ulmai Isna Asahari, said no joint memorandum was submitted but all leaders endorsed the stand taken by the alliance leadership. “The restoration of Article 370 is a legal fight… We will continue the struggle but we will not accept the UT idea. In the meantime, we told them to give us full statehood,” Kargili said. Kragili said the leaders voiced concern that the demographic profile of the region might be changed. The Kargil leadership’s demand for the restoration of special status is a fresh setback for Ladakh’s mainly Buddhist alliance, which has been fighting for the inclusion of the fledgling Union Territory in Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. But at the same time, their support for Ladakh statehood is a sign that they are ready to mend fences with the Buddhists. Kargil leaders said the meeting happened in a cordial atmosphere and the minister heard them out patiently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||India||Income-tax sleuths question editor and editor-in-chief of NewsClick ||Income-tax sleuths questioned the NewsClick web portal’s elderly editor-in-chief and its editor for around five hours on Wednesday, almost five months after the Enforcement Directorate had raided their premises over five days. The grilling took place on a day 71-year-old Prabir Purkayastha, the chief editor, and Pranjal Pandey, the editor, received summons from Delhi police’s economic offences wing to appear before it on July 9. Purkayastha’s plea in Delhi High Court for anticipatory bail in the ED’s money-laundering probe in the same case was adjourned to July 5 on Thursday. NewsClick, an investigative news site that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group, has extensively covered protests, including the ongoing farmers’ movement. Purkayastha told The Telegraph that he and editor Pranjal Pandey were questioned at NewsClick’s south Delhi office by the IT investigators over their tax filings, transactions, contracts and syndicated content. “These were virtually the same set of issues (over which) the ED has been questioning us for some time now…. There is clearly an agenda coming from media organisations that don’t like what we are doing. Despite the HC’s order last week, we are yet to receive the ED’s case information report. We have challenged the ED and police case in court and will argue not only for protection from coercive action and bail but also for the FIR to be quashed,” Purkayastha said. Purkayastha, a CPM member, had been jailed during the Emergency. He suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. The ED raid at his house in February had continued for 113 hours. Asked about his bail plea, Purkayastha said: “I am willing to stand up to all of this, but it certainly is bad weather for going to Tihar.” Delhi is currently facing a heatwave. The police and the IT department did not respond to queries from this newspaper on what offences they were now investigating. The ED’s case is based on an FIR by Delhi police’s economic offences wing last year that alleged that NewsClick had violated foreign direct investment rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm — Worldwide Media Holdings LLC — in 2018. NewsClick has argued that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. The police summons to Purkayastha on Wednesday quotes the same FIR number. In February, the ED had searched the offices of the website and its sister concerns, as well as homes of its shareholders and business partners. Bank and tax documents, laptops, mobile phones and email caches of the entire top management and several employees had been seized. No chargesheet has been filed yet. Purkayastha and Pandey have routinely had to appear for questioning by the ED in the months that followed. The Indian Express newspaper had quoted unnamed ED sources in February as saying that NewsClick had received Rs 30.51 crore from foreign companies for publishing news on its sister concern Peoples Dispatch — an international news site run in collaboration with several global news outlets. This fact alone, if true, is not illegal. NewsClick had responded saying: “The selective leak of misleading facts is nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of NewsClick and discredit our journalism.” Navlakha statement A Mumbai court permitted the ED to record rights activist Gautam Navlakha’s statement in the NewsClick case for four days in Mumbai’s Taloja jail, where he is held for the alleged terrorist plot at an Ambedkarite event in Bhima-Koregaon in 2017. Navlakha had been a columnist for NewsClick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: curbs on PF withdrawals in the name of austerity anger one and all||Dipping into the provident fund pool has been a lifesaver for government employees for decades, a practice that found its way into popular literature and cinema of the immediate decades following India’s independence. But that will no longer be the case. For, the Bengal government’s latest order on austerity measures has put the government provident fund (GPF) out of bounds for government employees. From now on, employees can withdraw funds from GPF only for medical expenses, education and house building purposes. Also, those retiring from service are still eligible to withdraw their money, collected over the years and deposited with the government. “I have not seen an order including GPF in austerity measures during my entire service life and I had to issue a few in my days as well. It is clear the government does not have funds,” said a former bureaucrat who has worked and lived in Bengal for over four decades. The government has announced a blanket ban on spending on new vehicles, computers, furniture, air-conditioners, television sets, renovation, furnishing, et al, till December 31 to meet the economic challenges posed by the second wave of the Covid pandemic. In addition, the eighth point in the memorandum states: Withdrawal from GPF only for treatment, education and house building purposes, and withdrawals in case of superannuation will be allowed. Pet schemes of Mamata Banerjee launched in the last 10 years, like Kanyashree, Khadyasathi, Swasthyasathi, Rupashree and the like, have been kept out of the purview of the  austerity measures. Till Thursday's autsterity order came into effect, restrictions imposed on withdrawal from the GPF was only on the number of times _ twice in any financial year and once for any given purpose. “There can be any number of reasons for withdrawal of funds. We did not need anyone’s nod for that. This was the money that we had set aside for meeting any situation, fulfilling our wishes,” said an employee of the animal husbandry department who was clearly distraught at the new regulations. The GPF corpus is estimated to be around Rs 5, 601 crore. The unprecedented decision to put the cap on withdrawals from GPF for the employees has raised the  eyebrows of officials too. Why us, they ask. “There has not been a single government employee since the present system of governance has been in place who did not have to withdraw funds from GPF for their daughter’s marriage,” said Malay Mukhopadhyay, general secretary of the INTUC-affiliated confederation of state government employees. “This is not the government’s money, it’s ours. This is a very serious issue.” Mukhopadhyay said in the last 10 years since it has been in power, the Mamata Banerjee government had not provided the exact number of government employees on its rolls to the pay commission. An estimated three lakh employees are directly employed by the state government, while the rest are in other services including education. “Figures collated during the Left Front government’s tenure are still being cited. The present government has gone for re-employment and contractual services,” Mukhopadhyay said. CPM Rajya Sabha MP and lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya said he would challenge the order. “The state government is working against the interests of the employees in the name of austerity while it continues to spend on advertisements and tours. The government is using the hard earned money of the employees to fulfil its own needs,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Amid BJP protests, Governor stops his speech mid-way and walks out of Assembly||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar ended his speech midway during the first day of the budget session of the Bengal Assembly amid vociferous protests by Opposition BJP MLAs on Friday, a throwback to the days of the Left Front rule when the Congress opted for similar disruptions. The newly elected BJP legislators disrupted the Governor’s speech as they gathered at the Well of the House, shouting slogans condemning political violence in the state. When Dhankar stopped  for the  first time, about three minutes into his speech, he spoke with  chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Speaker Biman Banerjee and decided to continue. A few minutes later, he stopped again. But  this time, he  decided to stop reading  the speech. He was out of the Assembly within eight minutes. At the end of the day, both the ruling and Opposition party could claim victory. “There was no mention of the post-poll violence in the state, which  is why we objected to the Governor’s speech,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP's leader of the Opposition. The BJP protest on the floor of the House happened hours after the Calcutta High Court ordered the state police to register all cases of victims of post-poll violence and instructed the state government to ensure that  the victims get treatment and ration. Governor Dhankhar has himself been quite vocal against the post-poll violence in the state. He has  visited some rehabilitation camps and has even written  two letters to the chief minister, marking an acrimonious start to Mamata’s third term as chief minister. The ruling party, however, also claimed victory as the Governor’s speech—prepared by the state government—was tabled in the Assembly. "What we wanted to say, we have it on record,” said a Trinamul leader. "The Governor informed the Speaker the speech that was tabled is his speech. There is no controversy here. Regarding the BJP's allegations on post-poll violence, what we have to say we will say during the discussion on the Governor's address," said Partha Chatterjee, industry and parliamentary affairs minister. The Congress which does not have a single representative in the 17th Assembly described Friday’s incident as a “got-up game.” “It’s like  mock fights we see in films, that no one really wins,” said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congressman, who has heard and disrupted many a Governor’s speech during the long stint of the Left Front when he was in the Opposition. “We did not allow Governors BD Pandey, TV Rajeswara to complete their speeches on many occasions,” said Mannan. On one such occasion,  governor S Nurul Hasan’s spectacles were broken during a ruckus in the Assembly on the first day of the session. Opposition Congress legislators had then disrupted the House, even hurling paper missiles, spree, forcing Hasan to cut short his speech. During the Left rule, governor BD Pandey had to stop his speech midway and use the exit through the backdoor, used by Speaker, chief minister and other ministers, to leave the Assembly premises.  "In the nine years that we were in the  Opposition with the Left, we did not target the Governor. There was a break from the tradition of opposing the governor's speech," said Mannan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC asks Bengal govt to ensure treatment of victims of post-poll violence||The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Trinamul Congress-led Bengal government to ensure medical treatment and rations for those affected by post-poll violence in the state even if they did not have ration cards, while asking the police to register all cases of violence reported after the Assembly elections. "The state is in denial mode regarding the violence," the court said. In a stern order, the bench asked police to record the statements of those affected by the violence. The bench asked the government to ensure that ration is provided to everyone, including those who complained of their cards being snatched by goons. The court directed Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi to preserve all documents related to the post-poll violence, according to a report by hindustantimes.com. "The state must respond to queries by NHRC. Chief Secretary must preserve all sensitive documents on post-poll violence," it said. It directed the government to conduct a second autopsy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijeet Sarkar at the Command Hospital in Calcutta. Taking note of the incidents of sexual violence on women and minors, the court sent a show-cause notice to a senior police officer for failing to assist a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) team that came to probe the allegations, ndtv.com reported. A five-judge bench of the high court had on June 18 directed the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission to constitute a committee to examine all cases about alleged human rights violations in incidents of post-poll violence in the state, which had on Wednesday submitted a report regarding it. The Calcutta High Court's orders come a day after the Supreme Court agreed to hear a plea seeking direction to the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal in view of deteriorating law and order situation due to the post-poll violence which started on May 2, the day of Assembly election results. The plea sought from the court directing the central government to exercise its power conferred by Article 355 and Article 356 keeping in view the deteriorating condition posing a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India. It said that soon after the declaration of Assembly polls results on May 2, the TMC workers and supporters started creating chaos, unrest and setting the houses and properties of Hindus on fire, looting and plundered their belongings for the simple reason that they had supported BJP in assembly polls. The plea said that in an attempt to create terror and disorder in the society at least 15 BJP workers/sympathisers/supporters have lost their lives and a number of them were seriously injured. The government and administration remained silent spectators and no protection was provided to the victims by them. The government, officials and the administration and the police are supporting workers of TMC, due to which the life, liberty, prestige, dignity and modesty of women are being taken away as is evident from the fact that number of persons were harmed and mercilessly murdered and no steps were taken for their safety, the plea said. It added that no appropriate action was taken against the culprits, due to which the life, liberty, dignity of the women and children are in peril and the future of Hindu residents is in jeopardy. The top court is already hearing a batch of pleas related to post-poll violence in the state and seeking a probe by an independent agency into the alleged killing of BJP workers and sympathisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bagrakote tea estate reopens after six years, new firm takes charge||Bagrakote tea estate, one of the premium gardens in the Dooars that had been abandoned by the management six years ago, was reopened on Thursday. A new company from Calcutta took over the estate that had earlier been owned by the Duncans Goenka Group. The estate is located in the Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district and had 2,000 workers. The Duncans management had abandoned the Bagrakote garden in April 2015. On Thursday, representatives of Tea & Beverage Company — the new firm that took over the garden — reached Bagrakote. They were accompanied by state minister Bulu Chik Baraik, Alipurduar MP John Barla and leaders of different trade unions. “The garden is being reopened today (Thursday). Outstanding wages of the workers will be cleared in due course. We intend to start operations at the earliest,” Subrata Bakshi said on behalf of the new management. A state labour department official said the reopening had been made possible following several months of initiatives. “A meeting was held in the state labour department’s office in Siliguri on Sunday and it was decided that a new company would reopen the garden,” the official added. Mani Kumar Darnal, the general secretary of the Intucbacked National Union of Plantation Workers, said the labourers were grappling with poverty following the closure of the Bagrakote estate. “Many of them left the garden in search of other jobs.” According to Darnal, there are 1,100odd workers in the garden at present and they have somehow survived in the past six years. “It is a great relief for us. We hope regular activities will resume in the garden in due course,” said Raman Chhetri, a worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Dr Kafeel Khan flags child mental health concerns amid pandemic||For paediatrician and outspoken activist Kafeel Khan, allaying the worries of children is part of his job. But in the aftermath of the second wave of Covid-19, Khan is the one raising an early flag for a potential “fallout” of the impending third wave and is asking parents to be on alert. “Healthcare infrastructure, particularly for child health in many states, is quite abysmal. I pointed it out in my home state in Uttar Pradesh and earned the wrath of the state government as a result,” said Khan, who had called out oxygen shortage at a hospital in Gorakhpur where he worked in 2017, earning the ire of the Yogi Adityanath government. Khan was speaking to The Telegraph at Kankinara in North-24 Parganas on Thursday, July 1, which is celebrated as Doctor’s Day, after flagging off “Doctors on Road”,  a nationwide child-health initiative he launched last year. Khan fears the third wave could bring to the fore a unique problem in the form of children’s mental health. “We always blame the children for their so-called irritating behaviour or tantrums. But we care little to know what’s been going on in their lives over the past one year,” he said. “A large section of children and teenagers faced immense trauma in the past year owing to Covid-related deaths. I have also seen that deprivation of human contact through the suspension of school causes immense harm to mental health,” he said. “This can be a much bigger problem in the long term,” he added. “Khan iterated the need for a “positive approach” to child health care and said mental health facilities should be “mandatory”. On existing infrastructure for children’s health, especially mental health, Khan cited the “abysmal” state of Uttar Pradesh. He suggested the problem was endemic and that all the doctors lived amid bureaucratic fear. “No doctor in UP can dare speak about the (current) situation. The doctors are a helpless lot. Many of them are being compelled to leave their jobs and are opting for private practice,” he said. On child-focused infrastructure, he suggested “immediate” procurement of paediatric-ventilators and hiring of skilled technicians to run such devices. “Children can’t be treated by all physicians,” he said. “The physiology of children, their psyche is different from adults, so understanding them is very important," he added. Khan, who had been accused of the deaths of 70 children from oxygen shortage in 2017 while serving as an academic doctor at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College and Hospital, was eventually acquitted of all charges but re-arrested under the National Security Act for his controversial speech against the Citizenship Act at Aligarh Muslim University. He was released on September 1, 2020, from Mathura jail after Allahabad High Court dropped charges against him terming his arrest “illegal”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Government rejects half of Cyclone Yaas compensation applications as claims fail scrutiny test||The Mamata Banerjee government rejected nearly 50 per cent of compensation applications in the wake of Cyclone Yaas as bogus after authorities carried out spot verifications. “The state received 3,81,774 applications seeking compensation after Yaas through the Duare Tran programme. But 1,86,815 applications have been rejected by block development officers or heads of urban local bodies as applications were not found to be genuine,” said a senior government official. State government teams verified the claims before handing out dole, a key difference from last year after Amphan. Sources said that applications were received from 98 blocks spread across eight districts, including North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Calcutta, East and West Midnapore and Birbhum, but mostly from the three coastal districts of South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. In South 24-Parganas, 1,62,586 applications in all were received, of which 75,773 were rejected. In East Midnapore, 1,17,654 applications were received and 72,878 applications rejected. In the district’s Nandigram-I block, a hotspot for fraud allegations last year, due diligence revealed only 2,000 out of 14,000 applications to be genuine. In Egra II, only 52 of the 6,874 submissions found to be genuine. Sources in the state administration said rejection of applications meant the state government had learnt a lesson from the Amphan compensation controversy of last year. “Back then, each application was treated as genuine and fund allotted against each. But complaints came up against some grassroots Trinamul leaders who claimed money though they were not harmed by Amphan. That’s why this time the government decided to give benefits to only those really affected after verification of claims,” said a source. During inspection, sources said, officials found many phone numbers on the applications could not be connected. Visits proved many applications were fake as the sites had no sign of devastation. “Applications were rejected when their veracity was not established,” said an official. “The whole purpose of state teams verifying applications this time was to nip fraudulent claims in the bud. In the aftermath of Amphan last year, reports of malfeasance emerged after doles had been given, and then officials did verifications. I was part of the survey team for Nandigram last year,” said additional district magistrate, East Midnapore, Sudipta Porel. Applicants who cleared scrutiny will get Yaas doles of Rs 20,000 for full damage and Rs 5,000 for partial. Disbursement of compensation, post-verification, began on Thursday. “This time, we expect no trouble as the verification process has been carried out properly,” said a senior bureaucrat. Sources also said that after Amphan, the state had spent more than Rs 8,000 crore to shoulder the burden of compensation. “This time, precise verification of the applications will reduce the burden on the state exchequer as only genuine claims will be given the dole. No bogus application will be entertained. It will not leave the ruling establishment red-faced,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 1,501 fresh Covid-19 cases, 27 fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 11th consecutive day of the drop in total active Covid-19 cases which fell by 415 to 20,170. On Thursday, the state logged 1,889 recoveries, 1,501 infections and 27 deaths. With Calcutta logging 127 infections and North 24-Parganas 136, Thursday was the fourth successive day since the second wave struck when none of 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Of the 27 deaths, four each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Twelve Bengal districts reported zero deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid second wave prompts govt to reintroduce austerity drive||The Mamata Banerjee government has reintroduced its austerity drive in the backdrop of the second wave of Covid-19. In an order issued on Wednesday, the finance department barred purchase of vehicles, computers, IT-related accessories, furniture, ACs, water coolers, TVs and office equipment till December 31. The department also issued a blanket ban on expenditures for office renovation, decoration and furnishing. It has also prevented the departments from hiring additional cars. Sources said the measures had first been taken in April last year when the pandemic had hit the country. It continued till June this year. “But we have to continue with the measures as our revenue generation is yet to reach the pre-Covid period when we used to collect Rs 5,500 crore a month. Furthermore, the Centre has not cleared dues of nearly Rs 50,000 crore under different heads till the date,” said an official. The sources also said the burden on the state exchequer had increased after the chief minister had enhanced the financial assistance under Krishak Bandhu Scheme to Rs 10,000 from Rs 6,000 annually. “An additional sum of Rs 11,000 crore would be spent for the scheme annually. So, we have to cut down our expenditures under some heads,” said a source. Another official said the state government was spending about Rs 450 crore a month to provide treatment to Covid patients. “The Centre has neither sent any assistance nor provided medicines or other requirements to the states steadily. So, Bengal is facing an acute financial crunch,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s Delhi trip again shows BJP cracks||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Thursday that he was unaware of Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari’s trip to Delhi and what had transpired at his meetings with Union ministers Amit Shah and Harsh Vardhan. Ghosh’s comment is seen as yet another sign of the growing rift between two camps in the Bengal BJP, one led by the state president and the other by Adhikari. Adhikari reached Delhi on Wednesday night and met Union home minister Shah, Union health minister Vardhan, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and BJP MP Dinesh Trivedi on Thursday. Like Adhikari, Trivedi had also left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. In the first week of June, Adhikari had visited Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah, BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Then also, Ghosh had issued a statement saying he was unaware of the trip and its reasons. Asked about the Opposition leader’s latest Delhi trip, Ghosh on Thursday said: “It is not known to me.” “He is the leader of the Opposition…. He might have some consultation with the (Union) government. The (Assembly) session is about to begin, so he might be speaking on these issues. I don’t even know what he could have talked about,” added the Midnapore MP. “We will talk later.” Several BJP insiders told this newspaper that Ghosh was “very annoyed” with Adhikari’s increasing proximity to central leaders like Shah. They said while it was not unnatural of a non-BJP-ruled state’s leader of the Opposition (from the BJP) to meet national leaders, it was “untoward” that the state president of the party was kept in the dark about such trips, twice in a matter of weeks. “In the BJP scheme of things, the state president enjoys supreme authority in the state unit. Suvendu can, of course, go to Delhi and do these things. What is unpalatable is that Dilipda is being kept in the dark about these activities,” said a state BJP office-bearer. After the Delhi trip in early June, Adhikari had said he had informed the state BJP general-secretary, Amitava Chakraborty, about the visit. Chakraborty, an old RSS hand like Ghosh, had been handpicked before the Assembly elections to replace the state president’s closest friend Subrata Chatterjee. Adhikari declined comment when told about Ghosh’s claim that he was unaware of the former’s visit to Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Graft charge after BJP expels former Malda district president Sanjit Mishra||The BJP on Thursday expelled former Malda district president Sanjit Mishra for alleged antiparty activities, but he said the organisation had cracked the whip because he had raised voice against corruption by senior leaders. District BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal announced the expulsion of Mishra, along with another leader Nitai Mandal, who was accused of plotting an attempt on the life of the party’s Maldaha candidate Gopal Chandra Saha who subsequently won the poll. Mishra, who is known to be close to the RSS, had been removed as the district BJP chief and suspended in June, 2019. Ahead of the Assembly elections this year, Mishra managed to organise dissident BJP workers and leaders, some of whom contested under the banner of the Jana Sangh. This made the BJP withdraw his suspension and Mishra was reinducted into the party. Reacting to his expulsion on Thursday, Mishra said: “This is ridiculous. The BJP claims to be a democratic party. But I had not been allowed to defend myself before the expulsion. Actually, holding a post in the BJP is a profitable business now. A number of state and district leaders are using their designations for business. Any protest would lead to expulsion.” Mishra alleged that crores of rupees, which the central BJP leadership had disbursed for the election campaign, had been misappropriated by state and district functionaries. “People who had provided services to the party ahead of the polls are yet to get their fees. They include decorators and transporters. A section of BJP leaders is into corruption and siphoned off the party funds. Those who are raising questions are being thrown out to conceal such malpractices. As I had raised my voice, I had to face the same fate,” said Mishra. Neither Gobinda Chandra Mandal nor any other district BJP functionary was ready to comment on Mishra’s charges. A BJP insider said Mishra had the habit of calling a spade a spade and that was why he had faced the wrath of the leadership. “His suspension had been hurriedly withdrawn so that the dissident candidates did not benefit from his support during the elections. Now that the elections are over, he is thrown out of the party again. The decision, we apprehend, will affect the organisation in Malda,” said the insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Bike theft racket busted in Alipurduar, 2 held||Police on Tuesday recovered as many as 22 motorcycles which were stolen from different areas of north Bengal and arrested two persons in connection with the case. The bikes, police said, were hidden in different tea estates in Madarihat block of Alipurduar district. According to an officer, the stolen bikes were sold to youths dwelling in the tea estates. “We suspect they used to forge the registration number plate and documents,” said an officer. “We formed a special team and started a probe after receiving complaints about bike thefts from different areas of the district. On Tuesday, two persons were arrested and the team managed to recover the stolen bikes from various locations after interrogating them. The duo has named a few others, who are suspected to be members of this racket. Searches are on to nab them,” said Bholanath Pandey, the superintendent of police of Alipurduar. On Wednesday, the arrested duo — identified as Sunil Oraon from Kumargram and Jakir Ansari from Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district — were produced in a local court and were remanded in police custody for 14 days. “We need to interrogate them further for more information. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon, will head the investigation,” the district police chief added. Police officers who are probing the case said they are also trying to find out whether the racket was involved in similar motorcycle thefts in the neighbouring states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Amid crowd curb, diesel price, buses in Bengal district refuse to roll out||Most private buses in Bengal districts did not roll out on Thursday as bus owners said they would incur losses if they obey the government’s pandemic-induced norm of running vehicles with half occupancy in the face of steep diesel prices. Private bus service across the state resumed on Thursday following the state government’s easing of Covid curbs with fewer active Covid cases now since the second wave of the pandemic in Bengal. But for bus owners in Nadia, Birbhum, Bankura, North and South 24-Parganas worries remained. “Buses are off roads since mid-May. Plying buses now by meeting the government rider will only lead to more losses. So, we decided not to bring out our buses,” said an owner in Birbhum. “It is simple maths,” said Jamarul Islam, secretary of Birbhum District Bus Owners’ Association.. “A bus needs 3 litres of diesel to cover 1km. A bus that plies between Suri and Rampurhat in Birbhum needs 15 litres at over Rs 92 per litre to cover 48km. According to government rules, we can ferry only 20 passengers and that will earn us Rs 900. How can we run a bus if we earn Rs 900 and spend Rs 1,380?” Islam’s worry found an echo among bus owners across the state.“When bus services resumed after the first wave, we rolled out our vehicles as then diesel was priced around Rs 70 a litre. But now, it is impossible unless the state government revises fares,” said a bus owner in Bankura. Most passengers on Thursday boarded small goods vehicles. A senior state transport department official said they had asked officials in districts to convince bus owners to resume the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar workers stuck in Bhutan return home||Three youths from Madarihat of Alipurduar district, stranded in Bhutan and allegedly forced to work without pay for the past three months at a construction site,  crossed the India-Bhutan border and headed for home on Thursday, courtesy an initiative by a Calcutta-based social worker and the governments of both countries. Sources said in January last year, masons Nur Jamal Haque, Ali Hussain and Raju Haque, who are in their late 20s, went to Bhutan with a labour contractor. They were engaged at a construction site near Thimphu, the capital city of Bhutan, and their daily wage fixed at Rs 750 for each. “Everything was fine till December,” said Ali. Things took a turn for the worse after the labour contractor, who is also from the same district, decided to return to India for some days. “He had told us and representatives of the construction agency that he would return to Bhutan soon. He didn’t return. It was then  that we came to know he owes the firm Rs 3 lakh,” Ali added. Those in the construction firm told the trio that they will have to repay the money. “We were dumbstruck to learn we have to clear his debt,” Nur added. “We told them about our financial limitations but they did not listen. Gradually, they snatched our identity proof and other documents and from March onwards stopped paying us. We only got food and were forced to work.” Finally, the desperate trio put up a video clip on social media on May 27, narrating their ordeal. The video came to the notice of Sadiqul Islam, an IT professional and social worker in Calcutta. Realising the trio were helpless in Bhutan, Islam took up the task to draw the attention of the Union foreign affairs ministry. “The ministry acted on our information and soon contacted the ministry of foreign affairs and the ministry of labour and human resources in Bhutan. Also, officials in Alipurduar district and the Consulate General of India in Bhutan were also apprised (about the trio),” Islam said. In Bhutan, the ministries concerned set the ball rolling. Bhutanese officials went to the construction site – Hongtsho near Thimphu – and assured the trio they would get their dues and documents. The promise was kept, said the trio. “We are grateful to both the governments and to Sadiqul Islam,” said Raju. On Wednesday, their Covid tests were carried out and on Thursday, they set out in a cab for Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan that shares borders with Jaigaon of Alipurduar. Around 5pm, they reached Phuentsholing, crossed the border and entered Jaigaon, where police and Jaigaon Development Authority officials welcomed them, and headed for Madarihat. “It feels like a happy dream,” said Ali. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, thanked the Consulate General of India in Bhutan and the Bhutan government for all the help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
02-07-2021||West Bengal||Panel to monitor ongoing work in 47 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation||The board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has formed an infrastructure development committee to monitor ongoing work in all 47 wards of the civic body and plan and recommend infrastructure development for the city. This is the first time that such a committee has been formed in the civic body. “The committee has been formed to look into development projects in Siliguri. It will recommend schemes to civic authorities that are viable and essential for residents of Siliguri civic area,” said a source in the SMC. The 12-member panel was formed at a meeting held at the SMC on Wednesday. Included in the committee are Gautam Deb, former state minister and the present chairperson of the BoA, as well as three other members of the BoA, the commissioner and representatives from different departments. “Some 50 prospective projects, like roads, drainage, drinking water supply, revamp of buildings and other structures were identified at the meeting,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
02-07-2021||North East||Anti-CAA movement will be revived, says Akhil Gogoi||The movement against the Citizenship Amendment Act that rocked Assam will be revived, MLA Akhil Gogoi said on Friday. Speaking to reporters at Nagaon, Gogoi said the leaders of the movement betrayed the people of the state while he was kept in jail. "Now that I am out, I want to assure the people that the anti-CAA movement will resume. No (illegal) foreigner will be allowed to stay in the state," he said on the way to his constituency Sivasagar, a day after he was released from jail. Gogoi spent nearly 19 months behind bars for his alleged role in the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019. He fought and won the recently-concluded assembly elections from the jail. Gogoi alleged that the BJP-led state government was not sympathetic towards the problems of the people. "I will raise the issues of big dams and toll gates in the state Assembly. If the government fails to give a proper response, we will have to take the path of agitation," he said. On the way to Sivasagar, around 400 km from Guwahati, Gogoi had to stop multiple times as his supporters and locals lined the roads cheering for him. "This outpour of people's love for a jailed person like me proves that I was wrongly confined. The BJP kept me behind bars and won a second term but this won't happen again. In 2026, a new government will be formed. The BJP 'hatao' (remove BJP) movement starts from today," the Raijor Dal president asserted. This was the first time that Gogoi shall be visiting Sivasagar after being elected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
02-07-2021||North East||CAA protest case: NIA court clears Akhil Gogoi of all charges||The most high-profile case linked to the anti-CAA protests in the Northeast has collapsed. Akhil Gogoi, the anti-CAA crusader who won an election and became an Assam MLA while being in judicial custody, was cleared of all charges by an NIA court here on Thursday. He had been charged with sedition and under sections that figure in a terror-related law. Now the Sivasagar MLA, Gogoi, who spent 18 months in captivity from December 2019, walked out of Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where he was being treated under judicial custody for various ailments since July last year. Gogoi told The Telegraph on Thursday night that the verdict had fuelled hopes among activists facing “false” sedition and UAPA charges and languishing in jails elsewhere in the country. “Union home minister Amit Shah, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the NIA DG should resign following the dismissal of both the NIA cases against me,” added Gogoi, a former leader of a peasants’ organisation and the incumbent head of the Raijor Dal. Three of his close aides — Dhaijya Konwar, Manas Konwar and Bittu Sonowal — were also discharged in the case. The special NIA court in Guwahati said there were no “prima facie materials” to frame charges against the accused. “The materials are also compatible with the innocence of the accused persons — which is one of the principles to be looked at by the court at the time of considering the point of charge,” the court said in its 120-page order while disposing of the case and discharging all the accused. Gogoi, 46, and two other accused had earlier been discharged in another NIA case in Dibrugarh district on June 22. He has also obtained bail in 11 other cases that had been lodged against him. The NIA case that was dropped on Thursday had been the only one keeping him in judicial custody. Thursday’s court order relates to a case lodged at Chandmari police station in Guwahati in 2019. The case was subsequently taken over by the NIA, which functions under the Union home ministry. The FIR lodged at the police station had accused Gogoi and the three others of having Maoist links and conspiring to “incite hatred and disaffection towards the government” by using the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Bill as a pretext, and promoting enmity among different groups of people. The NIA chargesheeted the four, booking them for sedition; attempting to bring into hatred or contempt disaffection towards the government; promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language; making imputations and assertions prejudicial to national integration; and under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which is invoked in terrorism cases. The NIA court observed that law-enforcement agencies have to “take care” to see that the implementation of the UAPA remains within the “strict parameters” of the law and does not get “stretched” beyond permissible limits “imposed” by the statute itself and the principles laid down by the Supreme Court and various high courts. The agencies should also be “sensitised and trained” continually, the NIA court said. Immediately after his release, Gogoi termed the verdict “historic”. “I lost more than 18 months. I thank the judiciary for having dismissed the NIA charge and I request the NIA chief to resign. The cases have destroyed my family but I will continue to raise my voice in the interest of Assam and the people of Sivasagar who ensured my victory in the Assembly polls even though I was in judicial custody,” he said. Gogoi visited the Guwahati residence of Sam Stafford, a Class X student who died in police firing during the anti-CAA movement, and vowed to ensure justice for the family and other protest victims. From there, Gogoi went to the offices of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and the Raijor Dal in Guwahati and addressed a media conference. “I will not remain silent. I warn the government to check corruption and price rise. I will work to provide relief to Covid-hit vendors, cab drivers, artistes and farmers,” he said. Mukut Deka, general secretary of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, a peasants’ body founded by Gogoi in 2005, told this newspaper: “The NIA case has shown that the government is using central agencies to suppress Opposition voices. The NIA court ruling proves this. The ruling is a victory for the people and of democracy.” Bhasco D. Saikia, Raijor Dal working president, said the court order had proved that the NIA was being used to derail the anti-CAA movement in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
02-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: SC raps Centre on migrant database; Greece recovers stolen Picasso and Mondrian||Right decision Sir — Without mincing its words, the Supreme Court has stated that the labour ministry is “not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers” and its “non-action” is “strongly disapproved”. That the Narendra Modi government needed to be told by the court to ensure that no migrant worker goes hungry shows it in a rather unfavourable light. The country’s top court has made it clear to the government that feeding the migrant workers cannot be made conditional on their possession of any card. It is a meaningful reminder to the Centre that the right to food, a basic need, is an intrinsic part of the right to live with dignity. As an entity tasked with upholding the right to life, the government cannot turn its back on the migrant workers when they need its support the most. The failure of the government to set up the national database for unorganized workers, a portal for migrant and unorganized workers to ensure their rights, welfare and food security has drawn flak from the apex court, which pointed out the Centre’s “unpardonable apathy”. The government expends a lot of time, money and energy on building the Central Vista and carrying out the delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir. But it is least interested in keeping an updated register of migrant workers, a task that can be accomplished with Rs 45.39 crore and allotting rations to states commensurate with the present population. The government is so callous that it blames the delay in finalizing the NDUW module on ‘software problems’. It is now left to set right the problem by July 31, the deadline set by the Supreme Court. Thanks to the apex court’s intervention, all migrant workers, wherever they are, will have access to dry rations and instantly eatable food from government-run outlets and community kitchens to stave off hunger till the pandemic lasts. The Supreme Court has stopped short of asking the government to support the migrant workers through direct cash transfers, leaving the decision to the government since it is a “matter of policy”. Migrant workers make up nearly one-third of the country’s population. The government’s concern for them would reflect its concern for the nation. Therefore, the Centre’s patriotism is on test. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Supreme Court’s rap on the Union labour ministry’s “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards setting up a migrant database, in spite of its directives as far back as August 2018 in the context of the implementation of the National Food Security Act, is quite a strong judicial indictment. The court recognized that such a database is central to the identification of migrant and unorganized workers in need of rations and other benefits. The bench has directed the labour secretary to ensure that the portal is launched by July 31. One hopes that the Prime Minister’s Office, which failed to monitor the implementation of the court’s 2018 directives, complies with its order this time. Those responsible for the “unpardonable” failure to set up the migrant database should also be prosecuted for dereliction of duty. The entire nation was witness to how hard the migrant labourers were hit by the lockdown thoughtlessly announced by the prime minister last year at less than four hours’ notice, with no contingency plans to mitigate their hardships. While this labour force contributes massively to developmental activities at sites far away from their homes, they are voiceless in the absence of recognized associations when it comes to engaging in collective negotiations with employers for the improvement of working conditions. The labour ministry must therefore encourage the formation of such labour unions. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — The apex court ordering the Centre to implement the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme and provide dry ration to migrant workers at their place of work until the pandemic subsides is heartening. The court has also commendably asked all states and Union territories to run community kitchens for them. The spree of lockdowns and curfews have left workers of the unorganized sector in a lurch. The photographs of the desperate march of millions of migrant workers to their faraway homes in the scorching heat during the first wave of the pandemic highlighted their plight. It is shameful for the government that it has not planned remedies for such situations even after a year. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme is of great importance as it will allow any migrant labourer to obtain ration from any part of the country. However, owing to some political reasons, a few states and Union territories have not yet implemented it. Taking note of this, the Supreme Court has now asked all regional governments to implement the system by July 31. There are hundreds of migrant workers who are employed outside their home states and do not have ration cards. It is then the duty of the government of the state in which they are staying to provide them food during these difficult times. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Lost and found Sir — Greece must be congratulated on having retrieved two stolen paintings — Pablo Picasso’s Woman’s Head and Piet Mondrian’s Stammer Mill. These will now be exhibited at the National Gallery as part of celebrations marking the 200th anniversary of the Greek War of Independence. People often do not recognize the significance of museum heists — the loss of artefacts does not affect only the influential class or connoisseurs. Artefacts are markers of the cultural history of a nation. For instance, Woman’s Head is said to have been gifted by Picasso to the Greek for having resisted fascism; its loss would have been immeasurable. Supratim Sinha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Special place||The pandemic gave a special dimension to India’s National Doctors’ Day. It is celebrated every year on July 1 in memory of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the former chief minister of West Bengal and a doctor of almost mythical repute, whose contributions to medical organization and infrastructure, to education and to healing are of abiding consequence. The institutions he was instrumental in building still serve the people. The Indian Medical Association began celebrating the day in honour of doctors and healthcare workers from 1991. The bleak and frightening situation in 2020 and 2021 has sharpened people’s awareness of the dedication and sacrifices of doctors and healthcare workers. The IMA’s count of doctors who died of Covid-19 in the two years is close to 1,600; this does not take into account nurses, ambulance drivers and numerous other healthcare and peripheral staff who did not survive the pandemic. Remembering their sacrifices should also bring to mind the silent tension and sacrifice, sometimes grief, of their families. Gratefulness and remembrance were perhaps the dominant emotions on Doctors’ Day; the prime minister celebrated the contributions of the Indian medical fraternity in his speech arranged by the IMA. But beyond celebrations, governments and the public have other obligations. The government subsidizes medical education, but the security and welfare of working doctors must be ensured too. An important issue is that of working conditions — they cannot be made scapegoats, as one doctor was made not so long ago, when the administration fails to provide what is necessary. The initial shortage of protective gear in the first wave and the shortage of oxygen in the second wave pushed medical workers to the edge. That healthcare in villages and semi-urban areas suffers from a lack of doctors is partly a reflection of poor infrastructure that can be improved in a targeted way. Perhaps the financial allocations promised by the prime minister will help in these spheres. Meanwhile, violence against doctors must stop and be stopped; administrative routes for complaint should be at the forefront for those who do not want to go to court. One day of celebration does not mean that doctors and healthcare staff can be taken for granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Keep the faith||The findings of the survey conducted by the Pew Research Center on religion and associated public sentiments in India are undoubtedly illuminating. The inferences cannot be dismissed easily because data for Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation was collated after interviewing almost 30,000 respondents in 17 languages between 2019 and 2020. It can be argued that the survey mirrors prevailing public sentiments and, by that reasoning, the study brings tidings that are both good and bad. On the bright side, the majority of Indians continue to believe that respect for all religions remains integral to national identity. Hearteningly, each of the six major faiths also has reasons to believe that India permits unhindered practice of all faiths. But there are troubling associations concerning the compact of religion and State. For instance, 64 per cent of Hindus believe that their faith and 59 per cent think that the language, Hindi, are the primary markers of nationhood. A significant numerical segment among them, unsurprisingly, support the Bharatiya Janata Party whose views on pluralism and language are alleged to be discordant with constitutional guarantees. The survey will bring more cheer to the party. A large number of Indians, it found, endorse political intervention in matters of faith; very few among them are interested in harnessing social relationships that cut across religious lines; interfaith marriages remain an anathema to Indian society. These sentiments offer a context for some of the seminal transitions that have been taking place in New India. Violence and discriminations against minorities, the emergence of legislations encouraging institutional witch-hunts against interfaith unions, the inception of a shrill nationalism that feeds the rising bigotry, among other worrying trends, can only be understood after examining the growing public support for these initiatives, most of which form the core of the ideological agenda of India’s ruling party. The survey also reveals the peculiarities of the secular project as a result of which conservatism, even dogma, can coexist with a refreshing tolerance for pluralism. Yet, as is evident from the survey, the future of this spirit of accommodation does not seem assured given the enthusiasm — from the State and its subjects — for a seemingly sectarian model. The potential erosion of India’s secularism that is unique would be a signal of the capitulation of modernity to the demands of orthodoxy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Time to change the rules||In the factory of the world, where productivity is paramount and everyone is set on being upwardly mobile, the first stirrings of rebellion are being seen. Thousands of young people, most of them college-educated, are getting together online to support a lifestyle where they can relax — not after earning millions, but after saying ‘No’ to conventional success. Take Liu Na. This 29-year-old Beijinger gave up her advertising job in 2019 because of overwork. Working on just three hours of sleep everyday had left her such a wreck that she had to be pepped up every afternoon with a programmed message on her mobile saying “You are special.’’ No regrets In contrast, over the last two years, she’s had the time to meet friends, shop for the fruit she loves — grapes — and gone hours without checking her phone. Still, she needs a minimum of 2,000 yuan as rent for her flat, for which she’s taken up a string of odd jobs: selling lipstick, working as an usherette in a theatre, and, finally, selling insurance. She has no regrets. Nor does Wang Xiao, who dropped out even before entering the professional rat race. Overwhelmed by her frenetic life as a college student, Xiao left university, moved back with her father, and took her final year exams online. She graduated, but failed her Master’s entrance exam. But that didn’t motivate her to go back to university to seriously pursue higher education. She’s content living at home, painting silicone dolls, and selling them online at 60 yuan a piece to meet her now drastically reduced living expenses. She hopes to save enough to travel around China “like a nomad’’. It’s not women alone taking the plunge. The 24-year-old techie, Huang Wei, made a sudden decision to hand in his resignation after a persistent feeling that he had been reduced to a robot by his long working hours. He doesn’t know what he’s going to do next; right now, he just wants to “lie flat’’. Origin story The ‘lie-flat’ movement is a backlash against the punishing ‘996’ culture promoted by IT start-ups where young people are expected to work from 9 am to 9 pm six days a week. But it is also a backlash against “involution’’, the endless pressure to do well which mostly results in you simply remaining in the same place. The pressure these days is felt by everyone, from parents pushing their infants to training classes so that they can get into the best private school to students competing throughout school to get into the best university. So widespread is this backlash that the authorities have been forced to sit up and react — in the only way they know. Last month, they banned the sale of products by e-commerce companies that have the words ‘lie flat’ and ‘involution’ written on them, including stickers. In May they had banned an online group with 10,000 members who had declared themselves to be believers in the ‘lie flat’ creed. As academics in China have pointed out, that’s hardly a solution. Other such online groups exist, and with the government carrying on with its relentless pursuit of ‘growth’, more youngsters are bound to join them. Perhaps the ban was to prevent anything spoiling the centenary celebrations of the Communist Party of China. It just wouldn’t do, would it, if, as the grand celebrations kicked off in Beijing and across the country on July 1, you had youth lounging around street corners in T-shirts proclaiming ‘Lie Flat’. All names have been changed||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||First love, last rites||In just about every religion or value-system known to humanity, the human body gets a new life after death. The withholding of this life is great trauma for the family, community, and encircling society. In U.R. Ananthamurthy’s classic Kannada novel, Samskara, when the blaspheming Brahmin, Naranappa dies, he leaves the Brahmin settlement of his village in a quandary. Who will do the last rites of the Brahmin who had flouted every rule of Brahminism while alive — consuming meat and alcohol, spending time with Muslims, taking a low-caste mistress? His dead body lies like a giant question mark in the village, while the seductive body of Naranappa’s mistress, Chandri, and the gold jewellery she offers for those who will give her dead lover his last rites, draw gleams of lust in the eyes of the impoverished, caste-proud Brahmins. The stinking, rotting corpse, meanwhile, turns into a slow metaphor for corrupt Brahminical Hinduism. Far away in time and place, in Homer’s Iliad, Priam goes to beg for the body of his son, Hector, from Achilles, the man who killed him in battle. In a fit of vengeful rage, Achilles tied the body of the slain Trojan hero to his chariot and dragged him around, even though the Sun-God, Apollo, intervened to keep Hector’s body miraculously unblemished. An old man, Priam, appeals to Achilles’s memory of his own father, so that Achilles takes pity on aged Priam and returns to him the dead body of his beloved son. And at the end of Thebes’s civil war in Sophocles’s play, Antigone, the victorious king, Creon, decrees that the body of the rebel, Polynices, will be denied the respect of last rites and will be left to rot and vultures. Antigone’s struggle, in the play named after her, is to dare the royal decree and give her brother the last rites he deserves. Beyond religion and culture, the touch of the kindred dead body, in the last instance, is always an act of love. ******* Like many people whose lives have spanned different continents, I have known the strange disembodiment of the death of a loved one that happens at a distance. When I was in my twenties and a student in the United States of America, within a period of three years, I lost both my parents, both in their mid-fifties. My father’s death was first a phone conversation with my mother, who told me to stay strong as my father had been admitted to the ICU following a major cardiac arrest. He had already gone — perhaps it was possible for my mother to lie to try and momentarily protect my emotions 12,000 kilometres away as their marriage had ended fifteen years ago. A day or two later, death news was an email from a friend. For a range of reasons too difficult and painful to get into, I was no longer close to my father, who lived with his new family. The first death of a parent was an absence in my life — the absence of a dead body, the absence of ritual, even the absence of mourning. Living in a university town in the American Midwest, I had no one around me who might mourn for him, and the difficulty of our personal relationship seemed to clog the possibility of a personal mourning too. The fever that came upon me that evening felt like a cold hand. Before my mind could grieve, my body did. The lack of the reality of death — of one related to me by blood — it seemed, had clogged its release and had pushed my body to illness. My mother’s voice had crumbled on the phone in her dalliance with the truth; little did we know that exactly three years and two days later, the news of her death would awaken me in the middle of the night. Death a telephone call, following two-and-a-half days of coma after a sudden cerebral stroke. Would I go to see her now? This time, the reality of death was a choice. But not much of one for a graduate student on a tight purse-string, to make a trip from New Jersey to Calcutta, fighting tough travel regulations in a post-9-11 world. What would I go for? She was the last member of my immediate family; I had no sibling, and no one else that close, no one whose grief I had to share. It was all mine. I decided not to make that trip, to go touch death and the remains of the body. To go to embrace all that all alone, said a friend, would be asking for more punishment. ******* I thought it was only distance that disembodied death, distance that spread over oceans, leaving me, so many of us, unprepared for the fact that since March 2020, disembodiment has become another name for death. For those of us lucky to be alive, lucky to be home, death has become images on our screens. Death is hard to see even when in the same city, deathbeds hard to visit, mourning rituals impossible, unless it’s your own immediate family where death has paid a visit. We’ve been living through a war. A war takes loved ones and often forgets to return their bodies, while scattering unrecognized corpses across the battlefield. The disembodied deaths of battle now combine with the intense communality of virtual social life — every day, the photos of dead loved ones show up on my Twitter and Facebook timelines. But many others remain elusive for me — the face of an aunt who passed away in Calcutta last October, taking with her my childhood home; that of our former landlord across the road in Delhi, chronicled merely in calls and messages, that of my neighbourhood optician in Calcutta, the first in my personal acquaintance to fall to this illness, back in May 2020, a death that felt like a bad rumour in those early days of the pandemic. Meeting people has been such a rare thing these days that word often comes from people at several removes from the dead. The finality of loss without the painful — but essential — ritual of a last goodbye, while unclaimed bodies wash up on the shores of our rivers. Who, we wonder, have been looking for these bodies? Beyond the primal grief of death, there is a loss in the loss of the body that never closes, that steals the final image from you. After all these years, I think of the choice I made, not to fly over to do the last rites for my mother, whatever little choice that I had that day. Togetherness is what the human body and soul crave in life, and togetherness is what they crave at the moment of death. That’s why last rites are precious. Not for religion, but for love. The sandal-paste on the dead beloved, the new clothes, even the touch of dead, cold skin. Between the disembodied death and the unclaimed body will dwell the giant scar of this pervasive human tragedy that haunts us today. The author is professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tokyo Olympics 2020: Young archers convey best wishes to Deepika Kumari ||Young budding archers from Kharsawan interiors on Friday wished Deepika Kumari and the Indian men’s team of Tarundeep Rai, Atanu Das and Pravin Jadhav, luck for the Olympic Games starting in Tokyo, Japan next month. The archers, in the 8-12 age group, were part of a signature campaign held in the presence of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) president and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda at Damadiri ground in Kharsawan. Munda, who felicitated Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat for bagging women’s recurve team gold in the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris, was impressed with the craze shown for Deepika by the budding archers. He also honoured Purnima Mahto, coach of the team in Paris, during the event organised by Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA). Coaches, archers and functionaries of the district archery outfit were present on the occasion. The budding archers, who hone their skills at Damadiri ground, idolise Deepika who picked the nuances of archery at a cradle run by SKDAA in Kharsawan, the erstwhile princely town, 37 km from Jamshedpur, in 2005 before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. Deepika, the world number one archer who claimed three gold medals in Paris, is the only woman archer to have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. She will compete in the individual recurve round. Munda who also heads the Archery Association of India and is the chief patron of SKDAA, heaped praise on Komalika and Ankita for the achievement and said both have made the country and Jharkhand proud by their exploits. He also praised Purnima for her guidance to the Jharkhand troika of archers. He also gave his best wishes to the Olympic –bound archers on the signature board. SKDAA secretary S.K. Mohanty said the archers had arrived at the Damadiri ground well before the start of the signature campaign which started at 3 pm. “The 30-odd archers eagerly waited for the event to begin and were very glad to wish Deepika and the men’s team. Mundaji was also very impressed with the eagerness shown by the budding archers,” he told The Telegraph Online on from Kharsawan. Mohanty, also vice president of JAA, said the young archers were presently shooting with traditional bows and arrows and would subsequently switch to the globally acceptable recurve division. “We are keen to produce more Deepika Kumaris in Kharsawan,” he added. Seraikela-Kharsawan has produced a good number of international archers and is aptly called the cradle of archery in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand reports zero deaths for second consecutive day||The Covid-19 fatalities remained nil for the second consecutive day and recoveries continued to steadily outnumber the new cases in the state, as per the bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday night. According to the bulletin, 156 persons were declared cured compared to 96 fresh cases. Currently, only 854 active cases exist. The Covid death toll stands at 5113 since the outbreak of the virus. Out of a total of 3,45,706 positive cases, 3,39,739 got cured. Among the districts, East Singhbhum and Ranchi district reported 10 new cases each followed by Giridih ,9, and eight cases each from Bokaro and Gumla. As many as five districts namely Chatra, Godda, Khunti, Lohardaga, and Seraikela didn’t report any new cases. The mortality rate in the state was recorded at 1.47 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.30 per cent. The recovery rate among Covid patients in the state has improved to 98.27 per cent, better than the national average of 96.90 per cent. Altogether, 1,00,35,595 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 51,924 since Thursday, it added. On the other hand, a total of 26,826 people took their first dose of the vaccine in the last 24 hours of which 23,000 people were between 18-44 years. Due to the low vaccine stocks, mainly of Covishield, only 6,947 people were able to take their second doses during this period. So far 3.54 lakh people are fully vaccinated in the state, which is about 43 percent of the target group, added the bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's favourite park to get a new entry point ||The lush green Jubilee Park will soon have one more entry point from the Marine Drive side, intended to provide a better access for the visitors coming from the western part of the steel city. The picturesque park, a major place of attraction for residents living in and around the steel city, presently has three entry points -- one is from the Bistupur end and two from Sakchi. The work for setting up the fourth entry point is being carried out by JUSCO, a subsidiary of the steel major Tata Steel. "We have started setting up a fourth entry point for Jubilee Park. The new entrance to the park is coming up from the Marine Drive side, "said Sukanya Das, spokesperson of JUSCO to The Telegraph Online. Sukanya said the entry point is being set up keeping in view of the visitors' rush to the park, especially during the year end and new year occasions as well as during the Founder's Day celebration. While the existing entry points are close to the park, the new entrance to it will be about 500 metres away from its heart. Moreover, the visitors willing to come through the new entrance will have to travel about two kms along Marine Drive from the turning point near the Water Filtration Plant on Subernarekha Link Road in Sakchi. Sources in JUSCO said the flower beds, gardens and illuminated fountains beside other attractive things will come up in the 500-metres-long stretch between the center of the park and its new entrance. Jubilee Park has been closed for the visitors since March last year in view of the pandemic, but when it will be reopened post pandemic, it will be a place of pleasant surprise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt no fare-hike diktat upsets bus operators||Ranchi's Kantatoli bus depot was abuzz with activity on Friday as buses hit the roads of Ranchi after being allowed to resume services, but after the state government's late night directive on Thursday asking operators not to hike fares, it is doubtful if full-fledged public transport services can continue for long. Buses have been allowed to run with full seating capacity, provided all other Covid norms, like wearing of masks and carrying  proper route permits, are adhered to. But the no-fare hike order of the state transport department is a concern for majority of  bus operators who called it "impractical". Krishna Mohan Singh, president of Ranchi Bus Owners Association, said that the price of diesel had risen by  at least Rs 30 in the last three months. “Today, diesel price in Ranchi is about Rs 94 a litre compared to Rs 64 when we  shut operations temporarily. How can bus operators sustain themselves with old rates? Few days back, we had met with the state transport department secretary K K Soan with  our demands,including logical consideration in hiking the ticket fares. But it did not help," he rued. He said that even  though the government had allowed buses to run with full seating capacity, no owner could run the business without hiking  ticket rates by at least 10-15 per cent. “We will be forced to cut down on the number of buses on the road because besides fuel price, there has been an increase in other accessories such as engine oil and the likes,” he added. A manager of Chanchal Travel, which runs buses in several  routes including Ranchi and Jamshedpur, said, “We have a 45-seater AC bus on the Ranchi-Tata route. On an average, we calculate operation costs of a  trip based on at least 30 passengers. As per the estimates, we are now incurring an increase of Rs 3000 in operation costs per trip on this route, taking into account the current rate of Rs 300 per ticket. After a few days it will be difficult to manage. We want the  government to reconsider its decision.” While transport commissioner Kiran Kumar Passi didn’t respond to  calls, another senior official in the department said, “People, mostly poor or middle class, travel by bus between different districts. The government doesn’t want to further burden them with higher ticket rates. The last time, the state government provided waivers in road permit taxes to all commercial vehicles. Once the situation normalizes, the transport department will certainly look into the demands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister to lay foundation stone for five Eklavya schools ||Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda will lay the foundation stone of five Eklavya Model Residential Schools in three districts of Kolhan region. On Saturday, the union minister will lay the foundation stone of an Eklavya Model Residential School at Khairbani in Rajnagar block of Seraikela Kharsawan district. He will lay the foundation stone of two other Eklavya Model Residential Schools the same day at Sialjodi village of Hatgamharia block and at Haldia in Majhgaon block, both in West Singhbhum district. On July 4, Munda will lay the foundation stone of a similar Eklavya residential school at Hatiapata village of Ghurabandha block in East Singhbhum and at Ghordhuan in Dhalbhumgarh block of East Singhbhum. Eklavya Model Residential School EMRS is a Union government scheme for model residential schools for Indian tribals (ST, Scheduled Tribes) across India. It is one of the flagship interventions of the Union ministry of tribal affairs and was introduced in the year 1997-98 to ensure tribal students get access to quality education in the remote tribal areas. The government gives one time Rs 30 lakh grant for establishing the school, thereafter up to Rs 30 lakh per school annually. The additional cost is borne by state governments. At the end of 2018, a total of 284 EMRSs have been sanctioned with a maximum of 32 approved in Madhya Pradesh. There are around 226 such residential schools presently functional across the country. Eklavya residential schools in Jharkhand will be developed as a Centre for Excellence on the lines of Navodaya Vidyalaya. For sports, the residential schools will have the state-of-the-art facilities including art training, specialised training, boarding and lodging facilities, sports kits, sports equipment, competition performance, insurance, medical expenses etc. as per norms of Sports Authority of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad roadside dhabas undergo thorough hygiene inspection||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation on Friday launched a hygiene inspection drive against the roadside dhabas situated on the station road, a day after reopening of restaurants following the relaxations allowed by the state government. The hour-long inspection carried out under the leadership of Anil Kumar, DMC food inspector, during the morning from 10.45 am to 11.45 am also led to the detection of unhygienic practices by five road Dhabas including the preservation of stale food and wrong practice of keeping food in the open. Kumar gave stern warning to the faulty dhaba operators asking them to mend their ways immediately or face action as per the Jharkhand Municipality act ranging from imposition of fines to sealing of shops. Taking note of lack of proper garbage disposal, Kumar also instructed them to ensure proper garbage disposal using the door to door garbage collection service of DMC   and make payment of user charges to DMC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Anil Kumar said, “the drive launched today will continue in other areas also as we have covered the dhabas operating on the road stretch from Rangatand Chowk to Hanuman Temple while the other food outlets operating from other side of Hanuman Temple to Railway auditorium will also be taken to task soon.” “As the restaurants reopened only since yesterday, so we have not  imposed any fine for the violation and hygiene and rather carried out drive of today as an awareness exercise during which we clearly told them that such can’t be served to customers, as it will adversely affect their health”said “We have also destroyed some of stale food caught lying in the freezer of five out of 13 inspected  dhabas  and apprised the dhaba operators about the rule pertaining to the Jharkhand Municipality Act under which action may be initiated against them  for flouting  laid norms,” said Kumar. “We also objected to the practice of Dhaba operators dumping huge amount of garbage including food leftovers on the road side due to non use of door to door garbage collection service and also warned them against the illegal dumping of garbage” said Kumar “The shopkeepers were asked to keep the garbage in dustbins only which will be collected by personnel of Ramky Enviro Engineers executing solid waste management project” said Kumar and added that they were also asked to  pay the user charges being collected by DMC before ensuring door to door garbage collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Curbs off but Dhanbad buses and trains stay grounded||The travails of thousands of daily passengers including office goers, labourers and daily wage earners, continues in the coal town as city bus services remain suspended despite government restrictions being lifted. Passengers travelling to places like, Katras, Sindri, Maithon, Chirkunda, Rajganj, Topchanchi are the worst affected as other than being compelled to pay four to five times fare in auto-rickshaw they are also compelled to make a break journey as auto rickshaws do not operate for long distance. Suspension of local train services, including Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train and Dhanbad-Chandrapura due to the pandemic and other reasons have further added to the woes of the common passenger as they are left with no other option other than travelling in auto- rickshaw and pay exorbitant fares. Notably, only 13 out of total 70 buses procured by DMC way back in 2010 under the millennium city project have been operational till the pre lockdown period of April 21, while remaining 57 are lying grounded due to being in extremely dilapidated condition as many of them have never came on road due to failure of DMC to operate buses. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Ranjit Kumar Singh, a speech therapist cum special educator of Jeevan Jyoti School, a school for differently-abled students, at Dhanbad said, “My residence is in Katras and travelling from Katras to Dhanbad I am now compelled to pay Rs 60 in auto-rickshaw instead of the charge of Rs 20 of bus fare.” “Such is the monopoly of auto drivers that they are even charging as much as Rs 80 as Katras fare from railway passengers during the weekend complete lockdown,” said Ranjit. Echoing his sentiments, Umesh Heliwal, a garment seller of Karkend Bazar in Dhanbad, who is also secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “Many of our staff as well as retailers travelling from far off places like Sindri, Baghmara, Maithon, Chirkunda are facing great difficulty in visiting us due to non operational of city bus service.” President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, "The worst sufferer of the suspension of city bus service are the Sindri residents located around 30 km from Dhanbad as auto rickshaw drivers are even charging as high as Rs 150 as Dhanbad-Sindri fare during lockdown instead of city bus fare of Rs 25 per passenger." “We have requested the railway authorities for the restoration of Sindri Dhanbad passenger train and simultaneously a restoration request of city bus service was made to DMC authorities but all our requests have fallen into deaf's ear,” said Dipu. Contacted, DMC Assistant Engineer, Uday Kachhap who is also the in charge of transport service of DMC,  said, “All 13 buses would start operating soon as the contractors operating buses have started carrying out necessary servicing  as batteries have exhausted during  the over two months of lockdown period while other technical snags also developed in engine etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||SAIL seeks stern action against protesters ||The SAIL,management is planning to take stern actions against those who participated in a strike demanding pay revision on Wednesday that crippled production at Bokaro Steel Plant for almost 24 hours. The strike, called by 12 trade unions jointly demanding pay revision, incurred a huge loss to the steel major. Though the production and revenue loss has not been declared officially by management, but sources at key positions confirmed that BSL suffered a production loss of around 6500 tonnes of crude steel.  In terms of revenue, the loss faced by the company is about Rs 40 crore. BSL spokesperson, Manikant Dhan said that the loss is being assessed by the management. Of the five steel plants of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), BSL suffered the maximum jolt as the workers not only refrained from work, but also disrupted work at critical production zones like Blast Furnace and Steel Melting Shop.  There is an indication that SAIL management is going to take major action against the furious employees involved in the strike. Apart from the production and revenue loss at the BSL, the blast furnace incident has shaken the management. The BSL management has sent a special report related to the strike as well as the blast furnace incident to SAIL Headquarters, said sources. About two dozen employees are under scanner in blast furnace incident where the railway tracks through which hot metals were carried to other units were blocked for more than 4 hours. The situation in Blast Furnace had aggravated to an extent where there was a possibility of occurrence of any untoward incident, with pressure on the pipelines supplying gas to blast furnace and coke ovens. The agitators attempted to shut down the Blast Furnaces, an issue taken seriously by the SAIL management. Despite persuasion by BSL's ED Works and senior officials, the agitators did not leave the track.  BSL's in-charge director Amarendu Prakash had to seek cooperation from the district administration. Knowing the seriousness of the situation, SDO, Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh himself reached the blast furnace and asked agitators to leave the track in half an hour. Shortly after that, the CISF removed the employees from there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Bus operators, hoteliers relieved as govt lifts restrictions ||Bus operators, hoteliers and restaurant owners heaved a sigh of relief after the Jharkhand government on Wednesday lifted the Covid-induced restrictions on their operations after over two months. According to the new guidelines issued by the Jharkhand government, inter-district buses can operate with their seating capacity adhering to standard operating procedures from Thursday though the partial lockdown would continue till further orders. “We are happy that the government has agreed to our demands for the last few weeks to let us resume our operations so that our staff and we can sustain ourselves. We are incurring huge losses and our staff are staring at starvation. We have told all our staff to ensure mandatory use of masks by passengers and also carry out regular sanitisation of bus seats. We might also start thermal scanning of passengers,” said Krishna Mohan Singh, president of the Ranchi Bus Owners’ Association. The restaurant and bar operators termed the move to lift restrictions as a delayed decision but still welcomed it. “It should have been done in mid-June itself when the cases started declining. Anyway we would have adhered to strict Covid protocols and prevented gathering. The situation is such that we are neck deep in financial crisis due to the lockdown which was imposed on April 22. However, we welcome the decision of the government and would operate with the mandatory 50 per cent capacity,” said Gurusharan Singh, a senior functionary of the Jharkhand Restaurant and Bar Association and a Ranchi-based restaurant owner. The directive also allowed shops and other establishments across the state to open till 8pm (from the earlier 4pm) but the weekend lockdown (from 8pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday) will continue. Banquet halls and community halls have also been allowed to open with a maximum of 50 people. In another significant decision, the government also allowed stadiums, gymnasiums and parks to open from Thursday. There will be a prohibition on gathering of more than 50 people in such places. Entrance examinations allowed by the Union government can be held. However, exams to be held by the state government will continue to be postponed. There will be no requirement of e-passes for inter-district travel in the state. E-passes will remain mandatory for inter-state movement in private vehicles but for movement within a district, no e-passes will be required. Religious places and educational institutions would continue to remain closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi: Indian Institute of Management successfully completes final placement||The Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, on Thursday announced that it had “successfully completed the final placement” for all the students of its 2019-20 MBA and MBA-HR (human resources) programmes, despite the pandemic situation. All 273 students — 201 in MBA and 72 in MBA-HR — have been offered jobs by reputed companies this year, said a release issued by the institute on Thursday. It said 167 companies had participated in the placement process this year. The average pay package offered to MBA students was Rs 14.69 lakh per annum while the highest CTC was Rs 26.50 lakh per annum, the release said. The average package for MBA-HR students was Rs 14.68 lakh per annum, with the highest offer being Rs 29.75 lakh per annum, it added. Asked about the 100 per cent placement for its students during the pandemic, institute director Shailendra Singh told The Telegraph: “The performances of the previous students of the institute who are well placed across the domains have created a good impression about IIM-R among the employers who keep returning to Ranchi for recruiting our students.” “The sincerity of the present students and the efforts put in by the faculty members also helped in providing cent per cent placements,” he added. “The placement process was really very satisfying as we didn’t feel the problem that many others faced in various institutes where offers were either withdrawn or withheld during the pandemic last year,” said Subham Singha Roy, an MBA-HR student who just joined “one of the leading manufacturing companies of the country”. The recruiters offered diverse roles in the functional areas across various domains. Among those, sales and marketing had the highest number of jobs comprising 31 per cent of the total offers followed by strategy and consulting (20 per cent), operations and general management (20 per cent), IT and analytics (17 per cent) and finance (12 per cent). The placement session featured the return of major brands and prominent companies like Accenture, Aditya Birla Capital Ltd, Asian Paints, Byju’s, Birlasoft, Capgemini, Cognizant, Deloitte, Godrej, HSBC, ICICI Bank, ICICI Lombard, Infosys, JP Morgan and Chase, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Mahindra and Mahindra, Maveric Systems, O9 Solutions Inc, Oxane Partners, RBL Bank, Samsung, Tata Steel Ltd, Tech Mahindra, TVS Motors, Ultratech, Vedanta Group, Yes Bank and many more, the release said, adding that there were also some first-timers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fuel price hike dampen spirits of Dhanbad bus operators ||Coal town bus operators are not ecstatic over the resumption of intra-state operations, due to the steep hike in fuel prices. Following the relaxations by the state government allowing operation of intrastate buses, only five intra state buses out of a total of 250 operated from Dhanbad on the first day. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “We are treading cautiously in changed scenario of over two month closure when the fuel prices have increased to around 25% and unless we get 50% bookings we are not in a position to resume the full fleet of long distance buses like those running between Dhanbad to Ranchi.” “We will not able to even to pay the salaries of our staff if the booking remains less than 50% of the total capacity,” said Singh. For buses operating between Dhanbad to Ranchi they required at least 100 litres of diesel per day and when the diesel prices have increased to over 94 per litre they will be required to invest around Rs 9400 per day which will be around Rs 1700 more than the previous per day fuel cost of Rs 7700 per day, clarified Singh. “No other relaxation despite our demand for waiver of road tax of three months of April, May and June of closure period and increase permit tenure till September have been considered by the government  adding to our financial constraints,” said Singh. Sumit Singh, owner of Bundela Travels which operates over 25 buses said, “The response of the passengers during the first day was quite poor and  as the five out of 250 buses, including two for Giridih and one each for Ranchi, Bokaro and Chhatra which operated from the Bus Depot at Bartant operated with less than 10% occupancy.” “Various reasons, including the lack of proper information among the passengers about the government permission for operation of buses from today,  availability for lesser staff before the bus operators for running the buses were responsible for poor occupancy today” said Singh and added that they are expecting the passenger flow to improve gradually within a week. “We will be operating a limited number of buses in the present scenario and only will be able to operate the full fleet in the changed scenario of increased fuel prices when the passenger flow increases” said Singh. Sunil Singh, operator of Sunil Travels which operates buses between Dhanbad to nearby Bengal towns like Purulia, Asansol, Durgaur and Burnpur said, “The relaxation in Jharkhand has no benefit for us unless the situation improves in Bengal but we welcome the Jharkhand government relaxations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding planners upbeat after lockdown relaxations||More than 2000 wedding planners, hoteliers and banquet hall owners are upbeat over the relaxations announced on Wednesday night by the state government, including allowing opening of banquet halls, marriage halls and restaurants with limited capacity of 50 persons. Over 1200 decorators, tent house owners, band operators, caterers, wedding photographers of the district have started work for the remaining weddings scheduled during the last six days of the lagan season. The hoteliers, banquet and marriage hall owners and restaurant operators on the other hand are overjoyed at the prospect of beginning of different kinds of small parties including, birthday, marriage anniversaries, engagement, promotion parties besides the conferences, meetings, seminars etc during the post-marriage season. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Pradeep Kumar Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, said, “Though 80% of around 20 thousand marriages scheduled during five month lagan season beginning from March have already been cancelled, but the relaxation as this juncture also will help us to compensate for some of the losses.” “We were more concerned about the income of labourers working with us like generator operators, electricians, dishwashers, servers, bush boys, band party operators,” said Singh and added that large number of these labourers have already left for their native places to work on the farmland due to cancellation of almost all marriages scheduled during, March, April, May, June. “The best part of the order was allowing a congregation of maximum 50 persons which will allow the functions to be held with the involvement of wedding planners like us,” said a Jharia based decorator. Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi also welcomed the relaxations provided by the government including allow opening of banquet halls/ marriage halls and said “though marriage season is almost at the end but we are looking over other meetings, parties etc held aS part of the birth way function, marriage anniversaries, ring ceremony, work anniversary functions, promotions etc” “The banquet hall rents and restaurant income are an important part of the hotel business and hotel’s income will also improve with permission for dining facility in their restaurants as during the recent times the concept of group dining has gained popularity which  allows people to share the food cost among each other,” said Bagchi. “We expect the situation to improve further for the hospitality sector with the gradual relaxation in lockdown situation in neighbouring states of Bihar and Bengal and also opening of all means of transports including, buses, trains and private vehicles,” said Vinay Singh owner of Hotel Ramson in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
