03-07-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission caps private hospital test rates||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday fixed an upper limit on the rates that private hospitals can charge for conducting several pathological and radiological tests. A chest X-ray PA view cannot cost more than Rs 400, while the cap for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan) is Rs 5,200. Among pathological tests, Procalcitonin cannot cost more than Rs 4,000, the upper limit for IL-6 was set at Rs 3,500, for D-dimer at Rs 2,300, the maximum charge for Ferritin was set at Rs 1,600 and for CRP at Rs 1,000. The maximum charge for CK MB has been fixed at Rs 1,350. The order will take force “with immediate effect”. A doctor said that most of the radiological and pathological tests for which price limits were set are suggested for patients suffering from Covid-19, but the tests are also conducted in patients with other ailments. “We had formed two committees to determine the maximum charges for various radiological and pathological tests. When the committees submitted their reports, we shared it with the bigger private hospitals,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “Some hospitals said that since we only shared the recommendations of the committee and did not issue any order, they were not adhering to the maximum limit set by the committee. Today we issued the order. We are cautioning the hospitals that they have to abide by the capping,” Banerjee said at a news conference. An official of the commission said that the capping will be applicable to all patients, not only those who have tested positive for Covid. Though the need for fixing the rates was felt during the pandemic when many had complained about exorbitant rates of examinations at hospitals, the impact of such high rates has to be borne by non-Covid patients, too. The capping will be applicable to hospitals with more than 150 sanctioned beds. The commission’s order added that “such hospital will not enhance the rates immediately if the present rates being charged by them are lower than the rates suggested” by the order. The rates will be applicable to hospitals with National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accreditation. Earlier, the commission had fixed a ceiling on doctors’ consultation fees and charges for personal protective equipment, among others, after complaints emerged during the first wave of the pandemic last year that several hospitals were charging unjustified high amounts from patients. Senior officials of several private hospitals in the city welcomed the intention of the commission’s order on Friday, but wanted the commission to be more nuanced because they felt the charges were unrealistic for bigger hospitals. “A big private hospital has very high overhead costs. There are about 1,000 employees who manage kitchens, housekeeping and laundry. Besides, they have a very high number of doctors and nurses. We have to recover the cost to run the hospital. I am not saying rationalisation of rates is not required, but squeezing private hospitals from all sides will raise apprehensions about our sustainability,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “People prefer private hospitals because of the quality of service. We change our equipment every three to four years and try to procure the latest equipment, which are expensive, to conduct the tests,” he said. Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital, said that often, a hospital has to conduct a pathological test for a patient at night when there is only one sample to run in a machine. “Running one sample and running ten samples will cost the same. Diagnostic centres accumulate samples and run them on automatic analysers at the day’s end. But we cannot do so if a patient’s test results are required immediately. These are factors that have to be understood before setting a cap on rates,” he said. “I welcome the move to fix the maximum rates, but these should be limited to general bed patients who could find it difficult to pay more. Why should a patient with corporate mediclaim staying in an executive cabin during treatment pay the same rate?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||A veteran’s notes on the system for young doctors||A heart surgeon, commentator on public health and debater has written a book so that the younger lot of doctors get an insight into the system. The Sickness of Health, by Kunal Sarkar, was launched at a virtual session organised by the Bengal Club on Thursday. A freewheeling chat between Sarkar, neurosurgeon and fellow debater Sandip Chatterjee and cardiac surgeon Tapas Roychowdhury preceded the launch of the book at the hands of veteran physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who taught Sarkar and Chatterjee at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in College Street. “Kunal Sarkar, a heart surgeon and a debater. In his former avatar, he spends his time cutting into the matter of the heart, in his second avatar, he spends his time cutting into the heart of the matter,” said Chatterjee, a year behind Sarkar in school and medical college. The two are co-founders of the Calcutta Debating Circle. Not a fence sitter Chatterjee started with a quotation from the book where Sarkar says: “It is difficult to count whether I have done more debates or surgeries. But much is certain that I have pursued both with equal passion”. “Sarkar as a debater has either spoken fervently, feverishly, even ferociously, in favour of a motion or adamantly, assiduously against the motion. He has never sat on the wall,” said Chatterjee, before asking Sarkar if the book was his “impression of healthcare — past, present and future”. Sarkar spoke of something that “really tickled the little bit of my analytical self I possess”. “All these thousands of young boys and girls walking this path, dedicating their minutes, hours, days, weeks, years to it, that they deserve a little more insight as to what is happening around them... The succeeding generations, the young ones who are labouring day in and day out, as we see during Covid, they also need a little bit of perspective and insight into the deficiencies of the system, the healthcare economics. “I have never tried to sit on the fence and create neutrality where it does not exist,” he said. Home to hospital Chatterjee said the book discussed how healthcare moved from “Rabindranath Tagore having his prostate surgery in the veranda of his home to how he started actually frequenting hospitals”. Sarkar has dwelt on how medical treatment was something only the “rich sick” could afford. “Nothing seems to have changed,” said Chatterjee. Sarkar said things had changed. “It was really the way surgical skills improved, the way we learnt the tricks of the trade.... All these things put together really made an appearance that no matter how opulent your living conditions were, you were really better served at a hospital.” Medical college Sarkar called “a fascinating phase of history” the origins of his alma mater. Despite being the second city of the British empire, Calcutta did not have much by way of health facilities, said Sarkar. The PG (Presidency and General) hospital, which moved to its current campus after brief stints at Garstin Place and inside Fort William, had “no teaching, no training”. “The British were absolutely clear that they did not want any full-fledged medical education in India, period. Then there was a lot of activism. The activists of that generation were mainly spearheaded by two people — Raja Rammohan Roy and Vidyasagar,” said Sarkar. “They took a great exception, they questioned William Bentinck, who was the then governor-general. They accuse him that ‘look, you have been long enough and you refused to give us a medical college’. Bentinck gave them a compassionate hearing. It took quite a few meetings. Then, finally, they succumbed to the will of the Bengali intelligentsia. A proper medical college was set up,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||TV and Internet cables pose risk to motorists, pedestrians in Salt Lake||Bundles of television and Internet cables strewn along several roads of Salt Lake pose a great risk to motorists and pedestrians alike. The cables lie on pavements, along median dividers and even spill out on Broadway that connects Salt Lake to EM Bypass, in front of City Centre as well as the canal side  of the Eastern Drainage Canal that leads to Salt Lake from the Chingrighata crossing. On Tuesday night, Priyam Majhi, 38, a resident of HC Block fell off his two-wheeler after the bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of the canal side road of the Eastern Drainage Canal in front of the Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. “I ride to my workplace near Kidderpore everyday. While I was returning home, the front wheel of my bike suddenly locked up and it skidded,” said Majhi, who has received several cuts and bruises on his legs and arms. The accident underscores the danger pedestrians, motorists and two-wheeler riders in Salt Lake face from the eyesore cable and broadband wires hanging from street lights, trees and traffic guardrails and even left lying on the road. The Telegraph has reported on several occasions how the mess of dangling cables pose a threat to two-wheeler riders as well as pedestrians. In January 2018, a biker was killed after his motorcycle handle got stuck in cables hanging loosely on the Park Circus No. 4 Bridge. To add to the risk street lights along several arterial roads as well as inside the blocks have stopped working. The Telegraph drove around various blocks in all three sectors of Salt Lake on Wednesday evening and found that most lanes and even some of the arteries had plunged into darkness. The area in front of Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex in Salt Lake’s Sector III had a web of cables strewn across the road in several places. Broken street lights made them nearly impossible to spot from a distance. In FE Block, several roads were unlit because of dysfunctional street lights and had cables strewn on the pavements and road. In HA Block, too, a resident said half the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. Rahul Jain, 52, a resident of the block said the few lights that were functional only produced long shadows, instead of illuminating the streets. “The street lights and the lights in the block’s park that are damaged or have stopped working have not yet been repaired or replaced,” Jain said. Nearly all these places had a cobweb of wires wrapped around lamp posts and nearly all the posts serve as junctions for cables that are haphazardly gathered together and tied together at their bases. Low hanging cables were also spotted at major intersections of the township, including City Centre and the Karunamoyee crossing. Sector V, too, has hundreds of cables criss-crossing it’s skyline, many of which hang dangerously close to the ground. The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) had removed the cables from some stretches of the main road but a majority of the cables still remain. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they were in touch with the multi-system operators (MSO) in Salt Lake.“We have called them and asked them to remove the snipped cables. We have also removed some low hanging cables in some places.” Another civic official said they had planned to follow the New Town model to construct underground cable ducts. But the plan could not be implemented till now as it was met with stiff opposition from the representatives of MSOs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court extends interim stay on teacher recruitment at upper primary level till July 9||The high court has extended the interim stay on recruitment of teachers at the upper primary level till July 9 and said “apparently… there are irregularities in drawing up the merit list”. Justice Abhijit Ganguly directed the school service commission to upload on its website a merit list with marks against the name of each candidate on the list. The court has also asked the commission to explain to those whose names don’t feature on the list, why they fell short. Justice Ganguly said: “The officers of the (school service) commission are worthless. They should be immediately removed. Why was the order of the court passed in 2019 not carried out by the commission? This court has framed guidelines for selecting the candidates and preparing a list on the basis of that.” The stinging remarks came as the state’s advocate-general and the principal secretary of the school education department appeared before the court seeking vacation of the interim stay. “Apparently, the court feels there is lack of transparency and there are irregularities in drawing up the merit list,” the judge said. School education department secretary Manish Jain appeared before the court as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Wednesday instructed him to plead before the court that successive legal tangles were coming in the way of appointing thousands of students as schoolteachers. But the court expressed its displeasure over the way the merit list was prepared, allegedly in violation of an order passed in October 2019. On October 3, 2019, Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya had instructed the commission that the merit list would have to be prepared on the basis of how a teacher aspirant has performed in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET), his or her academic eligibility and BEd or DLeD (diploma in elementary education training). The same judge had on December 11, 2020, quashed the process initiated by the commission to recruit teachers in nearly 15,000 vacant posts and directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get first preference. According to the deadline set in December, the merit list was supposed to be prepared by May 31. As the commission was getting ready to call the aspirants for counselling based on the merit list, three petitions were filed on June 24, seeking a stay on the recruitment. Justice Ganguly had issued an interim stay on Wednesday, which was extended further on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||People pay for bus fare stand-off in Calcutta||Rabi Mandal of Sonarpur ended up spending around Rs 80 on Friday to reach his office in Beltala near Bhowanipore, changing auto rickshaws four times in between. On other days it would cost Mandal Rs 14 to cover the same distance on two private buses. If the Bengal government had agreed to a bus fare hike that the operators were pressing for, Mandal would have had to spend Rs 30 at the most. That is Rs 50 less than what he ended up paying on Friday. The state government’s ploy to somehow stall a bus fare hike is hurting people more. Several commuters like Mandal are being forced to opt for autos as their only mode of transportation since state buses are few and far and even the ones that are available have been running packed to their capacity. Across several routes in Calcutta, a section of auto operators have made full use of their near monopoly on the roads and demanded fares way higher than the existing ones. “I would usually take a private bus from Garden Reach to reach my office at Ballygunge Phari. Now I have to take at least three auto rides and that costs more than four times the amount I would have paid for bus fare,” said Md Anwar Hossain, who has to physically report for work on working days. Across bus stops there were scores of people looking for a commute. In the few buses that were on the roads, passengers were hanging from the footboards. The government does not seem to have a solution. An official said “we will wait and watch” that roughly translates to “we don’t have a clue”. “On Friday, the number of private buses was a shade more than what it was on Thursday,” the official added. “Private operators are also opting to wait and watch before some of them start bringing out their fleet.” The official also promised more government buses from Monday. Transportation experts said was unlikely to bring about much difference. In Bengal, private buses and minibuses account for nearly 72 per cent of the total fleet, unlike other large states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra where the share of the government buses is much higher. Several experts in transportation economics said as the dependence on private buses in Bengal, any attempt to corner private bus operators without creating viable alternatives would result in monopoly of other modes of transportation like autos and e-rickshaws who would fleece optionless passengers. Several academics said a regulatory commission should be in place to decide fares considering four broad parametres — the hike in the price of diesel over the past few years, the wholesale price index, the consumer price index and the cost of investment of the operators. “In August 2014, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced a task force on the bus fare structure would meet every time the diesel price changed by Rs 2 a litre,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “However, the task force never met even once.” In June, the state government had set up a three-member committee to look into the demands of private bus operators and draw up a recommendation for the government. The committee members haven’t met even once. During Unlock-1, several private bus operators had drawn up a fare chart with two broad options that suggested a three fold and a nearly two-fold rise in the existing fares. The state government had turned down the proposal saying bus operators had no right to decide their fares. “We are not proposing any fare structure this time. But since the passenger count is less than half now and price of diesel has shot up several times, the fare should be at least double the existing one,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Revival plan for Indian Botanic Garden ||A team of professionals from fields like biodiversity specialists, botanists, landscape artists and urban developers is putting together a rejuvenation programme for the Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur, one of the earliest botanical gardens in the world. The University of Edinburgh along with Asia Scotland Trust and the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) is participating and funding this programme. Neeta Subhrajit Das Associates (NSDA), a Calcutta-based architecture firm and Architecture Urban Design Academy (AUDA) are the local collaborators. A community participation scoping project (CPSP) under the rejuvenation programme was taken up by 11 selected interns from institutes such as  the architecture department of Jadavpur University, BIT, Mesra, botany department of Calcutta University, CEPT, Ahmedabad and IIM, Tiruchirapalli at the botanical garden  from March 13-17, 2021. The interns have studied and documented the existing edge conditions of the garden and presented their findings in a seminar on June 2. “The Indian Botanic Garden was laid out in Howrah but it was designed for Calcutta by an architect from Garden Reach. The revitalisation and rejuvenation programme is to put the garden under a lens and take it apart to see how it can be relevant for the present times and have a sustainable future. We have experts from various fields looking at the garden to see what should be preserved, what should be modified,” said Neeta Das, of NSDA, who is the local partner spearheading the CPSP. She along with Dorian Wiszniewski, senior academic representing the University of Edinburgh, and Jane Burridge from the Asia Scotland Trust are leading the programme. The botanical garden in Shibpur, founded by a Scot in 1786, has maintained strong ties with Scotland. However, in recent times the 273-acre garden has been plagued by multiple issues leading to its decline as a repository of rare and endemic species. Cyclone Amphan in 2020 has dealt a body blow to the garden and its most prized possession — the 270-year-old Great Banyan Tree — lost a considerable portion of its canopy besides a number of old and magnificent trees have also been felled. The ongoing pandemic has played its part leading to a reduction in government funds for the garden, fewer staff and lack of qualified personnel needed to maintain it. Fungal attacks to rare species like the Double Coconut Tree and other failures have dented the garden’s reputation. Overrun by weeds and decrepit maintenance, the garden is a pale shadow of what it used to be in its hey days. “The CPSP is a compilation of a series of academic, documentation, and sensitisation exercises that will lead to a greater understanding of what might constitute a vision to be framed as a Regeneration and Ecological Framework Plan (REFP) for the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah. The REFP will be available to all parties who have an interest in the revitalisation of the AJC Bose Botanical Gardens Environment,” said Wiszniewski. BSI director A.A. Mao welcomed the rejuvenation study but warned that “such study will remain in documents and files for lack of funds to implement it”. “Our budget in 2019-20 was Rs 76 crore, in 2020-21, it has been slashed to Rs 64 crore. About 80 per cent of the budget is spent on salaries. What development work can be undertaken in such little money,” he asked. The director stressed on involving corporates, availing CSR funds and finding other avenues of finance to rejuvenate the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Debanjan Deb’s security guard held||The personal security guard of Debanjan Deb, the prime accused in the fake vaccination camp case, was arrested late on Thursday from his Sonarpur home. Police said Arvind Baidya, a retired paramilitary jawan, was privy to Deb’s crimes and was instrumental in organising a fake vaccination camp in Sonarpur. Baidya’s family members said he was being framed. Baidya has been remanded in police custody till July 5. On Thursday, Baidya's name featured in a political debate when TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy showed purported photographs of him at a function in Raj Bhavan in the presence of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The BJP said it was an attempt to malign the governor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIEST cuts mess and overhead fees||The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur has decided to reduce mess establishment fees and overhead charges after students sought relief because of the financial toll the pandemic has taken. The institute last year had waived the mess advance and water and electricity charges. Now, students are saying they are struggling to pay even the mess establishment fees and the institute’s overhead charges. The students want the fees to be slashed by 25 per cent because of crippling financial conditions, an institute official said. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the outgoing students senate, said they had demanded that the mess establishment fees be reduced from Rs 500 to Rs 400 per month and the overhead charges from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,500 per semester. The students of the final year who are paying Rs 1,000 as the institute’s overhead charges, should be charged Rs 500, he said. “We want this fee reduction to be implemented from the semester that started in January... After the reduced fee structure is announced, the fees should be refunded to those who have already paid,” he told Metro. IIEST director Parthasarthi Chakrabarti said: “We want to give students relief on fees. The proposal on reduction has been sent to the institute’s board of governors for approval.” An official of the institute said the approval by the board was a formality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
03-07-2021||Business||Government extends retirement age of LIC chairman to 62 years||The government has extended the superannuation age of IPO-bound LIC chairman to up to 62 years by making amendment to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960. The changes made in the rules will be called the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Amendment Rules, 2021, according to a government notification dated June 30, 2021. It is to be noted that the retirement age for the top executives of the majority of PSUs is 60 years, barring a few exceptions, including the State Bank of India. “Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, if the central government appoints the chairman for a term of office that extends beyond 60 years of age, or extends his term of office to a period beyond the said age, he shall not superannuate till he completes such term, or till he attains the age of sixty-two years, whichever is earlier,” the gazette notification said. Last month, the government approved a nine-month extension to LIC chairman M. R. Kumar till March next year in view of the insurer’s proposed initial public offer towards the end of the current financial year. In her budget speech this year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the initial public offer of LIC would be floated in 2021-22 as part of the ambitious Rs 1.75-lakh-crore disinvestment target. The government extended the term of Kumar from June  2021 till March 13 next year, the date when he completes three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Centre imposes stock limits on pulses till October to prevent hoarding||To prevent hoarding and check price rise, the Centre on Friday imposed stock limits on all pulses, except moong, held by wholesalers, retailers, importers and millers till October. The stock limits are imposed with immediate effect. An order in this regard has been issued by the Union food and consumer affairs ministry. Retail prices of pulses rose by more than 20 per cent during the January-June period of this year, according to the ministry’s data. According to the ministry, the stock limit of 200 tonnes has been imposed on wholesalers provided they do not hold more than 200 tonnes of one variety of pulses. For retailers, the stock limit will be 5 tonnes. In the case of millers, the stock limit will be the last three months of production or 25 per cent of annual installed capacity, whichever is higher. For importers, the stock limit will be the same as that of wholesalers for stocks held/imported prior to May 15, 2021. For pulses imported after May 15, the stock limit applicable on wholesalers will apply after 45 days from the date of customs clearance, the order said. If the stocks of entities exceed the prescribed limits, they have to be declared on the online portal (fcainfoweb.nic.in) of the department of consumer affairs and have to be brought within the prescribed limit within 30 days of the notification of this order, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||RBI tweaks norms for interest on unclaimed amount after deposit matures||The Reserve Bank of India on Friday tweaked the norms for interest on the amount left unclaimed with the bank after a term deposit matures. At present, if a term deposit matures and the proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank attracts the rate of interest as applicable to savings deposits. “It has been decided that if a term deposit (TD) matures and the proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank shall attract a rate of interest as applicable to a savings account or the contracted rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is lower,” the RBI said in a circular. The new norms are applicable for deposits in all commercial banks, small finance banks, local area banks, and co-operative banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Big Tech entry into India’s financial sector poses risks for traditional banks, says RBI||Plans by Big Tech to foray further into India’s financial sector pose risks for traditional banks as the tech firms have the potential to become dominant players in financial services, the central bank has said. The plans will also create governance-related challenges for regulators, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) wrote in its bi-annual financial stability report on Thursday. Major technology firms “straddle many different lines of business with sometimes opaque overarching governance structures”, it said. The RBI said concerns included operational risks, too-big-to fail issues, challenges over anti-trust rules, cybersecurity and data privacy. But it added that the positive outcomes could include efficiency gains and more access to financial services. At present, Amazon and Google provide basic payment services in India. Both companies as well as Facebook and others have applied for licences to operate broader retail payment and settlement systems in partnership with Indian companies such as Reliance and lenders. The central bank’s warnings come at a time of much tension between the Indian government and US technology giants over issues that range from e-commerce rules to data privacy and content posted on their platforms. Amazon, Facebook, Facebook-owned WhatsApp and Twitter have all been caught up in disputes with New Delhi. A State Bank union and UNI Global Union, which represents about 20 million workers globally, last month had raised concerns about the entry of big technology companies into the country’s payments sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||India in favour of a consensus solution which is simple to implement and simple to comply: Finance ministry ||India has finally spelt out its stance on the minimum global corporate tax. The finance ministry on Friday said some significant issues relating to the extent to which India can tax multinationals — including the share of profit to be allocated to the country and the scope of subject to tax rules — are yet to be addressed and a “consensus agreement” is expected by October after working out the technical details of the proposal. The ministry said it would push for the allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions, particularly developing and emerging economies, as India agreed to join the OECD backed minimum global corporate tax regime. There are subtle differences between the G7 proposal and the one proposed by the OECD. Under the G7 agreement, market countries will be awarded taxing rights on at least 20 per cent of profit exceeding a 10 per cent margin. Under the OECD/G20 Pillar One criterion: between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of residual profit defined as profit in excess of 10 per cent of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions with nexus (meaning taxable presence) using a revenue-based allocation key. R.V. Anuradha, partner, Clarus Law Associates, said: “There is much to be resolved to achieve a global common position. This can also be discerned from the differences in the OECD/G20 statement endorsed by India, and the G7 communique of last month. While the G7 wanted to limit the scope to the largest and most profitable MNEs, the OECD/G20 Pillar One proposal references MNEs with global turnover above 20 billion euros”. A total of 130 countries on Thursday agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. “The devil lies in the details. The specific criteria for this greater share needs to be implementable. Similarly if the provisions of the Framework are subject to tax rules without defining the scope, it may dilute the purpose. These two are critical but also contentious issues,” Pralok Gupta, Centre for WTO Studies, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, said. Rajendra Nayak, tax partner, EY India, said: “The inclusive framework’s approach of limiting application of the new rules to large and profitable multinational groups is eminently practical. India’s primary interest is regarding Pillar One which seeks to re-allocate taxing rights over MNEs to markets where they earn profits.” “However, some finer details which could impact the allocation still need to be worked out. The OECD statement indicates 20-30 per cent of residual profit in excess of 10 per cent of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions. To maintain the level of re-allocable profits, India may seek to keep the allocable quantum at 30 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Exports grow 47 per cent to $32.46 billion in June||India’s exports rose 47.34 per cent to $32.46 billion in June on account of a healthy growth in sectors such as engineering, gems and jewellery and petroleum products even as trade deficit aggregated at $9.4 billion during the month, according to preliminary data released by the commerce ministry on Friday. Exports stood at $22 billion in June 2020 and $25 billion in June 2019. In May 2021, the outward shipment was worth $32.27 billion, while in April it was $31 billion. Imports in June 2021 grew 96.33 per cent to $41.86 billion from $21.32 billion in June last year. In June 2019, imports stood at $41 billion. “India is a net importer in June 2021 with a trade deficit of $9.4 billion, widened by 1426.6 per cent over trade surplus of $0.7 billion in June 2020 (India was net exporter in June 2020) and narrowed down by 41.26 per cent over trade deficit of $16 billion in June 2019,” the ministry said. Exports during the April-June quarter this year jumped to $95.36 billion from $51.44 billion a year ago. Merchandise exports were at $82 billion during April-June 2018-19 and $90 billion during the last quarter of 2020-21. “The highest-ever quarterly growth in exports not only shows the resilience of exports but also the strength of the economy,” FIEO president A. Sakthivel said. “Non oil, non gold imports jumped to $30.2 billion in June 2021 from $28.5 billion on an average in the last two months, reflecting a pickup in demand with the gradual unlocking as well as the high commodity prices,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||India to come out with certain clarifications on FDI in e-commerce sector shortly||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said the ministry will “very shortly” come out with certain clarifications on the e-commerce sector. Domestic traders have often complained about alleged violations of FDI norms by foreign online players. Goyal said the ministry is not changing any policy on e-commerce for foreign direct investment as the policy is crystal clear. “We will also come out with the e-commerce policy and whatever clarifications... Certain instances have come to our notice where the policy is not being followed in letter and spirit, we will obviously be clarifying that very shortly,” he told reporters. The statement assumes significance as the minister recently said that all e-commerce companies should follow the law of the land and not use money power to hurt Indian interests. Meanwhile, Goyal has reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects with an anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore, an official statement said on Friday. GST compensation meet Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that a special session of the GST Council will be held soon to discuss all compensation-related issues. The finance minister, who is in Karnataka, said she had assured the states a special session of the Council would be held  where every issue related to compensation would be discussed in detail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Centre announces inclusion of 2.5 crore retail, wholesale traders under MSMEs||The Centre on Friday announced the inclusion of 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders within the category of MSMEs, meaning they can get loans from banks and financial institutions under the RBI’s priority sector lending rules. The announcement was made in a tweet by MSME minister Nitin Gadkari. “Retail and wholesale trade were left out of the ambit of MSMEs. Under the revised guidelines, MSME (ministry) has issued an order to include retail and wholesale trade as MSME and extend to them the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines,” the minister tweeted. Though the Confederation of Indian Traders (CAIT) welcomed the decision, its counterpart in the MSME slammed the move as it would bloat the number of players in the MSME field, making it difficult to monitor the sector and provide support. The Consortium of Indian Associations, which represents the MSME sector, said the move was not the right strategy. “It is a disastrous move that will dilute the MSME sector that is already quite vast and struggling for its survival.  Good quality MSME data is nearly absent in the country, and including over 2.5 crore traders and retailers will further complicate the issue,” the association’s convenor K.E. Raghunathan said. He said it would be difficult to collect data on MSMEs according to industry in each state and district. “It will also be difficult to estimate and analyse the problems prevailing in each sector, thereby making it difficult to introduce the right provisions at the right time,” he added. The government had last year changed the definition of MSME, categorising them on the basis of turnover rather than investments. It had also abolished the distinction between the manufacturing and services sector that would allow the MSMEs to grow in size while continuing to avail of the benefits. “The Covid pandemic-affected traders will now be able to restore their businesses by obtaining necessary finances from the banks which was earlier denied to them,” Praveen Khandewal, secretary-general of CAIT, said. “We have to see the fine print to see whether the trading community would be eligible for the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. If there is no clarity we would seek from the finance ministry,” Khandelwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Record 8 lakh-plus get Covid-19 vaccines in a day||More than eight lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses, highest in a single day so far, were administered in Maharashtra on Saturday, a senior official said. "Maharashtra's new record in vaccination: Crossed 8 lakh shots in a day. 8,01,847 till 9 pm. Till date 3,39,11,029 shots have been administered in the State. As and when vaccines are supplied to the State & private sector, the vaccination is at record numbers," Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray tweeted. "We surpassed our previous best performance... as of 7 PM we had administered 7,85,311 doses, the highest-ever figure for the state," said health secretary Pradeep Vyas. Vaccination was going on at many centres and the final figure can cross eight lakh, he added. The previous record in the state was witnessed on June 26 when 7,38,704 doses were administered, Vyas said. With a total of 3,38,57,372 vaccine jabs given so far, Maharashtra has been at the top position in the country for more than three months, he said, thanking the health workers involved in the vaccination process for this feat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
03-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka further eases curbs with effect from July 5||The Karnataka government further relaxed the COVID-19-related restrictions allowing certain activities, including re-opening of religious places and conducting of weddings. The relaxations would be in place for the next 15 days from July 6, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said after chairing a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and senior officials on Saturday. Theatres, cinemas and pubs would remain closed while swimming pools would be opened only for competitive training purpose. Further, sports complexes and stadia shall be opened only for the purpose of practice whereas social, political, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations have been prohibited. Weddings and family functions are permitted with the presence of not more than 100 people. Places of worship are allowed to open only for 'darshan' not for 'sevas.' The order said cremation and funerals would be allowed with a maximum of 20 people while public transport is allowed to operate up to its seating capacity. "Shops, restaurants, malls, and private offices have to enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005," Yediyurappa said. Educational institutions, tutorials and colleges would remain shut until further orders, he said. The state also announced the lifting of weekend curfew starting next week as it treads cautiously even as daily Covid cases continue to drop, reports ndtv.com. However, night curfew would continue to be in force from 9 PM to 5 AM the next day. Deputy Commissioners of the districts, based on the assessment of the COVID situation and after consultation with the district-in-charge Minister, may impose additional containment measures, he added. The COVID-19-related restrictions came into effect from April 27 and were made stringent from May 10 to June 14 in view of the alarming rise in the virus cases in April, which had gone beyond 50,000 cases a day while the daily fatalities exceeded 600 cases. The active cases too went beyond six lakh. The subsequent weeks saw a big medical emergency unfolding in the city with most of the hospitals running short of beds, oxygen and life-saving drugs. As an effect of the lockdown, the daily cases came down significantly. Today, 2,082 fresh cases, 86 fatalities and 48,116 active cases were reported. The government started easing restrictions from June 14. The number of active COVID-19 cases in Karnataka fell below 50,000 on Saturday, the tally was 48,116. The State saw 2,082 infections and 86 deaths today taking the total cases and fatalities to 28,52,079 and 35,308 respectively, the Health Department said. During the peak of the second wave of the virus which began in the first week of March, there were more than six lakh cases. As many as 7,751 patients recovered in the State taking the total recoveries to 27,68,632. Bengaluru Urban district reported 481 infections, which is the highest among all the districts of the State while there were 10 deaths. The city has so far reported 12,15,309 infections and 15,665 deaths. There were 19,411 active cases. Mysuru remained as the second major COVID-19 hot spot with 227 infections and seven fatalities. It was followed by Dakshina Kannada which reported 214 infections and 13 deaths, the highest among the districts. According to a bulletin, 202 cases were reported in Hassan, 108 in Shivamogga, 102 in Udupi, 91 in Belagavi, 89 in Tumakuru 79 in Chikkamagaluru, 72 in Mandya and 55 in Bengaluru Rural. Infections were reported in other districts as well and they include Kolar, Davangere, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada. The department said there were nine deaths in Ballari, seven in Belagavi, six each in Dharwad and Mandya, four in Hassan, three each in Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Fatalities were reported in 11 other districts as well. There were no fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Raichur and Yadgir. The State conducted 1,54,655 COVID tests, including 1,18,536 RT-PCR tests and others. So far 3.47 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 2.35 crore were inoculated in the State, including 3,66,182 today. The positivity rate and the case fatality rate for the day were 1.34 per cent and 4.13 per cent respectively, the department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
03-07-2021||India||BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability, changing CM like toys: Congress||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP leadership saying it has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief minister like toys. BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the new chief minister of Uttarakhand following his election on Saturday as the leader of the BJP legislature party. The BJP has insulted the 'devbhoomi' of Uttarakhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its president J P Nadda are responsible for the current situation, the Congress alleged. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Modi and Nadda are responsible. He said this is not the first time the BJP has changed chief ministers in a state as it has done so in the past in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka. “The BJP is known for creating political instability. It has changed chief ministers in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Once again, it is changing chief ministers in Uttarakhand again and again like toys,” Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state. He added that in the last four-and-a-half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. The Congress condemns the BJP for insulting the state and its people by not doing anything to solve its problems, he said. “The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development,” Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. “The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state,” he told reporters. It has “insulted the ‘devbhoomi’ (land of Gods) of Uttarakhand and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability”, Harish Rawat said. Surjewala said, “This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership.” "Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Surjewala said in 2017, the people of Uttarakhand elected the BJP, but in five years instead of serving them and ushering in development, the BJP only "looted its resources". "This is BJP's 'chair-changing game' going on in 'devbhoomi' Uttarakhand," he said referring to the change of chief ministers in the state. "Modi ji-Nadda ji have betrayed the interests of the people of 'devbhoomi' by pushing Uttarakhand into political instability, loot of power and 'chief minister swap scheme'," Surjewala said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said the people are hurt by the BJP's attitude towards the state, where unemployment is rising and people are left to fend for themselves. AICC secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand Congress Devendra Yadav said the people of the state are waiting to throw out the BJP as it has given nothing to the state, except "loot its resources". Assembly polls in Uttarakhand is slated for next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave may see half the cases recorded during second surge, says govt panel scientist||The third wave of coronavirus could hit the peak between October-November if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, but may see half the daily cases recorded during the second surge, according to a scientist of a government panel tasked with modelling of Covid-19 cases. He, however, said the third wave could spread faster if any new virulent variant emerges. Manindra Agarwal, involved in the Sutra Model' or the mathematical projection of trajectory of Covid-19, also said the model has three scenarios--optimistic, intermediate and pessimistic--for the prediction of the third wave. The Department of Science and Technology had last year formed the panel to forecast the surge of coronavirus cases using mathematical models. The panel had also received flak for not predicting the exact nature of the second wave of Covid. Agarwal, who is part of the three-member panel, said loss of immunity, effects of vaccination and possibility of a more virulent variant, have been factored while predicting the third wave, something which was not done during modelling the second wave. “We have created three scenarios. One is optimistic' one. In this, we assume that life goes back to normal by August, and there is no new mutant. Second is intermediate' one. In this, we assume that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions,” he said. “Third is pessimistic' one. This has one assumption different from intermediate one: a new, 25 per cent more infectious mutant spreads in August (it is not delta+, which is not more infectious than delta),” he said in a series of tweets. According to the graph shared by Agarwal, the second wave is likely to plateau by mid-August, and the third wave could reach its peak between October and November. In case of the pessimistic scenario, the third wave could see cases rise up between 1,50,000 to 2,00,000 in the country, the scientist noted. The figure is less than half of what was recorded when the deadly second wave had hit its peak in the first half of May, flooding hospitals with patients and claiming thousands of lives daily. On May 7, India had recorded 4,14,188 Covid-19 cases. If a new mutant comes, the third wave could spread rapidly, but it will be half of what the second wave was. Delta variant is infecting people who were infected with a different variant. So this has been taken into consideration, Agarwal said. He said as vaccination progresses, the possibility of a third or fourth wave will be less. In case of an optimistic' scenario, the daily cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000. In case of the intermediate scenario (if it is assumed that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective, in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions), the cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000, but more than the optimistic scenario, the panel member noted. M Vidyasagar, scientist at IIT-Hyderabad, who is also involved in modelling of Covid cases, said hospitalisation could be less during the third wave. He cited the example of the UK where in January more than 60,000 cases were reported with daily deaths touching 1,200. However, during the fourth wave, the number dropped to 21,000 cases and just 14 deaths. Vaccination played a major role in bringing down the cases that needed hospitalisation in the UK. This has been factored while coming out with the three scenarios, Vidyasagar told PTI. The government has been emphasising on vaccination as the fear of the third wave looms. Agarwal also explained the reasons behind the delay in coming out with an analysis for the third wave. It took us a while to do the analysis for three reasons. First, loss of immunity in recovered population. Second, vaccination induced immunity. Each of these two (factors) need to be estimated for future. “And third, how to incorporate these two factors in the Sutra model. Fortunately, it turned out that both can be incorporated by suitably changing contact rate and reach parameters. So that takes care of the third factor. The first two factors required detailed analysis,” he tweeted. Contact rate' is how fast the infection spreads and reach parameter' is the percentage of population the pandemic is active in. Agarwal added that his team went through studies done in the past on loss of immunity while making the Sutra Model. Similarly, we also looked at the projected vaccination rate over the next few months, including the effects of vaccine-hesitancy, and arrived at month-wise estimates for vaccination, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Twitter in 'final' stages' of appointing interim resident grievance officer||Micro-blogging site Twitter has told the Delhi High Court that it is in the "final stages" of appointing an interim chief compliance officer and an interim resident grievance officer under the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. In the meantime, grievances raised by Indian users are being looked into by a grievance officer, it said in an affidavit submitted in response to a plea by lawyer Amit Acharya, in which he claimed non-compliance of the Centre's new IT Rules by the platform. Twitter has also said it may fall within the definition of a "significant social media intermediary" under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The rules seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. Twitter said in "substantial compliance" with Rule 3(2) and Rule 4(1)(c) of the new IT Rules, it did appoint an interim resident grievance officer. However, even before steps could be taken to completely formalise the arrangement, the interim resident grievance officer withdrew his candidature on June 21, it said and denied that it has not complied with the intermediary guidelines. Twitter said that "before steps could be taken to completely formalise the agreement, the interim resident grievance officer withdrew his candidature on 21.06.2021. Therefore, the answering respondent (Twitter) is in the final stages of appointing a replacement while in the meanwhile the grievances of Indian users are being addressed by the grievance officer". "Further, the answering respondent is in the final stages of appointing an interim chief compliance officer," it told the high court in its affidavit. In his plea, filed through advocates Akash Vajpai and Manish Kumar, Acharya said that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Twitter has argued that the plea is not maintainable as a writ petition and that Acharya moved the court "prematurely" without waiting for the redressal of his grievance under the rules. It said Acharya had no locus standi to raise a complaint with respect to the tweets in question and added it has informed that the complaint has now been considered and disposed of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Elgar Parishad: activists' wives move high court against jail chief for withholding letters||Rama Teltumbde, the wife of Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court alleging that the Taloja prison superintendent was deliberately withholding or belatedly posting letters and communication written by her husband to kin and lawyers. Rama, in her plea filed through advocate R. Satyanarayan, said the prison superintendent was committing such acts since March this year after an article written by her husband on the Union government's plan to privatise some public sector enterprises was published in the Caravan magazine. Her plea claimed the jail superintendent was not posting letters written by Teltumbde, nor was correspondence marked to her husband being delivered, which she said was a "malicious and inhuman act". The plea claimed the superintendent was doing the same with letters and correspondences of Teltumbde's co-accused in the case who are lodged in Taloja jail. The plea was filed last week and was heard by a bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar for the first time on Saturday. Advocate Satyanarayan told the bench that Teltumbde's wife and lawyers had not received any communication from him since March this year. In her plea, Rama Teltumbde said that after the said article was published on March 10 this year, the jail superintendent served a 'samaj patra', a sort of show cause notice, to the arrested activist, who replied that the article had no relation to the Elgar Parishad case, and, therefore, it did not breach any law. In his reply to the 'samaj patra', Teltumbde also said the article was not part of political propaganda, nor did it comment on the prison administration. The plea said Teltumbde sought a copy of the 'samaj patra' and his reply to it but the request was turned down by prison authorities. Rama Teltumbde said she and her husband's lawyers as well as co-accused had written several letters to the jail superintendent but had not received replies, which forced her to file an RTI application seeking a copy of the 'samaj patra' and the arrested activist's reply to it. Her plea said the superintendent was acting in gross violation of his official position and duties, adding that all prison inmates have statutory and fundamental rights that enable them to exchange letters, communicate with family, friends, and lawyers. She urged the high court to direct the superintendent to allow Teltumbde and his co-accused to write to and receive letters from family and lawyers, and also sought an inquiry against the official for his action. On Saturday, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil told the court he was yet to receive a copy of the plea, after which the high court directed advocate Satyanarayan to serve the copies to the NIA and the state. Susan Abraham, wife of Teltumbde's co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, is a co-petitioner, and has also claimed that communication to and from her husband was withheld by the jail superintendent. The court is likely to hear the plea further on July 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Opp leaders share video of Vajpayee fuel hike protest ||In an apparent dig at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, some Opposition leaders on Saturday shared video footage from 1973 in which then Jan Sangh leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee is seen arriving in Parliament on a bullock cart to "protest an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices". Petrol price on Friday crossed the Rs 100-per-litre-mark in Chennai as well as in some places in Punjab and Kerala after fuel prices were hiked yet again. Petrol is priced at over Rs 99 a litre in Delhi and Calcutta -- the only metro cities which haven't seen the Rs 100 mark yet. Sharing Vajpayee's footage from 1973 in which the former prime minister and then Jan Sangh leader is seen reaching the Parliament in a bullock cart, senior Congress leader Tharoor tweeted, "Rare footage from 1973 of an opposition protest when petrol prices were raised by seven paise."  "Atal Bihari Vajpayee arrived in Parliament on a bullock cart (which would not be possible today with the new security restrictions on vehicle entry into the complex!)," he said.  Sharing the same video which he said he received on WhatsApp, Trinamul Congress leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "History. Ouch. When petrol prices were increased by a few paisa (7 paisa?) in 1973, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had travelled to #Parliament on a bullock cart in protest."  Aam Aadmi Party Delhi MLA Somnath Bharti said that in 1973, Vajpayee travelled in a bullock cart to Parliament to oppose an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices, and added "those were the days".  Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre on Friday but there was no change in diesel rates, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.  Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges.  For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Punjab and all over Kerala. Jalandhar in Punjab has the fuel priced at Rs 100.22 a litre while it costs Rs 101.14 in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Learn how to be talented in multiple areas by a versatile business talent himself: Ram Goel||He is all elated and excited to soon enter Bollywood and display his creative skills and passion in the same. The level of momentum and the kind of success certain individuals and professionals have achieved in their careers, and life often makes us wonder what could be the things that might have helped them achieve so much and such young age. Well, there could be multiple factors, but nothing beats passion, when combined with determination and a strong resolve, says one of the leading most Indian multipreneurs and a versatile talent named Ram Goel. Learning new things each day, implementing the same in his businesses, sometimes failing, making errors, but still choosing to get back up and try again has what he learned from the world of business, he confesses. Many people in this world wish to ace every game they lay their hands on, but only a few rare gems go ahead in turning those desires into a beautiful reality. Ram Goel is amongst them, who knew what he wanted in life, worked day in and day out, and pushed the envelope to emerge as one of the finest business talents, who already runs three successful businesses, including a hosiery shop, an aluminium factory and also a restaurant named 'Wise Choice'. So many youngsters now wish to replicate success like him and want to become multitalented professionals. Ram Goel has thus come forward to explain how one can be talented in multiple areas. If you think Ram Goel has found his peace just doing business, let us tell you that this young talent can't wait to soon make his debut in Bollywood and display the artistic and creative side of his as well to the world. Find out more about him now through Instagram @goel4242.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||HC extends Stan Swamy's stay at private hospital in Mumbai till July 6||The Bombay High Court on Saturday extended the stay of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, at a private hospital in Mumbai till July 6. Senior counsel Mihir Desai told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that the 84-year-old was still undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit of the Holy Family Hospital, where he was shifted from the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai following the HC's order on May 28 this year. Swamy, 84, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU. His plea for medical bail and bail on merits was listed for hearing in the high court on Friday but could not be taken up due to the paucity of time. The bench adjourned the hearing to Tuesday and extended his hospital stay till then. "Till the next hearing, out interim order on his (Swamy's) treatment at the private hospital will continue," the bench said. Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC on Friday challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) that imposes stringent restrictions on the grant of bail to those booked under the Act. In his plea filed through advocate Desai, Swamy said the above section created an unsurmountable hurdle for the accused to get bail and, thus, was violative of the accused person's fundamental right to life and liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution. The common practice under the criminal justice system is to presume an accused person's innocence unless charges against him or her are proven by the prosecution. Section 43D (5) of the UAPA however, mandates that if a court has reasonable grounds to believe that the accusation against someone charges under the Act is prima facie true, then the accused shall not be released on bail. Swamy's plea stated that presumption of innocence is a fundamental tenet of criminal jurisprudence and when a harsh condition, such as that mentioned above is imposed on grant of bail, even before the trial is conducted, the same "inverts on its head, the principle of presumption of innocence." Desai said the plea also stated that the provision under the UAPA to brand certain organisations as a front for banned or terrorist organisations was bad in law. UAPA provides for the declaration of an association as unlawful and for the listing of organisations in the first schedule of the Act as terrorist organisations. Prosecuting agencies often charge accused persons under the Act of being members of organisations working as a front for banned ones. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said that there did not exist "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It said that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Landslide victory for BJP in UP local body polls||The BJP won 67 of 75 seats of the district panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party won only five seats. The Rashtriya Lok Dal, Jansatta Dal and an independent candidate won a seat each. In comparison, back in the same election in 2016, Mr Yadav's party took 60 of the 75 seats, reported NDTV. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the success of the party was due to the welfare policies initiated by its government and the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "The BJP+ (BJP and its allies) has won 67 out of 75 seats of zila panchayat chairpersons. For these unprecedented results, I thank the people of the state and hardworking party workers," he said in a Hindi tweet. Those analysing the elections, however, say the local body polls are unlikely to be any indicator of which direction the wind will blow in the assembly election next year, which will also serve as an ultimate test for Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of the BJP. Yet, the local body elections are being keenly watched. Samajwadi Party workers who held a street protest on Saturday alleging rigging in the local body election in Prayagraj, formerly Allahabad, were met with police baton charge. "The BJP has won 67 out of 75 district panchayat chairperson seats. We will win 2022 assembly elections also," UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told news agency ANI. Twenty-one BJP candidates and one from Samajwadi Party got elected unopposed. The result comes as a huge setback for Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party, who is hoping to dethrone the Yogi Adityanath govt in the Assembly election of 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||First compliance report by Google, FB under new IT rules big step towards transparency, says Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday lauded major social media platforms such as Google, Facebook and Instagram for publishing their first compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts as per new IT rules, terming it a big step towards transparency. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms that have over 5 million users are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. "Nice to see significant social media platforms like Google, Facebook and Instagram following the new IT Rules. First compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts published by them as per IT Rules is a big step towards transparency," Prasad tweeted. The publishing of compliance reports by Google, Facebook and Instagram is bound to turn up the heat on Twitter, which has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has confronted Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, and not appointing the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity. Facebook on Friday said it "actioned" over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories during May 15-June 15 in the country, as the social media giant brought out its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules. It actioned content related to spam (25 million), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million), and hate speech (311,000). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (118,000), suicide and self-injury (589,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (106,000) and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (75,000). Instagram took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period. 'Actioned' content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. Google had stated that 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in removal of 59,350 pieces of content. Koo, in its report, said it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June. Apart from publishing periodic compliance reports every month, the rules also require disclosure on the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. According to the IT rules that aim to curb blatant abuse and misuse of platforms, the significant social media intermediaries are required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials have to be resident in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. Facebook recently named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer in India. India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. Twitter's apparent heavyhandedness has come under government scrutiny - the microblogging platform has not complied with the new rules, called intermediary guidelines, that mandate setting up a robust grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement. Twitter recently named California-based Jeremy Kessel as India's grievance redressal officer on the platform's website -- although the appointment does not meet the requirements of new IT rules that clearly mandate key officers including the grievance officer, to be resident in India. Notably, Twitter has lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Amid the standoff with the government over compliance with new IT rules, the Twitter website on Monday had displayed a wrong map of India that showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as separate country. Twitter had removed the wrong map later that day, after facing heavy backlash from netizens. Even in the backdrop of heightened strained relations with the Indian government, Twitter recently briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his own account over alleged violation of US copyright law -- a move that was immediately slammed by the minister as being arbitrary and in gross violation of IT rules. Twitter and the government have been on a collision course on multiple issues in the past months as well, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", drawing a sharp rebuke from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Rahul used as 'pawn' by rival firms, alleges BJP amid Congress attacks on Rafale deal||The BJP alleged on Saturday that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is being used as a "pawn" by rival defence companies and claimed that he and his party keep raking up allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal in an attempt to "weaken" India. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also played down the appointment of a judge in France to lead a judicial investigation into the alleged corruption and favouritism in the Rs 59,000 crore deal, saying the development was outcome of a complaint by an NGO and should not be seen as a matter of corruption. This is akin to a competent authority in India writing down in a file that "please act accordingly" when a matter is brought before him, Patra said and accused the Congress of spreading lies and misconceptions over the issue. The Congress has become synonymous with spreading lies and misconceptions, he said. "The way Rahul Gandhi is behaving, it will not be an exaggeration to say that he is being used as a pawn by competing companies. He has been lying right from the beginning on the issue. Probably, he is acting as an agent or some member of Gandhi family has been for a competing company," Patra alleged. The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Rafale deal, saying it is the only way forward to find the truth about "corruption" in the purchase of the fighter jets. The Congress' demand came after French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India. Patra cited a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report and a Supreme Court (SC) verdict, both of which had found nothing wrong in the defence deal between the Indian and French governments, to reject allegations of the Congress. The government won a judicial verdict as well as an electoral verdict, he said in reference to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the BJP notched up a massive victory with the Congress making the alleged corruption in the Rafale deal as a key plank of its campaign against the Modi government. The BJP spokesperson noted that the Supreme Court had in its verdict in November 2019 said that there can't be a roving and fishing enquiry pertaining to the Rafale allegations, and accused Gandhi of going on another "fishing expedition" with his party attacking the government. The SC had made these remarks while rejecting a plea to review its December 2018 decision to reject a plea for a court-monitored probe into the purchase of 36 Rafale fighter aircraft. Gandhi is trying to weaken India, Patra alleged. He also cited a number of allegations levelled by Gandhi, including his attributions to former French president Francois Hollande and incumbent Emmanuel Macron to back his charge of corruption against the Modi government, and noted that both French leaders had immediately denied making such comments. Gandhi also had to tender an apology to the Supreme Court for wrongly claiming that the top court has agreed that "chowkidar chor hai" (watchman is thief), a pet slogan of the Congress leader against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 polls. Patra alleged that as the Gandhi family had received no commission in the Rafale deal, its party had been levelling these allegations. The Congress is also using the issue to diver attention from political instability hitting its governments in Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
03-07-2021||India||Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to gherao Punjab CM's residence||Police on Saturday used water cannon to disperse AAP workers forcing their way to "gherao" the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at Siswan here in protest against frequent power cuts. The protesting Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers, led by its Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, shouted slogans against the Congress government over the power shortage. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the chief minister's farmhouse. As scores of AAP workers carrying party flags forced their way through the first layer of barricades and reached the second, police used a water cannon to disperse them. Punjab has been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The Punjab government had already ordered reduction in timings of state government offices and reduced power supply to high energy consuming industries. The Amarinder Singh-led government has been under fire from the opposition for not being able to provide sufficient electricity to consumers, especially to paddy growers for sowing crop. Earlier, AAP leaders slammed the Congress government for having "failed" to provide 24-hour power to people at cheaper rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Rafale: Congress seeks JPC probe after French media reports on fresh investigation||The Congress has demanded that the Narendra Modi government order a joint parliamentary probe into the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal after French media reports that a judge had been appointed to investigate the deal. Early on Saturday, French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India. Soon after, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and order a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the Rafale deal. "Corruption in the Rafale deal has come out clearly now. The stand of the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi has been vindicated today after the French government has ordered a probe," he told reporters at a press conference. However, there was no immediate reaction from the Indian government or the BJP. The Mediapart said the probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14. "A judicial probe into suspected corruption has been opened in France over the 7.8-billion-euro sale to India in 2016 of 36 Dassault-built Rafale fighter aircraft," the Mediapart reported on the latest development on the controversial deal. It said the investigation has been initiated by the national financial prosecutors' office (PNF). The judicial investigation has been ordered by France's national financial prosecutors' office, following Mediapart's fresh reports in April of alleged wrongdoings in the deal as well as a complaint filed by French NGO Sherpa that specialises in financial crime. "The highly sensitive probe into the inter-governmental deal signed off in 2016 was formally opened on June 14th," the media report said. Mediapart journalist Yann Philippin, who filed a series of reports on the deal, said a first complaint was "buried" in 2019 by a former PNF chief. "The judicial investigation was finally opened following the revelations of the investigation #RafalePapers of @mediapart and a new complaint from @Asso_Sherpa. A 1st complaint was buried in 2019 by the former PNF boss, Eliane Houlette," he tweeted. In April, Mediapart, citing an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency, reported that Dassault Aviation had paid about one million Euros to an Indian middleman. Dassault Aviation has rejected the allegations of corruption, saying no violations were reported in the frame of the contract. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime. The Congress accused the government of massive irregularities in the deal, alleging that it was procuring each aircraft at a cost of over Rs 1,670 crore as against Rs 526 crore finalised by the UPA government during the negotiations for the MMRCA. Prior to the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress raised several questions about the deal and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability, betrayed people, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP leadership, saying instead of ushering in development, it has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. The BJP has insulted the 'devbhoomi' of Uttarakhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its president J P Nadda are responsible for the current situation, the Congress alleged. Starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said and added that in the latest four and a half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. The Congress condemns the BJP for insulting the state and its people by not doing anything to solve its problems, he said. "The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development," Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. "The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state," he told reporters. It has "insulted the 'devbhoomi' (land of Gods) of Uttarakhand and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability", Harish Rawat said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Modi and Nadda are responsible. "This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership. Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Surjewala said in 2017, the people of Uttarakhand elected the BJP, but in five years instead of serving them and ushering in development, the BJP only "looted its resources". "This is BJP's 'chair-changing game' going on in 'devbhoomi' Uttarakhand," he said referring to the change of chief ministers in the state. "Modi ji-Nadda ji have betrayed the interests of the people of 'devbhoomi' by pushing Uttarakhand into political instability, loot of power and 'chief minister swap scheme'," Surjewala said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said the people are hurt by the BJP's attitude towards the state, where unemployment is rising and people are left to fend for themselves. AICC secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand Congress Devendra Yadav said the people of the state are waiting to throw out the BJP as it has given nothing to the state, except "loot its resources". The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet on Saturday afternoon to elect its new leader following Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation. The legislature party meeting will begin at the BJP headquarters at 3 pm in the presence of central observer Narendra Tomar and BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam. All the MLAs have been asked to be present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to ex-Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been issued fresh summons by the ED for appearance on July 5 in a money laundering case investigation being conducted against him and others, officials said on Saturday. They said this is the third notice issued to the NCP leader for deposing before the investigating officer of the case. Deshmukh has been asked to record his statement at the central agency's office in south Mumbai on Monday. Deshmukh (72), had skipped the two earlier summons citing his "vulnerability" to COVID-19 as the reason for non-compliance in his last communication to the agency. He instead offered the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record his statement through video conferencing. The summons are in connection with the criminal case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) related to an alleged Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April this year. The first summons followed raids conducted by the ED at his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others last month. The agency subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). They are in ED custody till July 6. The agency, sources said, apart from the present case wants to question Deshmukh about his and his family members' alleged links with certain shell companies that were being used to launder funds much before the present allegations of bribery in the Mumbai Police setup came to light. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. In his last communication sent to the agency through his lawyers, Deshmukh said the agency had already recorded his statement during his "several hours" of interaction with the ED investigators when they raided his premises here on June 25. He wrote in a letter saying he was a law abiding citizen "who has led a life of dignity and honour." "I am sanguine to expose the falsity, hollowness and lack of substance in the allegations levelled against me," he had stated. He said he was suffering from "hypertension and cardiac problems" and hence it "may not be prudent or desirable to appear in person today." The ED had earlier claimed in the court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). The cop, lodged in Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai. As per the PMLA, a statement recorded under the stringent sections of this law is admissible before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Centre committed to empowering traders, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described as "landmark" the decision to include retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs, which will allow traders the benefits of priority sector lending, and said his government is committed to empowering the community. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had on Friday announced the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) as per which the traders will now get the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "Our government has taken a landmark step of including retail and wholesale trade as MSME. This will help crores of our traders get easier finance, various other benefits and also help boost their business. We are committed to empowering our traders." Official sources said the move will have an immediate impact on smaller retailers and wholesalers with businesses up to Rs 250 crore of turnover in availing immediate-term finance as part of various schemes announced under "Atmanirbhar Bharat" programme. This landmark decision will have a structural impact for the sector, helping it get formalised by giving better finance options for businesses that want to get structured, they said, adding it will give retail MSMEs the support they need to "survive, revive and thrive". Retail and trade associations have welcomed the move, saying it will enable traders to get access to much-needed capital having been impacted greatly due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami named as Uttarakhand Chief Minister||Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the new chief minister of Uttarakhand following his election on Saturday as the leader of the BJP legislature party in the hill state where assembly polls are due next year. Dhami, 45, will be the youngest chief minister of the state and replaces Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday night within four months of taking charge from Trivendra Singh Rawat. "My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in the border district of Pithoragarh to serve the people. We'll work on people's issues with the cooperation of all. I will carry forward the work done by my predecessors," the two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district said. As Dhami takes over less than a year ahead of the next assembly elections, his biggest challenge lies in leading the BJP to another victory and retaining power in Uttarakhand, where the party has been plagued by factionalism. Changing chief ministers twice in a short span has not helped the party's image, with the Opposition Congress accusing it of causing "political instability" and betraying the people. "We accept the challenge and we will take forward the party and serve the people," Dhami said when asked whether taking over as CM just months ahead of assembly polls will be a challenge . The chief minister-elect thanked the party leadership for reposing faith in him and assured that he will work with everyone's cooperation. Dhami's name was proposed by outgoing chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and Pradesh BJP president Madan Kaushik and seconded by a number of MLAs including former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who was present at the meeting as a central observer , told reporters outside the state BJP headquarters here. No other name was proposed by the BJP legislature party leader, Tomar said. Soon after his unanimous election as the BJP legislature party leader, Dhami headed for the Raj Bhawan along with a number of MLAs and the central observers to stake his claim to form the government. The BJP had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat on March 10, hoping to go into the assembly polls with the new face, but he too was asked to step down as the Constitution required him to get elected as a member of the state assembly within six months of his appointment as CM and there seemed an increasing uncertainty over the Election Commission holding bypolls at this stage. The Opposition Congress, however, hit out at the BJP leadership, saying instead of ushering in development, it has thrown Uttarakhand into the throes of political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. Starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said and added that in the latest four and a half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. "The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development," Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief J P Nadda are responsible. "This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership. Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Ending days of speculation about a change of guard in the state, Tirat Singh Rawat on Friday handed over his resignation letter to Governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11 PM, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. The names of nearly half a dozen MLAs were doing the rounds as probables for the top job, including Chaubattakhal MLA and cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj, Shrinagar MLA Dhan Singh Rawat and Khatima MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami. Interacting with reporters at his official residence after returning from the Raj Bhawan, Tirath Singh Rawat said, "I thought it was appropriate to resign as the state was facing a constitutional crisis under the provisions of section 151 A and 164 of the Representation of People Act."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||India logs over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 738 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 44,111 new coronavirus infections, raising its tally to 3,05,02,362, while the death toll climbed to 4,01,050 with 738 new fatalities, the lowest in 86 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases -- 4,95,533 -- were recorded below five lakh after 97 days and comprised 1.62 percent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 97.06 percent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 14,104 cases has been recorded in active coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, it said. Also, 18,76,036 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,64,16,463. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.35 percent. It has been less than 5 percent for 26 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.50 percent, it added. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 51st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,96,05,779, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 percent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 34.46 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive, it said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The Health Ministry said the 738 new fatalities include 156 from Maharashtra, 146 from Kerala, 97 from Tamil Nadu and 88 from Karnataka. A total of 4,01,050 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,22,353 from Maharashtra, 35,222 from Karnataka, 32,818 from Tamil Nadu, 24,983 from Delhi, 22,616 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,758 from West Bengal and 16,086 from Punjab, as per the data. The ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Final analysis shows Covaxin 65.2 per cent effective against Delta variant||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. The company on Saturday said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. The efficacy analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4 per cent effective against severe symptomatic COVID-19 cases while safety analysis shows adverse events reported were similar to placebo, with 12 per cent of subjects experiencing commonly known side effects and less than 0.5 per cent feeling serious adverse events. The efficacy data demonstrates 63.6 per cent protection against asymptomatic COVID-19, a release from the city-based vaccine maker said. Phase 3 clinical trials of the vaccine was an event driven analysis of 130 symptomatic COVID-19 cases, reported at least two weeks after the second dose, conducted at 25 sites across India. The whole virion inactivated vaccine against SARS-CoV2, was developed inpartnership with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute ofVirology in Pune. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, said, "The successful safety and efficacy readouts of Covaxin as a result of conducting the largest ever COVID Vaccines trials in India establishes the ability of India and developing world countries to focus towards innovation and novel product development. We are proud to state that Innovation from India will now be available to protect global populations." Director General of ICMR, Balram Bhargava said, "I am delighted to note that Covaxin developed by ICMR and BBIL under an effective public private partnership, has demonstrated an overall efficacy of 77.8 per cent in Indias largest COVID phase 3 clinical trial thus far. Our scientists at ICMR and BBIL have worked tirelessly to deliver a truly effective vaccine of highest international standards." He further said Covaxin will not only benefit the Indian citizens but would also immensely contribute to protect the global community against the deadly SARS-CoV-2 virus. "I am also pleased to see that Covaxin works well against all variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. The successful development of Covaxin has consolidated the position of Indian academia and Industry in the global arena," Bhargava said. The Phase 3 trials were conducted between November 16, 2020 and January 7, 2021 with 25,798 participants who were randomised to BBV152 or placebo groups. The preprint data of COVAXIN efficacy has not been certified by peer-review, according to Medrxiv in which thedata was published.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||India could've saved one lakh lives with soft lockdown early in March||India could have averted 9 million to 13 million Covid-19 cases and nearly 100,000 deaths if it had introduced soft lockdown restrictions early in March, a study by researchers at academic institutions in the UK and the US has estimated. While public health experts have argued that restrictions on crowding at social events, election rallies and the Kumbh Mela could have helped mitigate India’s second Covid-19 wave, the new study is the first to estimate the potentially averted cases and deaths. The study, led by Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics at the University of Michigan and Swapnil Mishra at the Imperial College, London, indicates that while the highly transmissible delta variant contributed to the second wave, the size of the surge could have been lowered through early moderate restrictions. The health ministry too had in March cautioned that the daily new infections observed among residents and visiting pilgrims at the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar had the potential to turn the festival into a super-spreader event. But the event continued to draw crowds for weeks after the warning. During the second surge, which began around mid-February, the country’s total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases rose fast — from 10.8 million in early February to over 24.3 million by May 15. The total deaths increased from around 157,000 on March 1 to over 266,000 by May 15. The UK-US research group investigated how fast-spreading variants — such as the delta variant first detected in Maharashtra in December 2020 — may have influenced the surge, and estimated the cases and deaths that could have been averted through soft but early lockdowns. Their analysis suggests India could have averted between 9 million and 13 million cases between March 1 and May 15, and prevented over 90 per cent of the 109,000 deaths that occurred during the two-and-a-half-month period. The study, not peer reviewed yet, has been posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. “The timing of the lockdown is as important as the level of restrictions,” said Mishra, a research associate at the Imperial College School of Public Health. “Even a moderate or soft lockdown initiated early could have eased the pressure on hospitals and helped reduce deaths.” Multiple studies have already established that the emergence of the highly transmissible delta variant contributed significantly to the surge. The proportion of delta sequences in Maharashtra, for instance, ballooned from 1.5 per cent in February to 87 per cent by May. The Mukherjee-Mishra study has shown that waning immunity among people with prior Covid-19 infections and public laxity in taking precautions by themselves cannot explain the size and the speed of the second wave in Maharashtra. The delta variant played a role. But their calculations also show that early public health interventions could have helped lower the size of the second surge. “Had action taken place at any time in March, it is plausible that more than 90 per cent of observed cases and deaths between March 1 and May 15 could have potentially been avoided under both strong and moderate intervention scenarios,” the researchers said. Maharashtra was the first to introduce restrictions starting April 14. Public health experts not associated with the study said it quantifies scenarios. “The government did not appreciate the risks involved in lowering its guard. To allow the Kumbh Mela was a mistake and the government made it,” T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. A medical expert who is guiding the government’s response to Covid-19 told this newspaper that advisories from the health ministry calling for continued caution such as mask-wearing and avoiding crowds were issued throughout the epidemic, including the period before the second surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Punjab police study shows protective effect of vaccines||A study on Punjab police personnel has illustrated what health researchers say is the dramatic protective effect of Covid-19 vaccines, but has also underlined how data denial by the Centre can handicap even government research efforts. The study by officials with the state health systems resource centre, a division linked to the Union health ministry’s National Health Mission, has found a 98 per cent protective effect against death after two doses of the vaccines. The officials analysing Covid-19 deaths during the epidemic’s second wave have documented 15 deaths among 4,868 unvaccinated police personnel, nine deaths among 35,856 vaccinated with a single dose, and two deaths among 42,720 who had taken both doses. The death rates translate into three per 1,000 among unvaccinated, 0.25 per 1,000 vaccinated with a single dose, and 0.05 per 1,000 vaccinated with two doses. “The math tells us 92 per cent protection after a single dose and 98 per cent protection from death after two doses,” said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of a national expert panel guiding the Centre on the Covid-19 vaccination policy. A study by doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, last month had observed a 92 per cent protective effect against the need for oxygen after two doses and 94 per cent against the need for intensive care unit support after a single dose. “We see a huge benefit from the vaccination,” said Rajesh Kumar, a community medicine specialist and executive director at the Punjab state health systems resource centre. “Punjab police have maintained records that helped us do this analysis quickly.” “It is a crude analysis, but it is showing the impact of the vaccines,” Kumar said. State officials said a more rigorous analysis to assess the effectiveness of the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — and to determine how effectiveness changes with the timing of the first and second doses would require data that the state could not access. “We had asked the health ministry for access to CoWIN data and wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research for access to testing data — but we haven’t got the data yet,” a senior state official told The Telegraph requesting anonymity. CoWIN, the digital platform for the vaccination campaign, could be used to determine who received which vaccine on which date, the official said. The ICMR testing database can be used to determine how long after a dose did a person test positive for Covid-19. “The testing data is entirely generated by the state itself,” the official said. “But it goes into the ICMR server and gets locked there. Why is it not even available to state health departments?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Rahul Gandhi flags vaccine shortage, ruffles BJP||A seven-word tweet by Rahul Gandhi on Friday flagging the vaccine shortage ruffled the BJP so much that a plethora of ministers and leaders came out to launch a vicious attack on the Congress leader, both on social media and off it. “July aa gaya hai, vaccine nahi aaye (July has arrived but the vaccines haven’t),” Rahul tweeted on Friday morning with the hashtag “WhereAreVaccines”. Soon, BJP leader after leader began coming out of the woodwork. Health minister Harsh Vardhan was the first to take on Rahul. Later, other ministers too joined in, and the BJP even held a media address. Several states have had to suspend vaccination drives, while some others like Bengal have been focusing on second doses over the past week because of a shortage of vaccines. The Centre had on June 21 resumed responsibility of buying and distributing the bulk of the vaccines, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi appearing to blame the states for the sluggish pace of inoculation during a 50-day period when they were allowed to directly procure from the manufacturers half the doses. The health ministry has said 120 million doses will be available for distribution to states and private hospitals in July, the same quantum as was available during June 2021. Health experts had pointed out that this would mean an average of 4 million doses a day, much lower than the 5.7 million achieved during a seven-day blitz after the Centre again took over the inoculation drive on June 21. Moreover, the Centre had itself set a target of ramping up vaccination to 10 million doses a day by mid-July. While Rahul had highlighted these genuine concerns at a time the delta variant of the coronavirus is causing concern and vaccination needs to be rapidly stepped up to stave off a third wave driven by mutations and large pools of unprotected people, the BJP chose to go on the war path with the Congress leader. Harsh Vardhan called Rahul arrogant and ignorant. “What is @RahulGandhi Ji’s problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand? There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance!!” the health minister tweeted, adding that he had put out facts on vaccine availability for July a day earlier. The Centre has been denying a vaccine shortage and instead accusing the states of lousy planning and wastage of doses. The Union government has been highlighting the total number of vaccine doses administered, pointing out that the US had taken 193 days to reach the 320-million-dose mark, while India took 163 days. Experts, however, have underlined that the US has fully immunised over 47 per cent of its population. India had till Wednesday administered more than 335 million doses, but only about 4.5 per cent of the estimated eligible population of 944 million is fully vaccinated with two doses. While the Centre’s target of vaccinating the entire adult population by year-end looks a distant dream given the current pace of inoculation, the BJP’s reaction to Rahul’s tweet made it clear that he had touched a raw nerve. Senior ministers Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani and some others tweeted to slam the Congress leader and even accused Opposition-ruled states such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab of indulging in corruption amid the pandemic, including graft over vaccination and treatment equipment. The BJP also organised a media address at the party headquarters where spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia accused Rahul of spreading “misinformation” and termed him an “immature” leader. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is running the largest vaccination drive in the world and vaccines are being administered on a war footing,” Bhatia said, asking Rahul to name a country that was administering more vaccines a day than India. The Congress too held a media address to highlight the slow pace of vaccination. “Indians have the first right over vaccines manufactured in India and in this context the government needs to answer how some export deals still continue,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Srinate said, asking the government to come clean on allegations of corruption in a deal with Brazil for supply of the indigenously manufactured Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Video of Pragya Thakur playing basketball leaves Cong surprised||A purported video of Bhopal’s BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who usually moves in a wheelchair citing health issues, walking and dribbling a ball before netting it in a basketball hoop, has gone viral on social media. Her act has left many surprised, with the Madhya Pradesh Congress saying that it was delighted to see Thakur trying her hand at basketball  given that it was so far under the impression that she could not even stand or walk. Thakur had gone to attend a sapling plantation event at Saket Nagar here on Thursday where she spotted some players practising on a basketball ground, sources said. The saffron-robed BJP leader went to the basketball court and showcased her skills. She dribbled the ball with right hand and netted it with perfection amid cheers as seen in the video. Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said: “I have seen MP Sadhvi Thakur wheelchair-bound so far. But today, I am delighted to see her hands at basketball at the stadium…. May God keep her healthy always,” he said. Efforts to establish contact with Thakur failed. Thakur’s elder sister Upama Singh described the incident as a “small thing”.  “Many of you might not know that she has done a certificate course in physical education and bachelor of physical education. She was fit and fine before her going to jail, where she was tortured and tormented,” her sister told PTI. Thakur, an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, had filed an application in court seeking permanent exemption from personal appearance on medical and other grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Covid: Kerala Opposition accuses state of underreporting deaths||The Kerala Opposition has alleged underreporting of Covid deaths and warned the state government that any misrepresentation of facts would lead to denial of compensation to the families of the dead. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Friday accused the state government of flouting the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines on the reporting of Covid deaths. Kerala’s official case fatality rate is 0.45 per cent, far below the national CFR of 1.1 per cent. “The ICMR guidelines state that the death of a person who either tested positive for Covid, (whether or not they had) co-morbid conditions... or was medically suspected to have contracted the virus must be treated as a Covid death,” the Congress leader said on Friday. “But that is not happening in Kerala.” However, the ICMR guidelines are meant for doctors and state when the cause of death should be labelled as confirmed Covid and when as suspected/probable Covid. Governments everywhere declare the Covid death toll only on the basis of confirmed Covid cases (positive tests). “A cover-up of fatalities would end up denying compensation to the kin of the dead,” Satheeshan said, urging the government to rectify the numbers by collating data from hospitals, crematoriums and graveyards within 10 days. The Supreme Court has directed that ex gratia assistance must be provided to families who have lost members to Covid. The Institute for Health Metric and Evaluation at the University of Washington had in June published a report saying more than 25,000 people would have died of Covid in Kerala although the official number was less than half of that. As of Thursday, the state had recorded a total of 13,359 Covid deaths against 2,937,033 total infections and 1.02 lakh active cases. Satheeshan urged the government to depend entirely on the report of a doctor who had treated a patient at least 24 hours before the death. “Instead, an expert committee sitting in Thiruvananthapuram is deciding who died of Covid. This should end immediately,” he said. “The Congress is ready to undertake the job of finding the real numbers if the government is unwilling to rectify the mistakes.” Health minister Veena George admitted possible lapses and said the department would take corrective action. “It’s possible that some Covid deaths have not been recorded, but that is not deliberate,” she told a news conference. “Covid fatalities are recorded by either the doctor who treated the patient or the medical superintendent of the hospital. We launched an online registration facility last month and mandated all hospitals to record Covid deaths within 24 hours.” Kerala had nearly flattened the curve of Covid infections during the first wave in May last year, earning global praise for its health department, then headed by K.K. Shailaja. Since then the state has struggled to keep the numbers low although its CFR has remained among the lowest in the world. The foreign media and sections of the domestic media have accused the central and state governments of underreporting Covid deaths, with The New York Times in May suggesting the actual toll could be five to 13 times the official count.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Keonjhar college to be turned into research hub||The Odisha government will develop the Government College of Engineering (GCE) in Keonjhar into a centre of excellence for research in earth science and technology. The college will be developed into an institute of international eminence on the lines of the Indian School of Mines (ISM), Dhanbad. Considering the state’s potential as the mineral hub of India, chief secretary S.C. Mohapatra directed the skill development and technical education department to “create the high-class research and academic eco-system with smart human resource strategies for attracting the talents from different parts of the globe, especially the Odia talents who have achieved high acclaim in the fields of mining, engineering and geophysics in different countries”. Additional chief secretary and development commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena said: “We will have a specialised geology division with a five-year integrated course in applied geology, geo-physics and geo-engineering. We will develop a strong corpus fund for the institute to back the innovative R&D (research and development) activities. A detailed proposal to this effect will be placed for approval.” It was decided in a meeting on Thursday that the institute would have advanced divisions in rock mechanics, rock excavation, mineral processing, extractive metallurgy, material testing, characterisation, geology, environmental engineering, mining planning and design. “It would have all the similar research facilities like those in ISM, Dhanbad,” an official said. “The chief secretary has directed to prepare the detailed proposal with architectural design of the CoE (Centre of Excellence) building, required equipment and instruments, demonstration for faculty members, students, mining executives and industries,” an official said. The entire ground-level work from the construction of the building to installation and testing of equipment could be completed within a period of 36 months The budget for the project was estimated to be around Rs 42.5 crore. Principal secretary, skill development and technical education, Hemant Kumar Sharma, said: “Government College of Engineering, Keonjar, has all potential to be upgraded to an institute of national importance with quality enhancement in academics, research and industry-institute interface.” “The college has a permanent campus spread over 37 acres and is now providing consultancy support to the mineral-based industries even with its limited resources. With upgradation, the institute would be able to provide all services to the mining industries in Odisha,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to direct removal of  V.K. Singh ||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to direct the removal of Union minister V.K. Singh or green-light a sedition case against him over his purported claim on Indian incursions into China, pointing out that such action was the prerogative of the Prime Minister. A social activist had moved the apex court asking for a sedition case to be filed against junior road transport and highways minister Singh, or his sacking, for suggesting that India had crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China. “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” Singh, a former army chief, has been quoted as saying. China had termed the statement “an unwitting confession” by India, appearing to weaken New Delhi’s position amid Chinese incursions and the Galwan Valley clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers. On Friday, hearing the petition by social activist Chandrasekaran Ramasamy, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told petitioner’s counsel C.R. Jayasukin: “If he (Singh) has done something, it is for the Prime Minister to act if it is inappropriate. This court can’t pass any order.” The counsel persisted with the argument for action against Singh, saying the minister had made statements against the army. Justice Ramana replied that if the minister had done anything inappropriate, the solution did not lie in approaching the apex court through a public interest litigation. The CJI, who headed a bench that also had Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, passed the following order: “…Having heard learned counsel for the petitioner and carefully perusing the material placed on record, we are not inclined to entertain this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. The writ petition is accordingly dismissed.” Article 32 deals with the right to move the Supreme Court through appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of constitutionally guaranteed rights. Ramasamy, a Tamil Nadu-based activist, had moved the petition in February. The petition had stated: “…Unfortunately, if either the voluntary resigning or removal of the government minister does not happen, it is begged before the honourable Supreme Court of India to initiate suitable action against him as per the anti-national law and set a standard to people in higher positions what and how to speak and give statements carefully and correctly.” It had pleaded that Section 124A of the IPC, which deals with sedition, be invoked against Singh. Section 124A states: “Whoever, words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat  steps down as chief minister||BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Rawat handed over the resignation letter to governor Baby Rani Maurya past 11pm, hours after returning from Delhi where he was summoned by the top BJP leadership on Wednesday. At 9.30pm, Rawat had told a news conference in  Dehradun: “As the chief minister, I worked to control the second wave of Covid-19 and provided financial relief to people. I also extended relief to the tourism industry, which was hard hit during the pandemic.” However, he had not responded to any questions about his resignation. The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet on Saturday to elect its new leader, who will be later sworn in as the next chief minister of the state where Assembly elections are due early next year. In Delhi, Rawat, 57, had met Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday and BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday and Friday. Earlier, Manveer Singh Chauhan, media in-charge of the Uttarakhand unit of the BJP, said in a release: “The meeting of the BJP legislative party will be held at state party headquarters at 3pm on Saturday. State (BJP) chief Madan Kaushik will preside over the meeting.” “We have been informed that Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will reach Dehradun on Saturday morning to be an observer during the meeting of the MLAs,” a BJP leader told reporters in Dehradun on Friday evening. “The party seems to have decided not to field Rawat in the by-election. After becoming the chief minister on March 10 this year, he is supposed to get elected as an MLA by September 10.” Rawat will remain an MP from Pauri Garhwal as he had not resigned from the position, sources said. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister on March 10 and was preparing to contest from Gangotri or Haldwani seat, which had fallen vacant following the death of the BJP’s Gopal Rawat and the Congress’s Indira Hridayesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India|| 350 academics come out in support of IGNOU's Jyotish course||Nearly 350 academics on Friday came out in support of the course on Indian astrology that the Indira Gandhi National Open University has introduced and condemned a “concerted effort” by “ambassadors of Western ideologies” to suppress “our knowledge traditions”. The comments came in an open letter that faculty members and researchers from various colleges and universities wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. The letter came days after more than 1,000 academics, mainly from the sciences, issued a statement terming astrology a “pseudoscience” and opposing the master’s degree programme in jyotish that Ignou launched on June 24. “The ambassadors of Western ideologies and institutions have been opposed to it. We are open to all forms of knowledge and research so that our students really become global scholars and not just carriers of filtered Western knowledge and ideologies,” the letter says. “We feel a concerted effort has been made before and after Independence to suppress our knowledge traditions for vested interest.” The letter condemns “the pseudo-scholars surviving on foreign subsidy” who try to “suppress” efforts to promote “pro-Bharat education”. Among the prominent signatories are Sushant K. Mishra from the School of Languages, JNU; P.N. Singh from Sampurnananda Sanskrit University (SSU), Varanasi; and Kailash Ch. Sharma, former vice-chancellor, Kurukshetra University. C.B. Sharma, a professor with the School of Education, Ignou, whose is the first signature on the letter, told this newspaper that the astrology course was “scientific” and relevant. “These are (matters of) time-tested scientific knowledge. They have remained with the Indian people for millennia. They were pushed into oblivion by Moghul and British rule,” Sharma said. “The job of the universities is to create new ideas and study the ideas already existing. These are great Indian ideas which must be examined and researched. That is why the course is relevant.” He said universities have the autonomy to start any particular course. “This course has gone through all the statutory bodies of the university like the school council and the school board, which have experts from outside, and also the planning board and the academic council,” Sharma said. Aniket Sule, an associate professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, who was a signatory to the earlier statement opposing the course, described the counter-statement by academics as regrettable but hardly surprising. “I don’t know who all have signed this counter-statement so I cannot guess the reasons why anyone who claims to be a scientist would sign anything in support of astrology, which is at odds with analytical and rational thinking,” Sule wrote in an email response to this newspaper. “However, it is unsurprising as we had seen this enthusiasm by a certain section of Indian academia even in the past to jump in to defend anything which is deemed as Indian heritage, without bothering to find out what exactly they are defending.” Sule agreed that protecting universities’ autonomy was a core principle of academic freedom. However, he wrote, that doesn’t mean universities are free to “indoctrinate students in fanaticism and indulge in fact-free rhetoric”. “Any educational material/course prescribed by any university is open to academic challenge by other academics and it is the duty of the university to give sound academic arguments to defend (its) choice of material/course,” Sule wrote. “When defenders of the course throw in phrases like ‘western bias’, ‘great Indian heritage’, ‘belief of many people for many years’, etc, it actually betrays the fact that they don’t have any real academic arguments to defend astrology.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||India||ED summons actress Yami Gautam||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday summoned actress Yami Gautam for questioning in connection with an alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). The agency has asked the actress to appear before it on July 7. Sources said certain transactions came under the scanner and after primary investigation it was found that the bank accounts were connected to Yami. The summons was issued after that. “Currently, several big-banner Bollywood films are under the ED scanner for money-laundering,” said an ED official. Yami Gautam had tied the knot with Uri director Aditya Dhar last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
03-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC councillor ‘caught on camera’ giving a shot at vaccine camp||The vaccine controversy in Bengal is not willing to die so soon. With a video of Trinamul councillor Tabassum Ara surfacing where she is seen administrating vaccine dose without prior experience, fresh trouble seems to be brewing for the Mamata-led Bengal government. The video clip was shared by BJP leaders Babul Supriyo and Agnimitra Paul, on social media platforms, where Ara is first seen receiving her vaccine dose by a nurse. Later the councillor is seen giving the shot to one of the recipients. Ara is being accused of administrating the injection without any experience. She however, has maintained that she was just holding the syringe and had not administered the shot. She has also mentioned that she has done a course in nursing in school. According to an NDTV report, Ara can be heard saying in a video, “I did not give any vaccine. I was only holding the syringe in my hand. There are a lot of people who are hesitant of taking the shots.” However, latching on to the vide, Supriyo tagged the chief minister, asking “Seems like TMC govt has no control over its administrators. TMC’s Tabassum Ara, a member of the administrative body of AMC, has vaccinated people herself and risked hundreds of lives... Will her political colour shield her from stern punishment? (sic)” Following suit was Asansol MLA Paul. Slamming TMC, she tweeted, “TMC’s manhandling of the lives of people knows no bounds.. A non-medical official, TMC's Tabassum Ara, member of administrative board of AMC, chose to vaccinate the people herself, in spite of doctors and nurses being present there... Is she even medically authorised to do so? (sic).” Bengal government has been at the receiving end, since the case of fraudulent vaccination camp run by a man pretending to be an IAS officer was busted earlier this week. The central government has even asked for a report on the same. However, Bengal CM has claimed the fraudulent case to be an isolated one, against which the state administration has taken prompt action. Not willing to cow down, Mamata highlighted the Gujarat case, where the vaccine doses were administered in the BJP party offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul says BJP ruckus in assembly a 'blot on democracy'||The Trinamul Congress hit out at the BJP on Saturday for creating ruckus during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural address to the newly constituted assembly. Addressing a press conference, TMC's Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the opposition party's actions in the House on Friday were a "blot on democracy". "Listening to the governor's address does not tantamount to one blindly supporting everything in it. It is courtesy. One can certainly vent his objection to the address in the reply speech," he said. The opening session of the newly-constituted West Bengal assembly got off to a stormy start as the governor was forced to cut short his speech amid ruckus by the opposition BJP MLAs who took offence after finding "no mention" of post- poll violence in the address. Roy alleged that the BJP was conspiring to divide Bengal, urging people to thwart any such attempt. He also reiterated the demand for by-elections to the seven assembly seats in the state at the earliest. "The Election Commission went ahead with polling despite the spike in COVID-19 cases in April, and now that the positivity rate has gone down so much, why can't the by- elections be held?" he asked. Roy said the Trinamul Congress would soon reach out to President Ramnath Kovind, demanding the dismissal of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta over his alleged meeting with the state's Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Solicitor General denies meeting BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has denied meeting Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari at his official residence here after the Trinamool Congress wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his removal over the issue. The letter to the Prime Minister was written by TMC MPs Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Maitra stating that the alleged meeting between Adhikari and the law officer "reeks of impropriety" as the BJP MLA is an accused in Narada and Saradha cases which are being investigated. "Shri Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office on Thursday at around 3:00 PM, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. "When my meeting was over and thereafter my PPS informed me about his arrival, I requested my PPS to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise," the law officer said. Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly, had also denied the meeting, saying that he had recently gone to Mehta's residence in Delhi regarding a case related to "post-poll violence" in the state but "could not meet him in person". The TMC MPs had claimed that Adhikari was accused in various cases of cheating, bribery and illegal gratification related to the Narada sting operation and the Saradha scam. "The meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general not only reeks of impropriety, there is a direct conflict of interest and also taints the position of the second highest law officer of the country, the Solicitor General," the TMC lawmakers had said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks Bengal govt, police to probe post-poll violence complaints||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government and police to register complaints from victims of post-poll violence and conduct investigations. A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and consisting of Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Subrata Talukdar also directed the government to take all measures so that the victims could draw rations and get hazard-free medical facilities. The interim order was based on the findings of a preliminary report placed before the bench by an eight-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission. The NHRC had formed the committee following an earlier order by the five-judge bench of the high court. In keeping with the court’s order, the eight-member committee had visited clash-hit areas in the state and met the victims of alleged post-poll violence. The bench delivered the order on Friday while hearing petitions filed in early June by advocates Anindya Sundar Das, Priyanka Tibrewal and Ravi Shankar Chatterjee in connection with the post-poll clashes that had erupted at several places in Bengal and the death of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar on May 1. “All complaints by civilians in this connection are to be treated as FIRs and are to be preserved by the chief secretary,” read the ruling, which also made provisions for rations to be provided to persons whose ration cards had gone missing. The larger bench also directed the government to conduct a post-mortem on Sarkar’s body at Army Command Hospital in Calcutta for the second time and hand over its report to the committee. The court showcaused deputy commissioner of police, south surburban division, Rashid Munir Khan, for not carrying out its order and taking no action against people who had heckled committee members when they had visited some areas of Jadavpur in Calcutta. The court directed Khan to state why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for violating its earlier order. The counsel representing the NHRC claimed that the committee was still receiving complaints from victims and prayed for time to complete its job. The bench granted the prayer and fixed the matter for hearing on July 13. Opposition leaders have been expressing anger against the government for alleged failure to take action against the perpetrators of the violence. Several Opposition leaders said the interim ruling of the high court vindicated their complaints of violence against Trinamul Congress workers and inaction on the part of the state government. While the BJP claimed there had been 41 deaths in the violence between May 2 and June 17, sources at Nabanna had told The Telegraph that 16 people had died between May 2 and 4. “Eight victims were from Trinamul, while seven belonged to the BJP. One victim was a supporter of the ISF,” a source at the state secretariat had said on June 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Tushar Mehta denies meeting Suvendu Adhikari in person||One of the abiding mysteries of the modern-day Delhi Durbar has been what lies in store for very important persons who drop in “unannounced” at the ubiquitous bungalows in the capital. An insight has now been provided by Tushar Mehta, who as solicitor-general is the second-highest law officer in the country. Mehta said in a statement on Friday: “Sh Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office and offered him a cup of tea. “When my meeting was over, my PPS (personal private secretary) informed me about his arrival. I requested my PPS to convey (to) Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him & apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari left without insisting to meet me. Question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise.” The statement did not mention whether Adhikari had sipped the tea and commented on its quality — as gentlemen are expected to do in such rarefied environs. Otherwise, the statement was quite elaborate. Why did Mehta, presumably a busy law officer, take time off to issue such a statement? One, Adhikari, the BJP legislator from Nandigram and leader of the Opposition in Bengal, is an accused in the Narada payoffs case. Two, Mehta represents the CBI, the prosecuting agency, in the Narada case that is pending in court. Three, before reaching Mehta’s residence, Adhikari had spent time with Amit Shah, Union home minister. As Shah would say, the Trinamul Congress read the “chronology” and acted. Three Trinamul MPs — Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra — wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the dismissal of solicitor-general Mehta on the ground of his purported “meeting” with Adhikari and alleged a conflict of interest. It’s against this backdrop that Mehta issued the statement denying any meeting with Adhikari. But Trinamul is insisting on proof. Trinamul MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee demanded that the solicitor-general make “all CCTV footage public until Mr Adhikari was in his residence” to dismiss the speculation over the “clandestine meeting”. Moitra, one of the three Trinamul MPs who wrote to Modi, tweeted: “Z category BJP protectee enters high security official residence of Solicitor General of India ‘uninvited’, waits 20 mins over a cup of tea & apparently leaves without a mtng. CCTV footage to back your version, Mr SG?” The CBI has faced criticism for arresting two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul MLA and a former mayor in the Narada case in the aftermath of the Assembly elections while not acting against Adhikari, who switched loyalties to the BJP before the polls. The Trinamul MPs said in their letter to the Prime Minister that “Adkhari is accused of various criminal cases of cheating, illegal gratification, and bribery, etc, two such matters are the: “I) Narada case, being investigated by the CBI and ED where Suvendu Adhikari was seen taking bribes in a sting operation and were publicly circulated by the BJP. Sri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, is representing the CBI in the Narada case before Supreme Court and High Court. “II) Saradha Chit Fund Case, being investigated by the CBI and ED where Sudipta Sen, the prime accused, had written multiple letters levying grave allegations against Suvendu Adhikari. Sri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, has advised and appeared for the CBI in the case also.” The Trinamul MPs’ letter said the alleged “meeting” had “curiously” followed Adhikari’s meeting with home minister Shah earlier in the day. The solicitor-general is the country’s second-highest law officer after the attorney-general of India. By virtue of their posts, the two law officers not only give legal advice to the central government but, as a convention, also have the first right of audience in any Indian court. The three Trinamul MPs alleged in their letter to the Prime Minister that the purported meeting between Adhikari and Mehta “not only reeks of impropriety but also raises the questions of integrity and taints the post occupied by the learned Solicitor General”. The letter said: “Such meeting between an accused in grave offences, with the Solicitor General who is advising such investigating agencies by whom the said accused is being investigated, is in direct conflict of interest with the statutory duties of the learned Solicitor General of India. “We have, therefore, reasons to believe that such a meeting has been organised to influence the outcome of matters where Suvendu Adhikari is an accused, using the high offices of the learned Solicitor General of India. We state that the act of the learned Solicitor General to provide an opportunity of audience to Suvendu Adikari not only reeks of impropriety but also raises the questions of integrity and taints the post occupied by the learned Solicitor General. “In order to avoid any doubt in the mind of the public at large, as to the integrity and neutrality of the office of the learned Solicitor General of India, we approach you (the Prime Minister) to initiate necessary steps for removal of Sri Tushar Mehta from the post of the Solicitor General of India.” The Prime Minister’s Office had not commented in public till Friday evening on the Trinamul leaders’ letter. On his part, Adhikari told reporters at the Bengal Assembly that he had gone to meet the solicitor-general over “post-poll violence” in the state “but he did not meet me”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Four senior leaders quit Binay Tamang camp||Four senior leaders of the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha resigned from the party on Friday but not before opening a can of charges of corruption running into crores of rupees. Vice-president Norden Lama, central committee members Bhuwan Kanal and Pravin Rahpal and office secretary of the Kalimpong district committee Saran Pradhan held a media conference to announce their resignations. The allegations levelled by the quartet ranged from corruption of crores of rupees by party leaders, collection of 7 per cent of every government project’s cost as commission to centralisation of power and lack of discipline in the faction and nepotism by leaders in teachers’ appointment. “Till December 2020, Kalimpong received funds to the tune of Rs 700 crore but the media can check whether works amounting to even Rs 7 crore have been properly executed,” Pravin Rahpal said at the press meet in Kalimpong. He also alleged that many in the Tamang camp were unaware of the utilisation of Rs 30 crore the party had allegedly collected as commission. Lama, however, clarified that the total funds raised by the party would stand at Rs 49 crore given that it collected 7 per cent as commission from government projects. “Of the 7 per cent, the central committee of the party takes 5 per cent, while 2 per cent goes to the samasty (GTA constituency) committee of the party,” alleged Rahpal. Morcha leaders were also accused of nepotism in the teachers’ appointment by putting pressure on “headmaster and headmistress.” The Tamang camp of the Morcha has been out of power at the GTA after the Bengal Assembly elections. The four leaders, however, said they had aired their grievances in the past one year but those hadn’t been addressed. The quartet said Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha and few were running the party as a “company” and most of the funds for the constituency were diverted to the legislator’s area. The other grievance seems to be the “autocratic” way of running the party and overlooking senior leaders in decision making. Recently, party president Binay Tamang had dissolved many committees and restrained leaders from speaking to the media. Tamang said he had come to know about the resignation through the media. “I have not received any resignation letter. It is easy to level allegations but one should back them with proof and take legal recourse,” said Tamang. “When you point a finger at someone, you should realise that three fingers are pointing at you.” The GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee president Ajoy Edwards said the “commission” issue raised by the four leaders was shameful for the Morcha. “In this time of Covid-19, to hear leaders speak that 7 per cent was the rate of commission is really disheartening.” “To be a member of the political fraternity in the Darjeeling hills is turning out to be shameful,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||In Rajya Sabha consent, Bengal calls for bypolls to 7 Assembly segments ||The Bengal government has informed the Election Commission of India that it is ready to hold polls to two Rajya Sabha seats and recommended that byelections to seven Assembly segments also be conducted immediately. The Bengal government’s communication was sent to the poll panel after the EC had sought the state’s view on holding polls to the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhuniya. “The state government has given its consent to the idea of holding Rajya Sabha elections at the earliest since the Assembly is in session,” said a source. Sources said Nabanna had recommended that byelections to all the seven seats that were due could also be held without much delay. But the EC hadn’t sought the state’s view on the bypolls. In Bengal, the bypolls are due in the Assembly segments of Bhowanipore, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah, Gosaba, Jangipur and Samserganj. Dinesh Trivedi had resigned as the Rajya Sabha member before joining the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. Manas Bhuniya of Trinamul vacated the seat in the Upper House after he had won the Assembly poll from Sabang. Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister on May 5 for their third time and she needs to win a byelection to be a member of the Assembly within six months to continue in the post. She had been defeated by Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in the Nandigram seat. Mamata had said recently that she would request the EC and the Prime Minister to hold the bypolls as early as possible. “It is the ideal time to hold the byelections as daily Covid-19 cases have come down to less than 2,000 from 22,000-odd at the end of April,” said a senior official. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said they were hopeful that the EC would hold the byelections soon as it had started the process to hold the Rajya Sabha polls. Soon after the Assembly poll results had come out, the EC postponed all the byelections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total active cases drop below 20,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 1,840 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,422 infections and 23 deaths. The state reported a drop in total active cases for 12 consecutive days as the figure fell by 441 to reach 19,729. This is for the first time since June 8 that the number of patients under treatment went below 20,000. The total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to reach 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over the 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before improving by over 14 per cent in the past 12 days. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.51 per cent on Friday with the national rate at 96.97 now. With Calcutta logging 137 infections and North 24-Parganas 158, Friday was the fifth successive day since the second wave struck when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen Bengal districts logged double-digit figures of new infections, while Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, Malda and Murshidabad recorded single-digit figures. Of the 23 deaths reported on Friday, five were from Calcutta and eight from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while four others recorded just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Bengal now has a total of nearly 15.03 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. They include over 14.65 lakh recoveries and 17,758 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Price of one litre petrol crosses Rs 100 in north Bengal||Motorists have started to shell out over Rs 100 for one litre petrol at some north Bengal towns, following many other parts of the country where the fuel had already breached the three digit mark. In Darjeeling, pumps were charging Rs 100.56 a litre on Friday after the overnight hike by 40 paisa. The price there had jumped to Rs 100.16 on June 29. The price crossed Rs 100 in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and some parts of North Dinajpur district fort the first time on Friday. One litre petrol was sold at Rs 100.10 at those places. Prices at the retail pumps of public sector oil marketing companies in Calcutta are still below the Rs 100-mark. The city recorded Rs 99.04 a litre at the Indian Oil Corporation outlets on Friday. Oil companies are allowed to mark up petrol on account of transport cost if the fuel is hauled to distant places. As a result, prices differ from one location to another even within a state despite the fuel being subjected to the same amount of central and state levies. In the Darjeeling hills, the price of one litre petrol is always higher by Rs 2 to Rs 2.5 as compared to Siliguri, courtesy the transport and shrinkage charges. “Petrol price had crossed the 100 rupee mark in Darjeeling on June 29 when it was Rs 100.16 a litre then. Today’s rate, however, is highest,” said a petrol pump owner in Darjeeling. The common man is bearing the brunt of surging oil prices which are increasing the cost of commute as well as general merchandise. “These days, petrol prices are increasing every day, so are the prices of diesel. Usually, I travel around 90km every day for my job and the daily fuel expenses have shot up. On the other hand, the rise in the diesel price is leading to an increase in the prices of various commodities,” said Raj Roy, who works in the pharmaceutical sector and is based in Cooch Behar. Oil industry observers say petrol may cross the Rs 100-mark in Calcutta soon if the Narendra Modi government declines to intervene. So far, it has shown no desire to do so and instead, called on states to cut local taxes. Bengal did walk the talk and cut prices of both petrol and diesel by Rs 1 a litre on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections. The rebate, which had been in place till June 30, has been extended for another three months. The Mamata Banerjee government imposes 17 per cent and 25 per cent sales tax on diesel and petrol, respectively on ad valorem basis. Additionally, it used to imposes a cess of Rs 1,000 per kilo litre or Re 1 a litre on both the products. Now, no cess is being imposed on these fuels in the state. Bengal was collecting Rs 19.11 a litre on petrol and Rs 13.05 a litre on diesel as on Friday. In contrast, the Centre collects Rs 32.90 from one litre petrol and Rs 31.80 from one litre diesel. However, it does not share the majority of the levies with states according to the formula of devolution of the central taxes. The Centre bypasses the states by imposing cess, which stood at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel, accounting for 62 per cent and 69 per cent of the central tax collection respectively. In other words, the Centre keeps the majority of the tax collected from these two fuels for itself. There has been a clamour from Opposition parties to slash the cess or the duties which were imposed to reap the gain from falling international crude oil prices, which also dictate, apart from central and states levies, how much Indians pay for the fuels. Indian basket of crude stands at $71.98 a barrel in June, compared to $66.95 a barrel in May. India imports over 80 per cent of the domestic crude oil requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Union health ministry plans to set up two oxygen plants at north Bengal hospitals||The Union health ministry has decided to set up two oxygen plants at the district hospitals of Darjeeling and Kalimpong and has also assigned two central agencies to execute the projects. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, said on Friday that the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generator plants, which would be first-of-its-kind facility in the hills, would soon come up at the hospitals. “I had written to the Prime Minister, mentioning that because of the difficult terrain and geographic distance from the plains, transportation of medical oxygen in tanks to the hill regions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts is a problem. I had requested him for oxygen plants, one each in these two places and another in Siliguri where patients from all over the region come for treatment. It is good that the proposal has been approved,” said the MP. Sources said the third plant would come up at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital .(NBMCH), the main referral hospital that is run by the state in the region. “The sites for all the three plants will be developed by the NHAI while the plant will be installed by the DRDO,” said a source. Meanwhile, the authorities in NBMCH have started gearing up as the state has mooted a proposal to build a cancer hospital at the campus in association with the Tata Memorial Hospital of Mumbai. The announcement was recently made by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta. The proposed hospital, sources said, is likely to have a capacity of 100 beds. “There is ample space in the campus to build the hospital. The authorities have already started identifying prospective plots for the hospital at the campus. It would be of major help for cancer patients of north Bengal,” said a faculty member of NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP denies Dhankhar a chance to read his full speech at Assembly||The BJP had moved heaven, earth and Narendra Modi in the hope of winning 200-plus seats in the 17th Bengal Legislative Assembly. When the august House convened on Friday, the BJP’s 70-plus members moved heaven and earth to make their presence felt and ended up stealing the governor’s 15 minutes of fame. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was unable to fully read out his address because of protests from the Opposition benches. Dhankhar spent barely eight minutes inside the House after his ceremonial entry — escorted by Speaker Biman Banerjee and chief minister Mamata Banerjee — around 1.58pm. When he rose to read out his 14-page speech, the BJP MLAs began protesting against the alleged post-poll-results violence in the state. Dhankhar sat down and then tried again but as the sloganeering continued, he read the last paragraph and his ceremonial exit followed. “We knew that the BJP wanted to disrupt the whole session, but they couldn’t do it, as the governor read the first and the last paragraphs, and the speech was tabled…. The BJP failed in its plan, and now the discussions will duly take place on this speech,” said a source close to Mamata. However, the saffron camp too was happy with the scale of disruption and the mileage it got from the chaos on Day One. Multiple first-time lawmakers told this newspaper that they had come prepared to precipitate bedlam. “We did it because there was no mention, whatsoever, of the post-poll violence in the address, drafted by the state government. There was no mention of Trinamul’s goons, the inert police’s role — none of it. No violence found any mention in the speech…. We presented the reality before the House; we formally lodged our protest on its floor,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the Nandigram MLA from the BJP and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Although the Bengal Assembly has seen such stormy scenes over gubernatorial addresses before — old-timers recalled the tumult generated by the Congress during addresses by B.D. Pande and Saiyid Nurul Hasan in the 1980s — the context was different this time. There was intense speculation about the content of the governor’s speech – drafted by the state government and approved by the state cabinet -- as Dhankhar had publicly expressed his reservations about alleged discrepancies. “Even last night, the governor sent a letter to the chief minister about changing the content. In her reply to the governor this morning, the chief minister said she could not deviate from the content of a speech approved by the state cabinet. She also mentioned that it was not a political speech and the governor was expected to read out the version of the government,” a source said. The source added that Dhankhar appreciated the chief minister’s epistolary response. The source disclosed that inside the House, Mamata apparently advised Dhankhar to read the last paragraph -- when the BJP’s pandemonium forced him to pause -- and table it. The governor’s decision to table the speech without any deviation from the script allowed the taut treasury benches to heave a sigh of relief. “Had he tried to be like the Kerala governor (Arif Mohammad Khan) and added what he felt, it would have been an embarrassment for us even if the Speaker had it expunged from the House records,” said a source. In Kerala, governor Khan had initially refused to read a couple of paragraphs in his address to the House there last year. The paragraphs were related to the contentious citizenship matrix of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Eventually, Khan did read out the paragraphs but went on to tell the Assembly about his reservations, and said he had read them because chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wanted him to. Team BJP in the Bengal Assembly too was buoyant, confident that it had made a mark on the inaugural day of the key session by bringing the alleged post-poll-results violence to the forefront as an issue. Adhikari said his party wanted discussions on the alleged violence and the fake vaccination camps one day each during what remains of this brief House session. The saffron plan, however, is unlikely to materialise as the session is likely to end on July 9 after discussions on the governor’s address and the presentation of the state budget for the current fiscal. “We know it well that they will not allow any discussion on what we want.… But we could flag the issues today the way we wanted to,” said a source in the BJP camp. He said Adhikari had been advised by Union home minister Amit Shah -- whom he met in Delhi on Thursday -- to use belligerence as the party’s main strategy in the Assembly. If Adhikari can deliver, while keeping the flock together -- a major challenge now as Trinamul is fairly confident of securing defections from at least 15 of the BJP’s 74 remaining MLAs – the House is likely to witness more turbulent scenes. “During Left rule, principal Opposition Congress was also quite capable of causing disarray. But their Delhi leadership, then running the government at the Centre, never wanted to precipitate a crisis. But this BJP-led Centre is keen on consistently fomenting unrest, and it will get reflected in this Assembly,” a House veteran from the treasury benches said. Deputy Speaker: Former agriculture minister Asish Banerjee of Trinamul, a five-term MLA from Rampurhat, has been elected deputy Speaker of the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Police team foil marriages of two minor girls in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts||Officers of Siliguri metropolitan police and Alipurduar police foiled marriages of two minor girls in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts on Thursday. Sources said the officers at Ambari police outpost under New Jalpaiguri police station came to know that two minors — 17-year-old girl and 14-years-old boy — were to get married at Shivganga Ashram Para area in Sahudangi on the outskirts of Siliguri. “A team comprising Sajjal Roy, the in-charge of the outpost, Rajganj BDO, the pradhan of local panchayat and others rushed to the wedding venue. They counselled their parents that the marriage of minors is illegal who admitted their fault, rescinded their decision and gave written assurance that they will not violate the law in future,” said a police officer. In Jaigaon of Alipurduar district, the cops rescued a 15-year-old girl who had fled home to marry a youth whom she got introduced through social media six months back. She hails from Mathabhanga of Cooch Behar district. “The girl has been sent to a home in Cooch Behar and the youth was arrested for trying to marry a minor,” said Abhishek Bhattacharya, the in-charge of Jaigaon police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Wife and lover arrested for murder of spouse, kids in North Dinajpur ||A labourer and his two minor sons hailing from a village in North Dinajpur district were killed allegedly by his wife and a co-worker, with whom she apparently has an affair, in Punjab on June 28. On Friday, the bodies of Mangu Sheikh, Ali Sheikh, 8, and Sohail Sheikh, 6, reached Hatia-Palibari village, on the outskirts of Raiganj town, from Faridkot in Punjab. Sources said Mangu, 30, had moved to Faridkot four years ago, along with his wife and three children and worked as a contractual worker at a local camp of the Border Security Force (BSF). Aduri, Mangu’s daughter, somehow managed to escape the attack. According to police sources, the victim’s wife Mauri got into an affair with Kishan, another worker at the camp who hails from Uttar Pradesh. “Preliminary probe suggests that the couple used to have frequent brawls after Mangu came to know about the affair. Around one-and-half months’ back, Mauri left her husband’s place and started staying with Kishan,” said a police source. Last month, the duo planned to kill Mangu and their three children. “On the night of June 28, the duo got into Mangu’s accommodation and killed him and his two sons. Their daughter Aduri, 10, somehow managed to escape and took shelter in the BSF camp. The duo hung their bodies in the house after killing them and fled,” the police source added. Later, the police arrested  Mauri and Kishan following a statement from Aduri and recovered the bodies. Meanwhile, 10-year-old Aduri spoke to the BSF personnel of the camp and mentioned that her mother and Kishan have killed her father and two brothers. The BSF men immediately informed the police who rushed to the spot and recovered the bodies. They also initiated a probe and launched a search for Mauri and Kishan. Both of them were arrested. The last rites of the trio was conducted in the village on Friday and was attended by hundreds of residents. A villager informed that Aduri was under the protection of Punjab police now. “We want exemplary punishment for Mauri and Kishan. What they have done is inhumanact that they did not spare two little boys and also tried to kill the girl.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Hill hotel withdraws decision to enforce lockout from Monday||Windamere Hotel here has withdrawn its decision to enforce lockout from Monday after the management and workers agreed that full salaries would be paid to the staff only after the Centre allowed international tourists in India. Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner, (north Bengal zone), convened a meeting of the representatives of the management, trade unions and workers in Siliguri on Thursday and all the parties agreed to a set of conditions. “One of the conditions agreed at the meeting is that staff will be paid full salaries only after the situation becomes normal and the Centre allows foreign tourists to visit India,” said a source. Windamere built in the 19th century is considered as one among the best colonial hotels in India. The property with 38 rooms largely depends on foreign clients. Until then, the 50-odd staff would be paid 50 per cent of the salaries. “The salaries would be increased to 60 per cent after the Bengal government’s restrictions related to Covid-19 are lifted,” said a source. Ashish Subba, conciliation officer and the assistant labour commissioner of Darjeeling, said the hotel would continue to function normally. “Another meeting has been scheduled for August 6, 2021, at a convenient venue to discuss other subjects,” said Subba. The lockout notice was issued on June 21 by Elizabeth Clarke, the managing director of the hotel. “Due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic since the last one and half years the Hotel Management has suffered huge financial losses and ultimately has gone into financial crisis leading to financial debt,” read the notice. Amit Gupta, the general manager and a director on the board of the hotel, said the lockout decision had been withdrawn keeping in mind the “welfare of the employees”. “We will try our best to cope up with the situation,” said Gupta. The management of probably the only colonial hotel in the Himalayas said it would try and attract more domestic tourists but admitted that the taste of the property was different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||West Bengal||Red Volunteers of CPM and villagers join hands to repair rural roads at Khejuri||Red Volunteers of the CPM, along with residents of East Midnapore’s Khejuri, took up the repair of a 5km stretch of rural roads on Friday after repeated pleas of villagers for the renovation in the past several years did not yield any result. “We are at our wit’s end. We have been telling panchayat authorities for years to repair the roads but to no avail,” said Dipankar Mondal, a resident of Pakuria village in Khejuri. The roads have become unmotorable and walking on them is a challenge for villagers with its condition further worsening with the arrival of the monsoon. The plight of the crater-ridden roads finally attracted the attention of the Red Volunteers who have been working in the area to help pandemic-hit families with doctors, oxygen cylinders, medicines, groceries and even cooked food. “The Pakuria-Mansinghber and Pakuria-Kasaria roads are the only options to get to towns or the city. During the pandemic, authorities have no right to ignore its condition,” said CPM activist and Red Volunteer Zakir Hossain, 25, as he was busy trying to fill up a pothole on the battered stretch. “We were unaware about the condition of the road until we came here,” he added. On Friday, Hossain was part of the team of around two dozen people who began impromptu repairs using gravel and crushed brick to fill the gaping craters on the damaged stretches. CPM activist Ratneswar Dalui said they witnessed and experienced the trouble of negotiating on the damaged stretches when they had to travel in the region to provide relief to patients suffering from Covid-19. “Forget an ambulance, we faced problems commuting on the stretches on two-wheelers,” said Dalui. Appreciating the role of the Red Volunteers, Mondal said: “We are thankful that at least these youths are by our side in such difficult times.” Asked, Khejuria gram panchayat member Uttam Das said he was aware of the “years old” problem and claimed a lack of funds had delayed the issue. “We even have permission for filling stone chips but we have not got the funds,” said Das. President of Khejuri block 2 panchayat samity and Trinamul leader Asim Mondal he would try to ensure that concrete roads were laid on the damaged stretches once the monsoon was over. CPM leader Himanshu Das vouched for basic citizens’ rights saying the matter had come to authorities’ attention because of the endeavour of his party and the Red Volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
03-07-2021||North East||Covid: J.P. Nadda's ‘tourists’ jibe prompts Assam Cong history advice||The Assam unit of the Congress has “advised” BJP national president J.P. Nadda to brush up on his knowledge of history and use Google to know what the Opposition party has been doing for the coronavirus-hit in the state. The trigger for the sharp retort by the Assam PCC was Nadda’s “political tourists” jibe at the Opposition leaders and their “no-show during the second wave of the pandemic” while addressing the working committee meeting of the state BJP unit through the virtual mode on Tuesday. Nadda asserted that the claim he made during his campaigns for the recent Assembly elections about the Opposition leaders acting as “political tourists” had come true. They are only seen during elections, he said. Condemning Nadda’s remark, Assam PCC president and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora said on Wednesday that such a “denigrating” statement against an Opposition party was not expected of such a senior leader. Bora invoked India’s political history to “remind” Nadda that the BJP was born in 1980 and the Congress in 1885. “How can a party that has been in existence for 136 years, that brought freedom for its people from British domination and that ruled India and contributed towards nation building be termed a party of ‘political tourists’? We were in power in the state till 2016. I advise Naddaji to brush up on his history” Bora said. The Congress MP added: “Does it also mean that wherever the BJP lost elections — in Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — their leaders have become political tourists? Just because our party lost the elections in Assam, one cannot pass derogatory remarks like that.” The BJP and its allies were re-elected for the second straight term in the Assembly polls. The remarks on “political tourists” and “Opposition no-show during the pandemic” were mentioned in the salient points of Nadda’s speech released by the BJP’s central office in Delhi on Tuesday. “During the second wave of the pandemic, neither the Congress party nor Badruddin Ajmal and his party were seen helping the poor and affected people. The reality is that both the parties have nothing to do with welfare and betterment of the people of Assam. They just want votes of the people of Assam. My words have again proved to be correct that they are just political tourists,” Nadda had said. Bora asked where the BJP leaders were when floods ravaged Assam in 2017 and 2018. “While Prime Minister Narendra Modi could take out time to visit Assam umpteenth times for electioneering, couldn’t he find time to be near the people of the state during the floods? People know what we are doing and whether we are with them,” Bora said. Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma on Monday released photographs of PCC leaders and members distributing relief across the state. “ If they want to know what we did, they can simply Google or check our leaders’ Twitter handles,” Sharma told The Telegraph. The Congress also used the opportunity to highlight the BJP-led Centre’s “faulty” Covid management policy, especially the shortage of vaccines. “People in Assam are suffering for want of vaccines due to the Centre’s faulty Covid policy. Today, 50 per cent of the Covid vaccine centres are shut. Recently, police had to resort to lathicharge at inoculation centres after people became restive over vaccine shortage,” Bora said. He advised Nadda against discussing about the Congress in virtual meetings and instead ensure the safety of the people of Assam by making vaccines available. “Longer the delay, the greater is the threat to people’s lives,” Bora added. Till Thursday, there were 24,390 active Covid cases in Assam and five districts were under lockdown. Since last year, 511,153 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state and 4,577 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
03-07-2021||North East||IIT-Guwahati, Nesac Shillong sign pact  to work for the development of the region||Two premier institutions of the Northeast — the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, and the North Eastern Space Applications Centre (Nesac), Shillong — have joined hands to work for the development of the region and create a pool of skilled professionals. The two institutions signed a memorandum of understanding on June 28 aimed at launching joint initiatives including internship, joint degree, short-term training and student exchange programmes and joint projects, among others, an IIT Guwahati statement said. Through this partnership, a multidisciplinary approach would be adopted to study disasters as the Northeast is prone to flood, earthquake, landslide and riverbank erosion, it said. These disasters can sometimes become a “roadblock” to the growth of the region and to address these challenges in a “more” meaningful way, these premier institutes felt the need to work together through collaboration. Highlighting the unique aspects of this collaboration, IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam said there will be “limitless” opportunities for the two institutes to work together and achieve new heights in research, innovation and capacity development for the Northeast. “Joint certificate programmes, visiting professorship for teaching a few suitable courses along with the IIT-G faculty are few of the initiatives that both institutes could take forward,” he said. IIT Guwahati was established in 1994. Nesac director P.L.N. Raju said: “The signing of an MoU with IIT Guwahati and specifically with its CDMR (Centre for Disaster Management and Research), focusing on training education and research, will further enhance Nesac in strengthening capacity building, training and research in this region. I am looking forward for a fruitful and highly successful MoU between IIT-G and Nesac benefiting the society as a whole.” IIT Guwahati had established the Centre for Disaster Management and Research on the “advice” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sources said the Nesac has also tied up with the North Eastern Regional Institute of Water and Land Management, Tezpur, and the North East Centre for Technology Application and Reach, Shillong, to contribute towards the development of the region. “The whole idea is to see how we can use space technology support along with research for flood management and the development of the agriculture sector, among others. We are also helping the northeastern states in preparing plans of action and their execution for the development of the region,” Raju said. One of the sources said the Nesac is helping the Assam government to prepare the plan of action for 25 projects. The Nesac, a joint initiative of the department of space and the North Eastern Council, provides an operational remote sensing and geographic information system aided natural resource information base to support activities on development/management of natural resources and infrastructure planning in the region, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
03-07-2021||Opinion||Indian Ocean: India's pond, troubled waters for all ||Looked at from this side of the Palk Strait the Chinese threat looms large in Sri Lanka. Most recently, the Sri Lankan parliament passed the Colombo Port City Commission Bill with a nearly two-thirds majority in the 225-member house. Land reclamation work on what will be the Chinese-built $15-billion mega-special economic zone began in 2018. The passing of the bill revived India’s concerns about Chinese domination of the island nation. But the real game is being played beyond Sri Lanka in the shared waters of the Indian Ocean where the Chinese and other global powers all want to fish in troubled waters. Over the past decade and more, China has become India’s main irritant on the Indian Ocean front, just as it has been along our land border. If the Indian Navy began receiving more funding in recent years, it’s because of what an American scholar identified as China’s ‘String of Pearls’tactics. Sri Lanka, the teardrop-shaped island has become the pendant in that string when looked at from India. The Port City which aims to be an international financial enclave with Chinese funding and participation, has been in the news for close to a decade.  Only the bill part is new and is aimed at putting a management scheme in place, and, in the process, legitimise Chinese ‘occupation’. The provision for co-opting ‘foreigners’ on the board and sanctioning payments in foreign currency are expected to work in China’s favour, to the near-exclusion of other nations, most of which are unlikely to be interested anyway just for the very same reason. From a Sri Lankan point of view, the Port City promises tens of thousands of jobs for the locals – though it remains to be seen whether these will be at the top or bottom-end. But even this will be a departure from the norm. For all other Chinese-funded projects, all the labour and the material needed are sent from the Middle Kingdom. But following that model in Covid-ridden Sri Lanka could easily have led to social unrest and political instability, which the ruling Rajapaksas cannot afford. Leaving out the divided Tamil polity, there is a ‘national consensus’ in Sri Lanka, when it comes to working with China on the so-called development front. Sri Lanka has always faced the danger of being an economically unviable nation, depending exclusively on a traditional agriculture and tourism economy. But that cannot address the economic aspirations of the citizenry. In turn, the elimination of the LTTE more than a decade ago too has deprived the rationale for the majority Sinhala people and polity to remain united. Nor can the Sri Lankan state and the Sinhala polity afford a social struggle like the two 'JVP insurgencies’ of 1971 and 1987-89. It was the first militant uprising in the post-Independence era, after which independent Tamil youth groups took to guns in the North and the East. This turned into the LTTE. For Colombo, the Chinese are important in two ways. First, they provide funding for growth and development. Colombo also wants Beijing’s backing to block Western criticism particularly at the UNHRC for the way it put down the LTTE insurgency. India doesn’t fulfil these needs for the Sri Lankans. We concluded it wasn’t an economically viable project, that too when India was still coming out of the massive cash-crunch of the ’90s. At a different level, India is not a P-5 member in the UN Security Council with a veto, which is what Sri Lanka needs if there are any moves against it. The ‘national consensus’ has thus worked to China’s favour. The ‘Big Two’ political parties of the majority Sinhala community seem to have an unwritten understanding to have India as their security guarantor, but accept developmental funding from wherever it came. If the ruling Rajapaksas thus launched the unviable Hambantota project, their political Opposition helped convert it into a debt-equity ‘swap deal’, handing over Sri Lankan ‘territory’ on a 99-year lease to China. The Opposition voted recently against the Port City Bill on specific aspects but the fact was that the government did not require their support. They still welcome the project because it is expected to help to revive the Sri Lankan economy. Predators, all Thus far, the Chinese have tried to package their presence in Sri Lanka and around the region as benign and development-driven. That is obviously not enough to ease Indian anxieties. India’s strategic interests have changed sharply in recent years. Step back many decades and our concern was over the US base at Diego Garcia. This became particularly acute in the wake of the 1971 Bangladesh war when the US Seventh Fleet was despatched to arm-twist India and prevent us from over-running the erstwhile East Pakistan. The tables are turned now, and Indians are not talking about the Cold War past and the accompanying American interest in Sri Lanka. Ever since the post-Pokhran II (1998) Vajpayee government, New Delhi has been bending backward to accommodate the US and its allies, leading up to the Quad strategic-military arrangement, also involving Australia and Japan. But India’s ‘Malabar Exercises’, since expanded to include all Quad members is not the only one. India has the ‘Varuna’ exercises with the French, a quiet but dependable military supplier for decades. New Delhi is also on record that it was working on similar but separate military exercises with Russia and the UK, as with other nations, before Covid intervened. France also has greater legitimacy to access the Indian Ocean, given that it has greater territorial interests in the region than any other erstwhile colonial power, including the UK with islands of what is residual BIOT (British Indian Overseas Territory) in the Indian Ocean Region, still under the control of the UK. Lately, Germany another aspiring European nation too has crafted an Indian Ocean doctrine. Maybe, the European nations will take their time to venture out, either under the EU flag, or as individual nations, but may wait for others to fight their Neo-Cold War before entering big time, if at all. Russian roulette From an Indian perspective, our enduring strategic connection with Moscow suffered after President Boris Yeltsin, under American pressure, held back cryogenic engines for ISRO’s space programme, and also impeded India’s military preparedness in other ways, during the nineties. Yet, Russian diplomats across India were rattled when India signed the precedent-setting defence cooperation agreement with the US in 2005. Russia began taking interest in India’s neighbours, including Sri Lanka, then, but seemingly slowed down in between, possibly owing to President Vladimir Putin’s strategy to strengthen the home front. Delhi thus got a breather on the Russian front at the time. Yet, Moscow began dabbling with Islamabad, supplying them with weapons that they had denied in the Cold War past and later. Is that a tit-for-tat, or the Russian way of protecting their own strategic interests in South Asia? India’s relations with Moscow, especially on the geo-strategic front, are not as unshakeable as they were in earlier decades. Moscow is alive to New Delhi moving further away from it and into the American orbit for good. That’s despite what they now seem to have concluded is a one-off S-400 missile defence programme with India. Epoch-changing pacts India in recent times has expanded the scope and reach of the IOR (Indian Ocean Region) Division, which itself was a relatively new entity in the Ministry of External Affairs, to include Comoros, Madagascar and French Reunion, among others, to push the periphery to coincide with the emerging Ocean-centric strategic realities to suffocate China within what is known as the 'Indian pond'. That is, the waters on this side of the arc comprising Comoros, Madagascar, Reunion and Mauritius, all the way up to Maldives and India's own Lakshadweep group of islands, with Assumption Island and Seychelles in the middle. The US' Diego Garcia military-base is located in these waters. But ever since the Cold War era, our neighbours see New Delhi as being unconcerned about their strategic interests. On the contrary, India is their prime suspect, following its role firstly, in the creation of Bangladesh. Later we also launched extra-territorial missions – the IPKF to Sri Lanka (1987-89) and ‘Operation Cactus’ in the Maldives (1988), though in both cases, New Delhi's decisions derived from specific requests from embattled governments in the respective countries.  They also feel they should have been consulted either before or after signing epoch-changing defence agreements with extra-regional powers (the Soviet Union, 1971 and the US, 2005). Such arguments may have some merit considering the relative sizes, cut off from their historic and cultural roots that some Indian seems wanting to impose on them, as if they as nations and peoples owe their present to their Indian past. But more importantly, they resent India and Indians continually suspecting them, vis a vis New Delhi’s given position viz a third nation at a given time. The Quad question India, of course, looks at it differently. Through the Quad and other military exercises, India may have diverted some of the strategic concerns to the Ocean front, from the land border with China. If and when, battlelines are to be drawn for a Neo Cold War, or even beyond, then Indian allies are now clear. China can count on Pakistan, yes, and possibly, Afghanistan’s Taliban by default. Where does that leave a peeved Iran, whom India has hurt over US sanctions, and Russia, which would have to make a choice, if it had to be counted? Indian Ocean used to be considered India’s pond. China has since declared that it’s not India’s Ocean even though it claims the South China and East China Seas are its own. But then, why blame China and Sri Lanka, when western friends have ceased to consider South Asia and its waters, India’s ‘traditional sphere of influence’ and want to fish in the troubled waters even post-Quad? The US has even tried to sign a framework defence treaty last year with the Maldives -- reportedly behind India’s back. The SOFA (Status of Forces Agreement) contained clauses for US armed forces to carry personal arms as they roam around the idyllic and not be subject to local laws. It was an example of the global games that are underway in the seas around India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Congress-AAP war of words in Punjab, BCCI payment gap for women cricketers||Fix the problem Sir — With the Punjab assembly elections around the corner — they are slated to be held in 2022 — a war of words has broken out between the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party about giving free electricity units to the people of the state. The AAP leader and chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, in a bid to come to power in Punjab, has promised 300 free units of electricity to all households in Punjab if his party wins. Why is he making false promises to the people of Punjab when he cannot even manage Delhi properly? He has even promised a waiver on previous power bills. His claims are not to be trusted. It must be remembered that Punjab is reeling under a debt of nearly Rs 3 lakh crore. Any party that talks about giving free electricity units is opportunistic and power hungry. If it wins, it will most certainly betray the people’s trust by not following up on its promises. Such claims by political parties and their leaders amount to nothing. They are merely made to influence voters. Worryingly, the Congress is going through a crisis in Punjab, and this may affect the morale of the party’s units in other states. The Bharatiya Janata Party is always waiting for the opportunity to resort to unscrupulous means to bring down state governments. This was witnessed in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka where members of legislative assemblies from the Congress were seen joining the BJP. Well-known Congress leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada also switched sides. India’s Grand Old Party is going through rough weather owing to infighting. Punjab is an important state for the party. The farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws passed by the Centre has had an impact on the state. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which is in the Opposition in the assembly, will take advantage of this situation. Moreover, the open fight between the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and Navjot Singh Sidhu does not bode well for the state government. It is high time the Congress high command took the matter seriously. If it does not do so, it may lose yet another state to the saffron camp and its communal forces. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The situation in the Punjab Congress is getting worse. There seems to be no immediate solution to the rift between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is keen to replace the former as chief minister. Ironically, the Gandhi family appears to be giving more importance to Sidhu than to Amarinder Singh, even though the latter has proven to be a successful chief minister who reflects well on the party. If the feud is not resolved soon, the outcome will not be palatable for the Congress. The Aam Aadmi Party may crush the dreams of both the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Not fair Sir — It was interesting to read that the Board of Control for Cricket in India will recommend both the ace Indian cricketers, Mithali Raj and Ravichandran Ashwin, for the prestigious Khel Ratna award. However, in its own annual contracts with players, the BCCI ensures that women cricketers are paid a mere fraction of what the men are paid. In the contracts announced in May, the highest grade for women cricketers has a retainer of Rs 50 lakh while the lowest grade for male players is worth Rs 1 crore. Mere gestures of equality, such as recommending Raj and Ashwin for the same sports award, do nothing to hide the inherent discrimination in the BCCI. Romit Sen,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It was heartening to read that for the first time since the pandemic started, the daily positivity rate for Covid tests in Chennai has fallen to below 1 per cent. Reportedly, no street in the city has more than 10 cases, and 71 lakh vaccine doses are to be received by the state government. The Union health minister had lauded the efforts of the Tamil Nadu administration to contain the virus. However, this does not mean that the common man should be free to roam, that too without following Covid norms, as there is the fear of a third wave. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mr Thick, Ms Thin||'Jack Sprat could eat no fat, his wife could eat no lean’ — or so goes a popular nursery rhyme. In reality, though, Jack Sprat can eat all the fat he wants since the Potbellied Man, a species created by the labour and love of women, is a figure of cultural veneration. Be it in India or North Korea, the protruding male belly — Bengal’s beloved bhnuri — is supposed to be a signifier of abundance and not excess. Little wonder then that in a perfectly Kafkaesque moment, North Koreans are reported to be shedding copious amounts of tears at the sight of a relatively sprightly Kim Jong-un emerging after a hiatus in the shadows. The absence of the Supreme Leader from the public eye is as strange as his altered form in that country and around the world. Foreign correspondents are apparently buried in their notebooks, taking note of such critical foreign policy issues as the comparative tightness of the strap of the swanky watch on Mr Kim’s slimmer wrist. Pyongyang is beside itself with worry that a lighter leader is indicative of diminished political clout. That weight loss can be a weighty issue in a gender-stratified world is best understood by examining the differential and discriminatory cultural rhetoric on weight. A podgy authoritarian leader can be foisted upon a nation as an ideal. But no such licences are available for a woman leader. Ladies, Gentlemen seem to be of the opinion, need to be lithe. A study published in the journal, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, found that the electorate that voted the portly Donald Trump to power would likely reject women candidates for being overweight. Closer home, while campaigning for the Rajasthan assembly elections, Sharad Yadav suggested that the former chief minister of the state, Vasundhara Raje, should retire since she had put on weight. Politics is not the only sphere where women are not expected to throw their weight around. Two independent studies conducted by different NGOs showed that women who are overweight have slimmer chances of being employed and heavier chances of being underpaid than their male counterparts. This selective shaming has resulted in the genesis of a troubling set of aesthetics and ethics. From being forced to wear the corset that irreversibly damages internal organs to going under the knife to excise the excess from their midriffs, women have been coerced or conditioned to keep their waistlines in check. The mind suffers as much as the body in the process. Research by the National Bureau of Economic Research shows that being overweight produces higher dissatisfaction among women. Anorexia, an eating disorder that is the result of a distorted comprehension of the idealized, but problematic, body shape, is not known to be common in men. Work, not weight, should be the best parameter to judge the performance of political creatures. It would be interesting to see how puffed-up men have performed on this index over the years. In fact, the pandemic has shown that women leaders — New Zealand is one example — do a far better job than men, heavily set or waif-like, when it comes to caring for the nation. Is there not food for thought here?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Tribute gone wrong: 'Circle of Heroes'||The New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, announced a new monument in Manhattan’s Battery Park to honour the essential workers who went beyond the call of duty during the coronavirus pandemic. It was unveiled just two weeks ago after Cuomo announced the termination of the city’s Covid-19 restrictions and the state of emergency. The gesture, however, is receiving criticism. The ‘Circle of Heroes’ monument consists of 19 maple trees planted in a circle around an eternal flame symbol. The trees each represent the 19 groups of essential workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, firefighters, teachers, National Guard troops, sanitation workers, food service workers and delivery drivers. The structure cost about $3 million to put together; moreover, it is in an area that is not much travelled. There is an online petition signed by over 4,700 people pushing the governor to relocate the monument. Some essential workers themselves said they used the area as an escape during stressful times. The monument occupies about two per cent of the total green area. Essential workers expressed their dismay on social media as well as in a www.change.org petition. The House Representative, Jerry Nadler, tweeted, “New York’s essential workers deserve our honor and respect — and we can commemorate them with a memorial. But bulldozing vital open space in lower Manhattan isn’t the way to do it”. Others pointed out that it would be better for the money to be used to set up a fund for essential workers or raise their pay instead of building a monument in a space that they love. Man versus food If you take part in a bet, be careful what you put on the line. Unless you live to eat waffles. That is exactly what a man in Mississippi had to face after losing a Fantasy Football league. As punishment, Lee Sanderlin, a journalist, was required to spend 24 hours in a Waffle House in Brandon, Mississippi. With each waffle he consumed, an hour was shaved off the timer. He live-tweeted the whole experience, which started a little past 4 in the evening. He spent a total of 15 hours at the Waffle House, which is a well-known national food chain in the United States of America, with 2,100 locations mostly concentrated in the South. Sanderlin’s live tweets quickly gained traction on social media. “Waffle number 6 and I’m eagerly staring into the abyss, hoping for it all to end. Also, 4 hours down now,” he tweeted at one point. In another post, he said: “Hello. It is hour 7. Where we stand: 6 waffles consumed. 11 hours remain. Insides are in shambles, but two kind Mississippians came in and gave me some Rolaids. Shoutout those people. Yr boy is in PAIN [sic].” Around 6 in the morning, he ordered his final two waffles and was able to leave at 7 am. “This was horrible and I recommend no one ever do this,” he said in his final tweet. Uncomfortable truths Confronting the US’s social justice issues, especially those about race, have always been a struggle for some people in the country. Now, that struggle is showing up more explicitly in the American education system as lawmakers, social justice activists and school education boards battle one another on what is ‘okay’ and ‘not okay’ to teach to kids in high school when it comes to the nation’s racist past. The term that has been extensively used is ‘critical race theory’, which refers to how racism has played a role in the creation of the US’s legal systems and policies, and how white supremacy and privilege came into being and led to the ongoing oppression of people of colour. Critical race theory is a very academic concept; it has been around for 40 years, started by a Harvard Law School professor in the 1970s. Today, there is ongoing debate regarding teaching such a concept in high school. Nine US states have already banned it. Naysayers say it teaches children to feel guilty for being white and that it actually encourages discrimination against white people. In Florida, a school curriculum banned critical race theory and focused on teachings about “patriotism and love of country, citizenship, the US form of government and the Constitution”. No matter which side of the aisle one is on, it is clear that these actions will spark debate around free speech as well. It remains to be seen how the courts will ultimately rule on the matter. Momentous day The US celebrated Juneteenth, also known as Liberation Day or Emancipation Day, on June 19. On this date in 1865, the last few enslaved people were freed. While most gained their freedom owing to the Emancipation Proclamation put forth by Abraham Lincoln in 1863, those in Texas were not made aware of the decree until 1865. This year marked the 156th celebration of the momentous day. On June 17th, the US president, Joe Biden, signed a law making this day a federal holiday — a huge milestone for many Black Americans. After the signing, the vice-president, Kamala Harris, made a public statement drawing attention to the importance of the context of the moment. “We are gathered here, in a house built by enslaved people,” Harris said. “We are footsteps away from where President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, and we are here to witness President Joe Biden establish Juneteenth as a national holiday.” Juneteenth celebrations involve cookouts, barbecues and fireworks. It is also common for people to drink red beverages such as red soda pop, where the colour represents the struggle the enslaved people endured and the perseverance they showed. Some sources have also linked the tradition to a reference to the bloodshed that took place. People are also encouraged to shop at black owned-businesses and take the time to educate themselves on the historic significance of the day. Footnote A study by a popular dog services site has revealed the most preferred dog breeds in the US. After mixed breeds, Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, German Shepherds and the Goldendoodle are most popular. According to the survey, more than half of American dog owners got a new dog during the pandemic. Cockapoos are the number one dog breed in New York City this year. They are a cocker spaniel-poodle mix and are known for their gentle nature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
03-07-2021||Opinion||Golden summer||It is the television, carrying matches live into the home, that shapes the consciousness of the Indian cricket fan today. However, growing up when I did, my window to the world was the radio. I first heard The Beatles on the BBC World Service’s Top Twenty programme, and it was on that same channel’s Test Match Special that I followed every stroke of a Test hundred at Lord’s by Garry Sobers. That was in 1966, when I was eight. Three years later, New Zealand toured India for a three Test series, and I suppose I must have followed some of the cricket on All India Radio. However, no memories of that remain. But I do remember very clearly the impression that Kiwi cricketers made on me in the summer of 1973. I had just come off an intensive season of schoolboy cricket, playing every Sunday from February to April for my school’s First Eleven. When the summer holidays commenced, it was too hot to play cricket in my home town, but I could at least follow the game — and at a much higher level too — via the radio. In this summer of 1973, Glenn Turner (picture) became the first batsman in 35 years to score a thousand first-class runs in an English summer before the end of May. He made these runs opening the batting for the New Zealand touring team, against a series of County Elevens. Back then, the World Service had a Saturday Sports Special, which ran uninterrupted on that day of the week from 5 pm to 11.15 pm IST, with breaks only for news. I heard several of Turner’s innings live as they unfolded on successive Saturdays, following the others via the BBC’s daily Sports Roundup, a bulletin, 15 minutes long, that summarized the important sporting developments of the past 24 hours. ‘1,000 runs before the end of May’ was one of the most select of all sporting lists. Its six members in 1973 included W.G. Grace, Wally Hammond and Don Bradman (who had done the feat twice). For a batsman from New Zealand, the most unglamorous of cricketing nations, to be in this sort of company attracted the admiration of otherwise patronizing English commentators, and it made a powerful impression on this Indian schoolboy too. In June, a series of three Test matches between New Zealand and England began. The first match, played at Nottingham from June 7-12, 1973, was thrilling to hear on the radio, and must have been even more thrilling to watch at the ground. New Zealand were set a mammoth 479 to win in the fourth innings, and made a very good fist of it. I followed every run of their chase on the family radio, lowering the volume and placing my ears ever closer to the receiver after 9 pm, when my family went to sleep, staying on myself to listen till stumps were drawn at 11 pm IST. It is now almost half-a-century since that epic Test match. But without looking at the scorecard I can tell you that the captain, Bevan Congdon, and the off-spinning all-rounder, Victor Pollard, both made centuries. I seem to remember that they batted in contrasting styles, with Congdon playing in a more orthodox fashion, in the V, and Pollard hitting across the line and in the air too. Two summers previously, India had beaten England for the first time in England, after 40 years of trying. Unfortunately for me, that Oval Test of 1971 was played in late August, by which time I was in boarding school. I could not follow the match on the radio, and had to be content with reading about it in the next day’s newspapers. On the other hand, I followed every ball of this England-New Zealand Test of 1973, and thus have much clearer memories of how it played out. Indian cricket fans had long condescended to cricketers from New Zealand. The two most salient facts about them so far as we were concerned were, first, that it was New Zealand who were responsible for the lowest ever Test score, 26 all out, and, second, that it was in New Zealand that we won our first Test series overseas. However, after hearing how Glenn Turner emulated Grace, Hammond and Bradman in scoring 1,000 runs before the end of May, and after closely following Congdon and Pollard as they almost chased down those 479 runs at Trent Bridge, I myself would never again take Kiwi cricketers less than seriously. Three years later, in a Test at Wellington, the myth — shared by Englishmen, Australians and Indians alike — that the Kiwis were mere pushovers when it came to Test cricket was decisively shattered by a deadly spell of swing bowling by Richard Hadlee. After taking four wickets in the first innings, including those of Gavaskar, Amarnath and Vengsarkar, Hadlee demolished us in our second innings, his figures reading 8.3-0-23-7. India lost by an innings and some. While Richard Hadlee was the star, important roles were also played by two Kiwi heroes of the English summer of 1973, Glenn Turner and Bevan Congdon, who both scored half-centuries the only time their side batted. No individual did more to make cricketers (and fans) of other countries treat Kiwis with respect than Richard Hadlee. He had as his indispensable ally his younger contemporary, Martin Crowe, who was, in his day, the best batsman in world cricket, just as Hadlee had been the best bowler. Crowe was also an outstanding captain, his tactical skills showcased in the 1992 World Cup, when he experimented by having his bowling attack opened by a spinner. As readers might have guessed, this column was prompted by the recently-concluded final of the World Test Championship, which was won deservedly — and authoritatively — by New Zealand. It was nice that the Kiwis made it to the final ahead of Australia, the country closest to them in space, but whose condescension towards them has been the most marked. (After playing a Test in New Zealand in 1946, the Aussies refused to play against them for another 27 years.) And it was even more creditable that the Kiwis beat us in the final, for, apart from the massive discrepancy in population size, it is India which, in terms of financial muscle, administrative control and ability to bully others, is unquestionably the game’s sole superpower. As part of my tribute to cricketers from New Zealand, let me choose an all-time eleven from that country. Opening the innings with Glenn Turner would be that brave left-hander, Bert Sutcliffe, who toured India twice, batting well on both occasions. At numbers three and four would come Kane Williamson and Martin Crowe, with the captaincy alternating between the two. Completing the ranks of specialist batsmen is Martin Donnelly, a magnificent left-hander of an earlier vintage, who scored hundreds at Lord’s for New Zealand against England, for Oxford against Cambridge, for Gentlemen against Players, and for the Dominions against England in the famous ‘Victory Test’ of 1945. At six, seven and eight figure three very accomplished all-rounders. These are the wicket-keeper, Brendon McCullum, and the left-arm slow bowler, Daniel Vettori, both very well known to, and much admired by, younger Indian fans; and, after them, Richard Hadlee, who, apart from being a great fast bowler, could bat handily, left-handed, down the order. Three places remain, and they must all go to seam and swing bowlers, from a country that has specialized in producing high quality practitioners of this type. At least one place must be reserved for a left-armer, and although Richard Collinge of the 1973 team has strong claims, I will go for Trent Boult of the 2021 team instead. With Boult must come his long-time partner in destroying batting line-ups, the right-arm swing bowler, Tim Southee. To fill the last place I choose Shane Bond, who was perhaps matched only by Waqar Younis in his ability to swing the ball late close to 100 miles an hour. Here then is my all-time Kiwi XI, in batting order: 1. Glenn Turner 2. Bert Sutcliffe 3. Kane Williamson (captain) 4. Martin Crowe (vice-captain) 5. Martin Donnelly 6. Brendon McCullum (wicket-keeper) 7. Daniel Vettori 8. Richard Hadlee 9. Tim Southee 10. Shane Bond 11. Trent Boult. If a mythical contest against an all-time Indian XI were played on a crumbling track in the subcontinent, the Kiwis would struggle against Kumble, Mankad and Ashwin, but if the match were played instead under an overcast sky in Southampton in July, I would back Hadlee, Bond and company to get the better of Gavaskar, Tendulkar and their ilk. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city bus service to resume from Monday ||The steel city bus service will resume from Monday after two-and-half months providing relief to daily commuters. The bus service was stopped on April 22 due to a spike in cases of Covid-19 during the second wave. The Shikshit Berojgar Mini Bus Association which runs the bus service (popularly known as mini bus service) within the city has decided to operate buses from Monday following relaxations in lockdown rules. "The buses will resume operation from Monday with the prevailing old fare. Buses will run on all the scheduled routes," said Sanjay Pandey, president of the association. He went on to say that the buses will run with full capacity and that it will be mandatory for all passengers to wear masks. The senior functionary of the association said they will convene a meeting of the bus operators later this month to discuss the issue of hike in ticket fares. "All bus operators are passing through a difficult phase because of Covid-19 induced lockdown coupled with diesel price hike which has risen by about Rs 39 in the last three months. Therefore, it will be difficult for us to survive if we continue with the old fare, "he pointed out. The current diesel price in Jamshedpur has crossed Rs 94 per litre while it was around Rs 65 in March. On an average around 90 buses used to ply from the Sakchi-based bus stand for various destinations daily. But, because of the pandemic, the number of buses have been reduced to around 40 which run in places like Telco, Govindpur, Tatanagar station, Baridih, Sundernagar, Adityapur and Kandra. Several bus operators demanded the district administration to clear their outstanding dues for the service which they had provided during the lockdown last year for ferrying migrant workers from Tatanagar railway station to their respective home districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||State gears up for vaccination of pregnant women||Jharkhand is getting ready to vaccinate pregnant women against Covid-19, for which it will impart special training to frontline workers, vaccinators and others involved to counsell recipents about the benefits and  potential risks of the vaccine, health officials said on Saturday. Besides, the state will also hold orientation of members from professional bodies such as the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Society of India (FOGSI), the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and others so that information related to vaccination of pregnant women can be passed on to others. “Programme staff members working at PHCs (Primary Healthcare Centres), CHCs (Community Healthcare Centres) and even in private clinics will be trained for counselling pregnant women so that the beneficiaries can take an informed decision of getting vaccinated,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. The Union health ministry has allowed vaccination for pregnant women, claiming that the benefits of vaccination far outweigh the risks. The decision was taken following recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group for Immunisation (NTAGI). However, the ministry has also issued detailed guidelines related to vaccination of expecting mothers, and warned of rare yet severe side effects within 20 days of vaccination. The health ministry has not specified any additional precautions to be taken during vaccination of pregnant women who were also suffering from anaemia, malnutrition or had a low body mass index (BMI), sources in the state health department said. In Jharkhand, several rural women suffer from anaemia and other nutritional deficiencies, and the effect of vaccination on such pregnant women is not clear. While most pregnant women might respond well to the vaccine and show only minor side effects like mild fever and body ache, some vaccinated women may experience shortness of breath, chest pain, persistent vomiting or seizures. Such side effects may need immediate medical attention, officials said. Frontline workers and vaccinators will also be imparted special training to help prospective beneficiaries get their slots using the Co-Win platform and guide them through the process in case they opt for walk-in vaccination, officials said. Since around 75 per cent of the state’s population lives in rural areas, teams of frontline workers would visit homes of pregnant women and counsel them about the importance and side effects of vaccination against Covid-19. As per Union health ministry guidelines, obstetriciand, paediatricians and neonatologists should be made part of district teams for monitoring adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) for proper investigation and reportage of side effects in vaccinated pregnant women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three in police net for selling drugs from home||In a major breakthrough against drugs peddling, police seized huge quantities of marijuana and prohibited drugs like Nitrosun-10 tablets from three houses in the densely-populated Garib Nawaz Colony under Jugsalai thana area on Saturday. The team led by deputy superintendent of police (Law and Order) Faiz arrested three persons, including a woman during the raid. Those arrested were identified as Mohammed Nausad (40), Amzad Ali (46) and Shamima Begum (46), all residents of Garib Nawaz Colony. From the houses of those arrested, the police team recovered stocks of Nitrosun-10 tablets, marijuana and Correx whitener. The OC of Jugsalai thana Tarun Kumar said they had received a tip-off that some drug-peddlers are selling narcotic drugs and other intoxicating substances from their houses in Garib Nawaz Colony. "On the basis of the tip off, superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat set up a raiding team led by DSP (Law and Order) Faiz Akram on Saturday morning.  A police party surrounded the entire colony and raided the houses of the suspects. During the search operation, the team found the stocks of marijuana, Nitrosun-10 tablets and Correx whitener from the houses of all the three accused," said Kumar while addressing a media conference. The OC said the Nitrosun-10 tablet which is highly-intoxicating is sold at medical stores on production of medical prescription only. "Now, after a huge quantity of Nitrosun-10 tablets were recovered from the houses of the three accused, the police are trying to find out the medical store that had supplied them. The accused would sell the tablets to addicts at a wishful rate, "the police officer pointed out. The police are also trying to find out the shop that had supplied the seized Correx whitener in large numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant cash award promise for Tokyo-bound: Rs 2cr for gold, Rs 1cr for silver, Rs 75 lakh for bronze||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday announced a cash award of Rs 50 lakh for star archer Deepika Kumari who had grabbed a hat-trick of gold medals as India made an unprecedented clean sweep at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris last month for a perfect build-up to the Tokyo Olympics in less than a month's time. The chief minister also declared cash awards of Rs 2 crore for winning gold in Tokyo Olympics Games to be held from July 23 and August 8, Rs 1 crore for winning silver and Rs 75 lakh for bronze for the Jharkhand players. For archers Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari, Hemant announced a cash reward of Rs 20 lakh each while for coach Purnima Mahto Rs 12 lakh. For Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete who have been selected in the Indian Hockey team for Olympics, Hemant announced Rs 5 lakh each. "Chief Minister announced cash awards for our champions. Deepika - Rs 50 lakhs, Anikta and Komalika - Rs 20 lakh each, Salima and Nikki - Rs 5 lakh each & Coach Purnima Mahto Rs 12 lakhs. "CM also announced cash rewards for winning Olympic medals - Gold- Rs 2 crore, silver - Rs one crore & Bronze- Rs 75 lakhs," Chief Minister's office said. The CM also interacted with the players and Dronacharya awardee Punima Mahato virtually. Star Indian archer Deepika Kumari last month had regained the number one position in global rankings following her hat- trick of gold medals at the World Cup Stage 3 here. The 27-year-old from Ranchi, who had achieved the top spot for the first time in 2012, had claimed gold medals in three recurve events -- women's individual, team and mixed pair. "This is going to take Deepika to the number one spot in the world rankings on Monday," World Archery had tweeted on its official handle after Deepika's gold rush. Deepika first combined with Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari to notch up the women's recurve team gold with a comfortable win over Mexico. Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, two Jharkhand girls, will be part of India's 16-member women's hockey squad for the Tokyo Olympics Games to be held from July 23 and August 8 and Jharkhand had termed it a "proud moment" for state. Jharkhand is known for producing world-class women archers and female hockey players. "Proud moment for us as our girls Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete make it to the final 16. Best wishes to Team India and our girls from Jharkhand. May the team comes out in bright flying colours," chief minister Hemant had earlier tweeted. Pradhan hails from Hesal village in tribal heartland Khunti, about 65 km from state capital, Ranchi. Though she picked up hockey stick at a tender age, she fine tuned her skills at Bariatu Girls' Hockey Centre, Ranchi which has also produced former India hockey captain Asunta Lakra. Indian Women's Hockey Team midfielder Pradhan, 27, earlier became the first hockey player from Jharkhand to participate in the Olympic Games when she played for India at the Rio Games. While Nikki is a seasoned midfielder in the Indian squad, Indian women's hockey team's young midfielder Salima Tete having debuted for India in early 2017 against Belarus was touted to be the next big thing in Indian hockey. Tete, 19, hails from a small hamlet in Simdega district, Jharkhand and has since proved her potential in the Indian team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand traders welcome retail and wholesale inclusion in MSME||Various trade outfits on Friday welcomed the decision of the Union government for the inclusion of retail and wholesale trades in Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME). Nitin Gadkari, the minister of MSME and road transport, on Friday announced revised guidelines for MSMEs with inclusion of retail and wholesale trades as MSMEs. The retail and wholesale trade were left out of the ambit of MSME. Now under the revised guidelines, retail and wholesale trade will also get the benefit of priority sector lending as per RBI guidelines. With the revised guidelines the retail and wholesale trades will also be allowed to register on Udyam Registration Portal, which enables any person who intends to establish a micro, small or medium enterprise to file online, based on self-declaration with no requirement to upload documents, papers, certificates or proof. "The trader community across the country is jubilant because of their inclusion under the definition of MSME. We thank the Union government for taking such a big decision for the business community of the country," said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the apex body of small traders talking to The Telegraph Online. Suresh Sonthalia, the national secretary of CAIT and former vice- president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( FJCCI ) said around 1crore traders in Jharkhand will benefit with the Centre's decision of including retail and wholesale trades in MSME. "We have been raising this issue and have been following it up with the Union commerce and MSME ministry for more than a year. The decision will benefit more than eight crore small businesses of the country. In Jharkhand alone around one crore traders who have GST registration would be benefitted. The inclusion in MSME will help them in getting loans and bill payments besides other benefits," he explained. According to Sonthalia, with this decision, the traders will fall under the MSME category and will be able to avail requisite finances from the banks and financial institutions under priority sector lending. Besides, now the traders will also be enjoying several other benefits of various other government schemes which are being enjoyed by the MSME sector. "Today is a  big day for us. It's a victory for the business community of the country which is providing employment to about 40 crore people and generating an annual turnover of Rs 115 lakh crore, " added Sonthalia. Leading trade outfit of Kolkan region - Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI ) too was upbeat with the decision. SCCI's general Secretary Bharat Vasani said , "The Covid pandemic affected traders will now be able to restore their businesses by obtaining necessary finances from the banks which were earlier denied to them. This step of the government will prove to be a milestone step in reviving not only the economy but even the most vibrant retail trade of India."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand teachers appeal to JPSC chief for 'justice' in CBI exam probe ||A total of 35 university and college teachers of Jharkhand, mentioned in a CBI chargesheet for alleged reconstruction of merit list by Jharkhand Public Service Commissioner, petitioned JPSC chairman Amitabh Choudhary seeking his intervention to ensure justice for them. The group of 35 petitioners, out of total 59 charge sheeted teachers, presently posted in different colleges and universities of Jharkhand have pointed out in their petition that the “arbitrary, illegal and unauthorised” reconstruction of  merit list by JPSC provided to the investigating agency led to them being charge sheeted. They are compelled to lead a life of indignity for more than a decade due to charges of criminal conspiracy, forgery against them. The petitioners in the letter sent to Choudhary on Friday further enumerated that the charges of fraudulence as mentioned in the CBI charge sheet of 2019 is based on the “wrong assumption” that merit list pertaining to their selection of 2006 was to be made on the basis of marks obtained in paper 3 of 200 marks related to their subject but the fact remains that the merit list was to be prepared on the average marks of all the three papers taken together. Notably, altogether 767 candidates qualified in JET Exam held in 2006 and after the interview conducted for appointment of lecturers in 2007 731candidates were recommended for appointment in 2008. Following a complaint of irregularity in the JET exam, a probe was instituted by CBI on the instruction of Jharkhand High Court in 2012. “The University Grants Commission guidelines, however clearly states that in order to qualify the examinees must obtain minimum qualifying marks in Paper 1st (multiple choice related to teaching aptitude) and 2nd paper (multiple choice pattern related to subject) separately (of 100 marks each) and also taken together,“ said one of the petitioners, Amitabh Bharti . “The UGC guideline further states that the result should be prepared on the basis of average marks of all the three papers taken together of only those candidates who secure minimum qualifying marks in Paper 3,” further says the petition. “All of us have actually obtained more marks than the required minimum marks in each paper separately, and also above average cut off marks of three papers,” reads the petition. “We have been just dragged into this Built-Up Case in a most unjust, unfair and degrading way and manner, without any rhyme and reason,” reads the petition. “The reconstructed merit list instead of merit list ought to be prepared as per UGC guidelines, provided to CBI by JPSC led to our being charge sheeted in case.” “We, therefore, request you to kindly intervene, if legally feasible, into the issue, not only in order to restore and retain the social image, reputation, dignity, and popular trust in JPSC, but also to provide protection and justice to the humble college and university teachers who are being subjected to uncalled for accusations, victimisations, persecutions and social humiliations in our everyday life,” further reads the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand board unveils 80:20 formula for matric, intermediate results ||Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) has devised a formula, based on a combination of marks obtained in its own examinations and those awarded by  schools, to formulate results of matriculation and intermediate students whose board examinations had to be cancelled this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Saturday, JAC officials indicated they were working to declare final results by the end of the month. As per the evaluation pattern devised by JAC along with the state education department, results of Class 10 will be based on Class 9 results while results of Class 12 will be on the basis of performace in Class 11. In Jharkhand both Class 9 and Class 11 final exams are also conducted by JAC. Officials said the council has asked all government schools across all 24 districts to send in marks of the internal assessment/practical exams of  students by July 13. JAC officials spoke of a 80:20 ratio while formulating final results. “Eighty per cent of the total marks of a student will be given on the basis of performance in Class 9 or Class 11 while 20 per cent marks will be based on internal assessment or scores achieved during this year’s practical exams to be sent by the school/district committee,” explained a JAC official. Over 7 lakh students had enrolled for matric and intermediate exams this year. Before the Covid lockdown was clamped in Jharkhand in April, JAC had already conducted offline practical exams for more than 70 per cent students. “For the remaining students, we have sent a proposal to the state disaster management department for holding practical exams. It will be held after getting its nod, either online or offline. For arts and commerce streams in intermediate, we will simply take into account the internal assessment of  schools since these subjects have no practicals,” said a JAC official, adding that the remaining practical exams can be completed in a day or two if and when the government gives a go-ahead. JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh said they had started work on the results. “We are trying to prepare and announce the result by this month- end,” he said. On the modalities of calculating the 80 per cent marks, he said that JAC would not face any problem. “The unique thing about Class 9 and Class 11 exams in Jharkhand is that these are also conducted by JAC unlike many other states. We already have a database of marks for both the classes. So there won’t be any problem in assessing students based on their past performance,” he said. The Jharkhand government cancelled this year’s state board matric and intermediate exams on June 10 after the outbreak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. While making the announcement, chief minister Hemant Soren said that JAC and the state education department had been directed to devise a formula and prepare results in sync with other boards so that students did not face problems while seeking admission to institutes of higher education or appearing for competitive exams. On June 17, JAC submitted its evaluation criteria  to the state education department after several rounds of meetings with various stakeholders. Even though the department has not yet made an official announcement about having accepted the formula, sources said that chief minister had given his consent. “All schools and district education superintendents have been asked to upload the 20 per cent marks for their students only through the JAC website,” said an official in the JAC secretary’s office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||SC upset at Jharkhand High Court for summoning senior officers on bail case||The Supreme Court has expressed displeasure over the Jharkhand High Court orders summoning senior state officials while allowing an anticipatory bail plea of a man, saying the HC went outside the scope of the case and can at best register a public interest litigation if it finds that the factual scenario supports such an action. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Krishna Murari, in its order passed on June 29, said that there is no requirement of appearance of the officers and since the proceedings arising before the high court judge from the anticipatory bail application having been closed, nothing survives in those proceedings. The bench was hearing an appeal filed by the Jharkhand government against the high court's two orders dated April 9 and April 13 in which it had summoned senior state government officials, including the chief secretary, home secretary and the health secretary, asking them why contempt action should not be initiated against them. In its appeal, the state government has said that the high court in an unprecedented manner, unknown to law, has continued with the said proceedings and has passed a slew of directions of a general nature pertaining to the State on the alleged lapses on the part of investigating officers and government doctors resulting in alleged false prosecution of the accused, who had applied the for anticipatory bail. The high court was hearing an anticipatory bail plea of Dhanbad resident Basir Ansari, who has been booked under section 49A of IPC and other provisions after his wife Anjum Bano committed suicide in her maternal home within one year of marriage. Ansari has submitted that their marriage was solemnized on July 7, 2018 and after his wife complained of abdominal pain in August 2018, an ultrasound was done and it was found that she was pregnant by three months. The father of Anjum Bano was informed and she was handed over to her father, who took her to his village, and the premature pregnancy was terminated. Thereafter, Anjum Bano committed suicide in her own native place, Basir had said. The high court noted in its order that the autopsy of Anjum Bano was conducted by Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak but in the post-mortem report, he has not mentioned the premature termination of pregnancy of the deceased soon before her death. The high court had then directed the chief secretary to verify the certificates of all the doctors practicing in Jharkhand either on the government side or the private side. On April 9, the high court had noted that the affidavit filed by the chief secretary was not in compliance with the earlier orders of the court as he had failed to mention the enrolment number of Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak for whose conduct the case was lingering before the court since 2018. It, thereafter, went on to summon the chief secretary, home secretary and the health secretary on the same day through virtual mode, but the officials did not appear and later cited their busy schedule owing to issues related to COVID-19 management as the reason for their absence. The top court noted that the high court judge proceeded to look into many other aspects dehors (outside) the aspect of anticipatory bail, on account of the alleged conduct of Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak who had conducted the autopsy and was alleged not to have mentioned that the deceased was pregnant . It said, “The said fact is stated to have come to light only when the ultrasound report was filed along with the anticipatory bail application. It is this nature of proceedings which have troubled the State of Jharkhand which has come up in Special Leave Petitions.” The bench said that the HC can register a public interest litigation if it finds that the factual scenario supports such an action. "Insofar as the betterment of the criminal justice system is concerned", which was cited by the HC in its orders, "the case at best would be a public interest litigation if something survives in the same", the apex court said. The apex court said "the relevant papers should be placed before the Chief Justice of the High Court on the administrative side for examination whether the factual scenario calls upon the matter to be entertained as a public interest litigation (PIL) or not. "If it is so entertained, then it should be so registered only as public interest litigation, the bench said. Additional Advocate General Arunabh Chowdhury, appearing for the Jharkhand government, submitted that the orders passed by the high court do not paint a very happy picture on account of all officers being summoned to court, more so, in view of the apex court having cautioned against unnecessary summoning officers and that too in proceedings of the nature of anticipatory bail where the issue came to an end. He said that if the order dated April 13, is perused, really nothing would survive as the explanation of the officials concerned has been recorded with the assistance of an amicus curiae. That apart, the nature, scope, width and ambit of the orders passed by the high court are way beyond the powers and jurisdiction vested in the court under section 438 of the code and the high court has delved into issues/domain beyond the powers of the court exercising jurisdiction under section 438 of the code , it said. The state government said that the high court did not have the jurisdiction to deal with the issues which the court had raised suo-motu before itself and proceeded to express the opinion on the same including passing drastic orders for initiation of contempt against the officials of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two Jharkhand teachers selected for national awards ||Two teachers from Jharkhand have been selected for national awards given by the Union ministry of education for their innovative teaching methods using technology. Shweta Sharma, 44, an assistant teacher with Vivekanand Middle School in Deoghar district, and Nirupama Kumari, 40, a teacher at Ram Rudra Plus Two High School at Chas in Bokaro, are among the 24 teachers selected from across the country for the National ICT (Information and Communication Technology) Awards for 2019. The award comprising an ICT kit, a laptop and a commendation certificate would be given to the 24 teachers. No teacher from Jharkhand had been selected for the award since 2010. The selection was done by a jury set up by the Central Institute of Educational Technology under the guidelines of the Union education ministry. The jury considered 205 entries (both for 2018 and 2019) received from 28 states/Union Territories and five autonomous bodies. After evaluating the presentations done through online mode between February 5 and 11 this year, the jury recommended the names which were later approved by the ministry. “It (the award) would certainly motivate us more in using ICT tools. I had set up a digiclass in elementary schools of Deoghar on my own and used ICT tools for blended teaching and created state-specific subject-based content. I also took training and orientation of teachers through the ‘Deoghar Quizathon’ and also at state-level for online classes with the latest ICT apps and tools. I converted textbook lessons into comics to make the content more attractive. I am planning to create an English speaking course app for government school students,” said Shweta. She has also created video content for elementary and secondary students on a YouTube channel which has over 6,000 and 5,000 subscribers respectively and extensively used special animations and live tools for education videos. Bokaro-based Nirupama, an assistant Hindi teacher, made videos using former students for teachers in the Digisath programme (digital content through WhatsApp). “In order to have community participation in the Digisath program, I created video content using former students for teachers. I also developed content on a YouTube channel for digital education which had nearly 3,800 subscribers, 3.5 lakh viewers and 12,000 hours of watch time. I also made my own website (www.econtenthindi.org). I helped students learn about the usage of ICT in small groups,” said Nirupama, who has also won the National Teachers Award 2020. Two other teachers selected from eastern India include Kangkan Kishor Dutta from a government school in Assam and Sukanya De, who teaches in an ICSE affiliated school in Bengal. “We disclose the state of the selected teachers from the state quota but we do not disclose the states of the teachers from the autonomous boards like CBSE and ICSE,” said CIET joint director Amarendra P. Behera. However, a source in the CIET said the only teacher selected from the ICSE quota for 2019 is from Bengal while none of the teachers from CBSE, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samity (NVS) and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) are from eastern states. Three teachers from CBSE, two teachers from NVS and one teacher from KVS have been selected for the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
