04-07-2021||Calcutta||Don’t act as BJP lackey, Derek O’Brien tells solicitor general||Trinamul Congress continued its tirade against Solicitor Tushar Mehta over his alleged meeting with BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. Bengal’s ruling party’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said the senior advocate should not act as the saffron camps lackey. O’Brien, in a tweet, said Mehta should not represent or advise an accused in any case. Adhikari, once a TMC heavyweight, is also an accused in Narada tapes case and Saradha chit fund scam. “Impropriety. Act in a fair manner. Not as a BJP lackey,” O'Brien said. Mehta, however, denied meeting Adhikari, and said the BJP leader had visited his residence unannounced. The Upper House leader, in a dig at the solicitor general, further stated, “You gave a post-facto explanation after story broke....” Pointing out that there was a “conflict of interest” he added, “Even a Public Prosecutor (leave alone high office of SG!) cannot represent or advise the accused.” O'Brien's TMC colleague in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, said he and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra would meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to press for the ouster of Mehta as the solicitor general. Roy had on Saturday said a letter demanding his removal has also been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The senior TMC leader, during a press meet, also slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre over the soaring fuel prices, and said the saffron party owes an explanation to the people of this country. "The price of LPG is set to touch the Rs 1,000-mark, but this BJP government appears to be unmoved by the plight of common people," Roy added. He also demanded a "transparent probe" into the Rafale aircraft deal. "Why did the price of Rafale fighter aircraft go up thrice the initial bid? Why did the defence ministry still strike a deal? We want an answer," the TMC MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Two suffer burns in Jaya cinema hall fire||The caretaker of Jaya cinema hall in Lake Town and his wife suffered burns after a fire broke out on the top-floor of mini Jaya on Friday night. Caretaker Sonu Singh was treated and discharged from RG Kar hospital. His wife Anita was admitted there. The projector room, chairs and curtains of mini Jaya have been damaged, a fire official said. On Saturday, a forensic team visited the cinema and collected samples, an officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said. As many as 15 fire tenders fought the fire that broke out at around 9.20pm on Friday, a fire official said. According to the official, it had taken them a long time to “cool down” the hall and they had sprayed water on the surrounding buildings to check the fire from spreading. “According to our preliminary findings, the fire possibly broke out from a stove on which Singh was cooking dinner,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Co-founder of Assembly of God Church Mission passes away in Oklahoma City ||Huldah Buntain, the co-founder of Assembly of God Church Mission Calcutta, passed away in Oklahoma City in the US on Friday. She was 96 and was living with her daughter. The mission has churches and schools. There are 14 schools in English and vernacular mediums in Bengal. “The last time that she came to the city was in January 2020 for the founder’s day programme just before the pandemic,” said Lionel Chellappa, principal, Assembly of God Church School, Park Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission works out admission process||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen prospective students based on a candidate’s performance in the secondary and plus-II board exams and online viva in some of the subjects. “Some of the departments think in the absence of the Class XII board exams, an online viva will help them screen candidates,” said principal Swami Ekachittananda. A meeting by the admission committee of the institute on Wednesday had decided that an undergraduate aspirant would be screened solely on the basis of marks in Class-X and XII board exams in three subjects — English, political science and economics. The institute has scrapped admission tests on the campus this year because of the pandemic. An official of the college said, from the faculty of science, physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, microbiology, zoology and industrial chemistry would conduct a viva over digital platforms to select the students from a pool of candidates shortlisted based on marks. In humanities, Bengali, Sanskrit, philosophy and history will hold the online viva. “We left it to the departments to decide what they deem fit to select a student. Some of the departments are of the view that since the boards and the councils this year will prepare the plus-II results based on performance of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively, holding an online viva was a must to screen a bright student,” Swami Ekachittananda told Metro. Swami Ekachiitananda said the dates of the submission of form would be announced once the boards announce the dates of publication of results. Asked on how the three departments — English, political science and economics that have decided not to conduct  online viva — would select their students in case the marks of the shortlisted candidates were tied, principal Swami Ekachittananda said: “In that case, a tie-breaking methodology would be applied. Details would be announced on the website of the college.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Accomplice’ of Debanjan Deb arrested in fake jab camp case||Police have arrested an alleged accomplice of Debanjan Deb, the prime accused in the fake vaccine camp case, for organising an alleged fake drive for the teachers and staff of a north Calcutta college last month. Indrajit Shaw, 46, a Tangra resident, was arrested in front of Central Metro station on Friday evening, the police said. Shaw, a former student of the same north Calcutta college, had introduced Deb to the college authorities and organised a camp where 72 persons including teachers, non-teaching staff and some students were “vaccinated” on June 18, sources said. The college authorities lodged a complaint with Amherst Street police station after Deb’s alleged fraud was unearthed. Deb and his accomplices had claimed that the camp was being organised on behalf of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and hence was free. Shaw was also the “head clerk” at Deb’s Kasba office, the police said. “Indrajit Shaw was extremely close to Deb and was part of his projects,” said an employees who worked at the Kasba office. Shaw, booked for cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy, was produced before a city court on Saturday and remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Caretaker held for stealing cash, bottles of liquor and paint drums from three houses in Salt Lake  ||The caretaker of a house in Salt Lake’s BE block has been arrested for allegedly stealing cash, bottles of liquor and paint drums from three houses in the same block. Police said Subhendu Bauria, the caretaker of BE 54 had targeted at least three houses in the same block over the past week. Bauria was arrested from his third-floor room of the BE Block house after the cops scanned a CCTV camera footage installed on a house opposite BE 113 from where he had allegedly lifted liquor bottles, paint cans and a personal weighing scale, an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said. Bauria had allegedly first entered BE 229 early on Sunday scaling the rainwater drainpipe to the roof of the two-storey building and entered a room on the roof whose door was left open. “He then took Rs 60,000 kept inside a briefcase that had the key right next to it before going downstairs and taking a wallet,” said the officer. Sudipto Roy stays with his wife and daughter on the ground floor of the building. Roy’s brother Sumit lives with his wife, son and his daughter-in-law on the first floor of the building. “All of us were in the house except my daughter. The room on the roof is occupied by one of my acquaintances. He raised the alarm after he noticed that the briefcase was open and the cash was missing. When we checked I found that my wallet had also not there,” Sudipto said. An officer said Bauria then went into BE 113 through an open window on the stairwell. From there bottles of liquor, juice cartons, several paint bottles, which owner Tapas Piplai had kept as house repair work was on, went missing, the officer said. A few days later the owner another house — BE 119 — found that some cash was missing from the house. He  and the others filed police complaints. During questioning, Bauria revealed that the owner of the house where he was employed as a caretaker had passed away. His wife, too, is no more, the officer added. “He told us that he had fallen under extreme financial trouble as his salary had stopped.” The police have recovered some of the stolen items and cash. Bauria has been charged under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. If proven guilty after a trial Bauria can be sent to jail for three years. He was produced before a court in Salt Lake that sent him to police custody. Stolen and returned A gearless scooter that was parked on the driveway of a CF Block house was stolen on June 27. Owner Mousumi Chatterjee had lodged a complaint at Bidhannagar North police station after she noticed that the scooty had gone missing. According to the complaint, CCTV footage from a camera installed on a wall of the house caught a man walking the scooter out. However, Chatterjee spotted the scooty parked outside her house on Friday morning. “We again checked the footage and spotted two men parking it before walking away. We tracked the men down and have arrested them,” an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to hold elections of students’ council over digital platforms on July 26||IIT Kharagpur will hold elections of its students’ council over digital platforms on July 26. Bhargab Maitra, a professor of the institute who has been appointed election officer, has issued a notice to announce that the elections would be held between 9am and 6pm through a specialised digital platform. The platform would be developed on the institute’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) portal. Since the elections will be held digitally, videos of the candidates explaining their proposals will be put on the official Technology Students Gymkhana (TSG) website and TSG Facebook page. The proposals will be posted after verification by the election officer. The students have been asked to join their relevant Google groups to get updates on the nomination and election process. All the election related notifications will be published on the website and the Facebook page developed for the purpose of elections. The TSG website will also provide details on how to file the nominations. The election was held last on the campus in 2019. Over the past 14 months a nominated council was operating as the students’ body. Now the institute will have an elected council. An official of the institute said since the classes and the exams were being successfully held on digital platforms over the past 16 months, they wanted to conduct elections over this platform. “An elected students’ body represents the opinion of students effectively. A nominated students’ council handpicked by the authorities cannot do that...,” the official said. All the students enrolled with IIT Kharagpur till May 1, 2021 will be eligible to vote for their respective candidates. After the submission of proposals, the institute will create an online platform called soap-box, where the aspirants for the posts of vice-president and general secretaries will address the electorate on July 23 and 24 regarding their candidature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||The untold story of Northern Ireland as it turns 100||In the same way an Indian diplomat in London represents West Bengal, Haryana, Kerala and Maharashtra, I represent the four nations of the United Kingdom: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Those on the island of Britain make up Great Britain. Hence, we use the brand “GREAT Britain and Northern Ireland”. We are celebrating the centenary of the creation of Northern Ireland. And believe me, as someone who has visited Northern Ireland and fallen in love with the place, it’s every bit as GREAT as Britain.  The history of the last century has certainly been complex.  Marking the occasion, Prime Minister Boris Johnson invited people to pause and reflect; but also to celebrate all the brilliant things Northern Ireland contributes. And there is much to celebrate. The basis of a happy and fulfilled life is education. So, let’s start there. Northern Ireland has the best performing education system for primary maths in Europe, and the sixth best in the world. Students consistently outperform other UK regions at GCSE and A-Level.  Queen’s University Belfast is a member of the Russell Group of 24 leading UK research-intensive universities and ranked in the top 1 per cent of universities worldwide. Ulster University has nearly 27,000 students and one of the largest provisions in computing in the UK and Ireland. It is in the world’s Top 150 young universities. Students flock to Northern Ireland. And so do investors. As Paul Vienneau, CTO of Cayan, puts it “the people of Northern Ireland are some of the most passionate, devoted, dedicated and skilled individuals that I have ever had the opportunity to work with.” Almost 900 international companies have invested in Northern Ireland and nearly 75 per cent of new inward investors reinvest. And why wouldn’t they? Operating costs are 20-30 per cent less than the rest of the UK and Europe. Belfast is the world’s most Business Friendly City of its size. Let’s talk tech. Belfast is the top city globally for fintech development projects and Europe’s leading location for new software development projects. Investors include Allstate, CyberSource, Fujitsu, Cayan, BT, Arris and WANdisco. That’s not all. Belfast is the leading destination city globally for US investment in cyber security development projects. Gary Steele, CEO of Proofpoint Inc., knows a thing or two about tech. He says “we have been very impressed with the technology ecosystem in Northern Ireland, which shares many of the characteristics of Silicon Valley, including access to world-class cyber security research at Queen’s University”. Northern Ireland has a strong engineering heritage with an international reputation. Its companies develop innovative components for the aerospace, automotive, technology, energy and space sectors. One in five of the world’scomputer hard drives has parts made here and Northern Ireland produces over 30 per cent of the world’s aircraft seats. CDE Global from Cookstown, whom you’ll find across the Hooghly from my office in Calcutta, is the world’s number one wet processing equipment company for sand, aggregates and much else. Innovation is in Northern Ireland’s DNA. Lord Kelvin, the father of modern science, was born in Belfast in 1824. John Boyd Dunlop invented the pneumatic tyre there in 1888. In 1917, Harry Ferguson patented the technology that led to the modern tractor. And the portable defibrillator was designed in Northern Ireland in the 1960s by Professor Frank Pantridge. It’s a tradition that continues with innovation in the fields of fintech, mobile telecoms, cyber security, digital imaging, AI and remote sensors. There’s more. Much more. Northern Ireland’s food and drink products are available in more than70 countries. It’s a £5 billion industry and Northern Ireland’s largest manufacturing sector. Did you know that Bushmills Distillery is the oldest licensed whiskey distillery in the world? Northern Ireland is also a global production centre for film and television. HBO’s legendary Game of Thrones was filmed in Northern Ireland. Other big names such as Universal Pictures, BBC and Disney have chosen Northern Ireland for recent productions; and Belfast’s Titanic Studios is one of the most modern film and television production studios in Europe. “But what’s it really like?” I hear you say. Well, research shows Northern Ireland’s people are the happiest in the UK. And with a low crime rate, stunning scenery, fabulous beaches, historical landmarks everywhere, great schools, world-class healthcare and the friendliest people you’ll ever meet, it’s not hard to see why. ⚫ The author is the British deputy high commissioner to Calcutta. He represents the UK Government in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura and West Bengal and in the Union Territory of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. He tweets at @NickDLow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council reduces syllabuses for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams||The ICSE council has reduced the syllabuses of English and other Indian languages for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2022 exams. The syllabus restructuring will not be limited to the languages. “...the CISCE has initiated the process of syllabus review for various subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels specifically for Classes X and XII, for the Examination Year 2022, to identify portions of the syllabus which may be reduced, without compromising on the quality of content,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), said in a circular to heads of affiliated schools on Friday. The council cancelled the ICSE and the ISC 2021 exams because of the pandemic. Schools have been shut since March last year as a precuation against Covid and classes are being held online. Schools across the country “continue to struggle to cope with the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns...,” Friday’s circular said. Aside from the loss of instructional hours during the past year, “teaching-learning processes have also been impacted due to the... alternate modes of syllabus transaction that needed to be adopted, due to the closure of schools”. Principals have been asked to intimate those concerned. For example, in ICSE English Paper 2 (Literature), the reduced syllabus for Class X is Act III, IV and V of Merchant of Venice, four poems and four short stories. In ISC English Paper 2 (Literature), the Class XII syllabus is Act III, IV and V of The Tempest, five short stories and five poems. Several English teachers said that the division can be watertight for prose and poetry but not for Shakespeare’s plays. “The plays require students to understand them as a whole and it is difficult to limit it to a few acts,” said a teacher. But principals said that given the current pandemic situation, the reduction would lessen the pressure. “No one knows how things will pan out in the next six months. There will be no pressure to complete the syllabus and instead, we have asked teachers to focus on language building skills,” said a principal. The circular to principals said that the CISCE “is also carrying out syllabus reduction in several other subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with its subject experts”. In February this year, the Bengal government had allowed schools to reopen and some of them conducted onsite pre-boards exams but after a fresh surge of infections, schools had to shut down. The council in the circular has said that there is uncertainty about when schools across the country will be able to return to normality. “In the eventuality of the need for further reduction in the syllabus, it is imperative that the concerned subject teachers transact the syllabus strictly according to the sequence of topics given in the syllabus. This will ensure that all CISCE affiliated schools are broadly teaching the same topics at any given point of time as well as facilitate subsequent reduction in syllabus, if required,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Yellow taxi crashes into private car near Calcutta Municipal Corporation, driver dead||The driver of a yellow taxi died after his vehicle crashed into a private car in front of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation garage on AJC Bose Road around 3.10pm on Saturday. Driver Sheikh Salam, 37, of Sonarpur, had slammed into the steering wheel and received injuries on his chest. He was declared dead at NRS hospital. A woman who was in the passenger’s seat was injured, police said. She was treated and discharged from the hospital. “We are trying to ascertain... if there was a mechanical fault in the taxi or if the private car had suddenly pressed the brake,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Spiralling LPG prices push owners of small eateries to the brink ||The price of a 19kg LPG commercial cylinder in July 2020 was around Rs 1,200. In July 2021, it comes at around Rs 1,600. The spiralling fuel prices have pushed the owners of many small eateries to the brink. The steep rise in the prices of raw materials, most notably edible oil, has only made things worse, they said. Saibal Ghosh, the owner of a fast-food centre in Behala, said a year ago, making a plate of mixed fried rice would cost him around Rs 85-90, including the overhead expenses. Now, making the same dish costs him around Rs 115-120. “There has been a 30 per cent rise in the production cost. From vegetables to chicken to eggs and prawn, everything has become costlier. But I have not been able to increase my price because that would further reduce the already dipping footfall,” said Ghosh. Ghosh needs around 25 cylinders (19kg) at his eatery every month. This time last year, he was buying 15 litre of cooking oil for Rs 1,700 from a wholesaler. Now, the same quantity costs him Rs 2,300. Across Calcutta, the owners of eateries shared a similar plight of dropping margins. Irfan Ali, who sells biryanis at a joint in the Dalhousie area, has been buying 17kg commercial cylinders at around Rs 1,400. The price was around Rs 1,000 last year. He had three employees, one cook, one to serve customers and one to wash dishes. Now, there are just two of them. The person serving biryani has been washing the dishes. “If things continue to be this bad, I will have to stick with just one cook and serve customers myself,” said Ali. The spiralling fuel prices have also contributed to the rise in the cost of raw materials. A litre of diesel cost a little over Rs 75 in Calcutta this time last year. On Saturday, it sold at around Rs 91 per litre. The rising transportation costs have had a cascading effect on the prices of vegetables across markets in the city. The Covid-19 curbs have reduced the number of off-the-shelf orders. Some people are still weary about outside food. The number of online orders has gone up but working with online aggregators is like a double-edged sword, said the owners of the joints. “Working with online aggregators ensures an increase in volume of orders. But the margin in each order is negligible. I have to pay a commission of over 20 per cent to the aggregator. The pricing is focused on discounts and offers to lure more customers...,” said the co-owner of an Asian eatery in south Calcutta. Till just before the pandemic, the eatery meant a 25-seater joint at Jadavpur. But the virus has forced the eatery shut for diners for good. The owners have converted it into a cloud kitchen to stay afloat. They are now dependent on online orders only. “The rise in the price of cooking gas and cooking oil has bled me the most,” said the owner. Sukalyan Datta, the owner of Crystal Chimney, a Chinese joint among the office crowd in Chandni Chowk area, summed up the mood. “Survival is primary now. Profit is secondary,” he said. Datta has not reduced his employee pool but has stopped giving yearly bonuses and hikes. “The bulk orders have gone down. I am focussing on customising the items on offer. Earlier, we used to serve four pieces of chicken in a half plate of chilli chicken and eight in a full plate. Now, we have started serving six pieces as an additional option. People are not ready to spend anything beyond their immediate needs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
04-07-2021||Calcutta||How city boy coped with Canada’s heatwave||As Canadians celebrate Canada Day, a national holiday to celebrate the formation of the Canadian confederacy, a searing and punishing ‘heat dome’, which has been gripping much of the Pacific Northwest this past week, has begun tapering off in western Canada. In the past week, the city of Edmonton, capital of Canada’s Alberta province, has witnessed some of its highest temperatures in 100 years, with each day since June 26 registering temperatures in the mid to high-30s and making multiple entries into Edmonton’s top five hottest days ever recorded. This led the city of Edmonton to activate its extreme weather response on June 26, which involves opening sites for people to take shelter from the heat, handing out water to those in need and more. For one of Canada’s northernmost metropolitan cities that experiences annual bouts of extreme snowfall and cold, a heat wave of this length and intensity was unexpected. It has led to a slew of panic buying of fans and air conditioning units. Parts of the city have also been instructed to conserve water-usage for shortages. Many Edmontonians have also been driven to book hotel rooms for the week to escape the searing and unrelenting heat that has, in some cases, cracked roads and melted plastic waste bins left in the sun. Students like me ran off from our one room stifling apartments to the cool basements of the university spaces and even the library. With daytime highs entering into the late-30s and nighttime lows barely going under 20 degrees, it has been very uncomfortable to sleep in the absence of a fan or some form of AC. I have even purchased a table fan in order to survive such extreme weather patterns. Though not as severe as areas like the US northwestern states of Oregon and Washington, or Alberta’s neighbouring province in the west, British Coloumbia (in some parts of which temperatures have reached nearly 50 degrees), the heatwave has proven to be a severely dangerous and, in many cases, a fatal phenomenon in Edmonton history over the past week. ⚫ The author is a student at the University of Alberta doing his masters in International Relations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
04-07-2021||Business||Colgate-Palmolive says 'well prepared' to meet business challenges||Leading oral care player Colgate-Palmolive India Ltd (CPIL) has said it is well prepared to meet challenges because of its strong financial position and its “continued focus” on key priorities. The company further said it is facing an “intense competition” in the oral care segment but its outlook for the industry remained positive given the size of the opportunity in this space. The company expects the challenging market conditions and unfavourable macro-economic conditions to continue, according to its latest annual results. However, CPIL believes it is well prepared to meet the challenges ahead because of  its strong financial condition, the experience of operating in challenging environments and continued focus on its key priorities, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||Home sales up 23 per cent across top seven cities: Report||Home sales rose 23 per cent across top seven cities in the country during the first five months of 2021. However, Calcutta witnessed a decline of 11 per cent during the same period, a report released by PropEquity showed. The research and analytics firm said home sales in Calcutta declined to 4,673 units between January and April 2021 from 5,267 units a year ago. One of the reasons behind this fall was that launches fell by 28 per cent to 2,391 units against 3339 last year. Apart from Calcutta, the National Capital Region also saw a slump of 20 per cent as it faced a major brunt of the second Covid-19 wave. However, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune witnessed a growth in home sales in the first five months of 2021 over last year. Sales in Bangalore were up 16 per cent, while Chennai recorded a 40 per cent growth in sales. Hyderabad house sales rose 39 per cent, while those in Mumbai rose 29 per cent and in Pune 34 per cent. Cumulatively, home sales rose 23 per cent across the top seven cities to 1,32,818 units against 1,08,199 units in the first five months of 2020. Majority of the sales happened till April 15, PropEquity added. “India witnessed the worst of the Covid wave in April and May, which drastically stopped almost all real estate activity. The worst is behind us... We expect home sales to bounce back faster as the recovery has been at a rapid pace,’’ Samir Jasuja, founder and managing director of PropEquity, said. “Business is picking up...We expect sales to improve in the next quarter for projects by fundamentally strong developers,’’ said Ankush Kaul, president (sales & marketing) of Ambience Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||E-retailers seek clarity on rules||Amazon Inc and Tata Group have warned government officials on Saturday that plans for tougher rules for online retailers would have a major impact on their business models, four sources familiar with the discussions have said. At a meeting organised by the consumer affairs ministry and the government’s investment promotion arm, Invest India, many executives expressed concerns and confusion over the proposed rules and asked that the July 6 deadline for submitting comments be extended, said the sources. Amazon said the proposed rules will have a huge impact on its sellers, arguing that some clauses were already covered by existing law. The proposed policy states e-commerce firms must ensure none of their related enterprises are listed as sellers on their websites. On that proposed clause, a representative of Tata Sons, the holding company of Tata Group, argued that it was problematic, citing an example to say it would stop Starbucks — which has a joint venture with the Tatas — from offering its products on Tata’s marketplace website. The Tata executive said the rules will have wide ramifications for the conglomerate, and could restrict sales of its private brands, according to two of the sources. The Tatas declined to comment. The clause could impact Amazon in particular as it holds an indirect stake in at least two of its sellers, Cloudtail and Appario. The sources said that a consumer ministry official argued that the rules were meant to protect consumers and were not as strict as those of other countries. The ministry did not respond to a request for comment. A Reliance executive agreed that the proposed rules would boost consumer confidence, but added that some clauses needed clarification. Reliance did not respond to request for comment. The rules were announced last month amid growing complaints from brickandmortar retailers that Amazon and Flipkart bypass foreign investment law using complex business structures. The companies deny any wrongdoing. The sources asked not to be named as the discussions were private. The government’s tough new ecommerce rules announced on June 21 aimed at strengthening protection for consumers, caused concern among the country’s online retailers, notably market leaders Amazon and Walmart Inc’s Flipkart. New rules limiting flash sales, barring misleading advertisements and mandating a complaints system, among other proposals, could force the likes of Amazon and Flipkart to review their business structures, and may increase costs for domestic rivals, including Reliance Industries’ JioMart, BigBasket and Snapdeal. A Reuters investigation in February cited Amazon documents that showed it gave preferential treatment to a small number of its sellers and bypassed foreign investment rules. Amazon has said it does not give favourable treatment to any seller. The government will soon issue certain clarifications on the foreign investment rules, Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal told reporters on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||BIS website, FAQs don't reflect key points on hallmarking: GJC writes to Goyal||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) website and FAQs do not capture many key points on hallmarking, discussed between the gems and jewellery industry and the government, causing confusion and disruption among jewellers, the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) said on Saturday. The industry body has written to Union minister for consumer affairs, Piyush Goyal, stating that the FAQs (frequently asked questions) released by BIS on their website have a lot of ambiguity and lack clarity, the GJC said in a statement. The website and FAQs do not mention or capture several key points that were discussed during a meeting between the industry stakeholders and the government on June 15, it said. “A very important point of one-time registration for jewellers and no renewal with BIS is still not clearly mentioned in the FAQs on the BIS website. Another significant point about hallmarking being applicable only at the first point of sale is also missing,” GJC chairman Ashish Pethe said. The elements of distribution, storage, transport, and exhibition for sale of jewellery (as mentioned in Section 15 of the BIS Act 2016) were not yet removed from the FAQs, Pethe added. “The points about manufacturers being given a chance to use their own logo in hallmarked jewellery and use of B2B (business to business) customer logo and login are also not mentioned,” he said. Pethe said it was communicated that the issue of HUID (hallmarking unique ID) will be put up for discussion and the final decision will be taken by a high-level committee. He also claimed that the BIS has already started to initiate six-digit HUID on jewellers indirectly. The BIS FAQs, under the heading ‘Under Mandatory System’ mentions that the registered jeweller has to visit the BIS portal and upload the jewellery items, pieces and weight on the software before sending goods for hallmarking. “However, during the earlier discussions, it was clarified that HUID and digitalisation would only be limited to the hallmarking centres and no jeweller will be involved,” Pethe added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
04-07-2021||India||Govt asks for suggestions on draft anti-trafficking bill||The Ministry of Women and Child Development has invited suggestions from stakeholders on the draft of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021. The objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, the Ministry said in a statement. It will provide care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, it added. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person found guilty of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term not less than seven years that may extend to 10 years. The convict shall also be liable to a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh that may extend up to Rs 5 lakh. Severe punishment has been proposed for offences classified as aggravated forms of trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Covid: CISCE lessens Class X, XII syllabus for 2022 exams||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has reduced the syllabus of Class 10 and Class 12 for the 2022 exams. Considering the struggle to cope with the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns in the country, CISCE, the board which conducts the ICSE Class 10th and ISC Class 12th annual exams, has reduced the syllabi of English and Indian Languages for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams. According to NDTV, the council has also said that it is carrying out syllabus reduction in several other subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with its subject experts, without compromising on the quality of content. “..CISCE has initiated the process of syllabus review for various subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels specifically for Classes 10 and 12, for the Examination Year 2022, to identify portions of the syllabus which may be reduced, without compromising on the quality of content,” said Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive and Secretary, CISCE in a statement issued to the heads of all affiliated schools. Students can access the revised syllabus for the 2022 exams on the official website of CISCE -- cisce.org and check the Regulations and Syllabuses link under ICSE and ISC tabs. “In the eventuality of the need for further reduction in the syllabus, it is imperative that the concerned subject teachers transact the syllabus strictly according to the sequence of topics given in the syllabus. This will ensure that all CISCE affiliated schools are broadly teaching the same topics at any given point of time as well as facilitate subsequent reduction in syllabus, if required,” the CISCE statement added. The Council, this year, had to cancel the Class 10 and Class 12 exams in view of the pandemic and considering the safety of the students. CISCE will use internal assessment marks, past performance to arrive at the ICSE 10th and ISC 12th results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Those indulging in lynching are against Hindutva: RSS chief||Asserting that the DNA of all Indians is the same, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. Addressing an event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch on the theme 'Hindustani First, Hindustan First', he said that people can't be differentiated on how they worship. He also took on those indulging in lynching, saying, "They are against Hindutava". Though at times, some false cases of lynching have been registered against people, Bhagwat said. "Don't get trapped in the cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India," he said at the event. Underlining that development is not possible without unity in the country, the RSS chief stressed that the basis of unity should be nationalism and the glory of ancestors. The only solution to Hindu-Muslim conflict is dialogue, not discord, he said. "Hindu-Muslim unity is misleading as they're not different, but one. DNA of all Indians are same, irrespective of religion," Bhagwat said. "We are in a democracy. There can't be a dominance of Hindus or Muslims. There can only be the dominance of Indians." While beginning his speech, Bhagwat said he was attending the event neither for any image makeover nor for vote bank politics. Bhagwat said neither the Sangh is in politics nor does it bother about maintaining an image. "It keeps on doing its work to strengthen the nation and for the welfare of all in the society," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Anil Deshmukh moves SC for protection in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action in a money laundering case. The Enforcement Directorate had, on Saturday, issued fresh summons to the NCP leader seeking his appearance on July 5 in the case. The ED has, so far, issued three notices to Deshmukh, who has been asked to record his statement at the central agency's office in south Mumbai on Monday. Deshmukh, 72, has moved the top court seeking protection from any coercive action, Mumbai-based advocate Inderpal B Singh said in a video message released for the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Ministry of Women and Child Development asks for suggestions on draft anti-trafficking bill||The Ministry of Women and Child Development has invited suggestions from stakeholders on the draft of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021. The objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, the Ministry said in a statement. It will provide care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, it added. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person found guilty of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term not less than seven years that may extend to 10 years. The convict shall also be liable to a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh that may extend up to Rs 5 lakh. Severe punishment has been proposed for offences classified as aggravated forms of trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Fadnavis accuses Maha govt of making mockery of democracy by cutting short monsoon session||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday slammed the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on the short duration of the monsoon session of the state legislature, beginning Monday, saying the ruling dispensation doesn't want to face the opposition as allegations of "extortion" are surfaced against some ministers which forced it to go in the "defensive mode". Addressing reporters, the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also accused the government of making a mockery of democracy by holding the session for just two days- July 5 and 6- "by giving the excuse of the COVID-19 pandemic". Meanwhile, when asked about his announcement of quitting politics if he fails to restore the OBC quota within three months after coming to power again, Fadnavis said, "'I said so because the government is not taking necessary steps. There will be no need for me to take sanyas. I will be in politics for another 25 years". He said allegations of extortion by ministers are surfacing due to which this government is avoiding facing the legislature. "But we will expose the government's real face. If we are not allowed to raise issues on the floor of the House, we will raise them in the people's forum. We will be aggressive but at the same time restrained while ensuring that people's issues are highlighted, he said. The former chief minister said the state government has so far held only 12 days of the legislature proceedings "by giving the excuse of the coronavirus pandemic" whereas Parliamentary proceedings were held for 70 days. Referring to the two-day duration of the monsoon session, Fadnavis said the government wanted to stop the members from asking questions using legislative tools on the floor of the House. "On the first day of the session (on Monday), supplementary demands will be tabled and condolence motion will be passed. There will be bills as well. On the second day, there will be a discussion on the supplementary demands. We are told that no other issues except what is budgeted in the supplementary demands can be raised. What if there is no provision regarding milk producers, paddy growers, crop insurance, Maratha and OBC quotas. Where should these issues be raised?'' he asked. Fadnavis said the MVA government has gone into a "defensive mode" as two of its ministers had to resign on different issues. He was apparently referring to resignations of Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena, who quit earlier this year after his name surfaced in connection with the alleged suicide of a young woman in Pune, and Anil Deshmukh of NCP who resigned after the high court directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary enquiry into allegations of corruption raised against him in April this year. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in March this year alleging that Deshmukh had asked some police officers, including (now dismissed) Sachin Waze, to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai per month. Deshmukh had denied the allegations. He is also facing the ED probe in connection with a money laundering case and his two aides were arrested. Allegations of extortion were also leveled against Transport Minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena. He had also denied these allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||US-based GASP joins hand with WUS to boost GDP of low-income workers||The US-based Global Alliance for a Sustainable Planet (GASP) has joined hands with IIT Kanpur-incubated start-up WUS to create environmental and social impact with a special focus on enhancing the "GDP of the low-income workers", a senior official of the Indian firm said on Sunday. The collaboration between the two entities follows Worker Unions Support's (WUS) selection for the 'Milestone Makers cohorts 2021' of Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center. WUS was the only Indian start-up among total 13 entities that were selected for the 'Milestone Makers cohorts 2021'. The Nasdaq programme provides mentorship and growth support to start-ups working on the UN's sustainable development goals (SDGs). "GASP and WUS will work jointly to deliver transformative environmental and social impact with a special focus on enhancing the GDP of the low-income workers," WUS founder and CEO Prasoon Sharma told PTI. He added that GASP enables system-scale transformation by leveraging private finance for the public good. "Through GASP, WUS can get access to mentors and finance to empower workers by reducing their carbon footprints. For example, we can provide green energy solutions, encouraging taxi drivers to turn to green fuels like electric vehicles, etc," Sharma said. The IIT-incubated start-up gained the mentorship of United Nations Environment Programme former executive director Erik Solheim and UN former assistant general secretary Satya S Tripathi by signing a memorandum of understanding with GASP. WUS completed a three-month programme on Saturday, and Sharma was featured on Nasdaq Tower on Saturday where the US stock exchange displays major achievers. WUS is building a digital worker community where workers can share their knowledge and grievances within their community to help each other. "Through the milestone maker programme and mentors, WUS can approach international organisations like the International Labour Organization (ILO) to bring global resources and support for the Indian blue- and grey-collar workers," Sharma said. The start-up aims to onboard hundred of thousands of low income workers on its platform to provide them access to government welfare schemes and upgrade their livelihood. "WUS aims to improve the lives of 500 million workers in India in five years and 3.3 billion workers globally in seven years by building a unified-digital community for workers and unions," Sharma said. WUS will focus on providing grievance redressals, know your rights and privileges services, micro-financing, skill development courses, etc, to the low-income group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Farmers to protest everyday outside Parliament during monsoon session ||A group of around 200 farmers will protest against the Centre's three farm laws in front of Parliament every day during the monsoon session, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced on Sunday. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions said at a press conference that two days before the session begins, a "chetavani patra" (warning letter) will be given to all the Opposition MPs to protest the laws inside the House. "We will also ask the opposition MPs on July 17 to raise the issue every day inside the House while we will sit outside in protest. We will tell them to not to benefit the Centre by walking out of a session. Don't let the session run till the government addresses the issue," farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. Parliament's monsoon session is set to begin on July 19. "We will continuously protesting outside Parliament till they hear our demands," Rajewal said. He added that five people from each farmer union would be taken to join the protest. The SKM also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It asked people to come out and park their vehicles along state and national highways from 10 am till 12 pm. "Whatever vehicle you have, tractor, trolley, car, scooter, just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don't create a traffic jam," Rajewal said. He also asked for LPG cylinders to be brought to the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn in as 11th Chief Minister of Uttarakhand||Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in as the 11th chief minister of Uttarakhand in Dehradun on Sunday. The oath of office was administered on Dhami by Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a simple function held on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan in the presence of a host of MPs, MLAs and functionaries of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and senior government officials. At 45, Dhami takes over as the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand. A two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district, Dhami replaces Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday. Dhami was elected as the Uttarakhand BJP legislature party leader on Saturday. He is considered to be close to Maharashtra Governor and former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also his political mentor. Dhami takes over the reins of power at a time when Uttarakhand has just a few months to go for the Assembly polls, which are due early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Srinagar bans use of drones amid heightened security over Jammu attack||A week after a drone attack at an Air Force base in Jammu, authorities in Srinagar on Sunday banned the sale, possession and use of such unmanned aerial vehicles in the city. Earlier, authorities in border districts of Rajouri and Kathua in the Jammu region had put curbs on the use of drones and other UAVs in the wake of the terror attack last Sunday. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport and there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. In an order, deputy commissioner of Srinagar Mohammad Aijaz directed those having drone cameras or other similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles to deposit them in local police stations. The order, however, exempted government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in agricultural, environmental conservation and disaster mitigation sectors but directed them to inform the local police station before using them. The administration cautioned that any violation of the guidelines will attract punitive action, and directed police to implement the restrictions in letter and spirit. The order to ban the use of drones came after the recommendations of the city's police chief. The decentralised airspace access has to be regulated in view of recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure as reported by media/other reliable sources, the order said. To secure the aerial space near the vital installations and highly populated areas, it is imperative to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to the life and damage of property, the order said. Keeping in view the security situation, apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar, it said. The district magistrate imposed "restrictions/ban on the storage, sale/ possession, use and transport of drones/similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles in the city". Persons already having the drone cameras/ similar kind of unmanned aerial vehicles in their possession shall ground the same in the local police stations under proper receipt, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
04-07-2021||India||Congress capable of winning polls without alliance, says party's UP chief||Days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Sunday expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either of them and form the next government on its own. He also said the Congress would fight the polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades. In an interview with PTI, Lallu said Congress has emerged as the main challenger to the "oppressive" UP government and claimed that his party with just five legislators has proven to be a more effective opposition than the Samajwadi Party (SP) which has 49 MLAs in the 403-member assembly. He said "winds of change" were blowing in UP and added, "Badlav ki aandhi hai, jiska naam Priyanka Gandhi hai (There is a storm of change and its name is Priyanka Gandhi)." Lallu asserted that the Congress organisation has been strengthened at various levels in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. Asked if Priyanka Gandhi should be made the chief ministerial face by the party for the polls, he said it is the party's national leadership that would decide on who should be the chief ministerial face. Pressed on whether Priyanka Gandhi would be the party's face in the run up to the polls, Lallu said she is UP's in-charge and the elections will be fought under her supervision. "The people of Uttar Pradesh are looking at Congress with hope. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the workers and under her leadership, the Congress government will be formed in UP," he said. His remarks come at a time when the party has shifted gears for the Assembly elections with the state unit organising zone-wise training camps of block presidents, district presidents and other office bearers to prepare workers for the polls. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is likely to visit several districts this month with an aim to enthuse the cadre and prepare the party for a pitched electoral battle with the ruling BJP. Whether the party would fight the polls on its own or in alliance with the SP or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Lallu said the Congress will forge an alliance with issues of the people, farmers, poor, women and oppressed. The Congress will go to the people with this alliance and is confident they will bless it, he added. Asked if the Congress has the capacity to fight the polls on its own, Lallu said, "Yes, definitely it has the capacity to fight." His remarks assume significance as they come days after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties, while BSP supremo Mayawati later asserted that her outfit will not enter into any alliance for the UP polls. On whether votes could get divided if the SP, the BSP and the Congress contest separately, Lallu said people had given opportunity to the other political players in the state but they were not able to stay true to the faith shown by the people and now it was the Congress' turn. About SP and BSP leaders' statements on the polls, he said it reflected frustration and disappointment as people have rejected them and are standing with the Congress. On many political pundits not considering the Congress the main challenger to the BJP in UP and the party's poor showing in the panchayat polls, he alleged that an "oppressive" BJP government is in power and said if any party is raising its voice against the Yogi Adityanath dispensation on the streets, it is the Congress which has emerged as a "strong opposition". "Be it for farmers, youth or poor in rural areas, Congress has raised its voice on issues such as unemployment, law and order situation, saving lives during the Covid pandemic, on deaths due to spurious liquor, jungle raj and other problems," he said. "When tribals were killed in Sonbhadra, when injustice was done to Hathras' daughter, when injustice was done to daughters of Unnao and Shahjahanpur, Priyanka Gandhi raised her voice and fought against injustice. When it came to hitting the streets to oppose the farm laws, it was Priyanka Gandhi who did it," Lallu said. Asserting that Congress workers had taken the fight against the state government to the streets, he claimed that over 1 lakh party workers have been detained and cases filed against thousands of them at different points in time. "I myself have been detained more than 80 times in a year, over 40-50 cases were filed and I went to jail four times," Lallu said. Talking about the Congress' performance in the panchayat elections, Lallu said 271 of the party-backed candidates were elected, 571 came second while 711 were third. The Congress got 50 lakh votes in Lok Sabha polls and in the assembly elections, it got 51 lakh votes, but in zila panchayat polls, it got 1,52,00,000 votes, he said, alleging that the SP only "grabbed headlines" by putting their name on winning candidates despite losing out. "There is frustration and disappointment in BJP and SP, the Congress with its determination is going to make a comeback in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. We have full faith in the people," he said, stressing that Congress was the BJP's main challenger in the polls. Pointing out that the party has been strengthened at various levels, he said, "We have 840 block presidents, 8,145 nyay panchayat presidents and in 59,000 villages, we have gram sabha units. We are strengthening booths, training programmes are going on. In light of the developments and on the basis of raising people's issues, we will definitely make a comeback in UP." Claiming that the three farm laws were a big issue in UP, Lallu said the Congress stood against the laws, and farmers would support the party. On All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen's decision to enter the poll fray in UP, he said political parties have the right to fight polls and one can't stop anyone, but added people are looking at the Congress with hope and the party is confident that it will get their blessings. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Saina Nehwal congratulates BJP for local body poll win, stirs up controversy||Ace badminton player Saina Nehwal has congratulated Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on BJP's "thumping victory" in elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief, prompting a sharp comment from RLD president Jayant Chaudhary who called her "sarkaari shuttler". In a tweet on Saturday night, Nehwal said, "Hearty congratulations for thumping victory in Zila Panchayat Chairperson election in UP @myogiadityanath sir." Nehwal had joined the BJP ahead of the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections. Reacting to Nehwal's tweet almost one-and-half-hours later, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Chaudhary tweeted, "Sarkaari shuttler recognises BJP skill in smashing peoples' verdict! I think voters need to play a subtle drop shot on celebs trying to influence their decisions!." The BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief even as the SP alleged that the ruling party "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to stop them from voting. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his party, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief. Though the panchayat polls in UP are not held on the party symbol and the state Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates, the BJP claimed that the candidate backed by it won on 67 of 75 posts, the elections for which were held on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||No doubt about BJP winning UP polls, says Yogi Adityanath||The BJP will win the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, and there should be no doubt about it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said, after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's reported remarks that the saffron party will not be allowed to form government in the state. The Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) have announced to fight the elections together. Owaisi had reportedly said, "Inshallah, (we) will not allow Yogi (Adityanath) to become the chief minister of UP again. If our morale is high and we work hard, then everything will happen. Inshallah, our endeavour is that the BJP government is not formed in Uttar Pradesh." Reacting to the AIMIM chief's statement, Adityanath on Saturday said, "Owaisi ji is a big national leader, he goes to different parts of the country for campaigning, and he has his own 'janaadhaar' (voter base). If he has challenged the BJP, then the BJP worker accepts his challenge." "The BJP will form the government, and there should be no doubt on this," the chief minister said. He added that the BJP's central leadership has fixed a target of 300 plus Assembly seats in the 2022 elections. The party will win over 300 seats, Adityanath asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Bharat Ratna this year should be given to doctors, suggests Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna should be given this year to all doctors, nurses and paramedics who served the people amid the pandemic. It will a true homage to doctors who lost their lives, he said. "The 'Indian Doctor' should receive Bharat Ratna this year. 'Indian Doctor' means all doctors, nurses and paramedics. It will be a true homage to all martyred doctors. It will be an honour of those who have been serving without caring for their lives and families. The whole country will be glad at this," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid-June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Facebook prank goes wrong as three of family lose life||A prank among relatives went horribly wrong leading to the loss of three lives, one of them a newborn baby, Kerala police's probe into the abandoning of the infant has revealed. In January this year, a newborn baby boy -- just a few hours old -- was found in a heap of dry leaves in Kollam district of Kerala and the infant later died in hospital. Police investigation revealed that one Reshma, resident of Kalluvathukkal village in Kollam, was the mother of the infant and she was arrested in June. During interrogation, Reshma said she had left her newborn to die in order to elope with a man -- Anandu -- whom she had befriended on Facebook but never met in person, police said. According to police, she had not disclosed that she was pregnant to her husband, Vishnu, nor to anyone else in her family. During their investigation to find out the woman's Facebook friend, police called two of her relatives -- Arya, her sister-in-law and Greeshma, her niece -- for questioning. Police had summoned them as a mobile sim card in Arya's name was being used by Reshma to operate one of her multiple Facebook accounts. However, in a strange twist of events, both women allegedly committed suicide by jumping into a river. Thereafter, police questioned a male friend of Greeshma who revealed that she had told him that she and Arya created the Facebook account of Anandu to play a prank on Reshma, a senior police officer said. Police also found that Arya had told her mother-in-law about the prank before she allegedly committed suicide. Arya's husband later told the media that he was thankful to the police for finding out why his wife had taken that extreme step. He said he had no idea about the prank. Reshma's husband, who was abroad and came back after hearing of her arrest, told the media that had anyone told him what was going on, he could have put a stop to it. Presently, Reshma is in judicial custody in a quarantine centre as she tested positive for COVID-19, police said and added that it has moved an application for her custody and the same is yet to come up for hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi lashes out at Modi government over Rafale deal||A day after the Congress demanded a JPC probe into the Rafale deal, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday put out an online survey asking why the Modi government was not ready for it. Among the choices given by Gandhi to the question were guilt conscience, saving friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all the above. "Why is the Modi government not ready for a JPC probe? -- guilt conscience, saving the friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all of these are right," he said in Hindi on Twitter, while putting out the survey. Gandhi has been alleging corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal for long now and had made this as a major poll plank in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which the Congress lost badly. Meanwhile, addressing a press conference, Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera asked why the government was silent over France's decision to order a probe into the deal. "It's been 24 hours since France has ordered a probe into the Rafale deal on matters like corruption, influence peddling, money laundering, favouritism. The whole nation, the whole world is now looking to New Delhi. Why the silence," he asked. As per a report by ndtv.com, he claimed that huge amounts of money were paid to middlemen in the deal, according to documents available now. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, alleging corruption in the purchase of the fighter jets, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth. The main opposition party had further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order the investigation and come clean on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Delhi stadiums, sport complexes to reopen from Monday without spectators||The Delhi government has allowed the reopening of stadium and sports complexes without spectators from Monday, an order issued by the DDMA said on Sunday. There will be strict adherence to standard operating procedure and other guidelines of the government, and compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour while opening the stadia and sports complexes, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. However, cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools, spas, schools and colleges, social, political, cultural, religious and other such gatherings will remain prohibited, the order stated. Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses will continue to operate with 50 percent seating capacity, it said. Last week, the DDMA allowed the opening of gyms and yoga institutes with half their capacity as well as weddings at banquet and marriage halls and hotels with a limit of 50 percent attendance. The prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 12, the order said. With a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of coronavirus infections, a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. The government started a phased unlock process allowing construction and manufacturing activities from May 31 with improvement in the Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu bats for 300 units of free electricity in Punjab||Amid a power crisis in Punjab, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday pitched for providing up to 300 units of free electricity and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the state. Sidhu also said that domestic and industrial consumers should be given electricity at cheaper rates. "Punjab already provides 9000 crore subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs 10-12 per unit, along 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Up to 300 Units).. It is definitely achievable," said Sidhu in a tweet. Sidhu's tweet came days after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal promised 300 units of free electricity for each household and 24-hour power supply if his party AAP comes to power next year. The cricketer-turned-politician reiterated that faulty power purchase agreements signed during the erstwhile SAD-BJP regime should be nullified through a law. "Let us start with Congress High Command's Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with No fixed charges," said Sidhu in another tweet. Sidhu had earlier also batted for a law to nullify the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government. The Amritsar East legislator has been at loggerheads with the Punjab chief minister and has attacked him over a host of issues in the past. On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said his government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter the ill-conceived PPAs during the previous SAD-BJP regime. Singh had also said these PPAs, which were already under review, had put an atrociously unnecessary financial burden on the state. Of the 139 PPAs signed during by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, 17 were enough to cater to the state's full power demand, the CM had said. The remaining 122 for 1314 MWs of expensive power were inexplicably signed, putting an unnecessary financial burden on the state, he had said. Before coming to power in 2017, the Congress had promised that it would renegotiate the existing PPAs to ensure low cost power. Punjab had been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The State-owned power utility PSPCL on Saturday had said that following the measures taken by the state government, eight-hours of power was being supplied to all agriculture consumers and there were also no scheduled power cuts on domestic, commercial, small and medium supply industrial consumers in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||India records over 43,000 cases, 955 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 43,071 Covid-19 infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,45,433, while active cases have declined to 4,85,350, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,02,005 with 955 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have further declined to 4,85,350 and comprise 1.59 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.09 per cent, the ministry said. It said active cases have declined by 10,183 in a span of 24 hours. The data stated that 18,38,490 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 41,82,54,953. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 27 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.44 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 52 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 2,96,58,078, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 35.12 crore under nationwide Covid vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala MPs asked to produce conduct certificate||Seven Kerala MPs who had applied for entry permits to visit Lakshadweep have been asked to produce a sponsor’s declaration vouching for their good conduct and signed before a magistrate or notary. The unusual condition set by the Lakshadweep administration is based on a rule meant solely for migrant labourers who come to work in the archipelago, and has been condemned by the MPs as “illogical” and a “breach of privilege”. “I have never come across this kind of illogical stipulation. As we have already written to the Lok Sabha Speaker, this is a breach of privilege of a people’s representative,” A.M. Ariff, a CPM member and one of the seven MPs, told The Telegraph on Saturday. Earlier, the seven Left MPs — who have been trying to visit Lakshadweep since May on a fact-finding trip amid allegations of “anti-people” decisions by new administrator Praful Khoda Patel — had been denied permission on the ground of the Covid situation. The MPs had seen this too as a breach of privilege and given a notice to the Lok Sabha Speaker last month, while demanding an explanation from Patel. Last week, they approached Kerala High Court seeking a direction to the Lakshadweep administration to issue the entry permits to the Union Territory, designated a restricted area. The notice seeking the good conduct declaration came after that. Served by the additional district magistrate of Lakshadweep, it also asks the MPs to fill in the prescribed application form and furnish address proof and a receipt proving they have paid the Rs 50 entry permit fee. While ordinary visitors have to fill in the form and pay the fee, lawmakers never had to do that before, Ariff said. The notice sought “an undertaking from the sponsor that he shall take responsibility for the good conduct and behaviour of the applicant during his stay in the island, signed before the Notary Public/ Magistrate/ Oath Commissioner”, citing a 2014 order by number. However, the 2014 order’s title, “Procedure for issuing entry permit to contractors and labourers for the departmental/ civil work of LPWD (Lakshadweep PWD)”, makes it clear who it’s intended for. Mohammed Salih PM, an advocate from Amini Island which is part of Lakshadweep, said the 2014 order was meant to ensure that labourers entering the islands maintained a certain etiquette. “This order from 2014 is meant to hold contractors responsible for the good conduct of the labourers they brought in. It’s strange that this order has been applied to lawmakers,” Salih told this newspaper. Ariff said: “I had visited Lakshadweep earlier as an MLA and never faced these kinds of obstacles. But we are confident of getting justice from the high court.” The notice was addressed to Lok Sabha members Ariff and Thomas Chazhikadan, and Rajya Sabha members K. Somaprasad, V. Sivadasan, John Brittas, Binoy Viswam and M.V. Shreyams Kumar. They want to visit Lakshadweep to prepare a fact-finding report amid allegations that Patel’s controversial orders and draft legislations are aimed at imposing a “saffron agenda” on the Muslim-majority Union Territory. The MPs plan to submit the report to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Patel, a former Gujarat home minister, is believed to be close to Modi. He took over as administrator in December. Ariff recalled how easy it had been to visit Lakshadweep as an MLA ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when he went there as part of a team from the public accounts committee (PAC) of the Kerala Assembly. “We went there and met local people,” he said. A. Pradeep Kumar, a Kerala CPM state committee member and then MLA who too was part of the PAC visit to Lakshadweep, said: “We visited the islands with all the privileges of MLAs. Now they are denying permission to MPs. At this rate they will stop even ministers.” Calls to Lakshadweep administration officials’ numbers did not go through. While Lakshadweep has its own MP, visits by lawmakers from Kerala are common because the islands’ population has strong cultural and historical links with the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
04-07-2021||India||IAF: Veterans express anger on being termed 'supporting arm' by Rawat||Indian Air Force veterans on Saturday expressed deep anger and shock at chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat describing the IAF as a “supporting arm” in the planned integrated theatre commands of the three armed forces. Speaking at the same event later on Friday, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria had disagreed with Rawat, a former army chief, saying “airpower has a huge role”. Rawat, tasked by the Narendra Modi government to facilitate the integration process, had been asked at the programme, organised online by the think tank Global Counter Terrorism Council, about the IAF not being keen on the proposed theatre commands integrating the capabilities of the tri-services. Rawat replied: “The IAF is required to provide support to the ground forces…. Do not forget that the air force continues to remain a supporting arm to the armed forces, just as the artillery supports or the engineer supports the combatant arms in the army. “They will be a supporting arm. But they have a charter, they have an air defence charter (for) supporting the ground forces in times of operations. This is the basic charter which they have to understand.” Bhadauria later said: “Airpower has a huge role to play. It is not a supporting role alone. In any of the integrated battle areas, it is not an issue of support alone.” Asked about the IAF’s views on the theaterisation of the armed forces, he said: “Air power has a huge role to play in any of the integrated battle roles…. The IAF is fully committed to the theaterisation of the armed forces.” Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services — the army, navy and the air force — under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower and resources. IAF veterans on Saturday erupted in anger against Rawat’s comments. They said his statements had created controversy and acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership at a time the air force was said to be harbouring reservations about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. A former air vice-marshal termed Rawat’s observations “shocking”. “This is very sad that the IAF chief had to express his views strongly to counter Rawat’s statements. The air force will continue to have a very important role in any future conflict, as (at) the LAC, LoC and the deep maritime spaces of the Indo-Pacific,” he told The Telegraph. The former air vice-marshal said: “Recently we saw the IAF demonstrate its commitment to jointmanship, be it Balakot or the counter build-up in Ladakh amid the Chinese aggression.” Prime Minister Modi and the BJP had used the February 2019 airstrikes on Pakistan’s Balakot to the hilt in the lead-up to the Lok Sabha elections. Air Vice-Marshal (retd) Manmohan Bahdur said: “The statement that the IAF is a supporting arm to the other two services is incorrect. The air force, just like the other two services, has its own attributes that have been well acknowledged in the last few decades.” A former wing commander said: “Rawat’s statement has led to acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership. It has also brought out in the open the differences over the theaterisation of the military.” The IAF is said to have apprehensions about the planned theaterisation as it does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s. The IAF is also believed to have contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. The force is also said to have issues over who would lead particular theatres. A former IAF group captain said Rawat’s statements were shocking and disappointing. “They have once again exposed the hollowness of the jointness within India’s armed forces.” The Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. Rawat has been tasked with facilitating the restructuring of the military commands for optimal utilisation of resources through the establishment of unified theatre commands. The plan is to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. Now, the three armed forces have 19 commands, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. Sources in the government said the theatre commands were being set up under the larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges. The sources said there had been differences over the planned theaterisation amid fears that the senior positions would be taken over by the army, the largest among the three services. The army brass, who are in favour of theaterisation, contend that multiple commands lead to confusion. They cite the example of China, which has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — northern, western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), central and eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Congress claims 'vindication', seeks probe into Rafale deal||The Congress on Saturday claimed vindication and repeated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Rafale deal after reports said France had ordered an investigation into alleged corruption in the deal following new revelations. The reported revelations suggest that Dassault, the maker of the Rafale fighter jets, had entered into an agreement with Anil Ambani’s Reliance to exploit the Indian group’s purported political influence, the Congress said. A demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe had marked the Congress’s 2019 election campaign when it accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of violating laid-down procedures to favour Reliance. Rahul Gandhi, who had coined the poll slogan “Chowkidar chor hai (The watchman is a thief)” in a frontal attack on Modi’s image, has now tweeted: “Chor ki dadhi…” A Hindi saying that goes “Chor ki dadhi me tinka” implies that a thief eventually betrays himself. Lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, who had petitioned the Supreme Court along with former BJP politicians Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie seeking an inquiry into the fighter jet deal, too laid great emphasis on the new revelations. He argued that the report by the French news portal Mediapart corroborated the trio’s contention of wrongdoing by the Modi government. Then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi had refused to order an investigation into the deal. Although BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra dismissed the latest development saying an investigation did not mean the establishment of wrongdoing, the Modi government cannot ignore the possible ramifications of an offshore probe. The purported revelation that Anil Ambani’s Reliance had signed an agreement with Dassault relating to 36 aircraft before Modi announced the deal to purchase them in 2015 implies the Indian company had advance knowledge of the pact. “The scandalous expose of Rafale scam involving massive corruption, treason and loss to public exchequer has finally been uncovered. The Congress and Rahul Gandhi stand vindicated today,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference. “On June 14, 2021, the French public prosecution services, PNF, ordered an investigation into the Rafale papers for corruption, influence-peddling, money-laundering, favouritism on the complaint of the French anti-corruption NGO, Sherpa.” Mediapart said the investigation would cover questions surrounding the actions of former French President François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was signed, current French President Emmanuel Macron who was at that time Hollande’s economy and finance minister, and the then defence minister and now foreign affairs minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, as well as the role of Reliance Infrastructure Limited. Surjewala said: “The French news website has also released details of the agreement inked between Reliance Infra and Dassault Aviation to constitute a joint venture company called Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL), which substantiates the statement of Hollande that the decision to appoint Reliance as Dassault’s industrial partner was that of the Modi government and that France had no choice in the matter.” He added: “Reliance owned 51 per cent and Dassault owned 49 per cent in the joint venture. Reliance and Dassault agreed to a maximum investment of 169 million euros but Dassault pledged to provide 159 million euros, that is, 94 per cent of the total maximum investment. Reliance with 51 per cent stake in DRAL was to bring only 10 million euros.” The agreement shared by Mediapart suggested that Reliance had no technical knowhow but was supposed to provide production facilities and “marketing for programme and services with the GOI (Government of India)”. Surjewala interpreted this as a reference to the purported political influence Reliance enjoyed with the Modi government. Surjewala said: “On March 25, 2015, Eric Trappier, CEO of Dassault Aviation, in presence of the Chief of the Indian Air Force and Chairman of HAL, said in Bangalore that Dassault and HAL were in agreement in accordance with the RFP (request for proposal) signed by them. “Intriguingly, on March 26, 2015, Reliance and Dassault signed an MoU. This was just 15 days before the unilateral announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi (on the) purchase (of) 36 Rafale jets for 7.8 billion euros without transfer of technology and bypassing the Congress-UPA global tender to purchase 126 aircraft.” Surjewala said Dassault had deleted the anti-corruption clause and Modi had approved it later. “It is important to remember that the Defence Procurement Procedure contains mandatory anti-corruption clauses, which disallow bribery, gifts, influence, commissions, middlemen. The facts now clearly call for a thorough JPC probe because this is the only instrument that can call all witnesses, summon all government files, and grill even the Prime Minister and defence officials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Data manipulation and privacy worry over 'Social Registry'||Academics have expressed concern about possible data manipulation and privacy in relation to a “Social Registry” the NDA government plans to create as a one-stop database of households’ economic status that will help identify potential beneficiaries of welfare schemes. Officials have said the registry will replace the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), which contained both caste and financial data of families. Critics allege the government fears the SECC might spark unrest by showing, purportedly, that the disadvantaged castes are not getting their share of jobs. Having conducted the lone SECC as far back as 2011-12, the rural development ministry has been looking for updated data to identify beneficiaries for its welfare schemes. In 2017, it proposed the Social Registry. In the registry, whose preparation is expected to begin sometime after the 2021 population census ends in late 2022, households will be linked to the Aadhaar numbers of their members. The registry is to be updated regularly so the government can ascertain how much families and individuals have benefited from its programmes and which of them should now be excluded from these schemes. While data for the SECC was gathered through house-to-house surveys by trained enumerators, academics fear that data for the registry might be collected through local government officials who may or may not make enquiries that, in any case, are likely to be perfunctory. Amitabh Kundu, Senior Fellow at the World Resources Institute, a global think tank on developmental issues, said the Social Registry must not replace the SECC. “The SECC is prepared through a process of community participation at the local level where claims and objections can be discussed and resolved. In an online system of updating information, people can get away by overstating their deprivations and vulnerability,” he said. “It’s possible to produce certificates from different sources through pulls and connections and claim benefits without ground-level verification. It can open windows to favouritism and corruption. There is greater surveillance and scrutiny in the process of data collection for the SECC that can and should be strengthened.” During the SECC, the data collected by the enumerators was publicly displayed at prominent places in the villages. Claims and objections were sought and settled in the gram sabhas. No such measure was adopted in urban areas, where the SECC data collection process was widely held to be less rigorous. Economist Jean Dreze expressed privacy concerns about Social Registry data, which will be accessible to government officials at all times. In contrast, SECC data could be accessed only for specific purposes and under a strict protocol. Dreze demanded a public debate before the launch of the registry. “The possible preparation of a Social Registry does not sound like a good reason to drop the next SECC. A social registry will take years to prepare, and is likely to be error-prone for some time,” he said. “It should not even be initiated without a public debate about its possible implications for privacy and civil liberties.... The sort of data that the SECC generates would be very useful to update and extend the coverage of critical social programmes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Covaxin shows 78% protective efficacy in trials||Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, has shown 78 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic infection and 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease, the vaccine’s developers said on Saturday making public clinical trial results. Covaxin also shows 65 per cent efficacy against the highly-transmissible Delta variant of the coronavirus, the vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a paper that is not peer-reviewed yet but posted online on a preprint server. While Bharat Biotech and the ICMR had announced efficacy results earlier this year, this is the first time they have released details of the trial on over 25,000 volunteers in hospitals across the country. The paper shows that among the 130 symptomatic Covid cases detected during the trial, 24 patients had received the vaccine and 106 had received a placebo, or a sham injection. This 24:106 distribution of the symptomatic patients translates into 78 per cent efficacy against symptomatic infections. Among 16 patients who developed severe Covid-19, one had received the vaccine and 15 had received the placebo, implying 93 per cent efficacy against severe disease. Of the 50 patients found with the Delta variant, 13 were vaccine and 37 were placebo recipients. The trial also observed 63 per cent efficacy against asymptomatic infections. The vaccine was “immunogenic and highly efficacious against symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 and variant-associated disease, particularly against severe disease in adults,” the researchers said. There were no cases of anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction) or vaccine-related deaths in the study. Covaxin, based on an inactivated (killed) virus, was jointly developed by the ICMR and Bharat Biotech. The company said the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy results from the trial will help support its applications for regulatory approval of the vaccine in other countries. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield — the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India — and Covaxin. But around 90 per cent of the recipients have received Covishield because of Serum’s larger production capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Deaths due to oxygen shortage could have been avoided: Expert||Hospitalised Covid-19 patients were more likely to need oxygen and ventilation and had a significantly greater risk of dying during India’s second wave than the first, a nationwide analysis from 44 hospitals has found. The analysis, released on Saturday by a consortium of doctors and medical researchers, has found that mortality among sampled patients during the second wave was 13.3 per cent, or 30 per cent higher than the 10.2 per cent mortality observed during the first wave. The findings are similar to those released earlier this week by doctors from nine Max hospitals in five northern states that had found a 40 per cent increase in mortality during the second wave. In the new study, doctors analysed clinical profiles and outcomes of over 14,000 patients from government and private hospitals across the country and observed distinct statistically significant patterns suggesting the second wave was harder on patients. The fractions of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome, hyperglycemia (uncontrolled blood sugar) and septic shock (the outcome of uncontrolled infection) were higher among patients during the second wave than during the first. While genome studies have revealed that a highly infectious Delta variant had partly contributed to the sharp surge in cases during the second wave, researchers say there is no evidence yet to suggest that this strain contributed in any way to increased disease severity. Instead, the study has bolstered evidence for suspicions that laxity in precautions that preceded the second wave and the resultant sharp runaway surge in which daily new infections rose 40-fold within weeks overwhelmed healthcare systems, compromising patient care. The explosive nature of the second wave led to a large number of people being affected within a short span of time. This put the health infrastructure under pressure, making hospitalisation possible for only the most severe patients. “This could explain the higher mortality among the hospitalised patients (during the second wave,)” the consortium led by a team of researchers at AIIMS, New Delhi, and the Indian Council of Medical Research said. A senior infectious disease researcher who was not associated with the study said: “All deaths due to shortage of oxygen, shortage of beds and unavailable medical care could have been avoided.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Bribery cuffs on special public prosecutor in Odisha||Vigilance sleuths on Saturday arrested a special public prosecutor in Odisha’s Kalahandi district while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a complainant. The prosecutor is attached to the court of the special judge, vigilance, in Bhawanipatna. It is the first time that the state vigilance department has arrested its own lawyer. The vigilance directorate said in a media release that special public prosecutor Ashutosh Mishra was caught red-handed by the officers of the vigilance cell division, Cuttack, while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from Malay Kumar Rana, an assistant sub-inspector of police of Kalahandi district, in order to help him in a case in which he has been charge-sheeted. The case against ASI Rana is pending in the court of the special judge, vigilance, Bhawanipatna, and he is under suspension. The bribe money has been seized from the accused, the release said. The residential premises of Mishra at Radhakrishna Nagar, Bhawanipatna, are being searched, the release added “In this connection, a case has been registered and is under investigation,” said a vigilance official. A public prosecutor is appointed by the government to help an investigating agency in the court to finalise a case and help it to win the case. The public prosecutor is chosen by the state law department either from the practicing advocates or through the Odisha Public Service Commission. “Mishra was earlier a practicing lawyer. Later he joined as the public prosecutor and has been working in the post for nine years. He is currently posted as a special public prosecutor and enjoys the status of a Class I officer,” a vigilance source told The Telegraph. Sources said Mishra had demanded Rs 2 lakh from Rana to dispose of the vigilance case. Rana was caught by vigilance officials while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 in 2020. “For the last few months, he (Rana) has been meeting the special public prosecutor to help him to clear his name in the case. The public prosecutor had earlier demanded Rs 2 lakh and assured him he will ensure the court would take a lenient view of the case so that the ASI could be saved. However, the ASI insisted that the case should be settled first and he would give the money later. “As the public prosecutor did not agree, the ASI agreed to give him Rs 1 lakh but informed it to the vigilance sleuths. Accordingly, vigilance officials laid a trap on Saturday morning and the special public prosecutor was arrested,” a source told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||Floods haunt Bihar after heavy rain in the state and Nepal||Floods returned to haunt Bihar on Saturday after heavy rain in the state and neighbouring Nepal, which has the catchment area of several rivers. Several smaller rivers in north Bihar districts have started overflowing their banks. Floodwater has spread across agricultural areas and villages in districts like East Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Kishanganj, Katihar, Purnea, Araria, Supaul, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Madhubani, among others. Roads have been washed away at several places in these districts. Thousands of people have been forced to take refuge in higher places or leave their villages for safer areas. Several villages in Narkatiaganj, Bagaha, Gaunaha and other blocks in West Champaran district have been submerged. Faced with erosion and loss of property, the people complained about the district administration not providing any relief. The collectorate at Bettiah, which functions as the headquarters of the district, also went under water after heavy rain. Floodwater was flowing over National Highway 104 at Sursand in Sitamarhi district disrupting movement of vehicles and submerging villages in the area. On the other hand, huge volumes of water are being discharged from the Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages on the Gandak and Kosi rivers respectively, along the Indo-Nepal border. Over 2.76 lakh cusecs was released from the Valmikinagar barrage and around 2 lakh cusecs from Birpur. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is equivalent of 28.32 litres of water passing any particular point per second. “Both the mighty, flood-bringing rivers Gandak and Kosi are in spate. The discharge at Valmikinagar barrage is showing a rising trend following heavy rainfall in Nepal, while the situation at Birpur is also worrisome. “The situation could worsen further as weather scientists have forecast heavy to very heavy rain in Bihar and Nepal over the next few days,” a disaster management department official told The Telegraph. The major rivers causing floods — Bagmati, Budhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khirol and Kosi — are in spate and flowing above their danger levels at several places threatening around a dozen districts in north Bihar. The Mahananda is also in spate and fast reaching the danger level. Alarmed over the situation, disaster management minister Renu Devi chaired a meeting of senior officials of the state government and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). “Water level in several rivers are rising due to very heavy rainfall in Nepal and a few districts of our state. I have directed all the officials to stay alert and prepared to tackle floods. The government is determined to provide all help and relief to the flood-affected people,” Renu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||India||India’s most lavish public office||Sarojini Naidu is widely believed to have once remarked to Mahatma Gandhi if he knew how much it cost each day to keep him in poverty. Last week, President Ram Nath Kovind became the first occupant of Rashtrapati Bhavan to publicly expound on his frugal salary. “If the President is the nation’s highest paid  employee, he also pays taxes… there is no harm in saying this… everybody says you get (Rs) five lakh as salary but I pay taxes too. (Rs) 2.75 lakh goes in taxes. What’s left? And what’s left… well our officers and teachers seated here get more than that…” he said at a brief function on Jhinjhak railway station close to his native village near Kanpur. Putting together some of what also goes into the upkeep of the highest office in the land, if only as a footnote to how President Kovind chose to describe his monthly earnings from the public exchequer. The Estate It occupies 330 acres atop Delhi’s Raisina Hill and has in excess of 300 rooms spanning four flanks of the H-shaped centrepiece called the Rashtrapati Bhavan. It has a colonnaded step-down forecourt for ceremonials watched over by the slender obelisk of the 145-foot Jaipur Column. There are elaborate side courts, some of them now used as parking areas for invited guests. An expanse larger than the Palace of Versailles, the estate is littered with some of the finest colonial bungalows much in demand with Delhi’s power elite. When he was deputy prime minister in the short-lived Chandrashekar government, Devi Lal used to occupy one such manor house on the western fringe of the property. The Retinue More than 300 personnel man the Presidential secretariat. These include a senior secretary as head of multiple administrative wings, five aides-de-camp drawn from the armed forces, protocol and press officers, doctors and a chief chef. The top rung are often deputed from the IAS or IFS, but Presidents are also known to have picked lateral appointees to key posts. Quite apart from those, there’s the fancied 86-strong Presidential Bodyguard squad, one of the oldest cavalry divisions of the army. It is cadred by a handpicked soldiery that rides out on an appointed stable of bay horses. Monthly staff salaries tally at more than Rs 1.5 crore; annual Rashtrapati Bhavan staff allowances are budgeted at Rs 66 crore. None of these includes Delhi Police ranks deputed to duties in and around Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Retreats A classic 19th century timber chalet near Mashobra in Shimla as summer house and a winter getaway called Rashtrapati Nilayam in Hyderabad. Both properties are islanded in lawns and flower gardens, both retain permanent and contractual staff for upkeep and attendance. Conservative estimates put the annual staffing and maintenance costs for the two properties at well above Rs 1 crore. The Mashobra chalet looms a thousand feet above the Shimla ridge and is built almost entirely with woven woodwork in the dhajji style. The Hyderabad Nilayam is a 90-acre affair with 11 private rooms and facilities to accommodate 150 guests. The Frills The Rashtrapati Bhavan is moated in 190 acres of gardens which require looking after 365 days a year. Among the more famed ones are the Mughal Gardens, briefly thrown open to the public each year, and a herbarium. There is also a music garden and an open area especially for meditation. Two score and more gardeners make up the apparatchik of this enterprise. But in the months between October and February, the number can swell up many times over as that’s the season for laying out and seeding the flowerbeds afresh. Among their jobs also is to feed a pen of spotted deer and, when required, employ langurs to scare away rampaging rhesus hordes, endemic to central Delhi. Dozens of fountains spout across these gardens; there are also, dotted about, the interruptions of swimming pools, tennis courts, a polo ground and a golf course. Within the Presidential quarters perhaps the most splendoured part are the Durbar Hall and the Ashoka Hall, stage to swearings-in and investitures, official banquets and the occasional soiree. A two-tonne chandelier hangs down the ornately wrought ceilings. The Durbar Hall is abutted by a ballroom, often used as ante-room for private conversations by attending VVIPs. The Fleet The Presidential garages hold dozens of vehicles of all make and manner. Until a few years ago, the Rashtrapati would ride out to witness the Republic Day parade in an open four-wheel four-horse carriage of imperial vintage; drawn by horses, it is still occasionally used for arrivals and departures at the Beating Retreat ceremonies. But the routine presidential ride is now a stretch Mercedes Benz Pullman Guard limousine, S600 class. It is especially armour-plated and bullet-proofed; it costs Rs 10 crore on the market. When trains are required — as recently when the President travelled to Kanpur — a luxury saloon is fitted out. There used to be a saloon carriage exclusively kitted and kept in a shunting yard of the railway station for presidential use. It had a vintage two-coach carriage but was declared unserviceable in 2016 and was later de-commissioned. Long-distance air travel has remained banished since the pandemic arrived, but last November the President boarded a brand new custom built Boeing 777 aircraft for a visit to Chennai. The retrofitted state-of-the-art aircraft — it has inbuilt missile defence systems and self-protection suites in addition to sleeping chambers and workstations — came at an approximate cost of Rs 4,200 crore. (The purchase came with an identically purposed aircraft for the Prime Minister; the total deal was invoiced at an estimated Rs 8,400 crore.) The Gratuity The nation affords outgoing Presidents a range of lifelong amenities which include an elaborate security detail, free and furnished housing — usually in a scouted and refurbished Lutyens bungalow — and a secretarial staff. Cars and telephony also come with no bills attached. They have access to free medical attention and free of cost top-tier journeys to domestic destinations of choice in the company of one other person. They are also entitled a monthly pension payout of 50 per cent of their last drawn salary which, admittedly, would be far lighter than the packet President Kovind said he currently gets in hand as our First Citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
04-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP legislators cannot visit any place they like without informing leadership: Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said party legislators from West Bengal cannot travel without informing the state leadership. He was at a workshop organised for its 75 MLAs on Saturday, reports Hindustantimes.com. This immediately raised questions as no party in Bengal has imposed such a restriction on their leaders in recent history. “Ghosh told us that no MLA is above the party. They are part of an organisation and hence cannot visit any place they like without informing the leadership,” a newly-elected MLA, who attended the workshop in Calcutta, said on condition of anonymity, reported Hindustantimes.com. While Ghosh’s mandate was described by party leader’s as “an effort to enforce discipline” some of them felt it reflected Ghosh’s displeasure over Suvendu Adhikari’s recent visits to Delhi where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other top leaders. During his last trip, Adhikari triggered a controversy by visiting the home of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Though Mehta and Adhikari said they did not meet because the former was busy in a meeting, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has demanded the Solicitor General’s removal citing ethics. The ruling party has said that since Adhikari is an accused in the Narada sting operation case and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in court, they cannot meet. Two TMC MPs, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to seek Mehta’s removal. On earlier occasions, as well as on Friday when the controversy emerged, Ghosh said he was not aware of why Adhikari was in Delhi and who he met. Ghosh, in fact, stirred up the issue by asking why questions are not being raised about TMC leaders who were seen accepting bribes in the Narada sting videos recorded in 2014. Adhikari, who was a TMC MP, MLA and cabinet minister and joined the BJP in December last year, was among those seen in the videos. Significantly, Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, was not present at the workshop when Ghosh passed his diktat on the movement of MLAs. Adhikari arrived after Ghosh left. Neither of them commented on the issue before the media. In the recent polls, Adhikari defeated Mamata Banerjee and retained the Nandigram seat in the East Midnapore district. Of the 75 BJP legislators, 71 were elected for the first time. The party won 77 seats while the TMC bagged 213 of Bengal’s 294 seats. Two BJP MLAs later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. BJP national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash addressed the MLAs at the workshop. He asked them to focus on their performance as people’s representatives and not to get demoralised by the defeat in the elections in which the party targeted 200 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MLA Sultan Singh dies of cancer at 76||Former Trinamool Congress MLA and ex-IPS officer Sultan Singh died of cancer at a private hospital in Kolkata on Sunday, party sources said. He was 76. Singh had been elected on a TMC ticket in the 2011 assembly elections. He had joined active politics after his retirement and unsuccessfully contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket, before shifting allegiance to the TMC. Singh was, however, not fielded again from the Bally seat in the 2016 assembly elections and instead, he was made a member of the Howrah Improvement Trust. Later on, he gradually dissociated himself from active politics. Singh was known as a daring police officer and is credited with breaking the criminal racket in Golabari police station area in Howrah. Condoling his death, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "Saddened to hear about the demise of former @AITCofficial MLA & former IPS officer Sultan Singh ji. My deepest condolences to his family and well-wishers. His contribution to public service shall always be remembered."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams Modi government for soaring fuel prices, BJP hits back||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for soaring fuel prices, wondering whether he has "gone into hiding". The ruling party in Bengal also accused the BJP of working hard to "add to the people's woes" as the fuel prices hit a "historic high". However, the BJP questioned why the state government is not reducing its duties on petroleum products to bring down the prices. "As fuel prices hit a HISTORIC HIGH, @BJP4India govt (government) seems to be working very hard towards adding to the woes of the public. Not much has changed from 2020. The same old blame game continues while the demands of the people of India are conveniently ignored!," Trinamul Congress national general secretary and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee tweeted. Petrol price has crossed the Rs 100-mark per litre in metro cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune and it is over Rs 99 in Delhi and Calcutta. Taking to Twitter, senior state minister Partha Chatterjee said, "Mr @narendramodi has a penchant for drama every time the people of India are in distress!" "Now with the skyrocketing petrol prices, why has he gone into hiding? Preparing for a big lie-laden speech Mr Prime Minister," the state industry minister alleged. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. And for this reason, price of petrol has breached the Rs 100-mark per litre in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. "Around June 2020, I remember petrol prices were being hiked for nearly 17 days at a stretch! Within a year, we've crossed Rs 100 in several cities across India. Shri @narendramodi kindly get off your high horse & take cognizance of the woes of your people," Bengal transport minister Firhad Hakim said on the micro-blogging site. The Left parties also staged protests in various parts of the state against the rising fuel prices and cooking gas. Bengal BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya said criticism will not solve the problem. "Why isn't the state government reducing its levies? Everyone knows how the Centre is managing the current crisis. A joint effort from the central government and the states is required to address the issue," he said. He called for the inclusion of petro products under the GST regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC activists attacked near Calcutta, 6 arrested||Miscreants attacked two TMC activists and opened fire in the air outside one of the ruling party's offices in the northern outskirts of Calcutta, triggering panic in the area, a police officer said on Sunday. Six persons have been arrested so far in connection with the incident, he said. "At least 10-12 motorcycle-borne men arrived at the TMC's Deshpriyonagar zonal party office in North 24 Parganas around 9.30 pm on Saturday, ransacked the furniture there and dragged two TMC activists out before hitting them with the butt of a revolver," the officer explained. They then fired a few shots in the air and fled the place, leaving the two injured activists lying on the road, he said, adding that locals are wary of stepping out of homes. The incident, meanwhile, has sparked a furore, with the TMC holding BJP workers responsible for the attack, a charge denied by the saffron camp. "The BJP, after its poll debacle, is desperately trying to terrorise TMC workers. We will take out a rally in in protest," local MLA Madan Mitra, who visited the site of the incident during the day, told reporters. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, claimed that the attack was a fallout of infighting in the TMC, with two factions seeking to have total control over the real estate sector in the area. Meanwhile, in yet another incident, TMC MLA Lovely Moitra alleged that a pandal built for a public outreach programme in her Sonarpur Dakshin constituency was "set on fire" late on Saturday. "Some rogue elements are trying to sabotage our programmes in the area. They will not succeed," Moitra said, further adding that the police are probing the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||East Burdwan cops organise camp for people living far away from police station||East Burdwan police organised a camp in a remote village under Bhatar police station area to reach out to people who live far away from the police station. Police sources said cops across East Burdwan and other south Bengal districts have taken up the initiative to travel to remote locations in a bid to provide police services. “The pandemic has hit people’s movement in rural areas. People can’t reach police stations as easily as they could in the past. So, we are reaching cops to villages,” said a senior police officer in East Burdwan. In Birbhum, the district police launched a similar drive by the name of Paray Police (police in neighbourhood)”. Police officers said police teams are travelling to remote villages at least once in a week to register complaints directly from the villagers. Another senior police officer said many villagers find police stations “intimidating”. These camps bring the police closer to people, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Hill TMC leaders seek Gorkhaland Territorial Administration election ‘at the earliest’||Trinamul leaders in the hills have demanded that the Mamata Banerjee government should take initiatives to conduct the election of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) while underscoring the fact that discontentment is brewing among some hill residents as the GTA does not have a single elected member for around four years now. “People of the hills have no inkling how the administrative body, set up for their development, functions. We believe it is high time that people of the hills get the chance to elect the second board of the GTA so that the body can function with an elected board and is not run by a board of administrators or government officials. We have passed on the message to our state leadership,” said L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) district committee of Trinamul. The GTA was established back on March 24, 2012. Its ambit comprises the hilly subdivisions of Darjeeling district and entire Kalimpong district. After the body was formed, the entire area was divided into 45 constituencies, and in July, 2012, when the first elections of the GTA were announced, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha bagged all the seats. Since 2017, that is, five years after the elections were held, the hill body has been run by administrators. Initially, Binay Tamang, who heads one of the factions of the Morcha, who was nominated chairperson of the BoA. In 2019, Anit Thapa, the second most influential leader of the Binay faction, got the chair. Ahead of the Assembly polls this year, Thapa was removed from the post and since then, the principal secretary of GTA, a state government official, has been running it. “During the past few weeks, the name of L.B. Rai was proposed by different quarters as the new chairperson of the BoA. He does not want the GTA to continue without an elected board. Other leaders of our party have also spoken in similar lines,” said a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to raise Tushar Mehta issue with President||Two Trinamul Congress MPs will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to demand the removal of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta from his post over the controversy surrounding the visit of BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari to the law officer’s residence-cum-office in New Delhi on Thursday. “Our Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra will meet the Honourable President on Monday at 12.30pm. They will draw the President’s attention to the matter and seek Mehta’s removal,” a Trinamul leader said. The decision to meet President Kovind comes a day after three Trinamul MPs — Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra — wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal as solicitor-general. Mehta on Friday said that Adhikari had been to his residence on Thursday, but the two did not meet. Being the solicitor-general or India’s second highest legal official, Mehta is a counsel to the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate, which are central agencies investigating the Narada case in which Adhikari is an accused. The BJP’s Nandigram MLA, a Trinamul turncoat, has also been questioned in the Saradha deposit mobilisation case earlier. On Mehta’s denial, a Trinamul MP said on Saturday: “How can someone gatecrash the SG’s (solicitor-general’s) office with heavy security if there’s no prior information of his arrival?” “Moreover, the SG said Suvendu Adhikari went to his residence ‘unannounced’. Does he mean someone accused of cheating can enter his residence ‘announced’?” the MP added. All these points will be brought up before the President on Monday, Trinamul sources said. Asked the reason for escalating the issue with the President when party leaders had written to Modi, instead of waiting for a reply from the Prime Minister, a Trinamul MP said: “The point is to raise this issue again and again.” “We have to raise the matter at as many levels as possible so that it reaches the ears of the people of the nation,” the parliamentarian added. Trinamul Congress sources said the party will up its ante in the upcoming monsoon season of Parliament on the issues of skyrocketing fuel prices, the Union government’s alleged failure to manage the second wave of Covid-19 and the shortfall in the  coronavirus vaccines. “The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to start from July 19. The party’s parliamentary committee is supposed to meet a week before that. The issues that will be raised in Parliament will be decided in that meeting, but rising fuel prices and vaccine mismanagement will be at the core of our agenda,” a party MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Around 4,000 employees, teachers and pensioners of Visva-Bharati are yet to get salary for June||Around 4,000 employees, teachers and pensioners of Visva-Bharati are yet to get paid for June, with varsity authorities not giving any reason for the delay. Sources said employees of the central university usually get salary credited to bank accounts on the last working day of a month. However, though three days have elapsed in July, employees are yet to receive the June salaries. There are around 2,200 employees, including 1,150 permanent staff, and 1,850 pensioners under Visva-Bharati. The Centre pays it Rs 23 crore towards salaries and pension every month. Sources said during an online meeting in mid-June, officials of the varsity’s accounts department told vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty that to do their job they needed permission to open their office. The varsity is closed amid Covid curbs imposed by the state government on educational institutions. “As it was felt no one was competent to issue the permission, the VC asked officiating registrar Ashok Mahato to write to the Union ministry of education seeking a nod to open the office. A letter to this effect was sent but the ministry was yet to respond,” an insider said.. A varsity official claimed the problem “had been created intentionally” and the VC’s advice to Mahato was “ridiculous”. “The VC should know disbursing salary is emergency work and the state government  placed no curb on such work. It is over a year that the varsity is closed amid the pandemic and salary has been disbursed on time (except now),” he said. The varsity’s PRO Anirban Sircar did not reply to this newspaper’s text messages. PM Narendra Modi’s nominee in Visva-Bharati’s executive council, Dulal Ghosh, said he would raise the varsity’s “whimsical and inhuman attitude” with “the people in Delhi”. Salaries were put on hold in February 2020 and the acting registrar had then issued a notice citing lack of funds. This time, there is no paucity of funds, a senior official said. “Salaries of central university employees are now released directly through the public financial management system but it requires the accounts department to update relevant details on the portal for disbursement to take place. One possible reason could be that Visva-Bharati officials have not updated the details, which led to the delay,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong police take Wi-Fi to students for online classes||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Petrol century blow to north Bengal tourism||Petrol prices in north Bengal stayed above Rs 100 in two districts and the hill subdivision of Darjeeling for the second straight day on Saturday and above Rs 99 in three other districts of the region and in Sikkim, triggering worry for tourism  stakeholders. Transporters, in particular, are concerned about the upcoming Durga Puja season. “Thousands of petrol-run small cars ferry passengers and tourists in the region. These cars are the backbone of the tourism sector. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the tourism industry has already taken a beating. Now if transport costs increase with fuel hike, there are high chances that it will discourage people from visiting the region,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri town, under Darjeeling district where the price of petrol on Saturday was Rs 98.81. On Saturday, a litre of petrol was sold at Rs 100.48 in Darjeeling hills, followed by Rs 100.10 in the districts of Alipurduar and Rs 100.09 in Cooch Behar. Petrol rate per litre in South Dinajpur’s Balurghat was Rs 99.69, North Dinajpur’s Raiganj Rs 99.65 and Jalpaiguri Rs 99.08. In Sikkim’s capital Gangtok, the rate of petrol per litre was Rs 99.85. A senior transporter pointed out that the price of a litre of diesel was also steep, at Rs 93.16 in Darjeeling. “We are fearful of incurring losses even if tourists start visiting the region, thanks to rise in the prices of petrol and diesel,” the veteran said. “These past few weeks, there were some bookings for the upcoming Durga Puja season. Tourists have finalised the total package cost with us. Now if we ask for additional money in the wake of the rise in fuel prices, we doubt how many of them would pay the extra. For the sake of goodwill, we may have to bear the extra cost which will bring down our earnings,” he added. He added that if diesel prices soar, the prices of other food and other commodities, including laundry, that arrive via long-distance will soar too, and hotel, homestay and resort owners will feel the blow. Private bus owners of the region, who have been permitted by the government to run their vehicles on 50 per cent capacity to avoid overcrowding amid the pandemic, sounded equally perturbed. “Our fares have not been revised since 2018. Now, we have to follow Covid protocol by limiting the number of passengers at a time the price of fuel is increasing every day. It is unlikely that any passenger will pay us extra unless the state revises the fares,” said Plabon Pramanik, secretary, Uttar Dinajpur Bus & Minibus Owners’ Welfare Association. The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) will resume the services of the Shatabdi Express that links New Jalpaiguri with Howrah from next week, but call it Shatabdi Special. S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR, said on Saturday that from July 12, the train will follow the same schedule and run through the same route as Shatabdi Express. NFR sources said the train will run for six days, except Sunday. From New Jalpaiguri (NJP), it will depart at 5.30am and reach Howrah at 1.35pm. On its return, it will depart from Howrah at 2.15pm and arrive in NJP at 10.35pm. The train will stop at Kishanganj, Barsoi, Malda Town, New Farakka and Bolpur-Shantiniketan stations. From July 12, the Jan Shatabdi Express, which runs between Guwahati and Jorhat town, will also resume, the sources added. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
04-07-2021||West Bengal||6,000 kilos of Malda mangoes head for Italy and Qatar||Around 6,000 kilos of mangoes from Malda district have been exported to Italy and Qatar last week. While the fruit would be sold at local markets in Milan, the consignment would be displayed at an international exhibition of fruits in Doha. Sources in the state food processing and horticulture department said that the initiatives were taken to popularise Malda mangoes in the international market and to ensure a steady business for the growers every year. According to sources, 2,400 kilos of mangoes was sent to Milan, Italy, and 3,600 kilos to the capital city of Qatar. Earlier, mangoes of Malda were sent to some European countries, especially to the UK. But this is for the first time that orders have been placed to exporters from Italy. “The exporters had contacted us to help them to choose the best mangoes for their clients in Milan. The consignment was sent and we have heard that they have received more orders from Italy. This is a positive development and can help us in promoting the mangoes of Malda in the international markets,” said Krishnendu Nandan, a deputy director of the department. The exporters, who have bought mangoes of different varieties from the growers in Malda district, said they have also sent consignments of the fruit to London and to Frankfurt in Germany. Among these include varieties like “Himsagar” (locally known as “Khirsapati”), “Lyangra” and “Lakshmanbhog”, said the exporters. Meanwhile, the international exhibition of fruits will commence in Doha next week. “This is a big challenge as mangoes from other countries and different states of India will also be displayed at the exhibition. If the mangoes of Malda can win the heart of fruit lovers, we believe, in due course, we can find new overseas markets in the middle-east,” said an exporter. Uzzal Saha, the secretary of West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee, said: “The Covid-19 pandemic, the consequent lockdown, along with inclement weather conditions, had marred the prospect of Malda mangoes last year. But this year, the trend appears to be favourable. Along with the European countries, we have also sent the mangoes to Dubai and hope to receive more orders from abroad.” The mango merchants in Malda pointed out that for years, Bangladesh was a steady market of mangoes, but an increase in rate of tax on exports discouraged many exporters from sending the fruit to the country. “Since 2019, the export to the neighbouring country has gone down as it has increased the levy on exports. It is good if we get new overseas markets for the produce,” said Ujjwal Choudhury, secretary, Malda Mango Merchants’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
04-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Fewest new infections in a day since April 1||Bengal on Saturday reported the 13th consecutive day of dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 449 to reach 19,280. On Saturday, the state also reported 1,819 recoveries, 1,391 new infections and 21 deaths. “This is the lowest number of new infections found in a day since April 1, which was 93 days ago,” said a minister. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. For 11 days till June 20, it rose  again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 16 per cent in these 13 days. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.64 on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates shrinking Covid-19 spread. “Our next goal is to get daily confirmation rate to less than 2 per cent, which shouldn’t take more than a few days,” said the minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.44 per cent, with the national rate at 97.07 now. With Calcutta logging 128 new infections and North 24-Parganas 142, Saturday was also the sixth successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures while Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the day’s 21 deaths, five were reported from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday and three others reported just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31. Bengal has over 15.04 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including 14.67 lakh recoveries and 17,779 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
04-07-2021||North East||Over 9,000 pigs die in three months of African Swine Fever in Mizoram||African Swine Fever (ASF) continues to wreak havoc in the livestock sector in Mizoram affecting as many as 10 out of the total 11 districts and killing more than 9,000 pigs in a little over three months, according to states animal husbandry and veterinary science department.  According to data released by the department on Sunday, at least 152 villages or local areas in 10 districts are currently affected by the ASF outbreak causing a loss of over Rs. 36.68 crore.  "Unusual death" of 699 pigs has been reported from even outside ASF-infected areas, it said.  The data also said that 1,078 pigs have been culled so far to prevent the disease from spreading further.  The first pig death due to ASF was reported on March 21 at Lungsen village in south Mizorams Lunglei district bordering Bangladesh.  Though the spread of ASF in Lunglei district has now become "less severe", it began to ravage Aizawl district, which has borne the brunt of the disease with 3,454 pig deaths so far, according to the department joint director (livestock health) Dr. Lalhmingthanga.  So far, the ASF has killed 3,092 pigs in Lunglei district, 684 in Mamit district, 939 in Serchhip district, 320 in Lawngtlai district, 334 in Khawzawl district, 83 in Hnahthial district, 257 in Champhai district, 8 in Saitual district, and 1 in Siaha district, he said.  Only Kolasib district, which borders Assam, is ASF- free at present, he said.  Lalhmingthanga said that a special diseases investigation team, which visited Lungsen village during April 5-8 found that pigs are illegally imported from Bangladesh through villages like Tipperaghat and Khojoysury located near the Bangladesh border.  Illegal pig traders use Lungsen village for keeping the animals there before moving them to Lunglei market, he said.  The senior official said that the president of the Rolui village council had informed that an outbreak of an unknown disease had killed several pigs in Bangladesh villages along the India border in February 2021.  Lalhmingthanga further said that the ASF outbreak in Aizawl district and east Mizorams Champhai district is believed to be caused by pigs or pork imported from Meghalaya and Myanmar respectively.  Mizoram shares inter-state borders with Assam, Manipur, and Tripura and also international boundaries with Bangladesh and Myanmar.  ASF is a highly contagious and deadly viral disease, affecting both domestic and feral swine of all ages.  Experts said that it is not a threat to human health and cannot be transmitted from pigs to humans. No vaccine is available for the virus to date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
04-07-2021||North East||Assam government to decide on employment for exams on record-base and internal assessment||The Assam government will hold discussions with stakeholders over a contentious criteria that makes students, who pass Classes X and XII final examinations on record-based and internal assessment, ineligible for some government jobs. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said he was willing to discuss clause 5 of the July 1 notification issued by the secondary education department detailing the steps to be taken for the implementation of the recommendations of the government-constituted expert committee for evaluating/finalising the results of students of Classes X and XII after their exams were cancelled because of the pandemic. Sarma was responding to widespread resentment and criticism of the clause by students and leading student organisations, including the All Assam Students Union, Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad and the All Bodo Students Union. They have objected to the “unjust” clause which only piled pressure on the students who have been waiting since March to write their final examinations only to see them cancelled last month owing to the Covid situation. The AASU wrote to the chief minister and education minister Ranoj Pegu seeking withdrawal of the contentious clause that makes certificates and marksheets issued to those who pass their final exams good enough to pursue higher education but not good enough for some state government jobs. The clause, they said, will affect seven lakh students of the cancelled board exams. Clause 5 states: “ … But for those students who aspire to become teachers/employees in the education department of Assam or any other department under the government of Assam where recruitment of teachers/employees are substantially based on HSLC or HSSLC marks, without there being any scope of written test or interview, shall have to appear in special HSLC/AHM examination to be conducted after improvement of the situation so that they are at par with previous or future batches of HSLC or HSSLC in assessment of merit...”The education department said special examinations will be conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Assam, (Seba) and the Assam Higher Secondary Education Council for those not satisfied with the evaluation system within September 15 subject to improvement in the Covid situation or even in 2022 to help the students improve their results. A Class XII student wondered what use is a pass certificate that is not valid for state government jobs or how could a student pursuing higher studies take the special exams. “Will he study his new course or his Class X or XII course? The government should scrap the clause,” he said. Sarma asserted none will be deprived of state government jobs except for teachers appointed under the TET scheme where Classes X and XII results were taken into account. He said the clause has been misinterpreted or the notification has not been able to properly convey the government’s intention. According to Sarma, this year’s batches will in all probability get more marks than those in the past or future batches, compelling the latter to move the court as they will not be able to compete with the 2021 batch. “We will discuss this issue. I have informed the AASU. They (2021 batch) will be eligible for all jobs, except for TET teachers… We are staring at a huge social problem. We have to find a solution... have to think about everyone,” Sarma said. AASU president Dipanka Nath told The Telegraph that the chief minister is open to discussing the issue. “We want that the interest of students are protected — now and in the future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
04-07-2021||Opinion||Promises and eggs||Some years ago, former cricketer and commentator-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu had said, “Wickets are like wives. You never know which way they will turn.” Mr Sidhu is no wicket, and going by his own definition, not a wife either. His political turns have little mystery to them anymore. There is actually a Sidhuism for it ‑ “Promises, like eggs, are meant to be broken.” Sidhu made his political debut in 2004, alongside film actor Suresh Oberoi and TV actor Gajendra Yudhisthir Chauhan. At the time, when asked about his decision, Sidhu had said, “No party is good or bad, its thinking is what makes a party good or bad. Swans and fish co-exist happily in Mansarovar.” Perhaps Mansarovar is home to a certain variety of fish and swans, perhaps Sidhu knew what he was saying, but typically swans feed on fish — small ones. Sidhu won the BJP the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and 2009; in between, in 2007, he won a by-election. In his cricket career, Sidhu was known for his fours and sixes; the singles he ignored. In the 2014 elections, when the BJP had the late Arun Jaitley fight elections from Amritsar, Sidhu all but retired from active politics. The BJP nominated him to the Rajya Sabha in 2016, but two months into his term he quit. He said, “I quit from Rajya Sabha because I was told that I shouldn’t look towards Punjab.” When Sidhu walked out of Mansarovar… sorry, the BJP, the Punjab Assembly elections were around the corner. For a while there was speculation that he might join the AAP, but eventually he joined the Congress. Overnight, he felt at home, olden family associations with the grand old party came flooding back. Soon he was calling the BJP Kaikeyi and the Congress Kaushalya. As analogies go, he was Ram. No swans, no fish. It is election time and yesterday once again for Sidhu. The party high command is sending mixed signals, Sidhu is sometimes growling, sometimes scowling, sometimes prowling. When asked if Sidhu was considering the AAP option, Arvind Kejriwal had said last month, “He is welcome.” If we could get Sidhu himself to commentate on Sidhu, what would he say? Perhaps this ‑ Aap jaisa koi mere zindagi me mein aaye toh. No?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Poise. But no, this is noise||There is a definitional issue floating about somewhere. Should have probably avoided the mention of floating and employed some other word; floating things haven’t quite been the flavour, mostly what floats about today frightens. But that apology made, there remains that definitional problem. Often a thing is not what it is defined in the books as, pata to chal gaya hoga ab tak? I mean they often say Leader, when in actual fact they may have really meant a Dealer. A Dealer in a variety of things — lies, subterfuge, thuggery, fear, intimidation, destruction, disruption, division, diversion, deception, demoralisation, demonisation, and another similar sounding word maybe? Democracy. Freedom of Speech. Secularism. Equality. Fundamental Rights. Aatmanirbhar. TikaUtsav. Vishwaguru. What do those things even mean? Match the definitions to the reality and I shall give it to you, game, set and match. There is a definitional problem. A thing is not what it is meant to be. Happens. Take this business of drones. One would have thought they are a thing of stealth and silence. They arrive unseen and unheard, boom!, and they are gone. But no. Drones often drone, as in from noun they turn to verb and then they cease to correspond to the noun they originally came introduced as. They make an awful racket most of the time, I mean if they were overhead, you’d know because you’ll hear a droning and a whirring and a swooshing down and a swooshing up and away. And sometimes they just wouldn’t go away, they’d go on and on and on, drone, drone, drone till you can have no more droning. That’s not what drones should do. But they do. They don’t arrive and depart, having done the job before anyone can know it was a drone that did the job. They arrive and they stay and they let it be known it is a drone droning away. You may be able to relate to what I am trying to suggest. Their presence no more carries surprise, often they come announced, on short notice sometimes and folks worry and scurry and wonder what the latest drone arrival may bring down, but there is no surprise in that a drone is about to arrive. Or, truth to tell, about to revive itself because it has never really gone. It’s been there, forever ready to drone. We must beware of drones, we are being duly alerted, they pose a threat to national security. Be careful people, take cover. I am here and I am there You could well say everywhere Hear me out, don’t say groan! Else, you know, I’ll have you prone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lessons of loss||The pandemic forced the world to pause. In spite of sporadic sputters of a return to ‘normal’ life, no one is quite sure when the world will be fully functional again. Whenever that happens, it will have changed — for people grieving for their loved ones as well as for countries struggling to heal their wounded economies. But the pandemic will leave behind another form of damage, the consequences of which may unfold in the time to come unless governments pay special attention to remedial action. The closure of schools for long periods — nearly 16 months at a stretch for some countries in Latin America, for example — has meant that thousands of children in low- and lower middle-income countries have lost touch with lessons. The experience of Latin American and African countries shows that distance learning and online classes are not a solution for large numbers of children in lower-income families, especially in rural areas. This finds itself echoed in India: one in four children has internet connectivity and the devices needed, according to a Unicef report. After schools closed, some families got smartphones, but regular recharging is impossible for them. Most reports on the impact of school closures on children are based on data available till early this year; the crisis they indicate has intensified with the second wave. Its most alarming aspect is the exacerbation of inequality. The hard work to universalize education in developing countries has been undone. Children are dropping out of school in huge numbers: 1.8 million children in Mexico, says a report on Latin America, and 1,70,000 in Peru. The lack of access to connectivity and to devices is certainly a major reason for this, but that is modulated by other factors. In Africa, for example, regions in Burkina Faso or Congo do not have electricity, as a result of which even lessons arranged on radio — which some students lack — and television cannot be accessed. Children often fail to follow distance learning; many forget what they have learnt, especially if their parents have not been to school. Girls are at a disadvantage; in sharing devices, their turn comes last, if at all. Children in underprivileged households turn to work to help failing household finances; child labour and minor marriage have spiked. In some regions of Africa, such as a province in Congo, there are fears that children will be recruited by militant groups. This is a many-faceted tragedy. Remedial lessons alone can help, if governments are serious about erasing inequities caused by unequal education. This should be a priority even at a time of economic difficulties caused by the pandemic. The Indian government, with its eagerness for online education, must observe its failure all over the world. Even developed countries have reported problems for poorer groups and children with disabilities. The pandemic exposed inequalities in education systems that were taken for granted before Covid. These are now many times greater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Why Lalu's sons Tejashwi, Tej Pratap got the jab||Tejashwi Yadav and his elder brother, Tej Pratap Yadav, sons of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, recently strolled into a private hospital and took the Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, by paying for it. Unfortunately, this sent several leaders of the ruling National Democratic Alliance into shock. The latter had been yapping away about the need for the two brothers to get vaccinated in order to set an example for people. Some were even accusing them of harbouring non-scientific biases against Covid-19 vaccines. But all the juicy gossip was suddenly taken away from the detractors of the RJD scions. Not to be outdone, the leaders of the ruling alliance gathered themselves and started accusing the leader of Opposition, Tejashwi, of insulting the common people by refusing to take the free vaccines provided at government hospitals. Some even said that he reneged on his decision to take the vaccine only after everybody in Bihar is vaccinated. A clever Tejashwi, though, refused to get drawn into this vaccine politics, and said: “I always used to hear the saying ‘you can’t please everyone’, but am experiencing it now.” However, an RJD leader revealed that the two brothers got inoculated because of the decision of the Speaker of the legislative assembly to not allow non-vaccinated people inside the premises during the monsoon session. earing jet-black cataract goggles, the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, rolled down the window of his car at the airport. He had just returned from Delhi where he got his eyes operated on. “All is well. The doctors have asked me to stay away from dust and smoke,” he said. Several were left grimacing at the remark. They pointed out that the CM has forgotten that Patna often has the dubious distinction of being the most polluted city in the country, owing mostly to dust particles and smoke. People whispered that Kumar, being the CM, could easily escape pollution at his sprawling official residence. “Nitish has been here for almost 16 years and we have noticed dust and smoke levels rising every passing year. The cases of eye, chest and skin ailments are shooting up due to this. He has good intentions of curbing pollution, but always falls short on will and implementation,” a senior pollution control board scientist said. Speculations about a cabinet expansion by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, have been doing the rounds for some time now. But no one knows when it will take place. Not allowing any information to leak is seen as an achievement by the current regime. During an informal gathering, Amit Shah had told a probing reporter that gone are the days when news about the party and the government got leaked. The centralized structure of the government and the ruling party makes this easy. Critics say that only “two people” are decision-makers. Names of some of the possible inductions into the cabinet have been floated in the media. Many Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are wary that if their names get published, then they may get rejected in spite of being considered. During informal chats with journalists some leaders are heard requesting that their names should not be printed. A student at a university under the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government has been fined Rs 5,000 for questioning the CM over a fee hike and changes in the reservation policy. The Master’s student, Neha — the vice-president of AISA’s Delhi unit — posted her remarks in a chat box during the webcast of the convocation in December last year. What is strange is that Kejriwal entered politics with protests, hunger strikes and even a dharna outside Parliament in 2014. AISA claims Neha has been singled out since several students had posted such comments. The varsity has evaded queries about the fine. Akhil Gogoi’s release from judicial custody will reinvigorate Assam politics. The 46-year-old anti-CAA crusader, peasant rights activist and first-time MLA is being seen as the spark the Opposition needs to take on the formidable CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma. If he plays his cards right, Gogoi could be difficult to stop. Political observers feel the battle-hardened Sarma and Gogoi could dominate state politics — there will be a one-man ruling party and a one-man Opposition, one of them said. The ‘divided, rudderless and shrinking’ Congress thus runs the risk of becoming a bystander in the Sarma-Gogoi tussle — a scenario the BJP-led alliance won’t mind, except for Gogoi breathing down its neck. The Kerala BJP president, K Surendran, was already smarting from the poll debacle when bribery allegations hit him. He is now the prime accused in two cases related to poll bribery. His party is in a dilemma since replacing him would imply guilt. But factions within the party are leveraging the situation to dislodge the president who has antagonized too many of them. That leaves the Central leadership in a fix, foiling its plans to rebuild the party in a state that has consistently rejected it. Kerala is already missing its ‘teacher’ who steered the health ministry till the Left Front decided to drop all ministers from the previous cabinet. The mark that KK Shailaja ‘Teacher’ left seems indelible; her successor in Veena George cannot keep up in spite of doing a decent job. Even the Central European University has recently picked Shailaja for the prestigious Open Society Prize. It seems the adage, once a winner always a winner, was coined for women like Shailaja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Taking a Pew||Did you know that the last question in Pew Research Center’s widely discussed ‘Religion in India’ survey reveals that 46 per cent of all Indian men wear beards? It’s shocking but true that the Indian cricket team (male) isn’t representative of desi men at large. Nearly all its members, with perhaps one exception, are bearded regardless of faith. The optimistic way of reading this hirsuteness is to see it as a bristling sign of unity in diversity. Bearded we bond, shaven we shatter. Maybe Kohli’s men are the way forward: perhaps we should all grow beards in the cause of national unity. This survey of 29,999 Indians is stuffed with questions and answers about the relationship between both religion and nation and religion and religion. Q69 asks “How important do you think it is to support India’s cricket team, to be truly Indian?” Pew’s surveyors have clearly been reading up on Norman Tebbit’s test for national loyalty, the desi version of which used to be exclusively directed at Indian Muslims. Pew’s finding is that Hindus and Jains top the list of the faith communities that believe supporting the Indian cricket team is important to be “truly Indian” at 79 per cent. Christians and Sikhs bring up the rear, with 63 and 65 per cent, while Buddhists and Muslims sit in the middle, with 74 and 75 per cent, respectively. There are some people for whom that result will be a disappointment because it doesn’t bear out their biases. There are others for whom it will have come as a relief: thank god this hasn’t given the bigots a stick to beat Muslims with. But either way, it’s curious that Pew should ask that question given the fact that the designers of the survey surely know (or ought to) that this question has been weaponized against Indian Muslims for decades. Moreover, why would a survey ask that question now in a country where, in recent years, religious and social minorities, especially Muslims, have been singled out and persecuted as disloyal and ‘anti-national’? Asking a loaded, majoritarian question is a bad idea in principle, regardless of the answer. Pew doesn’t think that it is asking a loaded question. It has an appendix on the survey’s methodology defending the questionnaire: “To improve respondent comprehension of survey questions and to ensure all questions were culturally appropriate, Pew Research Center followed a multiphase questionnaire development process that included focus groups, cognitive interviews, a pretest and a pilot survey before the national survey [italics added].” If you crossed a corporate brochure with the jargon of the Minority Report, this passage would be their lovechild. It doesn’t, however, explain the puzzling vagueness of some of the survey’s questions. Q11y, for example, asks respondents: is there a lot of discrimination against ...? The blank is filled in successive questions with India’s principal religious communities: Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains. The answer to this question is strikingly uniform: a large majority of every religious community believes that no religion or caste in India is discriminated against. Similarly, in answer to Q4, about the current economic situation of religious communities, large majorities of every religious community affirmed that their material condition was good. In the follow-up question (Q5), clear majorities within all communities felt that their economic prospects were going to improve in the next twelve months. (It’s important to note here that the survey was mostly completed before the pandemic and had to be cut short on March 23, 2020 because of the lockdown.) Even Narendra Modi’s corporate cheerleaders might have hesitated to argue that India before the pandemic in early 2020 was an economically buoyant, middle-income paradise where a rising tide of prosperity was lifting everyone’s boats: an even-handed, non-discriminatory, pluralist heaven. And yet, a Martian whose knowledge of India was derived exclusively from reading the answers to Pew’s scrupulously weighted and curated questions might come to that conclusion. There are several possible explanations for this. Perhaps the figures for the economic downturn before the pandemic were just wrong, or a species of wishful thinking on the part of economists hostile to Modi. Equally, it’s possible that the lynchings, the love jihad and anti-Romeo campaigns, the assaults on Muslim universities, the discriminatory CAA law and its complementary pincer, the National Register of Citizens, didn’t add up to discrimination in the minds of India’s Muslims; this is possible, but not likely. Perhaps Q11y (whether religious communities are discriminated against) might have been differently answered if it had been more specifically phrased. If, instead of asking an abstract, almost existential, question about discrimination, the survey had asked each community’s members whether they had been discriminated against in concrete contexts, like the real estate market or the job market, they might have ended up aggregating very different answers. I don’t know a single Muslim in Delhi who hasn’t found renting or buying a house an ordeal and it is unlikely that the experience of Muslims in other Indian cities is radically different. Yes, this is anecdotal evidence and intelligently collected data are always better than anecdotal impressions, but if a data-gathering exercise doesn’t ask specific questions, it might get bland answers, unmoored from real-life experience. The answers to Pew’s questions about Indian attitudes towards neighbours from other religious communities suggest that Indians of all faith communities would rather live in communal ghettoes than diverse neighbourhoods. In a society where there is a power differential between an economically depressed religious minority and a hegemonic and relatively more prosperous majority, the desire of both to live in segregated neighbourhoods is not the same phenomenon. One might be a preference shaped by discrimination, insecurity and fear and the other might be a form of ethnic assertion powered by superiority and contempt. Questions like this flatten that asymmetry and homogenize the answers. The survey and its interpreters have made much of two seemingly paradoxical findings. One, that Indian religious communities prefer the company of their own kind and, two, that despite this, they see religious diversity and toleration as a quintessentially Indian value. Sudipta Kaviraj once described this style of co-existing peacefully without much interaction as “back-to-back adjacency”. But he was describing a pre-modern, pre-colonial equilibrium. When journalists celebrate this indifferent co-existence as a sign of segmentary tolerance, they invoke a vision of fuzzy communities, long dissolved by the enumerated majorities and minorities of the nation state. The survey’s most substantial findings constitute a formal documentation of the fact that the erstwhile Bharatiya Jana Sangh’s slogan, “Hindi, Hindu, Hindusthan”, has been consolidated into a substantial demographic and political reality. Nearly two-thirds of all Hindus believe that true Indians must necessarily be Hindus and a majority of Hindus believe that a true citizen is a Hindu Indian who speaks Hindi. The lesson of the Pew survey is that segregated co-existence in India today is not a symptom of India’s boundless tolerance for difference but a euphemism for majoritarian supremacy. Criticizing a survey is a curious exercise; it can feel a bit like shooting the messenger. This is meant to be a poll of what Indians think after all, not Pew’s considered opinion. The thing is, an electoral poll’s accuracy is measured against the election it seeks to anticipate. A survey like this one, designed to take a country’s religious temperature, is unfalsifiable. Once published it just exists, an online repository of quantified truth. Some of its questions are considered and the answers to them tell us important things about India. Others (like the one about supporting the Indian cricket team and true Indianness) are a form of louche, nose-picking curiosity that should never have made the questionnaire. Exercises like Pew’s not only aspire to authoritativeness, they also have authoritativeness thrust upon them. The reasonable response is an engaged and attentive scepticism. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Research needed to ensure safe harvesting of algae||Sir — There is a lot of talk about harmful algal blooms owing to a warming planet. But little is said about using algae to fight climate change: they remove carbon dioxide from our atmosphere, store it as biomass, and replace it with oxygen. The raw algal biomass can also potentially be used as biofuel. Dry algae do not burn as well as fossil fuels, but they release more oxygen and less carbon dioxide than fossil fuels when burned. But growing algae in our ponds and seas is not an option because this will devastate the marine ecology. Research needs to go into methods to safely harvest algae. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutt Sir — Given the onslaught of the pandemic, it is not surprising that the vaccine was brought out in record time. Usually, vaccines take years to formulate, test and launch. This time, though, clinical trials were set up to get the minimum information needed to win emergency-use approval, and follow-up study has been less than systematic. It is understandable that any criticism of vaccines or apprehension about side effects is being brushed off and silenced as fear-mongering. There can be no doubt that people should get vaccinated as soon as possible. But this does not mean that genuine concerns should be dismissed. One such concern is the impact that the vaccine is having on women’s menstrual health. As is often the case, women’s health takes a back seat when it comes to policy decisions. Yet, all evidence seems to point to the fact that women are more likely to report mild or moderate side effects, and many who had blood clots because of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine were women. An overwhelming number of them also suffered anaphylaxis following vaccination. Women and men can react differently to vaccines because the former’s immune systems are adapted to protect the foetus from infection but also not to attack the foreign cells that make up part of the foetus. It is thus not unexpected that many women have reported that the Covid vaccines have disrupted their menstrual cycles. While some are experiencing late periods, others report heavy bleeding. More research is needed to ascertain how the vaccines affect women’s menstrual health and to take measures to counter any adverse side effects. Contrary to popular opinion, asking more questions about the vaccines and funding more research on them — even while the vaccination drive is on — will only boost public confidence in the vaccines. Malini Bera,Bhubaneswar Sir — The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, underlined that the judiciary needs complete freedom from any extraneous influence, namely the legislature or the executive, to apply checks on governmental power and action and enforce the rule of law (“Needed: Full freedom for judiciary”, July 1). While delivering the 17th Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture, Ramana cautioned judges against being swayed by public opinion, often amplified on social media platforms. He also referred to the unjust laws of the colonial era being misused. The Central government’s design to introduce the National Judicial Appointments Commission to interfere with the appointment of judges is clear. It is also accused of sitting on several recommendations for the appointment of judges to high courts and the apex court to suit its narrow political interest. The judiciary is the chief guardian of the constitutional ethos. The executive tries to prey upon the weaknesses of judges by offering post-retirement prospects to get favourable verdicts. Some judges, however, stand out for their integrity. The judge, H.R. Khanna, dissented to the ruling that the right to life could be suspended during the Emergency — this cost him the post of chief justice and he resigned. This is in sharp contrast to a slew of recent verdicts — those on the Rafale contract, the PM-Cares fund, the Sahara-Birla diaries or electoral bonds case, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to name a few instances. Ramana rightly reminded judges that they need to live by the strictest of codes so as to uphold the image of the judiciary. Jahar Saha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tenughat Dam gates opened due to incessant rain||The Tenughat Dam authourities on Sunday opened two sluice gates to discharge the increased water level due to incessant rain. About 6767 cusecs per second water is being discharged in Damodar River that has raised its water level. It may be noted that a total of 18 gates are installed in Tenughat Dam, of which, 10 are radial and 8 fall under sluice gates. Tenughat Dam is the largest earthen dam in Asia. The water from this dam is supplied to the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and also to the people living in the entire Bokaro Township. The Nodal Officer, Flood Control Cell, Tenughat Dam Division, has informed Dhanbad administration and West Bengal about the discharge of water. Damodar enters West Bengal after travelling through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Executive engineer, Shyam Kishore said the water level of Tenughat Dam has increased due to continuous rain. Two sluice gates were opened on Sunday morning while one gate was already open. The water level of the Damodar River has risen. People living on the banks of the river have been asked not to go in the river. He said the water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet, whereas at present the dam has 849.75 feet of water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Notorious gang member dies from chest pain in Dhanbad jail||Chirkunda based notorious criminal Anand Vardhan also known as Mantu Kashyap lodged in Dhanbad Divisional Jail since June 28, died on Sunday morning while he was being taken to Sahid Nirmal Memorial Medical College after he complained of chest pain. The incident took place at around 7 am when Kashyap was rushed to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital by the jail authorities following chest pain, where he was declared brought dead. Jail Superintendent Ajay Kumar said, “Mintu Kashyap’s health condition deteriorated during the morning hours as he felt chest pain and difficulties in breathing following which he was referred to SNMMCH following primary check up by jail doctor.” Dhanbad district administration led by Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar ordered an enquiry into the death and constituted a medical board to carry out post mortem of the body. Kashyap, who has links with the notorious Guddu Shukla gang of Uttar Pradesh, was arrested by police from Chirkunda on June 28 along with two of his accomplices in connection with the Vinod Jha murder case of Chirkunda on February 24. Vinod Jha, a former accomplice of Kashyap, was in the money lending business. Jha’s relationship with Kashyap had turned sour over a money dispute as a result of which he was killed. Geeta Devi, wife of Vinod Jha, in her complaint to police had directly charged Mantu Kashyap for her husband’s death and revealed to police that her husband used to work for Mantu Kashyap since 2011 in his money lending business. Geeta further claimed that her husband stopped working for Kashyap in October last year over a money dispute with Jha. Kashyap was nursing a grudge against Jha ever since he parted ways with him and was killed in Taldanga colony of Maithon near a temple on February 24 at around 1.30 pm when he was playing cards along with some of his friends under the shade of a tree. Police launched an investigation after Jha’s murder and arrested eight persons within a week of his murder of February 24. Main accused, Mantu Kashyap however, remained elusive and was finally arrested along with one of his female accomplice and her son on June 28.  He was subsequently sent to Dhanbad jail on judicial custody after being produced in court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rath Yatra to be held symbolically in Dhanbad ||The two oldest Rath Yatra pujas of the district - Hari Mandir of Hirapur (started in 1925) and Panchdev Mandir of Jharia (started in 1932) - will be performed within the temple campus symbolically in full observance of Covid protocols. The puja committees of the respective temples have already started preparations with a fresh coat of painting to the chariot as well as the temple. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Partho Sengupta, a senior member of Hirapur Harimandir management committee said, “We have decided not to take out the procession this year like last year as per the government order and even if the government allows taking out of the procession we will not take out the same in order to ensure safety for one and all.” “Puja, however will be performed in temple campus itself as per the over 96 years of tradition beginning from 1925 as the chariot will be moved from one corner of the temple to other corner unlike the procession which used to taken out from the temple to different parts of the town,” said Sengupta and added after the symbolic procession, the chariot will be placed near the main gate for darshan. “Nobody, however, will be allowed inside the temple during the evening on July 12 and our volunteers will be deputed to ensure social distancing norms,” said Sengupta. Sengupta said devotees will be allowed into the temple one at a time when the morning rush will be less. Vishnu Tripathi, convenor of Rath Yatra Sanchalan Samiti of Jharia said, “We have also decided not to take out the procession this year in view of pandemic but preparation for the traditional puja  which will held has already been launched since yesterday itself with the repair of the seepage problem in the Panchdev Temple.” “After completion of  temple renovation and painting we will also carry out chariot refurbishment and like Hari Mandir we will also move the chariot from one place (garbhgrih) to another place, mausibari  around 10 meters away within the temple campus,” said Tripathi. “As the sentiments of the people of Jharia are attached with the Rath Yatra which began in 1932, we will be holding the puja and our volunteers will ensure strict observance of Covid protocols and social distancing norms,” said Tripathi. The Rath Yatra of Panchdev Mandir was first taken out by a Jharia based trader, Ramkhelawan Sao in 1932 with the permission of then Jharia king, Shiva Prasad Singh. According to myths, Sao was childless till the age of 54 and after a trip to Puri Lord Jagannth came in his dream and asked him to organise Rath Yatra in Jharia. He organised Rath Yatra in 1932 obeying the god orders and was blessed with a child in 1933. Since then Rath Yatra is taken out every year by his descendents with the help of other residents of Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC set to miss Stephen Eze in ISL ||The Jamshedpur FC backline seems set to miss the towering presence of Stephen Eze. The Nigerian international centre back will not be a part of the Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL). It is understood that the 27-year-old Eze is not keen to play the cash-rich ISL even though JFC is keen to sign him up. Eze is looking to play in the more lucrative European circuit and his agent is in talks with some clubs abroad. Eze was the second foreign centre back for Jamshedpur along with captain Peter Hartley, an Englishman. He played 20 ISL matches and scored four goals. Sources in the know revealed that JFC was still holding talks with the right-footed Eze but he has set his priority of playing in the European circuit. "We don't think Eze will be with us in the ISL this time. Though his one-year contract has come to an end but we are keen to have him with us. But it seems all over," one of the sources said. Unlike ISL, European circuit has more visibility and lucrative. "Moreover, Eze is serious to play for the national side of Nigeria and playing for European Clubs would help him in this direction," the source added on condition of anonymity. Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said Eze may not be in their side for the ISL. "He (Eze) is an asset for any side. Eze is a solid defender and is also very good at set pieces. We are still in talks with him but he is keen to turn out in the European circuit," he added. Eze is an international with the Nigerian national team having represented them 13 times since his debut in 2016. In May 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but did not make it to the final 23. His Super Eagles side finished runner-up in the African Nations Championship in 2018 with Eze playing all six games. The defender has been playing with Lokomotiv Plovidiv in the Bulgarian top division for the past four seasons. He won the Bulgarian Cup in the 2018-19 season with Lokomotiv and represented them in the Europa League 2019-20 in four games. The 6’6” Eze is excellent in positioning and anticipation and calm while distributing the ball. His dominance in the air in defending was an asset for Jamshedpur. He is of high quality in attacking set pieces, which reflects in his 3 goals in the 2018-19 season for Lokomotiv.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Experts from US guide Jharkhand doctors, support staff on tackling Covid third wave||In a first, specialist doctors from University of California, University of Texas and University of Illinois, USA, imparted online training on critical care of children and management of intensive care units to hundreds of  healthcare professionals in Jharkhand on Sunday. Paediatricians working in state-run medical colleges and hospitals, district hospitals, malnutrition treatment centres, Special NewBorn Care Units, NewBorn Stabilization Units, physicians and paediatricians going to be posted in the upcoming 28 new paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) attended the first ever such symposium jointly held by the health department and the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The initiative is among several the Hemant government has planned in assocaition with the medical fraternity in view of a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. Inaugurating the webinar, health minister Banna Gupta said, "It is estimated that around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand would be affected if and when the third Covid wave strikes. Total population of children below the 18-age group is around 1.44 crore in our state. With a possible 5 per cent strike rate, at least 7 lakh children are expected to contract the virus, as per the state health department estimates,” "It is also feared that the more seriously affected children, might develop Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome and even Black Fungus infection, in later stages," said Gupta, adding that the state needs to be more vigilant to prevent loss of lives. The health minister also condemned recent attacks on doctors during the Covid-19 pandemic and assured them that the  Medical Protection Act (MPA) would be implemented in the state. Additional Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Singh, IMA national president Dr. J.A.Jayalal, IMA national secretary Dr.Jayesh Lele, national president of IMA’s women’s wing Dr.L.Yesodha, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla and doctors from various hospitals also attended the webinar. “This is the first time that such an international webinar has been arranged where specialists from top medical colleges in USA shared their insights and perspectives on combating a possible third Covid wave that is projected to affect several lakh children in Jharkhand. This interaction will help us be prepared for the third wave,” said Dr Bharti Kashyap, the chairperson of women doctors wing of IMA Jharkhand. Dr Yonca Bulut, Professor of Paediatrics, Division of Paediatric Critical Care, Department of Paediatrics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, and Los Angeles, USA, Dr. Ravi Kashyap, Associate Clinical Professor, University of Illinois College of Medicine, USA and Dr. Pooja Kashyap, Paediatric Cardiologist, Director of Adult congenital Program and Assistant Professor, University of Texas, USA were the key speakers during the event. The USA-based specialists suggested that to reduce the impact of a possible third wave of Covid infections, urgent steps should include mechanisms to recognise early warning symptoms, putting in place child ICUs equipped with monitoring devices like electro- cardiogram and echo cardiogram equipment and supported by advanced diagnostic and pathological testing facilities along with an efficient transport system to ensure quick hospitalisation. All such facilities should be manned by paediatric heart specialists and paediatric ICU specialists, nursing personnel and trained manpower capable of managing all monitoring devices and interpreting pathological and diagnostic test results in the shortest possible time, to ensure prompt care to Covid affected children. They stressed the need of organising training for doctors, cardiologists, paediatric heart specialists, nursing staff, health care personnel manning radiological, diagnostic and path labs, ventilators, respiratory devices and other equipment. Proper stocks of essential medicines should be built for each paediatric ICU to take care of child patients and all children showing signs of coronavirus infection should be immediately shifted to designated paediatric ICUs, the experts said. Dr. Kashyap pleaded that respiratory ailments and heart problems in children caused by Covid sjould be also brought under the Ayushman Bharat National Health Protection Scheme, to provide relief to low-income groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy on ventilator, Jharkhand rights group appeals to Centre, Maharashtra ||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) has renewed its demand to the Centre  and Maharashtra government to ensure that Father Stan Swamy was given access to necessary specailised medical treatment after the 84-year- old Jesuit priest and social worker was put on ventilator at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai on Saturday night. JJM, a conglomeration of several rights groups, also called upon the Bombay High Court on Sunday to immediately grant him bail and allow him to return to Jharkhand. Swamy is in judicial custody after the National Investigation Agency arrested him in October last year in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case  causing an uproar among leading tribal and civil rights groups. Calling Swamy’s condition as "critical", JJM, in a fresh statement on Sunday evening, held NIA and the Centre accountable for the suffering of the  senior citizen. "The NIA court also played its role by denying him bail on both medical grounds and merit. Assurances of the Maharashtra government regarding support for Stan Swamy are yet to materialise,” said the statement. Swamy has been keeping unwell since early may at the Taloja jail. He had fever, cough, extreme weakness and a running stomach. “Even though he demonstrated severe Covid symptoms, he was not tested at the prison.  After a public outcry, he was administered Covid vaccine. He also tested positive for Covid. Ironically, he was given the vaccine when he was already severely ill,” said JJM, adding that it was only on May 28 that the Bombay High Court allowed his transfer from Taloja jail to the Holy Family Hospital. Swamy’s arrest on October 8 last year triggered outcry among adivasis, gram sabhas, civil society, political leaders and parties. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren too has condemned the arrest and expressed his solidarity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Chandil police to instal street lights on Dobo-Kanderbera Road||In an initiative to provide safety to commuters, Chandil police have decided to install street lamps on the Dobo-Kanderbera Road in Seraikela-Kharsawan district which connects Chandil with Jamshedpur through the Domuhani bridge in Sonari. The Chandil police's initiative assumes significance as the seven-km-long stretch remains dark in absence of any street lamp, giving rise to crimes like robberies and even murder. The police had to take the step to get the important road illuminated as the road construction department ((RCD) which has set up the road has no plans to set up a street lamp system there. The police have decided to approach house owners settled on either side of the Dobo-Kanderbera Road to install lamps on their rooftops. "Although the Dono-Kanderbera Road has become important after the Domuhani bridge was set up two years ago, it is getting increasingly crime-prone. We have, therefore, decided to get the road illuminated with the cooperation of the local residents,"said Sanoj Kumar, OC, Chandil thana to The Telegraph Online. He said they have decided to approach the house owners on either side of the road to fix a lamp on their rooftops. Kumar pointed out they will try to install poles for the lamp-post along the stretch where there are no houses. He said for fixing the poles and drawing power lines for the lamp-post they will take the help of the local residents. The OC, when queried, said they are taking such initiative as there is no proposal to provide the street lamp facility by the RCD on the said road. The Dobo-Kanderbera Road provides a shorter route to Ranchi through Chandil and people are using the road increasingly during the day as well as at night. Executive engineer of RCD, Seraikela, Nirmal Singh when contacted confirmed that the department has no plan to provide a street lamp system on the Dobo-Kanderbera Road. "We are aware that the Dobo-Kanderbera road has become an important road connecting the steel city, but we have no plan to provide a street lamp system on that road as such," said Singh to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro trade body seeks government help to revive industry||The Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries has sought help from Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to revive several industrial units that have been affected by the Covid induced lockdowns. The chamber has sent a letter to the minister acquainting him about the poor condition of industrial units located in Bokaro. Even though the industrial units, majority of which are dependent on Bokaro Steel Plant, were exempted from the lockdown curbs, their production and sales were severely affected. The industrialists claimed that they are passing through a very bad phase and need government intervention. Chamber President Sanjay Baid said that without full resources, non-availability of oxygen, shortage of raw material, working with 50% labour, non-availability of transport etc, the local industry was working and producing in adverse conditions. Due to this, the ordered goods could not be delivered on time. “We have requested the Union Steel Minister to ensure that Public sector undertakings (PSU’s) issue a fresh purchase order to the units, which have not been able to supply the ordered goods during the Corona period, along with deducting late fee on the goods supplied by such units,” said Baid. Another industrialist in Bokaro, Sidharth Parakh said, “Covid has broken the backbone of industry and trade resulting in unemployment and poverty. Government can change this challenge into an opportunity. Economic Reform can boost this industry.” The chamber has suggested that a Core Committee should be constituted by the Purchase Department of BSL, a unit Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), which should work for guidance and redressal of difficulties and problems being faced by these units. Baid added that SAIL should play an important role in the Prime Minister's endeavor to promote 'Vocal for Local'. BSL should provide its secondary products in priority to the industries operational locally from the past 30-35 years in the district, taking huge loans from the banks and providing huge employment. This will give a boost to industries here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine drive for coal town petrol pump workers||The Dhanbad district administration in association with Coal Field Petroleum Dealers Association on Sunday organised a special vaccination drive for staff members of petrol pumps including, service station attendants, driveway attendants and nozzle man as part of its initiative to vaccinate high risk group individuals. The day-long drive conducted at three different petrol pumps of the district, under the supervision of District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO), Dr Vikas Rana began during the morning hours at 9.30 am from Green View Fuel Station at court road during which around 150 persons were vaccinated. The drive then moved to Rita Verma Petrol Pump at Memco More and finally concluded at Mahamaya Petrol Pump of Kharkabad area of Govindpur. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “We have organised the drive today as part of our series of special vaccination drives under which we also organized vaccination for specially-abled persons on June 9 at Pehla Kadam, a school for differently-abled students at Jagjivan Nagar and also for delinquents for Child Reformatory Centre of Bhuda on June 16.” “Apart from the staff of the three petrol pumps where the drive took place, staff of adjoining petrol pumps were also vaccinated,” said Rana and added that all beneficiaries were administered Covishield. “As part of the series of special drives we have plans to vaccinate the auto drivers and street vendors as soon as sufficient doses of vaccines are available,“said Rana. Animesh Mirdha, manager of Green View Petrol Pump, said, “Altogether five staff of our petrol pump besides the 25 staff of other adjoining petrol pumps including, Balaji Petrol Pump, Shivam Petrol Pump and Aastha Shaki Fuel pump were vaccinated at our centre during the two hour drive conducted from 9.30 am to 11.30 am” “We as petrol pump staff are highly indebted to the initiative taken up by the district administration and Coal Field Petroleum Dealers Association as many of us due to our job preoccupation could not spare time for standing in long queues outside the vaccination centres despite us falling in high risk category due to being exposed to large number of customers on a daily basis,” said Mirdha. Sanjeev Rana, General Secretary of Coalfield Petroleum Dealers Association who is also the owner Mahamaya Petrol Pump at  Kharkabad of Govindpur where over 50 persons including the petrol pump staff besides their family members  were vaccinated during the last leg of drive said, “The  drive held today was the first of its kind for the petrol pump staff held in the state and we are thankful to the district administration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination regains momentum in Jharkhand after fresh stock of doses arrives||With fresh supplies of vaccines coming in from the Centre, the vaccination campaign against Covid-19 regained momentum in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state administered the first dose of vaccine to over 1 lakh residents and the second to more than 30,000 beneficiaries on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,09,459 beneficiaries, including 92,540 in the age bracket of 18 years to 45 years. At least 33,449 residents received their second jab on the day and most of them were above the age of 45 years. Owing to an acute shortage of vaccines, Jharkhand had to cut down on vaccination in the past couple of days with several session sites remaining non-operational. On average, the state vaccinated less than 40,000 residents daily from Wednesday to Friday. Jharkhand received 6 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre on Friday and distributed them to the 24 districts. Meanwhile, the state continued to witness a drop in the active caseload of Covid-19 as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Saturday. At least 91 cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the state in the past 24 hours, while 116 Covid patients recovered during this period, bringing the active caseload down to 805. One Covid casualty, reported from East Singhbhum, took the toll in the state to 5,114 on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi increased slightly as the district reported only five recoveries against 10 fresh cases of infection. As per NHM data, at least 232 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday. Ranchi is also the only district in Jharkhand with a triple-digit active caseload. At least six districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Hazaribag, Giridih, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Saturday, while Ranchi reported the highest spike among the 24 districts, NHM stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 53,266 residents and around 0.17 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, more than 3.45 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in the state and 98.28 per cent of patients have recovered. About 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand dropped to 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state reached 3076.92 days against the national doubling rate of 660.05 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
