05-07-2021||Calcutta||Parked minibus and two school buses gutted in Howrah  ||A minibus and two school buses parked adjacent to the Dumurjala stadium in Howrah were gutted on Sunday afternoon. Police said they were not sure whether someone torched the buses or an electrical short-circuit caused the fire. No one was injured because the buses were empty. Eyewitnesses told the police that they saw a minibus go up in flames inside the parking lot around 4.30pm. Within a few minutes, leaping flames from the vehicle spread to two school buses parked nearby. Some of the witnesses alerted the fire and emergency services department and two fire tenders reached the spot. It took over 45 minutes for the two to control the blaze. “I was riding past the spot on my motorcycle when I spotted the flames. A few people were trying to douse the fire by pouring bucketfuls of water on it. I got off my bike and joined them,” said Ujjal Mondal, in his 30s. "Within a few minutes all three vehicles were gutted." A number of buses, minibuses, school buses and other vehicles remain parked around the Dumurjala stadium. In Calcutta, buses and minibuses remain parked by the roadside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Loaded truck kills 1 on Vidyasagar Setu, hits Fort William wall  ||A city-bound loaded truck knocked down a motorcyclist on Vidyasagar Setu and fled before crashing into the boundary wall of Fort William near its South Gate on Kidderpore Road on Saturday night, police said. The motorcyclist, Sunil Sharma, 44, was critically injured and taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The driver fled the Fort William crash site, the police said. “The two accidents happened within a span of five to seven minutes. We checked CCTV footage and realised that the same cement-laden truck was involved in both accidents,” said an officer. “It was apparent that the truck was being driven rashly and the driver failed to control the vehicle. The vehicle was headed for Dum Dum.” A case under the IPC section related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part-II), which suggests the accused had full knowledge of the consequences of his act, has been initiated against the absconding driver. “The case has been started under a stringent section because it was apparent that the driver had full knowledge of his actions. He could have stopped and tried to help the victim. Instead, he fled and drove dangerously before crashing the truck into the Fort William wall.” The investigation into the twin accidents has been taken over by the fatal squad of the traffic police. The truck will undergo mechanical tests to ascertain whether there was any mechanical fault. The incident happened two days after a minibus had fatally hit a motorcyclist before ramming into balustrades outside Fort William. At least 14 passengers were injured and a number of seats on the bus were dislodged under the impact of the crash. Two more deaths One more fatal accident was reported on Saturday night and another the next morning. Scooterist Snehasish Ghosh, 28, a resident of Baranagar, was hit by a truck at the crossing of BB Ganguly Street and Central Avenue on Saturday night around 10.20pm. Officers of Bowbazar police station took Ghosh to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead. Ghosh was wearing a helmet. Around 4am on Sunday, an elderly pedestrian, whose identity could not be established till evening, was fatally hit by an unidentified vehicle on Circus Avenue, in the Karaya police station area. A case under the IPC section related to causing death due to negligence has been initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Armed bike-borne youths attack Trinamul office in Belgharia||A group of bike-borne youths turned up outside a Trinamul office in Belgharia on Saturday night and allegedly assaulted a few men seated inside and dragged some of them out before opening fire. Police said Manas Bardhan, one of the men who were inside the office, suffered a bullet wound. He has been admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass. Another man in the office, Sabya Gyne, was injured after being assaulted by the butt of a revolver. Investigators have spoken to Gyne a number of times to try and understand the sequence of events leading to the 10pm attack at Trinamul office. Six persons have been arrested. Witnesses said that while fleeing the spot, the attackers had fired a few rounds in the air. Madan Mitra, former transport minister and local Trinamul MLA, reached the spot with some of his supporters soon after the attack. “There is an attempt to create trouble... by some youths who are being instigated politically,” he said. A preliminary investigation has revealed that the two groups had clashed over their returns from a syndicate, officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination at Calcutta Municipal Corporation sites to begin on Monday||This week’s Covid vaccination at Calcutta Municipal Corporation sites is set to begin on a high note on Monday but officials fear the pace could slow down from mid-week because of inadequate supply of doses. “Our target is to vaccinate about 40,000 people from the 190 vaccination centres of the CMC,” a civic official said. “There are enough doses to achieve the target but we are not sure how many people we will be able to vaccinate daily from Tuesday if fresh stocks do not arrive on time.” Some private hospitals, which had kept their outreach vaccination on hold last week to comply with a new set of rules made by the state health department, are set to resume the drive this week. “Based on the vaccine allotment schedule for Monday, all vaccination centres of the CMC together will be able to inoculate about 40,000 people through the day. We have the capacity to vaccinate a greater number of people if there are enough doses,” said a CMC doctor. An official of the health department said the state had 10 lakh doses on Sunday morning. The stock would reduce by the evening as some centres in districts ran vaccination on Sunday. But after accounting for the reduction, there will be enough doses for Monday. But the picture could be different from Tuesday. Civic officials fear a repeat of last week when the CMC clinics could vaccinate only about 40 people each on Tuesday and Wednesday, compared to the usual 200 or more people. That happened because stocks had dried up. The health department is expecting about 13 lakh vaccine doses in four tranches by July 13. But the earliest tranche — of 3 to 4 lakh doses - will only arrive on Thursday, said Ashim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer. “More doses will arrive on July 10, 12 and 14,” he said. The vaccine manufacturers, Das Malakar said, have indicated that another 45 lakh doses would come in the second half of July. A senior doctor said lack of adequate doses meant frequent changes in vaccination numbers at CMC clinics and other centres. This is creating inconvenience for many, who are standing in a queue for hours only to be told that the clinic had run out of doses. R. Venkatesh of the RN Tagore hospital said they would launch outreach vaccination for at least two companies this week. “We had to keep these camps on hold because rules changed. State government officials visited the site for inspection and gave a written approval letter. We submitted this letter to the health department, who then created a new workplace vaccination site for each of these places,” said Venkatesh, the regional director of Naryana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Earlier, the approval letter was not required and the physical inspection of the site was not done by the government. Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital, said they would conduct fresh outreach camps for several IT companies from this week. “The companies helped us get the approval letter…” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Doctor and activist organise medical camp for kids in Topsia||Doctor and activist Kafeel Khan held a medical camp at Topsia in Calcutta on Saturday. Khan runs an initiative called Doctors on Road, which organises free medical camps for the poor and needy across the country. The initiative has been running for 81 days. Khan and his team of doctors treated around 300 kids on Saturday. He was felicitated by local Trinamul MLA Javed Ahmed Khan. The activist-doctor had been invited to Bengal by an NGO called the Just Yellow Foundation. Speaking to The Telegraph on the sidelines of the camp, Khan said he would like to see Trinamul Congress chief and Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee assuming a role at the Centre along with other Opposition leaders such as Sharad Pawar and Ashok Gehlot. He also said he would campaign against the BJP in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Online admission test route for Ramakrishna Mission Residential College||Several departments of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students on the basis of their performance in online admission tests and online viva voce this year. In physics and English, candidates shortlisted on the basis of weighted score from the board marks will be screened based on their performance in an admission test and viva. In political science, philosophy, Sanskrit and Bengali, the applicants meeting the cut-off in their respective subjects will be screened based on their scores in the admission test and the viva. The departments of chemistry, math and statistics are yet to announce their screening format. The college, which used to admit students through on-campus admissions tests till 2019, had last year admitted students based only on board marks in all subjects other than English. An official of the college said they had decided to introduce an online screening mechanism this year because they had gained expertise in holding classes and tests over digital platforms since April 2020. Principal Swami Shastrajnananda said details of how undergraduate aspirants in each subject would be admitted this year would be declared once the dates of the Class XII board results were announced. An official of the college said it was left to the departments to decide how prospective students would be admitted after it became clear that the Delhi boards and the state higher secondary council would not conduct the plus-II board exams this year because of the pandemic. A teacher in a humanities department said that in the absence of the plus-II exams, the boards and the councils might try to outperform each other while awarding marks generously to the Class XII students. “In such a situation, it is advisable to screen applicants through admission tests and viva,” he said. Several institutions have been applying newer ways to screen students. St Xavier’s University, for example, will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Driver of killer minibus arrested from relative’s home in Baranagar||Police probing the minibus accident on the Maidan last Thursday that killed a motorcyclist and left 14 passengers injured have concluded that the vehicle had no mechanical fault and the crash was caused by a human error. The driver of the minibus, Syed Ibrar Hossain, 35, was arrested from his relative’s home in Baranagar late on Saturday. He has been booked under IPC sections related to causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part II), which signifies that the accused had knowledge about the consequence of his actions, rash and negligent driving, mischief and attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder. If convicted, Hossain can be imprisoned for 10 years. “A preliminary forensic examination of the bus suggested that there was no mechanical fault and the accident appeared to be the outcome of a human error,” said an officer of the traffic department. The minibus, most of whose seats were dislodged under the impact of the collision, has 84 citation cases pending against it. Traffic cops said the citation cases included those of traffic violations like jumping a traffic signal or violating the central line. The bus also has five “sticker” cases against it, which means it had been spotted parked in a no-parking zone at least five times. Witnesses had said the bus and the motorcycle both were heading towards Esplanade, when the bus apparently hit the two-wheeler from the rear seconds before crashing into balustrades outside Fort William. The motorcyclist, Vivekananda Dab, a constable of the reserve force of Calcutta police, fell under the bus and could be extricated only after three cranes lifted the mangled remains of the vehicle. Dab died on the spot. The accident happened on Day 1 of the resumption of public transport in the state following a curb that had been in force since May 16 as a precaution against Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||City witnesses thunderstorm on Sunday ||An intense spell of thunderstorm came down on the city on Sunday morning. Accompanied by a series of lightning and rumblings of thunder, the rain started around 9.30am. The rain was not uniform. Cossipore received around 42mm of rain, Behala got 37mm and Patuli and Dum Dum, 20mm each. The rain was not uniform because the southwest monsoon currents are weak in south Bengal, as they are across most of the Indian heartland this week, said Met officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
05-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 395 points on Monday||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 395 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35. State Bank of India was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, M&M and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech and Titan were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo closed in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market on Friday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 982.80 crore, as per exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.35 per cent higher at USD 76.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 211.04 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 52,695.71 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 65.10 points or 0.41 per cent up to 15,787.30.  Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and HDFC were the laggards.  In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index ended 166.07 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 52,484.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.20 points or 0.27 per cent up at 15,722.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 982.80 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Shanghai were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.09 per cent to USD 76.10 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Diesel price crosses Rs 100 a litre in Madhya Pradesh||Diesel price on Sunday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Madhya Pradesh, while Sikkim became the latest state to see Rs 100-per-litre petrol price after yet another hike in fuel rates. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 18 paise a litre, according to a price notification from state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, petrol now comes for Rs 99.51 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.36 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. Sikkim joined that list on Sunday. Petrol in the state capital Gangtok is now priced at Rs 100.15 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 91.55. Petrol has crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark in the metro cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune and it is over Rs 99 in the other two cities of Delhi and Calcutta. Rates of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, have crossed Rs 100 a litre at Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan as well in some places in Odisha. On Sunday, Rewa, Shahdol and Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh saw those levels. The hike on Sunday is the 34th increase in the price of petrol and 33rd in the case of diesel since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during the Assembly elections in states such as Bengal. In 34 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 9.11 per litre. Diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.63 a litre in 33 instances of price increase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Equity investors factoring in improving corporate balance sheet despite pandemic||Equity investors are factoring in the improving corporate balance sheet along with the long-term impact of production-linked incentive scheme and the growth of housing sector despite the pressure on the economy from the Covid pandemic. Benchmark index Nifty touched a fresh high of 15916 for the month ended June and is up around 12 per cent in calendar year 2021. According to a market valuation report of Motilal Oswal, around 60 per cent of Nifty constituents are trading at a premium to their historical averages. There is also inflows from foreign institutional investors supporting the rise. The rally in the market has been in contrast to the GDP growth projections for 2021-22 which has seen a downward revision by the RBI to 9.5 per cent from its earlier projection of 10.5 per cent. “The market is ignoring short-term pain of Covid-19 related impacts on the economy for the longer gain,” Nilesh Shah, group president and managing director, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Ltd, said at a CII event on Saturday. “Corporate India has done extremely well over the last few years. They have made the balance sheet leaner and repaid debt,” said Pankaj Tibrewal, senior executive vice-president and fund manager (equity), Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Ltd. According to market observers, the production-linked incentive scheme covering 13 sectors with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for a five-year period has the potential to trigger private sector capital expenditure. Further, improving affordability in the housing sector could aid ancillary sectors such as cement, paints. “We believe the PLI scheme will start adding about a percentage to India’s GDP from 2024-25 onwards,” Shah said. “Housing interest rates are at an all-time low level. Over the next couple of years, we could see another percent added to India’s GDP through the housing sector,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Excise duty collections from petrol and diesel jump three-fold in April and May||Excise duty collections from petrol and diesel jumped three-fold in April and May, with the oil companies raising prices 16 times during May and reducing them once in April when the elections were on in the key states of Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in more than 15 cities of the country. The price or petrol has already hit the century mark in North Bengal. Collections in the corresponding period a year ago stood at Rs 10,996 crore. It could be argued that 2020-21 was an unusual year with the government imposing a lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic. But the amount is also much more than the collections in the first two months of “normal year” 2019-20, when the government raised Rs 17,333 crore. April-May 2021 was also the time the second wave of the coronavirus swept through the country. Prices may rise further if global crude prices move up in the event of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and its allies including Russia (the Opec+ group) fail to reach an agreement to boost production. Opec+ is expected to resume talks over oil output on Monday, having failed to arrive at a unanimous agreement for the second day running on Friday. Analysts warned there may not be any output hikes till the next fiscal year if there is no resolution to the standoff between the UAE and the Opec+ members. The present agreement between the members will expire in April 2022. A failure to structure an agreement would likely lead to higher prices and create an inflationary effect on the economy. The Narendra Modi government can provide some relief to users by reducing the cess levied on petrol and diesel. “Higher consumption of fuels should support a rise in the indirect taxes levied on them, offering a window for a partial reversal in the cess hikes that were imposed last year. Our calculations suggest that the cesses levied on petrol and diesel could be reduced by Rs. 4.5/litre each, while maintaining the total cess revenues of the GoI on these fuels in FY2022 at the FY2021 level. Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said. Nayar said Icra has forecast the growth in the consumption of petrol at 14 per cent by the end of the fiscal and diesel 10 per cent on account of the rise in mobility as states wind up lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Govt likely to invite bids for LIC from merchant bankers this month||The government is likely to invite bids from merchant bankers this month for managing LIC’s disinvestment as it moves ahead with plans to launch the IPO by January, an official said. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had in January appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to assess the embedded value of LIC ahead of the IPO, which is touted to be the biggest public issue in Indian corporate history. The official further said the budget amendments to the LIC Act have been notified and the actuarial firm would work out the embedded value of the life insurer in the next couple of weeks. Under the embedded value method, insurance companies’ present value of future profit is also included in its present net asset value (NAV). “We will invite bids for the appointment of merchant bankers in the next couple of weeks,” the official said, adding discussions are going on with institutional investors. “We are hoping to get regulatory approvals by November-end,” the official said. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The LIC Amendment Act has been made part of the Finance Act, thereby bringing the required legislative amendment for launching the IPO of the country’s largest life insurer. LIC’s will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sale and privatisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Government readies amendments to Nationalisation Act for insurance PSU privatisation||The government is working on amendments to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act (GIBNA), which will faciliate the privatisation of a PSU general insurance company. The monsoon session is expected to begin from July 19. The Act, which came into force in 1972, provided for the acquisition and transfer of shares of Indian insurance companies and undertakings of other existing insurers in order to serve better the needs of the economy by securing the development of the general insurance business. The amendments are being worked out and may be tabled in the upcoming session to help privatisation of a general insurance company announced in the budget this year, sources said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two PSU banks and one general insurance company. The Niti Aayog was entrusted with the task of recommending a suitable candidate for the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. The government think-tank is believed to have suggested the name of United India Insurance to the core group of secretaries on disinvestment. The government is also gearing itself to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to enable the privatisation of two public sector banks. Amendments would be required in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for privatisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports 11% decline in deliveries in Q1 of 2021-22||Tata Steel India reported an 11 per cent decline in deliveries in the first quarter of 2021-22 compared with the fourth quarter of the last fiscal, signalling that partial lockdown and restrictions because of the second wave of Covid-19 dented demand for the metal in the country. Deliveries of 4.15 million tonnes (mt) were, however, significantly higher than the same period of the last fiscal when the nation underwent one of the strictest lockdowns in the world. Sales volume was up by 43 per cent compared with April-June of 2020-21 when Tata Steel India recorded only 2.93mt sales. Production of Tata Steel India, which includes those of subsidiaries such as Tata Steel BSL Ltd and Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, was 4.62mt, 2.6 per cent down quarter-on- quarter as the entities had to supply liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to hospitals, cutting down on production level. Cumulatively, they supplied 47,800 tonne LMO to hospitals when oxygen demand spiked during the second wave. However, production was up 55 per cent compared with the same period of the last fiscal when Tata Steel India reported 2.99mt production. The sales and the production volumes reveal a contrasting picture of business and severity of the pandemic in terms of affliction and death. The first wave caused more damage to the business and industry while during the second wave more people contracted Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease than the first. However, during the second wave, large enterprises were more prepared to navigate through the uncertain times with the Centre not imposing a blanket curb like in the first. Exports raised To offset the impact, exports were increased to 16 per cent of the total sales against 11 per cent in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. The domestic market has been improving since the middle of June with easing lockdowns, the company stated in a statement. Steel majors also increased prices multiple times from April onwards, giving rise to the expectation that net sales realisation would make up for the decline in sales vis-a-vis the January-March quarter of the last fiscal. Tata Steel Europe’s steel production grew 27 per cent year-on-year to 2.73mt while deliveries increased 19 per cent . While production was up 5 per cent quarter-on-quarter, sales were down 4.4 per cent. Tata Steel Southeast Asia, which the company decided not to sell, saw a 49 per cent year-on-year growth in production, while steel deliveries increased 50 per cent year-on-year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Skoda Auto lines up new products, plans to focus on local platform||Skoda Auto is planning to introduce a compact SUV and a compact hatchback based on its localised platform and a locally manufactured engine. “We do have a platform that is highly localised and a locally manufactured turbo-charged stratified injected (TSI) engine that will enable us to enter these highly competitive segments,” Skoda Auto brand director Zack Hollis told The Telegraph after the launch of its mid-sized SUV Kushaq late last month. “We are serious about the Indian market and we are here for the long-haul. If you see the bookings now for the existing models, they are already at the same level as in January this year. “We have confidence in the economy in the long term. The Indian economy will get back in track and probably grow faster than it did before the pandemic. “A growing economy gives people confidence to buy high priced assets, large capital items such as cars and by 2025 we will be achieve sales of 100,000 units,” said Hollis. When asked if the company’s sales were on track even after two waves of the Covid pandemic, Hollis said: “We aim to sell 30,000 units by 2021. A majority of that will be Kushaq. But we were able to launch the Kushaq only now. So, we will see more sales in the second half than the first. By 2022, we will more than double the sales.” On the response to the fourth-generation Octavia, the director said: “It is far superior than the outgoing car. It is giving competition to German luxury cars while being 20 per cent cheaper. We plan to sell 150-200 Octavia per month and we are on track to achieve that.” The company is due to launch a new mid-sized sedan soon and it feels demand in the sedan segment will grow with the launch of products. “It is not that a segment grows only with demand. Often new products lead to the growth in the segment. Sub-4 metre SUVs have grown hugely because competitors brought in several products. Similarly, we think our products in the sedan segment will lead to its growth,” said Hollis. Lack of diesel powertrains will not affect Skoda’s SUV sales because of its TSI engines. “We have two outstanding TSI engines. The performance of our existing models with TSI engines has been excellent. Superb has a 30 per cent segment share. Both with Rapid and Superb, we are selling more TSI engines than we sold petrol and diesel combined.” Besides, he said, the long-term outlook for diesel is dismal worldwide. “Diesel is seen as highly polluting and by 2025 we will see legislation that will make diesel powertrains even more expensive. Our TSI engines are far superior, fuel efficient and future ready,” said Hollis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||New TDS rule to strengthen data reconciliation||Companies will have to wrestle with a new compliance requirement from July 1 as a new levy — TDS on purchase of goods — has kicked in from July 1. Taxes deducted at source (TDS) and taxes collected at source (TCS) have not only proved to be an important source of revenue generation for the government but have also been a rich source of data on the direct tax front. With the new levy of TDS on purchase of goods, the government seems to have shown immense confidence in the IT infrastructure and data analytics capabilities of the revenue department. Buyers will now have to deduct tax at 0.1 per cent on the purchase consideration exceeding Rs 50 lakh made from one party in a financial year and report such data to the tax authorities. The data may be used by the government for further reconciliation with similar data furnished by taxpayers under other legislations. There has been an increasing trend in enquiries for such reconciliations after tax assessments went “faceless” last year. This has left businesses with no choice but to toe the line of the government and invest in expanding their digital/IT capabilities to manage large quantities of data and ensure consistency. Effective from July 1, certain new TDS/TCS provisions are applicable along with the existing compliances on TDS/ TCS. These provisions cast an obligation on businessmen to deduct or collect taxes at twice the existing rate or 5 per cent, whichever is higher, on transactions with taxpayers who have not filed their income-tax return for the last two assessment years. This amendment is also focused on generating more data for the tax authorities and aims to augment the number of taxpayers filing their income-tax returns. With no mechanism to ascertain such details and rising apprehensions in the minds of taxpayers, the revenue department has recently launched a “Compliance Check Facility” which the taxpayers can use to identify parties on whom the higher rate shall apply using PAN. Few clarifications have also been issued by the CBDT on June 30 in respect of the new TDS levy on the purchase of goods applicable from July 1. Every new amendment brings its own share of interpretational issues and practical challenges, but it’s only a matter of time, before India Inc finds ease in compliance with such tedious TDS provisions, with due support from the CBDT and the IT infrastructure. While major IT changes were made to capture and comply with the new TCS levy on the sale of goods last year, the recent TDS levy would necessitate a complete revamp of IT systems to handle the interplay between TDS and TCS (where new TDS provisions may prevail over TCS on the sale of goods and such TCS shall coexist, to be levied subject to thresholds) and for timely compliances. While the government’s “Compliance Check Facility” has provided a window for verification on return filing status, it is equally important for businesses to determine whether a transaction would be liable to TDS or TCS levy separately. Initially, this major amendment may pose a few challenges but in times to come, will only result in ease of compliance once the IT systems of the company are well aligned with the tax laws. Dinesh Agarwal is tax partner and Chetan Mehta is tax director at EY India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Lessons on education loans and what’s changed in the pandemic||Students all over the country are preparing for higher education. The pandemic has disrupted the schedules of schools and university exams. Despite the challenges, many students are evaluating their options. There will be students who would like to pursue education in a foreign country not wracked by Covid-19. When it comes to education — domestic or foreign — one must also look at the financing options. Higher education isn’t cheap. But there are education loans to bridge the gap. Here’s a primer on education loans and what’s changed in the pandemic. Covid impact College admission processes have been delayed because of Covid-19. Many universities haven’t been able to conduct examinations. As a result, last year’s sessions are still going on and new sessions have been delayed. Despite this, many eligible students want to prepare for admission to their preferred institutions. Upon acceptance, they can approach the lending institutions such as banks to finance their education. They will have to fulfil several conditions to get the loan though. Who is eligible Indian students generally in the age group of 18-35 can apply for a loan on getting admission to a recognised educational institution. You can take this loan not only for university studies but also for any recognised training programme. As students do not have any income while taking the loan, they often have a parent or guardian as a co-applicant. Students can repay the loan on their own from their earnings after the completion of the course. If they are unable to pay, the responsibility will pass on to the co-applicant. What all will be covered An education loan covers all the expenses of your studies such as tuition fees, cost of texts, lab and library fees, purchase of laptop etc. Apart from this, the cost of living such as hostel and food is also covered. Because of Covid-19 and home-based online learning, not all these options will be made available in the course. Therefore, the loan will finance only what’s required by the course. Keep in mind that if the loan is small in value, you could get 100 per cent financing. If the loan is large, the bank would like you to pay a percentage of the cost from your pocket. What is big or small varies from one lender to another. The loan can be of a few thousand rupees or even a crore. The student only needs to be eligible for it. The lender is primarily concerned with whether the student or the guardian have the repayment capacity. This is ascertained through proofs of stable income, taxes paid, assets owned and credit score. Security may be required Generally, banks provide education loans up to Rs 7.5 lakh without any security, meaning you will not have to mortgage any property or assets with the bank for the loan. If the loan is bigger, some banks may insist on a security such as a fixed deposit, property etc. The security is returned to the borrower on full repayment of the loan. If the student has been admitted to a reputed college such as an IIT or IIM, some banks may even lend up to Rs 40 lakh without security. When to repay You can get up to 15 years to repay an education loan. Students are also given a payment holiday, that is a moratorium. It’s usually for 12 months from the end of the course after which students may need some time to find employment and start payments. The moratorium can also be extended. Because of Covid-19-related problems, the government itself had announced a moratorium on all loans in 2020. However, during any moratorium, interest will continue to get added to your loan balance, which will increase your EMI burden. As the moratorium essentially makes the loan bigger, it is advisable to start repayment as soon as possible. Tax savings Once you start repaying your education loan, you get exemption under Section 80E of the Income Tax Act. You can save tax without limit on the interest paid on your education loan for eight years from the start of repayment. If the student’s parents have taken the loan, they will be eligible for the tax exemption. This exemption is available only on loans taken from a certified lending institution such as a bank or a non-bank institution. If the loan is taken from family, friends, or office, no exemption is provided. Keep in mind that because of Covid-19, students have faced difficulties in completing their studies and finding jobs. If they are unable to find a job, they will have trouble repaying the loan. Banks have come under some pressure because of rising education loan defaults. That is why if you are taking a loan, make arrangements to repay it as well. Failure to repay the loan can result in forfeiture of your security and spoil your credit history, which will make it difficult for you to get a loan in the future. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor-led Parliamentary Standing Committee summons IT ministry officials||Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT summoned senior officials of key ministries on Tuesday to gather "evidence" on matters related to citizens' rights in the digital space, reports ndtv.com. The panel led by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had earlier sought responses from Twitter India on related issues. The microblogging site's compliance with the IT Rules, 2021, is likely to be discussed at the meeting, sources told NDTV. The US-based company is involved in a face-off, including a court case, with the Indian government over various related matters. The panel's meeting with officials of the Information and Technology (IT) and Information and Broadcasting ministries has been scheduled for 4 pm on Tuesday. "Evidence of the representatives of the Ministry...on the subject 'Safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space'," according to the official agenda circulated among panel members. The Committee had, on June 29, sought a response from Twitter India as to why the Twitter accounts of Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Tharoor were locked briefly. On June 25, Prasad had said that Twitter had denied him access to his account for almost an hour following complaints that he had violated copyright law. Tharoor, too, faced similar action, along with several other users. Confirming the move, Twitter cited a complaint based on the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to justify its action. The website was asked to explain under what provisions or rules these Twitter accounts were locked. While Prasad linked the move to an ongoing tussle between Twitter and the Indian government, Tharoor said the DMCA was "getting hyperactive". He then said the IT panel will seek an explanation from the site. Meanwhile, the Centre today said Twitter had failed to comply with IT Rules, 2021, leading to a loss of immunity as an "intermediary". This amounted to a breach of the law of the land, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Union home ministry calls Northeast meet on July 7||The Union Home Ministry has called a meeting of the Northeastern states and a few Union Territories on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation there, sources said. This comes three days after the central government decided to send multi-disciplinary teams to six states, including Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has called a meeting of top officials of the health department of the Northeastern states and a few UTs on July 7, official sources said on Monday. The meeting is likely to be held through video conference. It is expected to take stock of the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, surveillance and containment operations, Covid-appropriate behaviour and its enforcement, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen and the vaccination progress, the sources said. The meeting will be held as an ongoing effort to strengthen initiatives of various state and UT governments for Covid-19 management. The central government has been deputing teams from time to time to visit various states and UTs for interacting with the state and UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any, sources said. The central teams make an assessment of the situation and suggest remedial actions on public health activities to the respective state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation to be focus on S Jaishankar’s visit to Russia||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is set to visit Moscow this week to prepare the ground for the annual India-Russia summit and discuss the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with the development said on Monday. Ways to boost cooperation under the framework of the India-Russia Intergovernmental Commission for Trade, Economic, Scientific and Cultural Cooperation as well as ties in the defence sector are also likely to figure in his talks in Moscow. The external affairs minister is scheduled to hold extensive talks with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov. The annual India-Russia summit was postponed last year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Both countries have a mechanism under which India's prime minister and the Russian president hold a summit meeting annually to review the entire gamut of ties. So far, 20 annual summit meetings have taken place alternatively in India and Russia. Russia has been a time-tested partner for India and the country has been a key pillar of New Delhi's foreign policy. The people cited above said a key focus area of the discussions will be the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the face of the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. Afghanistan witnessed a series of attacks in the last few weeks as the United States looked to conclude the withdrawal of its forces from the war-ravaged country by September 11, ending nearly two decades of its military presence there. India is concerned over the increasing levels of violence in Afghanistan as well as the Taliban's efforts to expand its influence in the country. Last month, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Taliban's relentless pursuit of power through violence has created an uncertain environment in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is "fluid" at this point in time. There has been a renewed push in the Afghan peace process including by Russia and it has been in touch with the key players and stakeholders in that country. Lavrov visited India in April during which both sides discussed the preparations for the summit as well as other key bilateral and regional issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra reports 6,740 new cases, 51 deaths||Maharashtra reported 6,740 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 61,04,917, while the death toll increased to 1,23,136 with the addition of 51 fresh fatalities, a health department official said. The state reported a sharp drop in both daily Covid-19 cases and fatalities as compared to Sunday, when it had registered 9,336 infections and 123 fatalities. The official said as many as 13,027 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,61,720. The state now has 1,16,827 active cases, he said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 96.02 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, he said. According to the official, 1,69,517 coronavirus tests were conducted in the last 24 hours (down from 2,22,063 on Sunday), taking their overall count to 4,27,12,460. The official said currently, 6,42,253 people are in home quarantine and 4,233 people in institutional quarantine across the state. According to the official, Mumbai recorded 486 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,25,161, while the death toll increased to 15,554 after 10 more patients succumbed to the infection. He said 157 new cases were found in Pune municipal limits, taking the tally to 4,96,213, while the death toll remained unchanged at 8,306 as no fresh fatality was reported in the city. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 42, 161, 56, 11 and 14 new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases-61,04,917; new cases-6,740; total deaths-1,23,136; recoveries-58,61,720; active cases; 1,16,827; total tests so far 4,27,12,460.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Government allows airlines to operate with maximum of 65 per cent pre-Covid domestic flights||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 65 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 50 per cent allowed till date, the civil aviation ministry said on Monday.  The carriers have been operating only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since June 1 in accordance with a May 28 order of the ministry. Before June 1, the cap was at 80 per cent.  The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.  It issued a fresh order on Monday, wherein it modified the May 28 order stating that "50 per cent capacity may be read as 65 per cent capacity".  Monday's order also stated that the 65-per cent cap will be applicable till "July 31, 2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier".  When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services.  The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Amarinder likely to meet Sonia on Tuesday||Amid infighting in the Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, sources said.  Singh is likely to leave for Delhi on Tuesday morning, they said.  Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters.  The party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go before the next assembly polls.  There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp.  A few days back, Sidhu met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.  On June 22, Amarinder Singh appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress.  But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi.  The panel had then asked Amarinder to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government.  The panel had earlier met other party leaders and has submitted a report to the party high command.  Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls.  On June 23, AICC general secretary and party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections.  Sidhu had begun criticising Amarinder Singh again after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in April quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.  The CM has called his outbursts "total indiscipline".  Sidhu had resigned as a minister in Punjab after being divested of the Local Bodies portfolio in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||CBSE: special assessment for Class 10 and 12 in two parts, syllabus shortened||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday announced a special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 board exams for next year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, splitting the academic session into two terms. The board has also announced plans to rationalise the syllabus for 2021-22 academic session and to make the internal assessment and project work more "credible" and "valid". As per an official order by Joseph Emmanuel, Director (Academic), CBSE, the term one exams will be held in November-December, 2021 while the second term exams will be conducted in March-April, 2022. "The syllabus for the academic session 2021-22 will be divided into two terms by following a systematic approach by looking into the interconnectivity of concepts and topics by the Subject Experts," he said. "The Board will conduct examinations at the end of each term on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. This has been done to increase the probability of having a board conducted classes X and XII examinations at the end of the academic session," he said. The syllabus for the board examination 2021-22 will be rationalised similar to that of the last academic session to be notified in July 2021. Schools will also use alternative academic calendar and inputs from the NCERT on transacting the curriculum. "Efforts will be made to make internal assessment, practical, project work more credible and valid as per the guidelines and moderation policy to be announced by the board to ensure fair distribution of marks," he added. The plans by the board come against the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic which forced the cancellation of board exams of some subjects last year and complete cancellation of board exams this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
05-07-2021||India||Government extends deadline to August 5 for public comments on draft e-commerce rules||The government on Monday extended till August 5 the deadline for public comments on proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. Earlier, the last date for public comments on the draft e-commerce rules was July 6. "It has now been decided to extend the timeline for receipt of comments/suggestions on the draft E-Commerce Rules. Views/ comments/ suggestions on the proposed amendments may be sent by August 5, 2021," a government notice said. At a meeting organized by the consumer affairs ministry on July 3, many e-commerce players had requested the government to extend the July 6 deadline for submitting comments. On June 21, the ministry had released draft e-commerce rules under which it banned fraudulent flash sale and mis-selling of goods and services on e-commerce platforms. Appointment of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer are among other key amendments proposed to the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. The government also proposed registration of every e-commerce entity which intends to operate in India with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). The proposed amendments also included e-commerce entities requiring to provide information not later than 72 hours of the receipt of an order from a government agency for prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of offences under any law. According to research firm CUTS International, many consumer organisations have felt that draft e-commerce rules should stick to only consumer-facing issues. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were first notified in July last year. Their violation attract penal action under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Left parties condemn inhuman treatment meted out to Stan Swamy||The Left parties on Monday called out the inhuman treatment meted out to activist Stan Swamy, who passed away at a Mumbai hospital after being in custody since last year following his arrest under the anti-terror law, in the Elgar Parishad case. The 84-year-old priest-activist died on Monday, in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Jesuit priest had been on ventilator support since Sunday, when his health worsened drastically. He was being treated at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai following a court order on May 28. "Deeply pained and outraged at the death of Father Stan Swamy. A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. The CPI, in a statement, alleged that Swamy was denied medical treatment and demanded that those responsible for his death be arrested. The party demands the arrest of all those responsible for his death and proper punishment for the inhuman treatment meted out to him. The people at large take his death as institutional murder. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest from Jharkhand was actively mobilising tribals in the area and fighting for their welfare His death raises several questions regarding the judiciary, treatment in custody, denial of medical facilities, torture in custody... The party demands arrest of all those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention and inhuman treatment. They should be made accountable for his death and given proper punishment, the statement said. The party calls upon the people to express their anger in protest and to fight for the fundamental rights guaranteed under the constitution, it said. The Left party also demanded the release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya called Swamy's death an institutional murder . An ailing octogenarian human rights activist arrested on false charges under UAPA, his bail applications denied repeatedly, passes away in jail. Is the court now going to grant him posthumous bail? Let India rise in unison to condemn the brazen institutional murder of Stan Swamy, he said. In a statement, the CPIM said the activist was denied treatment for his various ailments, including the debilitating Parkinson's. "It needs to be underlined that it is only after a campaign was conducted by various human rights and disability rights organisations that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail. "The numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Taloja jail that had seen a huge rise in Covid cases went unheeded. His appeals for bail and being sent home to were rejected. Thanks to the Bombay High Court's intervention he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid. But it was too late to prevent his death in custody," the party said. The party also demanded that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition, among others, be released forthwith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||RSS ideology always been full of harmony, brotherhood: Naqvi on Bhagwat's remarks||The RSS ideology has always been full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism, and it was the propaganda by "Bharat bashing bridage" that had painted a negative picture of the Sangh, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday, a day after chief Mohan Bhagwat asserted that the DNA of all Indians is the same. Naqvi said that in the past too, those in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), through their service to the people, did a lot of work for the unity of the society, but the 'gumrahi (misleading) gang', not only in India but in the world, always conspired to break the brotherhood and social fabric by creating hullabaloo about the Sangh. "The beliefs and the thoughts of the Sangh have always been like this, full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism. But on the one hand, there were the organization's views and on the other hand was the propaganda by its opponents," Naqvi told PTI but did not take any names. The propaganda by opponents often prevailed over the actual views of the Sangh mainly because the organisation did not pay attention to these campaigns, he argued. "For the past few years, the programmes of the Sangh are held publicly and one is able to see and understand their thoughts and their work," Naqvi said. Now, when the positive image of the Sangh is before the people, the "painters of its negative image are a worried lot", the minister said when asked about the remarks of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi. Such people have been "exposed", Naqvi claimed. Hitting out at Bhagwat, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said if he is true to his words, he must give directions that all those BJP leaders who have "harassed" innocent Muslims be removed from their posts, while Owaisi alleged that cowardice, violence and murder "are an integral part of Godse's Hindutva thinking" and the lynching of Muslims is also the result of that. In his address at an event 'Hindustan first Hindustani best' organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, Bhagwat said the DNA of all Indians is the same, and urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. The RSS chief also took on those indulging in lynching, saying "Cow is a holy animal, but those involved in lynching are against Hindutva". Though at times, some "false cases" of lynching have been registered against some people, he said. On lynchings and other such incidents, Naqvi said it is unfortunate that the "Bharat bashing brigade and misleading gang" have played a role in portraying criminal acts as communal incidents. "A criminal incident is a criminal incident. Such an incident should not be projected as a communal incident. Action should be taken in such criminal incidents. Mohan Bhagwat has said the same thing," the Union minister said. Asked about political interpretations being made over Bhagwat's remarks, Naqvi said, "I don't think this is done to please any community or any party. He has spoken what has always been the idea of ??the Sangh. This will provide clarity to those people in the society who were mired in confusion." Asserting that it is not some image makeover or vote bank politics for the RSS to woo Muslims ahead of assembly elections, Bhagwat had said his organisation firmly believes that in a democracy like India, the only dominance can be of Indians, rather than of Hindus or Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Lalu Prasad attacks Modi, Nitish for failures||A frail-looking RJD supremo Lalu Prasad on Monday addressed his first political meeting in a long time and castigated the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Nitish Kumar administration in Bihar for their "many failures" and predicted that a bright future awaits his own party under his son Tejashwi Yadav. Appearing on national television to mark the silver jubilee of the party he founded in 1997 after breaking away from the Janata Dal, Prasad, who is suffering from many ailments and convalescing at his MP daughter Misa Bharti's residence in New Delhi, recalled his struggles for OBC quota and the fight for the rights of the weaker sections. The snappy wisecracks were missing from the speech he delivered virtually for scores of RJD workers and leaders at the party's state headquarters in Patna who were waiting for a glimpse of their leader for a long time since his incarceration after conviction in the fodder scam. "GST and demonetisation as also corona have created an economic crisis. Now, there is the threat of destroying the social fabric. After Ayodhya, some people are talking about Mathura," Prasad, a strident critic of the BJP, said without naming the BJP or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He attacked the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar over "rampant corruption", alleged mismanagement of the COVID-19 crisis and "four murders" taking place in the state every day. "Lakhs and lakhs of people are being reduced to migrant labourers because of lack of employment," he said. He lavished praise on his younger son Tejashwi Yadav, who is the leader of the opposition, for astutely helming the party during the assembly elections in 2020. "Frankly, I had never expected this from him. He safely anchored the RJD's boat (naiya paar lagayi). RJD has a bright future," he said. RJD is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar assembly though the JD(U)-BJP alliance governs the state. Prasad also had a word of praise for his elder son Tej Pratap who, he said, made a "forceful speech" at the event. The RJD boss, known for breathing fire and brimstone while making political speeches, in his restrained addressess, credited his wife Rabri Devi, a former chief minister, and Tejashwi for being alive. "But for them, I would have perished in Ranchi (where he was incarcerated in the fodder scame cases). Doctors at AIIMS here also took great care of me," Prasad, who slurred at times, said. He promised RJD workers and leaders that he will overcome whatever remained of the illness and visit Bihar soon. "I will come to Patna soon...not only Patna, I will mark my attendance in all districts of Bihar soon. Please don't lose patience,"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Maha: 12 BJP MLAs suspended for misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav||Twelve BJP MLAs were suspended from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly for one year after the state government accused them of “misbehaving" with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber on Monday. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis termed the allegation as false and said Jadhav's account of the incident was "one-sided". However, Jadhav sought a probe into the allegation that some Shiv Sena members and he himself made uncharitable remarks, and said he was ready to face any punishment if it was proven true. The motion to suspend the MLAs was moved by state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab and passed by a voice vote. The 12 suspended members are- Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. Parab said during the period of suspension, the 12 legislators will not be allowed to enter the Legislature premises in Mumbai and Nagpur. Objecting to the decision, BJP members, led by Fadnavis, said the opposition would boycott the House proceedings. "This is a false allegation and an attempt to reduce the numbers of opposition benches, because we exposed the government's falsehood on the OBC quota in local bodies," Fadnavis said. He said the BJP members had not abused the presiding officer. "It was Shiv Sena MLAs who used abusive words. I brought our MLAs out of the Speaker's chamber," Fadnavis said. Ashish Shelar apologised and the matter ended, the former CM said, claiming that what Jadhav said was a "one-sided" account. Earlier, NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik accused the BJP members of misbehaving with Bhaskar Jadhav and the state Assembly was adjourned four times over the issue. The House was initially adjourned for 10 minutes after Jadhav put to vote the resolution urging the Centre to provide 2011 census data to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare an empirical data of the OBC population, in a bid to restore political reservations for its members in local bodies. Some BJP members, including Girish Mahajan and Sanjay Kute, climbed the Speaker's podium and argued with the Chair. Later, after the House reassembled, minister Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena member Sunil Prabhu demanded that action be taken against the opposition members for their behaviour with Jadhav. "What happened in your chamber is not right," Malik said addressing Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. The Deputy Speaker then adjourned the House for 15 minutes. Later, presiding officer Dilip Bankar adjourned the House for another 15 minutes and again for 30 minutes. Talking to reporters outside the House, Malik alleged that the BJP members had "gheraoed" Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber and used abusive words. He claimed that Fadnavis also broke his own mike. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray then called Jadhav in his chamber to seek information on what had happened. When the House reassembled after the fourth adjournment, Jadhav was in the Speaker's Chair and gave a detailed account of what had happened. He said Maharashtra's tradition was never to take outside the differences expressed on the floor of the House. "Today is a black day for me. Abusive words were directed at me. Some people are saying I made uncharitable remarks. Let there be a probe into it after checking the CCTV footage. If I have used any inappropriate language, I am ready to face any punishment," Jadhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon to reach Delhi by July 10||India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced that the Southwest Monsoon is all set to will reach Delhi around July 10 this year. While making the announcement on Monday IMD, mentioned that this will be the most-delayed monsoon in the capital in the last 15 years. “The monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” the IMD said in a statement. The weather system is very likely to increase rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10, it said. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, the monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006. In 2002, Delhi received its first monsoonal showers on July 19. The city had recorded the most-delayed monsoon arrival on July 26 in 1987, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||'Swamy's demise a great loss to the country and the tribal community'||Father Stan Swamy is a name to reckon with when it comes to working for the uplift of the tribal community. His demise on Monday was mourned by one and all - with sadness for his passing, with loving respect for his work and what he stood for, but with anger too at the way the 84-year-old Parkisons's patient was treated in prison. Recalling the work of Father Swamy, Father Felix Raj, Vice-Chancellor, St Xavier’s University, Calcutta said, “This is a great loss to the country and the tribal community of Jharkhand in particular. He had stood by them till the end of his life. With his death, the work that he was doing for the marginalized community has come to an end.” He paused and added, “It’s sad to see a man of the stature of Father Stan Swamy being treated the way he has been. He was no criminal. He was an 84-year-old priest, working for the poor. He was denied bail till the very end of his life. He wouldn’t have absconded.” Mentioning his frail health Father Felix Raj said, “The way he was treated in the prison was inhuman. He was suffering from Parkinson's disease. He was a high-risk patient, but he was kept in the prison, where he contracted Covid-19. I wonder, why wasn’t he given proper treatment earlier, why was he denied medical bail. Sadly, today he breathed his last. The loss is not just of the community, but the country.” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday said he was pained and outraged over the death of Father Stan Swamy. Refering to Swamy being under UAPA custody, the inhuman treatment since October 2020 despite no charge being established, Yechury asked for accountability for 'this murder in custody'. While senior Congress leader asked, who would be held responsible for Fr Swamy's death. In his tweet, without mincing words he held the Indian state responsible for the death of a crusader for social justice. Hailing from Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district, Swamy had studied theology and done his Masters in Sociology in the Philippines. His friendship with a Brazilian Catholic Archbishop Hélder Câmara influenced him a lot.  Swamy was a former Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute. He served the institute between 1975 to 1986. Working for the upliftment of the tribals, he had questioned the non-implementation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulates setting up of a Tribes Advisory Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||In jail, humanity is bubbling, said Stan Swamy||Father Stan Swamy, who died in hospital on Monday after he was arrested over alleged Maoist links, had in a letter last year described how his co-accused and cellmates had been helping him in jail. “Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison,” he had written. Excerpts from the letter by the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist from Ranchi, whose full name is Stanislaus Lourduswamy, were widely circulated on Facebook during Diwali last year. The letter, written from Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, was received by a fellow priest on November 4, 202,  a colleague of Father Swamy confirmed. Here are the excerpts from Swamy’s letter circulated on Facebook as published in The Telegraph Online on 15 November 2020. “Dear friends: “Peace! Though I do not have many details, from what I have heard, I am grateful to all of you for expressing your solidarity support. I am in a cell approximately 13 feet x 8 feet, along with two more inmates. It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair. “Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira are in another cell. During the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30pm to 06.00am and 12 noon to 03.00pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates. “Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families. “Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers. Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Rao is an 80-year-old Telugu litterateur, Gonsalves a 63-year-old former Mumbai University professor, and Ferreira a cartoonist and lawyer in his late 40s. They and Father Swamy are among 16 authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists arrested for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgar Parishad Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste violence. Sources said Swamy had dictated the letter to Ferreira. Jesuit priest Father David Solomon, director of the Ranchi NGO Bagaicha — a workspace for activists where Swamy lived and worked — confirmed the authenticity of the excerpt. He said the rest of the letter’s contents were not being disclosed as they included personal information. Nor has the identity of the recipient been revealed for fear of harassment of priests and institutions run by them. Another Jesuit priest close to Swamy said: “This is a very Fr Stan thing to do. He always remembers people he loves during festivals. Even in the worst circumstances, it’s his nature to see the positive side of things.” Jawaharlal Nehru University linguistics professor Ayesha Kidwai shared the excerpts on Facebook and said: “I can’t do any Diwali greetings after reading this heartbreaking note. Humanity is to be celebrated but it is no antidote to injustice. “Just as in Rama’s story, there is happiness only when the people can celebrate a return home, it will only be Diwali for me when all the jailed human rights defenders come home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy dies in Mumbai hospital||Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has died, an official of a hospital where he was being treated informed the Bombay High Court on Monday. Swamy, 84, died at 1.30 pm on Monday, Dr Ian D'Souza, director of the Holy Family Hospital in suburban Bandra, told the HC's division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar. The tribal rights activist was admitted to the private hospital on May 29 from the Taloja prison following the HC's order on a petition filed by him, seeking medical attention as he was then suffering from COVID-19 and Parkinson's disease. D'Souza told the court that Swamy suffered a cardiac arrest early Sunday morning following which he was put on ventilator support. He (Swamy) did not recover and passed away this afternoon, the official told the court. The cause of the death is pulmonary infection, Parkinson's disease and post COVID-19 complications, he said. Swamy's counsel Mihir Desai said there was negligence on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide immediate medical attention to the Jesuit priest. Swamy has been undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital here, following a court order on May 28. The cost of his treatment at the private hospital is being borne by his associates and friends. On Saturday, advocate Desai told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy's health was critical and that he was still in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). The bench had then adjourned the hearing on Swamy's medical bail plea to Monday and extended his stay at the hospital till then. Last week, Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC, challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that imposes stringent bars on the grant of bail to an accused charged under the Act. On Monday, Desai said he will not be moving the HC for any urgent hearing on either the bail plea or the fresh plea challenging provisions of the UAPA. "I don't have any morning updates on his (Swamy's) health. But, till late last night, he was on ventilator support," Desai said. "So, the priority now is his medical treatment. Even if he is acquitted by the court tomorrow, what can happen? His health condition is such that he will continue being in the hospital," he said. The senior lawyer also said he didn't have any complaints against the high court and the private hospital. "The high court bench did all that was possible to secure the best medical treatment for him. And at the hospital, the best cardiologists and specialists are looking after him. Our only complaint is against the Taloja prison superintendent and against the NIA (the prosecuting agency in the case)," he said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government in the wake of a complaint alleging serious health condition of the imprisoned activist. In the notice sent through the state's chief secretary, the NHRC called upon him to ensure every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment to Swamy as part of life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. The commission also called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint, and the treatment record of the activist. Swamy and his co-accused in the Elgar case have repeatedly complained of inadequate health facilities at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged as undertrials. Through their pleas filed in the HC as well as oral and written statements made in the HC, they have complained several times of neglect on part of the Taloja prison authorities in ensuring medical aid, timely tests and maintaining hygiene and social distancing. In May this year, Swamy told a vacation bench of the high court via video-conferencing that his health had consistently declined at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC to release him on interim bail at that time and said if things continued the way they were, he "would die soon". Last week, the wives of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are also accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, moved the HC saying the Taloja prison superintendent had been withholding letters and communications to and from all the accused in the case following a magazine article published by Teltumbde in March this year. On Monday, advocate Desai said the superintendent had reportedly been transferred out of the Taloja prison, though the reasons for his shifting were yet to be made public. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said there did not exist a "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It alleged that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir's Gupkar alliance disappointed with outcome of Modi meet ||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Monday expressed disappointment over the outcome of the recent all-party meeting on J-K chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying there was lack of substantial confidence building measures like release of political and other prisoners. Alliance spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said the confidence building measures (CBMs) would have initiated the much-needed process of reaching out to the people of J-K who are the biggest stakeholders and sufferers of the J-K problem . All the members of the PAGD expressed their disappointed at the outcome of the Delhi meeting especially at the absence of any CBMs such as releasing political and other prisoners from jails and lack of concrete steps to end the alleged "atmosphere of suppression" that has "choked" J-K since 2019, the spokesperson said in a statement. The PAGD met on Sunday evening under the chairmanship of Farooq Abdullah -- the National Conference (NC) president -- at his residence. The meeting was attended by alliance vice-chairperson and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Tarigami, NC leader Hasnain Masoodi, Peoples Movement chief Javed Mustafa Mir and Awami National Conference senior vice president Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. The meeting was called to discuss the recent meeting chaired by the prime minister in Delhi on June 24, the spokesperson said. The PAGD which seeks the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019 -- said it will fight together using constitutional, legal and political means to reverse the Centre's decision. The PAGD reiterated its commitment to fight together to reverse the unconstitutional and unacceptable changes foisted on the people of J-K on 5th August 2019 using all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal. The PAGD's struggle for undoing these changes will continue as long as it takes while striving to achieve this objective as early as possible, Tarigami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
05-07-2021||India||Never give up on your dreams, Aparna Sen tells women filmmakers||Eminent filmmaker Aparna Sen has urged women directors to pursue their dreams and achieve their goals without succumbing to the challenges and obstacles in their path. She said here on Sunday that she had faced several difficulties to launch herself as a director and her first film had become a reality because she got Shashi Kapoor as a producer. The "Mr and Mrs Iyer" director also reminisced the support extended by legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray and his family to make her film career dreams real. Sen was talking to a group of women filmmakers during a screenplay writing workshop, organised by the Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC) here. The national award winning filmmaker also shared her experiences in her decades-long movie career to inspire upcoming directors. Sen had debuted as a director with "36 Chowringhee Lane" in the year 1981. The four-day workshop was organised as part of the process to find out women directors of films being produced by the KSFDC. Cultural Affairs Minister Saji Cheriyan inaugurated the workshop at a function here, at which Sen was the chief guest. The presence of women behind the camera is comparatively less even now and the government's schemes would help to bring more women as technicians in films, the minister said. Eminent filmmaker and KSFDC Chairman Shaji N Karun and Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran were among those who took part in the inaugural session. Well-known screen writer Anjum Rajabali was leading the workshop, in which several noted film personalities would address sessions, an official statement said. With an aim to support women filmmakers, the LDF government last year, had set aside funds in its budget for four films, two helmed by women directors and two by those belonging to the SC/ST community. The movies would be produced by the KSFDC, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Remarks on Allopathy: SC to hear Ramdev's plea on July 12||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would hear on July 12 the plea of yoga guru Ramdev seeking a stay on proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicines during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying it received original records of his statements late Sunday night only. The apex court was scheduled to examine the original records of the statements of Ramdev on the use of allopathic medicine following his plea to stay investigation and transfer the cases lodged against him in this connection to Delhi. Yesterday night at 11 PM, we got bulky files having copies of statements and videos, said a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy. We are posting the matter after a week, the CJI said after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Ramdev, offered that the matter can be taken up on some other day. Earlier, the bench had sought original records pertaining to the alleged statements made by Ramdev on the issue. Multiple FIRs have been lodged against Ramdev in Patna and Raipur following complaints by the Indian Medical Association. Besides seeking quashing of criminal complaints, Ramdev has sought their clubbing and transfer to Delhi. As an interim relief, Ramdev has also urged for a stay on the investigation in connection with the criminal complaints. The criminal complaints have been lodged by Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Bihar and Chhattisgarh over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicine during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Patna and Raipur chapters of the IMA have lodged complaints against Ramdev,alleging that his remarks are likely to cause prejudice to the COVID control mechanism and may dissuade people from availing proper treatment against the pandemic. The yoga guru has been booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC have been invoked against him. Ramdev, whose alleged statements stirred a nationwide debate over the issue of Allopathy versus Ayurveda, however, had withdrawn his statements on May 23 after receiving a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who had called his remarks as "inappropriate". The Delhi Medical Association (DMA), meanwhile, has sought permission to become a party to the case, alleging that Ramdev insulted Allopathy and "instigated" people to disregard vaccines and treatment protocols. The DMA, having 15,000 Delhi doctors as members, has claimed that Ramdev's Patanjali earned over Rs 1,000 crore by selling Coronil kits which were not approved by medical bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||TMC demands removal of Tuhar Mehta as Solicitor General||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday afternoon to seek the removal of Tushar Mehtra as the Solicitor General of India. Earlier, the party's members of parliament had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for removing Mehta over his reported meeting with West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. "A TMC delegation comprising MPs would directly approach the president and inform him of the meeting between Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly (Suvendu Adhikari)," a TMC leader said. The leader added that MPs Sukhendu Sekhar Ray and Mahua Moitra will meet the president. In their letter to Prime Minister Modi, party MPs Derek O'Brien, Ray and Moitra had alleged that the meeting between Mehta and Adhikari was in violation of established norms and "reeks of impropriety". Adhikari, once a Trinamool Congress heavyweight, is an accused in 2016 Narada tapes case, and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation in the Supreme Court and the Calcutta High Court in the agency's probe against senior TMC leaders in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||SC notice to Centre on cases under scrapped law||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed concern on being told that more than 1,000 cases have been filed invoking Section 66A of the IT Act - a controversial law that allowed authorities to arrest individuals for posting "offensive" content online - despite it being struck down seven years ago. "It is shocking. We will issue notice," a three-member bench of Justices R Nariman, KM Joseph and BR Gavai said, according to NDTV.com. Justice Nariman added: "Amazing. What is going on is terrible." The court was hearing a plea by an NGO - the People Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) - seeking directions to the centre to advise all police stations against registering FIRs under this law. Sec 66A was struck down on March 24, 2014, after it was first challenged by a law student named Shreya Singhal; this was after two young women were arrested in Mumbai in 2012 for posting comments critical of the total shutdown in the city after the death of Shiv Sena||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||CBI registers fresh case in Gomti riverfront project irregularities||The CBI has registered a fresh case in the alleged irregularities in the ambitious Gomti river front project in Lucknow, which was undertaken during the tenure of the previous Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are due next year. The agency started a massive search operation at 42 locations in 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Alwar in Rajasthan and Calcutta in Bengal on Monday following the registration of FIR, officials said. The operation, which started early in the morning, is going on and it may be expanded during the course of the day, they said. The officials said that 189 Uttar Pradesh government officers, including the then engineers, and others are named as accused in the FIR. This is the second FIR related to the project by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In the 2022 UP assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party, under Akhilesh Yadav, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party, the Congress, among others, will try to wrest the state from the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Unlock 3.0 begins in Karnataka: religious places, malls open||With the Karnataka government further easing restrictions under "Unlock 3.0" effective from Monday, life seems to have returned to normalcy as shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and religious places began their operations in full swing. Also, all public transport- buses and metro- were seen operating up to its seating capacity. These services will be available for the public till 9 PM, as the government is imposing night curfew till 5 AM. With the government allowing places of worship to open only for darshan, people, though fewer in number, were seen visiting temples following COVID precautionary measures at several places in the city. Similar reports are emerging from across the state. As offices and business establishments have been allowed to function at full working strength, traffic congestion was seen on streets in Bengaluru and other cities with office-goers getting back to work. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation has said that bus services will be operated between 5 AM and 9 PM with all precautionary measures, and 4,500 buses will operate in the city and suburban area. The corporation said based on passenger volume, services will be increased. Officials were seen ensuring that there is no overcrowding in buses and passengers don't travel by standing. Bengaluru Metro has said, Metros will operate from 7 AM to 8 PM from Monday to Friday, with frequency of 5-15 minutes in peak and non-peak hours, and on Saturday, Sunday and general holidays it will be with increased or decreased frequency, depending on the situation. Customers were seen in good numbers at hotels and restaurants across the city. Also, bars will be open from Monday, but pubs will not. The new guidelines that were announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday, have come into effect from 6 AM on July 5 and will be in force up to 6 AM on July 19. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has said that a total of 54 special teams comprising Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) marshals and city police personnel will be deployed across the city to impose fines and register cases on individuals and commercial establishments that violate COVID-19 norms. "I urge everyone to strictly follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour for our own safety. Remember, the cases have decreased, but the virus is still around," he has tweeted. In the guidelines, all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and closed places have been asked to strictly enforce Covid appropriate behaviour failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. While, marriages and family functions are permitted to be conducted involving not more than 100 people and strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and prevailing guidelines, cremation and funerals to be allowed with maximum of 20 people. While night curfew will continue between 9 PM and 5 AM, the weekend curfew has been lifted. Theatres, cinema halls and pubs will remain closed, while swimming pools, sports complexes and stadia are permitted for competitive training and practice purposes by strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions, other gatherings and large congregations, continue to be prohibited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy dies in Mumbai hospital||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital at 1:30pm on Monday reported NDTV. Till late Sunday night, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest was on ventilator support, the senior counsel told PTI. Swamy has been undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital here, following a court order on May 28. The cost of his treatment at the private hospital is being borne by his associates and friends. On Saturday, advocate Desai told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy's health was critical and that he was still in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). The bench had then adjourned the hearing on Swamy's medical bail plea to Tuesday and extended his stay at the hospital till then. Last week, Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC, challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that imposes stringent bars on the grant of bail to an accused charged under the Act. On Monday, Desai said he will not be moving the HC for any urgent hearing on either the bail plea or the fresh plea challenging provisions of the UAPA. "I don't have any morning updates on his (Swamy's) health. But, till late last night, he was on ventilator support," Desai said. "So, the priority now is his medical treatment. Even if he is acquitted by the court tomorrow, what can happen? His health condition is such that he will continue being in the hospital," he said. The senior lawyer also said he didn't have any complaints against the high court and the private hospital. "The high court bench did all that was possible to secure the best medical treatment for him. And at the hospital, the best cardiologists and specialists are looking after him. Our only complaint is against the Taloja prison superintendent and against the NIA (the prosecuting agency in the case)," he said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government in the wake of a complaint alleging serious health condition of the imprisoned activist. In the notice sent through the state's chief secretary, the NHRC called upon him to ensure every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment to Swamy as part of life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. The commission also called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint, and the treatment record of the activist. Swamy and his co-accused in the Elgar case have repeatedly complained of inadequate health facilities at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged as undertrials. Through their pleas filed in the HC as well as oral and written statements made in the HC, they have complained several times of neglect on part of the Taloja prison authorities in ensuring medical aid, timely tests and maintaining hygiene and social distancing. In May this year, Swamy told a vacation bench of the high court via video-conferencing that his health had consistently declined at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC to release him on interim bail at that time and said if things continued the way they were, he "would die soon". Last week, the wives of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are also accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, moved the HC saying the Taloja prison superintendent had been withholding letters and communications to and from all the accused in the case following a magazine article published by Teltumbde in March this year. On Monday, advocate Desai said the superintendent had reportedly been transferred out of the Taloja prison, though the reasons for his shifting were yet to be made public. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said there did not exist a "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It alleged that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Mayawati asks Centre to take cognisance of corruption charges in Rafale deal||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Monday said that Centre should take cognisance of the alleged "corruption" in the Rafale deal. "The news of a judicial inquiry set up by the French government on allegations of corruption in the purchase of Rafale fighter jets by the Indian government has made headlines again and is the subject of public discussions.It would be better if the central government also takes proper cognisance of it," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "However, the allegations of commission in defense deals and its investigation are not new. It is an old burning issue since the time of the Congress government. The BSP believes that it would be better if the present government at the Centre puts an end to this issue by settling the Rafale dispute according to public satisfaction," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister added. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. Following this, the Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||India registers over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 723 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 39,796 new Covid infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,85,229, while the death toll climbed to 4,02,728 with 723 more fatalities, the lowest in around 88 days, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The active cases have further declined to 4,82,071 and comprise 1.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid recovery rate has improved to 97.11 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that there has been a decline of 3,279 active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 15,22,504 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covd in the country to 41,97,77,457. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 28 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.4 per cent, according to the health ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily cases for 53 consecutive days, it said, adding that the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has risen to 2,97,00,430. The case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative vaccine doses administered has reached 35.28 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 723 new fatalities include 306 from Maharashtra, 76 from Kerala and 72 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,02,728 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,23,030 from Maharashtra, 35,367 from Karnataka, 33,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,995 from Delhi, 22,640 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,799 from West Bengal and 16,110 from Punjab. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Sushil Kumar asks Tihar jail authorities to provide TV for wrestling match updates||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in Tihar jail in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl, has urged prison authorities to provide him a television to remain updated about wrestling matches, officials said on Sunday. Kumar was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi's Mundka area. He and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. A senior jail official said Kumar has made the request through his advocate. He has requested for a television set so that he would get updates about wrestling matches, the official said. Earlier, a Delhi court extended the judicial custody of Kumar till July 9. He has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail where he was earlier lodged. Police said 12 accused, including Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case. The police have claimed that Kumar is the "main culprit and mastermind" of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
05-07-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan||Paying tributes to Dalit leader and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that his contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered. A minister in the Modi government, Paswan died in October last year. He was among the most experienced parliamentarians and had served as a minister in governments led by different parties, ranging from socialist groups to the Congress and the BJP. In a tweet Modi said, "Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India's most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered." Paswan's death has led to factional fight within his party with both his son Chirag Paswan and his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras claiming to be representing the LJP. Chirag is scheduled to launch a yatra from Hajipur, his father's traditional Lok Sabha seat, to rally the party's supporters around his cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Rafale: Cong questions Modi and Rajnath's silence on French probe||The Congress on Sunday questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh on the French investigation into the Rafale deal, asking how one party to an inter-  government agreement could remain aloof when the other had initiated a probe. “France is investigating what it calls ‘corruption’, ‘influence peddling’, ‘money laundering’ and ‘favouritism’ in the Rafale deal,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “How does all this happen in a government-to-government deal in which no middleman was supposed to be involved? And in an inter-governmental deal, how can one party remain silent when the other has ordered an investigation?” Khera said the deal now looked like an open and shut case of corruption. “What does the Prime Minister have to say? After all, the deal was between France and India and one side suspects corruption. Rajnath Singh wasn’t the defence minister then but he should come out with the facts now,” he said. “Why was the anti-corruption clause deleted? Is it even imaginable that the Government of India would remain silent when the entire world is looking at the deal being investigated? It is ironical that the beneficiary is investigating and the country which lost huge money is silent.” Khera added: “Let me make one thing abundantly clear — this is not a loss to France, it is a loss to India. It is not France that has been cheated or robbed, rather it is every single Indian taxpayer who has been cheated and robbed.” Rahul Gandhi had tweeted in the morning: “Why is the Modi Government not ready for a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) probe? 1. Guilty conscience 2. Friends need to be saved 3. JPC doesn’t need Rajya Sabha seat 4. All these are correct.” Then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who had headed a three-judge bench that dismissed a petition seeking a probe into the deal, had been nominated by the President to the Rajya Sabha nearly four months after he had retired from the Supreme Court. Referring to the Rafale deal, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth — Lord Buddha.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram alluded to a chronology alleged in French media reports that hints at secret, parallel processes that undermined the official negotiations. “There are new dates revealed in the Rafale aircraft deal: 25-03-2015, 26-03-2015, 08-04-2015, 10-04-2015, 09-11-2015, January 2016, September 2016, 28-11-2016,” Chidambaram tweeted, adding that the Prime Minister “can tell us what events happened on these dates”. “If there is no mystery, why not tell the whole story in one sitting? Why should ‘events’ and ‘facts’ tumble out of the cupboard one by one?” Chidambaram tweeted. Rajnath’s predecessor Nirmala Sitharaman and Modi have stated multiple times that the question of corruption cannot arise as it was a government-to-government deal. On Sunday, the Congress said: “It is clear the deal was negotiated between the governments of France and India. Now, given that the French public prosecution services, PNF, has initiated an investigation into corruption allegations against the previous and probably the current President of France, who was one of the parties to this deal, why is no inquiry being ordered on the role, on the undeniable role of the key functionaries of the Government of India, which is the other side of this multi-crore inter-governmental agreement?” Khera said: “Inter-governmental contracts happen for three major reasons: (A) To ensure the lowest price for procurement; (B) To do away with any middlemen; (C) To ensure there is no corruption. But, in case of this inter-governmental deal, charges of ‘corruption’, ‘influence peddling’, ‘money laundering’, ‘favouritism’ among others are being investigated in France (along with) its government representatives responsible for the finalisation and execution of this inter-governmental deal.” Khera alleged that fighter jets worth Rs 570 crore were purchased for over Rs 1,600 crore, using taxpayer money. “One has to question, why is the person who caused the loss to the Indian exchequer not being investigated?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Rafale deal: Ranjan Gogoi refuses to comment on French probe||Justice Ranjan Gogoi, now Rajya Sabha MP and formerly Chief Justice of India who had headed a Supreme Court bench that declined to order a probe into the Rafale deal, said on Sunday that he had no comments to make on the French probe. “I have nothing to say on the issue. I have no comments to make,” Justice Gogoi told The Telegraph from Guwahati in response to a question on Sunday evening. On December 14, 2018, the bench of Justices Gogoi, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and K.M. Joseph had dismissed a PIL for a CBI probe into the purchase of 36 Rafale fighter planes. On November 14, 2019, the bench dismissed a review petition on the issue. However, Justice Joseph had said in a separate opinion in the review verdict that the judicial decision did not bar the CBI from registering an FIR on a complaint, provided prior approval was obtained in line with the Prevention of Corruption Act that covers public servants. Justice Joseph concurred with the views of the other two judges that the court has limited jurisdiction to go into a government contract. But the CBI has not proceeded to register an FIR till date. Justice Gogoi retired on November 17, 2019. President Ram Nath Kovind nominated him to the Rajya Sabha on March 16, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Migrants starve because of One Nation, One Ration irregularities||Guna Nayak, a migrant labourer in Delhi, says he will never forget the month of May when he and his wife often had to skip dinner. With the city in lockdown then, Nayak was confined to his one-room lodgings in Kotla Mubarakpur. He had no ration card entitling him to subsidised food. Nor, fearful of catching Covid, would he join the free-meal queues at the Delhi government’s distribution centres. “We had limited rations and no money. Whoever I called for help had similar problems. My wife and I had to skip dinner some days,” Nayak said. Nayak, who is from Kendrapada district in Odisha, has begun getting work after the lockdown was lifted two weeks ago. But his efforts to secure a ration card from the Delhi government have not borne results. The state authorities refused to accept his bank statement as address proof and insisted that he furnish both his and his wife’s Aadhaar cards instead. Since his wife’s Aadhaar card bears an Odisha address, the couple have been denied a ration card, Nayak said. Under the central government’s One Nation One Ration (Onor) Card scheme, migrant workers can obtain subsidised rations in whichever state they work. But the Delhi government is yet to implement the Onor scheme. A civil society group, the Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan), has released a report about the suffering of lockdown-hit migrant labourers. It says that 1,396 worker groups made up of 8,023 migrant labourers contacted it between April 21 and May 31 for help. About 82 per cent of these workers had had at best two days of rations left when they spoke to Swan, while 76 per cent had at most Rs 200 left with them. About 34 per cent had not been paid their pending wages for completed work, and 13 per cent had been paid only partially. Swan has provided migrant workers with a total financial assistance of Rs 33 lakh, collected through crowd-sourcing, this year. The workers’ problems have been worse in states where the lockdown continues to be enforced. Sameet Panda, co-convener, Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan (OKAA), said the lockdown norms had been partially relaxed in Odisha but the remaining restrictions continued to affect most residents’ food and income security. The OKAA had on June 28 written to chief minister Naveen Patnaik seeking relief for the working class. The letter said lakhs of ration card applications were stuck with the food supply and consumer welfare department. It demanded that all the pending applications for new ration cards or the addition of family members be accepted and the cards issued immediately. The letter also mentioned how the lack of Aadhaar seeding was hampering biometric authentication and preventing people from securing pension or rations. One’s biometric details are stored in the Aadhaar database. “We have been receiving regular information that PDS and pension beneficiaries are being denied their entitlement due to lack of Aadhaar seeding,” the OKAA letter said. “The majority of these right-holders are differently abled, aged or chronically ill persons, who require immediate support. We demand that no rights-holder is denied their entitlement for non-seeding of Aadhaar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||2017 Elgaar Parishad case: Stan Swamy on ventilator in Mumbai||Father Stanislaus Lourduswamy, the oldest defendant in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case at 84, is on a ventilator in Mumbai’s Holy Family Hospital. The elderly Jesuit, better known as Stan Swamy, had filed a writ petition in Bombay High Court last week challenging the applicability of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) under which he and 15 others have been charged. The bail plea of Swamy, who has been in custody since October 2020, is scheduled to be heard on Monday. Joseph Xavier, director of the Jesuits’ Indian Social Institute in Bangalore, said Swamy was waiting for the court’s orders on his plea for extension of bail and looked “disoriented and agitated” on Saturday evening. “On early July 4 morning, his heart rate was falling and he was put on a ventilator. Twice in the morning, the hospital administered CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) and revived the heartbeat,” Xavier said. UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders Mary Lawlor tweeted: “Horrible news to learn that Indian HRD Fr. Stan Swamy is in very serious condition & was put on a ventilator…. He’s spent 9 months in jail on unfounded charges. I’m deeply saddened & expect that every possible specialist treatment will be provided to him.” On Sunday evening, the National Human Rights Commission directed the Maharashtra chief secretary to “ensure that every possible efforts are made in providing him (Swamy) proper medical care and treatment as part of life-saving measures and protection of his basic human rights”. Swamy has Parkinson’s and was detected with Covid after being moved to the hospital in May. The Jesuits are paying for his treatment. He lost hearing in both ears while in jail, and he suffers from sharp abdominal pains as well as lumbar spondylosis. Swamy has been in the ICU since last month, and is currently being treated for a heart ailment, a source said. Swamy’s writ petition challenges Section 43D(5) of the UAPA as unconstitutional as it imposes a de facto ban on the grant of bail. His plea also challenges the use of the term “front organisation” and contends that not only is it not backed by law but it also violates Articles 14 (right to equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Swamy has been charged with channelling funds through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the National Investigation Agency has claimed is a front of the banned CPI Maoist. Swamy’s lawyer Mihir Desai told The Telegraph on Sunday: “My focus tomorrow is for bail to allow his treatment in the (Holy Family) hospital as even if he is released, he is in no position to go anywhere….” Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, was granted medical bail in the case in February after a severe urinary infection which, his lawyers have said, he contracted because of poor treatment in jail. He has shown signs of memory loss and tested positive for Covid last year. Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. too was shifted to hospital from the Taloja prison in Mumbai after contracting Covid and a severe eye infection. The Supreme Court’s directives to reduce inmates during Covid have not had any bearing on bail pleas of the UAPA accused, academics, activists and lawyers have said. The Ranchi-based Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella organisation of activists and NGOs, said in a statement: “The NIA and the central government are solely responsible for the sufferings of this elderly person and the current state of affairs…. Also, denying bail to an elderly and ailing person, with limited mobility and no history of violence against others, is beyond comprehension. “Had the investigating agencies and the court taken a humanitarian approach, Stan would not have to go through this suffering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Economist examines the post-poll scenario in West Bengal||People close to the communists, and some communists themselves, have welcomed Trinamul’s victory in the Bengal Assembly elections because it ensured the defeat of fascism. Eminent economist and communist Prabhat Patnaik, professor emeritus with JNU, examines the post-election scenario in this dialogue. It goes without saying that I was thoroughly elated by the BJP’s defeat, which was a huge blow to the fascist project in the country that had appeared almost unstoppable at one point. I was sorry that the Left Front’s vote share went down and theCongress-Left alliance did not win a single seat, but that was a price to be paid for the defeat of fascism in West Bengal with its enormous national implications. There is a big difference between the BJP and the TMC. While the latter at the grassroots level has a large number of hoodlums, the BJP is a fascist party. Its two obvious fascist features are: the systematic vilification and victimisation of a hapless minority, the Muslims; and a close nexus with monopoly capital, especially the “new” elements within it. It is based on a Hindutva-corporate alliance that is highly oppressive for the people, as is clear from the anti-labour and anti-peasant laws it has just enacted. The TMC differs in all these respects. Yes, everyone was delighted. And look at what is happening after the West Bengal elections. The BJP is imploding all over the country: in UP, in West Bengal, in Karnataka. This is symptomatic of a weakening of the authority of its top leadership, the myth of whose invincibility is busted. The BJP juggernaut is tottering, though it is too early to celebrate. They are capable of doing anything to win, so one can’t be complacent; but they have received a crippling blow. From the fact that the Left Front did not win any seats, it would be ridiculous to conclude that it is no longer a powerful force in West Bengal. That would be a form of “parliamentary cretinism” in Lenin’s words. In the elections, Mamata succeeded in projecting herself as the main force against the BJP and invoked a powerful Bengali nationality consciousness against the BJP’s Hindutva agenda, which squeezed out the Left. As long as the BJP remains a credible threat in West Bengal, this electoral squeezing out of the Left will continue; and the BJP will remain a threat as long it rules at the Centre. The Left, for this immediate political reason, quite apart from its implacable and principled opposition to fascism, must prioritise fighting the BJP, to prevent it from acquiring power in West Bengal and to dislodge it from power at the Centre. The reason the ganasangathans did not vote Left is that they perceived the threat of fascism in the state and saw Mamata as the most credible force for halting it. There is no reason to lament this fact: electoral allegiance to a different political formation in a particular conjuncture does not mean that these organisations have deserted the Left. The coming to the Left of a large number of talented young persons is the surest sign of its bright future. Being a communist is not a ten-to-five job; it is an expression of a passion and a commitment to changing the world. When that passion and commitment energises the youth --- at least a segment of it that is extremely thoughtful and intelligent, as I know many of the young brigade of the CPM to be --- then one can have confidence in the future, not just of the Left but of the country. One only hopes that the youth does not lose this passion and commitment in mundane, quotidian politics. There are several reasons. The first is that in Kerala the Left succeeded in convincing the electorate that it represents the most credible and uncompromising opposition to the BJP, while in Bengal Mamata played that role. The Left in Kerala could do this both because it has consistently opposed the Centre’s anti-democratic moves and also because the UDF has appeared on occasions as being close to the Hindutva elements. The second reason is that the Kerala communists have for long been involved in social emancipation (caste) struggles, while the Bengal communists, involved in workers’ and peasants’ struggles, have never taken up the issue of caste discrimination. Because of this Bengal remains a deeply caste-divided society, and even the communist leadership, unlike that in Kerala, is overwhelmingly from the upper castes. The Kerala communists therefore have a committed OBC (Ezhava) vote that provides a floor to their voting percentage. Thirdly, the excellent work done by the (Pinarayi) Vijayan ministry during the floods and the pandemic has been recognised and rewarded by the electorate; and this work has been on top of the work over several decades by successive communist ministries in building up a welfare state in Kerala. In West Bengal by contrast, after the initial work in the agrarian sphere and decentralisation, a certain stasis had set in to the work of the Left Front government, whose memory still hurts the Left. The Left has, quite rightly, been coordinating with other Opposition parties, including the TMC, within Parliament and at the national level against the BJP. But I think it will be impossible for the Left to have any understanding with the TMC within West Bengal unless that party reins in its hoodlum elements. Complete freedom to carry out legitimate political activity, not just by the Left but by all political formations, including the BJP, must be guaranteed. In fact this is also necessary in the TMC’s own interest, for depredations by the hoodlum elements always give the Centre an opportunity to impose President’s rule on the state. The Centre, as I said above, can do anything: in Jammu and Kashmir it reduced a state to two Union Territories just like that; there is even some talk of bifurcating West Bengal. No opportunity should be given to it to bring a state that has dared the Modi-Shah duo to its knees. The Left can demand this reining in from the TMC while offering consistent support against the Centre’s machinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Facebook prank claims three lives in Kerala||A Facebook prank on a relative by two young women posing as a fictitious lover went horribly wrong, setting off events that have claimed three lives including that of a newborn, Kerala police have said. What unravelled the bizarre chain of events was the police’s doggedness in carrying out DNA tests across a neighbourhood to solve the death of an abandoned baby — something almost unheard-of in the country. The newborn had been discovered in a pile of dried leaves near a temple in Kalluvathukkal town, Kollam district, around 6.30am on January 5, its cries attracting the attention of a few people. They informed the police, who took the baby to a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. But the infant died the same day, the post-mortem revealing it had choked on bits of dried leaves that had got into its lungs. Instead of closing the case in a country where unclaimed bodies are almost a feature of everyday life, the police obtained a magistrate’s permission and embarked on a mission of DNA-matching across the Uzhayikkode neighbourhood where the baby had been found. After eight DNA tests they eventually zeroed in on Reshma, 24, arresting her on June 22 for the alleged murder of her infant son. Her purported confession revealed a macabre tale. According to the police, Reshma said she had abandoned her baby since she planned to join her “lover” who did not want to take care of another man’s child. She purportedly said she had chatted with her “lover”, who had introduced himself as Ananthu, on Facebook for over a year but never met him or spoke to him over the phone. Reshma’s husband Vishnu, who had gone to the Gulf to work just four months earlier, rushed back after learning of his wife’s arrest. Strangely, neither he nor his mother, with whom Reshma lived, seemed to have any idea about Reshma’s pregnancy or the childbirth. “She did not tell her husband or even her own family that she was pregnant,” assistant commissioner of police Y. Nizamuddin told reporters. Police sources said Reshma had told the investigators she wore loose-fitting clothes to hide her bump and never consulted a gynaecologist. Reshma allegedly confessed that she had delivered the baby in a bathroom outside the house and immediately abandoned it, fulfilling a precondition to join her “lover”. Police sources said Reshma then informed her “lover” about having abandoned the baby, following which the alleged pranksters cut off Facebook contact with her and lay low. However, the police found out that Reshma had used a mobile SIM card that belonged to Arya, 23, wife of Vishnu’s brother, to access Facebook. On June 24, the investigators summoned Arya to appear before them the same afternoon. She never came. The police learnt that Arya, mother of a three-year-old girl, and Vishnu’s niece Greeshma, 22, were missing. Officers launched a search after security-camera footage showed the two women walking towards the Ithikkara river. Their bodies were fished out on June 25. Arya, Greeshma and and Reshma lived within 2km of one another. Arya left behind a purported suicide note saying: “Didn’t want to cheat anyone knowingly. Didn’t realise she (possibly Reshma) is such a cheat…. Just can’t handle police arresting us for murdering an infant. Everyone should pardon us.” Among those interrogated over the double suicide was a male friend of Greeshma who said she had told him about the prank. “Greeshma told her boyfriend that their prank had gone out of hand,” Nizamuddin said. By Sunday evening, a local news website had reported a first-time director’s plans to shoot a Malayalam movie, to be titled One Day Mirror, based on the tragedy. Filming is likely to begin in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Covid: Wide gap between jab plan and procurement ||With a projected population of 136.3 crore, India had fully vaccinated only around 4.3 per cent of its population till June 30. India’s Covid-19 vaccination rate currently stands at 24 doses administered per 100 people. This lags significantly behind the Asian and South American continental average of over 40 doses per 100 people, let alone the European and North American rates of 67 and 72. In this gloomy backdrop, and after being censured by the Supreme Court for its “arbitrary and irrational” paid vaccination policy for people aged between 18 and 45, the Narendra Modi government now claims that a “new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination” has started from June 21, with free-of-cost delivery to the states and streamlining of the supply chain having led to a ramped-up vaccination drive. Are these claims credible? Can the Centre ensure full vaccination of the 18-plus population by the end of 2021, as projected before the Supreme Court? Why has the daily vaccination rate dropped from over 90 lakh on June 21 to below 28 lakh on June 30? The answers are to be found in the vaccine procurement data. The data submitted by the Union health ministry in its June 26 affidavit before the Supreme Court remains quite opaque. A closer scrutiny of the official projections in the affidavit reveals that the Centre has been able to procure only 35.6 crore doses of Covishield (27.6 crore) and Covaxin (8 crore) combined. A total of 33.57 crore doses had already been administered by June 30, which means the vaccine inventory is almost exhausted. The Centre’s affidavit makes a projection of 51.6 crore vaccine doses by July 31, based on a further 16 crore doses, which “will also be available during the period of May 2021 & July 2021 across the country”. This projection is quite wobbly. The affidavit states that an advance 30 per cent payment of Rs 2,079 crore has been made for the next tranche of 44 crore vaccines (25 crore Covishield doses and 19 crore Covaxin doses). The delivery of this tranche was to start from August, according to an earlier procurement plan. Now, in a rescheduled plan, the Centre expects 14 crore doses from this tranche to be delivered by July 31. Additionally, 2 crore doses of Sputnik V from Russia are expected by end-July, of which only 31 lakh doses have been delivered. Accordingly, an allocation of 12 crore vaccine doses has been made across all states for July, 9 crore of which would be supplied free of cost and the remaining 3 crore will be for private facilities, under the Centre’s 75-25 formula. However, if the vaccine producers are unable to meet the revised targets and deadlines, severe shortages will appear in July itself, derailing the official projections. Universal vaccination for India’s adult population, which is officially projected at 94.47 crore, implies a total requirement of 189 crore vaccine doses. The Centre’s Supreme Court affidavit sets an overall target of 186.6 crore. After making a tentative projection of 51.6 crore by July-end, another projection of 135 crore vaccine doses between August and December has been presented. The supply break-up of these 135 crore doses has been provided as 50 crore Covishield doses, 40 crore Covaxin doses, 30 crore doses of Biological E’s Corbevax, 5 crore does of the Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine, and 10 crore Sputnik V doses. None of these production targets appears feasible, going by the production and supply trends of June. The largest supplier, the Serum Institute of India, reportedly supplied 6.5 crore Covishield doses in May and another 10 crore in June. As for Covaxin, only 8 crore doses have been supplied till June. Is it feasible to expect them to supply another 104 crore doses between July and December, which means supplying over 17 crore doses a month? As for Biological E’s Corbevax, production is yet to begin. Expecting the company to supply 5 crore vaccines a month from July is impractical. It is easily conceivable that all these targets would be missed, jeopardising the entire vaccination programme and leaving a very large section of the Indian population vulnerable to the third wave of the pandemic. What is required today is not a catalogue of wishful thinking, which the Centre has submitted to the Supreme Court, but an executable plan. This would imply either of two things. If the government insists on vaccinating the entire 94.47 crore adult population by December, within the Rs 35,000 crore budgeted for 2021-22, it would require a massive mobilisation of domestic production capacity. Not only should the idle facilities of vaccine-producing public sector units across the country be used, as in wartime, new vaccine production facilities must be created by converting other facilities into vaccine-producing units. In response to RTI queries from one of the authors of this article (dated June 28), the Union health ministry cited the cost of procurement as Rs 157.50 per vaccine dose, including GST. The possibility of new domestic corporate players being even interested in, let alone capable of, producing 150-crore-plus vaccine doses at this price in the next six months is zero. The only other available option involves negotiations with foreign vaccine suppliers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, etc, which the Centre’s Supreme Court affidavit suggests are already at an “advanced stage” with the involvement of the “highest political executive”. That nothing has materialised so far from those efforts, however, is evident from the health ministry’s RTI response, which states that out of the Rs 35,000 crore budget outlay, the total expenditure on vaccine procurement by end-June, including advance payments, is only Rs 8,067.75. The Centre has not even been able to place purchase orders so far, let alone ensure procurement of vaccines from abroad, other than a small quantity of Sputnik V. The reason for this is simple. The MNC suppliers are currently charging around $10 per vaccine dose, while India’s budgetary allocation permits a maximum procurement price of $2.5 per dose. International procurement would therefore entail a massive increase in the vaccination budget. If atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is to be the policy cornerstone, that can only be attained with a leading role played by public enterprises and the government taking proactive and intelligent decisions regarding the allocation and pricing of resources — neoliberal dogma about governments having nothing to do with production and businesses needs to be abandoned. On the other hand, if utilitarianism has to prevail in this case, since it involves the right to life of millions of Indian citizens, then the fisc or the taxpayers need to bear the cost; fiscal conservatism cannot come in the way of adequate outlays for Covid-19 vaccinations. The Narendra Modi government’s current procurement and vaccination plan appears to be falling between these two stools. If the government cannot resolve this dilemma, the Supreme Court will have to step in to secure the lives of millions of Indians and ensure their vaccination by end-December 2021. Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist based in Calcutta; Indranil Chowdhury teaches economics at PGDAV College, Delhi University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Tejashwi asks Nitish to take notice of people's miseries||Bihar Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav has challenged Nitish Kumar to venture out among the people and see their hapless condition, asserting the chief minister cannot remain untainted when the officials around him are being accused of corruption. “Show us a single photograph of the chief minister meeting farmers, workers or labourers. Although he has come to power through the backdoor, he should venture out to meet the common people and see their pitiable condition. Farmers are dying in the state,” the Rashtriya Janata Dal politician said on Sunday. “Nitish Kumar enjoys being surrounded by officers, but they are being accused of corruption. He cannot remain untainted if they are being accused by his own minister of making money during transfers and postings of officials.” Madan Sahni, social welfare minister and a member of Nitish’s Janata Dal United, had recently accused senior IAS officers of corruption and offered to resign. Tejashwi was speaking after kicking off his party’s yearlong silver jubilee celebrations on the eve of its foundation day. Then chief minister Lalu Prasad had formed the RJD on July 5, 1997. Lalu Prasad, currently in Delhi after receiving bail in the fodder scam cases, will digitally inaugurate and address the main event on Monday. His address is expected to heavily influence the course of Bihar politics. The ruling NDA fears that he will try to engineer defections or resignations within the ruling alliance to bring down the government. A small shift of seven legislators could topple the current state government. “The people of Bihar will get the opportunity to listen to Laluji after waiting three years. He is the leader of the masses and lives in people’s hearts. He is the voice of the poor, exploited and deprived,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi, a former deputy chief minister and Lalu Prasad’s younger son, claimed the RJD represented all sections of society. The party has already put up posters and billboards in Patna and other Bihar cities featuring Lalu Prasad along with his wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi and Tejashwi. However, his eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti and legislator son Tej Pratap Yadav have been left out, prompting speculation about friction within the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstration outside Parliament||Around 200 farmers will protest against the three new farm laws outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, which begins from July 19, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announced on Sunday. The Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is leading the agitation, said that two days before the session begins, a “chetavani patra” (warning letter) would be served on all Opposition MPs asking them to protest the laws inside the House. “We will ask the Opposition MPs on July 17 to raise the issue every day inside the House while we sit outside in protest,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told a news conference. “We will tell them not to benefit the Centre by walking out (of the House). Don’t let the session run till the government addresses the issue. We will be protesting outside Parliament continuously till they hear our demands.” Rajewal said five people from each farmer union would take part in the protest. The Morcha has also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It has asked people to come out and park their vehicles along state and national highways from 10am till noon. “Whatever vehicle you have — tractor, trolley, car, scooter —just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don’t create a traffic jam,” Rajewal said. He also appealed to people to “blow the horn of their vehicles” for eight minutes from noon, and asked that LPG cylinders be brought to the highway protest. “I ask all the women to bring their gas cylinders to the roads and be a part of the protest,” Rajewal said. Asked about agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement that the government was ready to talk to the farmers, Rajewal said the protesters “will not talk with conditions”. “The (government) leaders want to talk about farm laws with conditions; we are ready to talk with them but only if they agree to repeal the laws,” Rajewal said. On July 1, Tomar had made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting farmers except on the demand for repeal of the contentious laws. Protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November, demanding the repeal of the three new laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta vaccine scam: TMC asks MLAs to check details of social events before participation||Amid the raging controversy over the fake vaccination drive in the city, the alleged mastermind of which was seen in photographs with several TMC leaders, the ruling party on Monday asked its legislators to find out all necessary details about a social event before attending it.  State minister and senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee, following a legislative party meeting, told reporters that the members, especially the first-timers, have been told to do their home work, which may include checking the list of attendees, before giving their nod for participation in any programme.  Chatterjee, however, did not make any mention of Debanjan Deb, the conman who posed as a senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and set up the dubious inoculation drive.  The minister said that the new MLAs have been asked to consult seniors from time to time before speaking about an issue or taking any action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Crores of rupees spent by GTA without audit: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said that nothing can be more worrisome than reports that crores of rupees have been spent by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), an autonomous body that looks after the development of Darjeeling hills, sans any audit in past.  Dhankhar, who had said on June 28 that he will ensure a special audit of the accounts of the GTA as he received several complaints in this regard, was on Monday briefed by the state's principal accountant general regarding the audit issue.  In a Tweet, the governor expressed concern that GTA accounts are in arrears for the last seven years (2014-21) and even audit for 2013-14 is "incomplete".  "Nothing can be more worrisome and disturbing aspect that crores have been spent with just no audit since GTA @MamataOfficial came into being," Dhankhar tweeted, tagging West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  "All reports that GTA is den of corruption and all aspects call for exemplary probe investigation so as to promote accountability," he said in the Twitter post. The ruling Trinamul Congress had said that Dhankhar was unnecessarily creating controversy and interfering in the GTA matter.  "The governor could have asked the minister of hill affairs for any update about GTA fund usage though it is outside the purview of his constitutional power. His only agenda is to criticise the state," TMC leader and Education Minister Bratya Basu said.  As per the Gorkhaland Territorial Act of 2011, the GTA was established for the region comprising Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong subdivisions and some mouzas of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district.  The GTA Sabha was constituted on August 2, 2012, with 45 elected members and five members nominated by the governor.  The Hill Affairs Branch of the state government's Home and Hill Affairs Department is the nodal branch to look after the matters of the GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, urges him to reduce tax on petrol and diesel||Expressing concern over the rising fuel prices, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to lower the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel "to check the overall inflation" in the country. Noting that petrol and diesel prices were hiked eight times since May, of which six times were in June alone, she said the fuel price hike have adversely affected common people and directly impacted the inflation in the country. "I would like to draw your attention to the government of India policy which has brought great distress among the common people of the country. Shockingly, the retail price of petrol in many states across the county has crossed an unprecedented Rs 100 per litre," she wrote. "It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel are substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to people and check the overall inflation trend in the country," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Pranab Mukherjee's son, Abhijit, joins Trinamul ||Less than a year after the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, his son Abhijeet quit the Congress and joined the ruling Trinamul. Abhijeet, who visited Trinamul Bhawan on Monday afternoon, was inducted to the party in the presence of senior party leaders Partha Chatterjee and Sudip Bandopadhyay. His departure is hardly a blow to the Congress which has been heavily bleeding in Bengal since Mamata Banerjee walked out to form her own party in 1998. Abhijeet’s exit will add to the number and be another step to Mamata’s achieving a Congress-mukt Bengal. In the last few weeks, the 61-year-old former MP has been active in his former Lok Sabha constituency Jangipur, which was represented by his father too towards the end of his political career. Two weeks ago, Abhijeet visited Jangipur following the deaths of some residents in a lightning strike. During the visit, he met some of his former colleagues in the Congress, like Mohammad Sohrab, Amirul Islam, the district Trinamul president and MP Abu Taher Khan, state ministers Akhruzzaman and Sabina Yasmin. On June 29, Abhijeet met Diamond Harbour MP and Trinamul’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at his Camac street office that had fuelled speculation of the former’s joining Trinamul. Abhijeet has privately expressed the desire to contest for the Assembly by-polls from the Jangipur Assembly seat where elections could not be held following the death of the RSP nominee for the seat. The visit to Camac street, Abhijeet had claimed, was to invite the Trinamul all-India general secretary to attend an event to commemorate the first death anniversary of Pranab Mukherjee. The former President passed away last year in August. A former employee of the Steel Authority of India, Abhijeet joined politics a decade ago, making his debut as a legislator. A year later Pranab Mukherjee moved to Rashtrapati Bhawan, leaving his electoral legacy of barely seven years at Jangipur to his son. Abhijeet won the seat twice. In 2019, he was a poor third. Neither Pranab Mukherjee’s legacy nor the polling machinery of state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury could help Abhijeet score a hat-trick. The 2021 Assembly elections have proved the Congress citadel in Murshidabad is crumbling. In Chowdhury’s home turf, the sitting Congress MLA, Manoj Chakraborty,  finished a poor third this time. “Pranab babu would not have won from Jangipur had it not been for Adhir Chowdhury the first time. Adhir da gave the support to Abhijeet as well. After all, he was Pranab babu’s son. Now things have changed. Pranab babu is not alive and Adhir da has to save his own seat in 2024,” said a Congress functionary. For Congress leaders in Calcutta, Pranab Mukherjee was essentially a Delhi leader, with almost zero base in Bengal, unlike a Priya Ranjan Das Munshi who had to contest elections and nurse a constituency. The senior Mukherjee too had quit Congress in 1985 when Rajiv Gandhi was Prime Minister and returned three years later. It took him enormous hard work to regain the confidence of the Gandhis. It was only after Sonia Gandhi took charge of the party that Pranab Mukherjee found gainful employment in the party.  Abhijeet never enjoyed that level of proximity with the Gandhis. “He was in the party because of his father. Being Pranab babu’s son opened some doors,” said a Congress source. Apart from adding another Congressman to its fold, Trinamul has little to gain from Abhijeet’s induction. Also, he is eyeing a seat for which Trinamul already has a nominee, Jakir Hussain, who won the seat in 2016 and became a minister. “Jakir became a minister because he won a key seat in Murshidabad, a district that Mamata di wants to bring under her control in any way she can,” said a Trinamul source. Till his departure to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikary was Mamata’s go to man for Murshidabad, where he engineered sizeable defections at all levels and ensured prominent positions for most of the defectors. The problem for Trinamul is the bitter infighting in the party in Jangipur. Jakir and his nephew sustained injuries after crude bombs were hurled at them allegedly by another faction of the party in February. “Ultimately, Mamata di will decide who will be nominated from Jangipur. Probably the leadership feels Pranab babu’s son will be acceptable to all,” the Trinamul source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Tushar Mehta issue to be taken up at Raisina Hill on Monday||Trinamul on Sunday said it had secured an appointment at Raisina Hill at 12.30pm on Monday for its MPs Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra to visit President Ram Nath Kovind and apprise him of the alleged meeting between solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and Narada “sting” accused BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari last Thursday. They will also demand Mehta’s removal, citing conflict of interest. On Sunday, Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien tweeted to this effect, too. Mehta is India’s second highest law officer after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, and a counsel for the CBI and ED that are probing the Narada case. Mehta and Adhikari have denied the meeting at the former’s office-cum-residence. Bengal BJP on Sunday claimed this was a “non-issue” for people. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said people “did not care” about pending bypolls in seven Assembly seats but sought civic polls in 116 bodies. Many in the BJP disagreed with Ghosh. They admitted civic polls held amid the pandemic put over 2 crore to risk while bypolls would involve fewer than 20 lakh people. “The party wants to oppose the by-polls because it does not want Mamata to win within the six-month constitutional stipulation. There is also a fear that Trinamul may win all seven seats,” said a BJP insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 1,297 new infections and 20 deaths in a day||Bengal on Sunday reported the 14th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, by 500, to 18,780. It was the first time the number fell below 19,000 since June 9, 25 days ago. On Sunday, Bengal reported 1,777 recoveries, 1,297 new infections and 20 deaths. The total number of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before improving by over 18 per cent again over these 14 days. “In the important parameter of case growth (percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that), we are 22nd on the list of states, with case growth falling by 48.9 per cent. We maintained a case growth of –40 to –60 for weeks, which is significant,” said a minister. Of the 20 deaths, three were reported from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday, while four others reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, and that of the nation 1.31 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.48 on Sunday. A dip in positive confirmation rate is indicative of shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.57 per cent, with the national rate at 97.07 now. With Calcutta logging 111 new infections and North 24-Parganas 172, Sunday was the seventh straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen districts reported double-digit figures and Kalimpong, Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures on Sunday. Bengal now has over 15.05 lakh Covid-19 cases in all since March last year, with nearly 14.69 lakh recoveries and 17,799 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bid to break BJP’s back in Jungle Mahal||The Trinamul Congress has set in motion an exercise to weaken the BJP from the ground up in the Jungle Mahal by engineering en masse defections or ghar-wapsi of elected representatives, taking control of panchayats and freely inducting local BJP workers. The BJP had won five out of six Lok Sabha seats in 2019, with leads in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments, in the Jungle Mahal which is a vast tribal-dominated region comprising four south Bengal districts. But the saffron camp slumped to victories in only 16 of the 40 Assembly seats this summer. Trinamul has been at work to ensure a lasting turnaround in the 100-odd gram panchayats and half a dozen panchayat samitis run by the BJP in the region. In Purulia, for instance, one panchayat samiti and four gram panchayats have gone the Trinamul way with defections of the BJP’s elected representatives since the May 2 Assembly election results. Trinamul’s manoeuvrers in the district since the summer of 2019 had born fruit as the BJP’s victory margin in the Purulia Lok Sabha seat comprising seven key Assembly segments was dragged down from 2.05 lakh in the parliamentary election to less than 13,000 in the Assembly polls. “Ajit Bauri (the BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Purulia zilla parishad) joined us (Trinamul) last week, further consolidating our party in the district,” said Gurupada Tudu, Trinamul’s Purulia unit chief. “Many more panchayat functionaries are headed our way. Taking control of rural local bodies would help us deliver development — something the BJP is incapable of anyway — in the region, thereby winning back the confidence of the masses,” he added. Similarly, in Bankura and Jhargram, several rural local bodies have changed hands in the recent past. Jhargram district Trinamul coordinator Ujjwal Dutta claimed the BJP’s elected representatives and leaders had started back-channel parleys with the ruling establishment even months before the Assembly elections. “They were exploring possibilities of defection if the saffron camp fell short of its target of 200 seats in the Assembly polls. After the BJP slumped to 77 in the 294-seat House, the floodgates opened,” said Dutta. All four of Jhargram’s Assembly seats, in which the BJP had secured lead two years ago, swung the Trinamul way this election. The ruling party has been on a public relations overdrive with BJP-supporting villages as well, wooing them extensively to ensure the support base of the saffron camp is minimised, if not eliminated, before the next important election. “Getting the leaders or elected representatives without supporters could be detrimental as that kind of defection is only superficial. That was the mistake the BJP made ahead of the Assembly elections and it was one of the key reasons for its rout,” said Nabendu Mahali, Trinamul’s Purulia district spokesperson. The beleaguered BJP, however, tried putting up a brave face, claiming the Trinamul exercise would amount to nought. “Let the 2024 Lok Sabha elections arrive. You will see that we will win all six Lok Sbha seats in the Jungle Mahal. Irrespective of what happens in between — because Trinamul is securing defections through fear or favour — the people of the region will stay firmly with the BJP,” said Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the BJP’s Purulia unit chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Over 500 people from Rajbanshi community protest statehood call||Over 500 people from the Rajbanshi community, including academics, intellectuals and Trinamul supporters, met at Khalisamari in Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar on Sunday to protest the separate statehood demand recently raised by a few BJP leaders like John Barla. Khalisamari, a hamlet 55km off Cooch Behar town, is the birthplace of Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis. Under the banner of “Punyabhumi Khalisamari Janapad Basi” (residents of the holy Khalisamari land)”, the protest was held at a school ground. “In 1905, Panchanan Barma fought the partition of Bengal decided by the British. We are his followers and we protest against any further division of the state,” Girindranath Barman, who lost as a Trinamul nominee this time, said. “Some BJP leaders are trying to foment tension in the region by raising the demand. We will fight together against it,” said Girindranath, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga Assembly seat, who lost to BJP’s Sushil Barman. For the past few weeks, the demand for separate state or Union territory of north Bengal is being raised by BJP’s Alipurduar MP John Barla and others. Though the state BJP leadership asserted that it is not the party’s stand, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, during his recent visit to the region, remarked that elected representatives had voiced “peoples’ aspirations.” To counter this narrative, Trinamul has taken the strategy to engage prominent figures of the Rajbanshi community against the demand. Sunday’s event was the first of its kind. “The protest at Khalisamari appear to be a strategy to stoke the sentiments of the Rajbanshis, who revere Panchanan Barma. There were a number of Trinamul leaders at the event. It is evident that Trinamul is trying to drive home the point that the saffron camp wants to divide the state, which can help erode the support base of the BJP,” said a political observer. Protesters said that in Khalisamari, the Mamata Banerjee government was developing a second campus of the Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University and a museum of his memorabilia. “The BJP is trying to halt such development work. Our movement against the demand to divide the state will continue,” said Girindranath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Makaibari tea from Darjeeling to become ingredient of gin-based alcoholic beverage at a cocktail bar ||Makaibari tea from Darjeeling will soon become an ingredient of a gin-based alcoholic beverage at a cocktail bar in New Delhi. Named “Sidecar X Makaibari — A Summer Solstice”, the cocktail is scheduled to be launched on July 12. The tea was made from the leaves plucked on June 21, the day that marked summer solstice. The cocktail which was developed over four months, is a perfect blend of world class collaboration and local romance. The beverage marks an effort to diversify Darjeeling Tea which has failed to make inroads into the domestic market and whose exports are falling. Makaibari tea was presented by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Queen Elizabeth II in 2015. A year earlier, the garden’s Silver Tips Imperial had fetched a whopping Rs 1.12 lakh a kilogram. The garden’s brew has been served to the participants in and the staff of the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil, thus stamping its brand across the globe. For the cocktail, Makaibari collaborated with Sidecar, a Delhi based artisanal cocktail bar, which is jointly owned by Kurseong man Yangdup Lama and Minakshi Singh. Sidecar and Lama are internationally known, too. Sidecar has been recognised by various industry platforms as one among the world’s 100 best cocktail bars. Lama is a famous bartender and an author. Lama was also appointed American Whiskey Ambassador to India by the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States and India Attaché by Tales of the Cocktails (New Orleans). He is also a beverage trainer for top hotels chains in India like Taj Luxury, ITC, The Oberoi and Park Hotels. “This romantic idea started when Rudra Chatterjee (managing director) of Luxmi Tea met me in Delhi in February this year,” Lama said over the phone from Delhi. After four months of intense planning, Sidecar has come up with six exquisite signature cocktails, in a first such collaboration between a tea garden and a bar in India. The other five cocktails are Measure of Substance, Agony of the Leaves, Himalayan Tea Tiki, Summer Solstice Hi Ball, Darjeeling Mail. The cocktail to be launched first is a blend of 60ml of “Makaibari Summer Solstice infused gin” with 20ml of Rhododendron Blanc Vermouth, along with lemon peels oils and edible flowers served in a Chinese tea cup. The cocktail is likely to be priced over Rs 575. The cocktail will be made of a tea plucked from Kodobari (millet field) village — Makaibari consists of seven villages — on June 21. “A batch of 100 packets weighing 200 grams each has been dispatched from the garden and we will launch our product once the consignment reaches us. We will also provide the cocktail recipe to our customers,” said Lama. For Lama, it is his way of “giving back” to his place. Lama was born at Gayabari, a neighbouring area of Makaibari, and though he moved over to Delhi, he is still “connected to his roots”.  “I have tried to romanticise my place in the product.” Darjeeling Tea’s annual production came down from 8.5 million kgs of made tea in 2019-2020 to 6.5 million kgs in 2020-21, while exports were down from 4.2 to 3.1 million kgs of made tea. Many planters say they have not been able to push Darjeeling Tea in the domestic market at the desired rate. Efforts to diversify the product through “speciality tea” have also been made by some gardens like Gopaldhara estate (owned by S.K. Saria) in Mirik. Makaibari was set up by Girish Chandra Banerjee, who belonged to a zamindar family at Borai, about 100 km from Calcutta, in 1859 and currently employs around 600 people on 573 hectares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation will engage RITES Limited to improve road connectivity, traffic movement ||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) will engage the Rail India Technical & Economic Service (RITES) Limited to improve road connectivity and traffic movement in the city. On Saturday, the proposal was passed at the monthly meeting of the board of administrators (BoA) of the Siliguri civic body. According to sources, Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA, will visit Calcutta soon to hold talks with officials of RITES for the project. At the meeting, the BoA also sanctioned a sum of Rs 18 crore that would be used to maintain and repair roads across the civic area. “We will engage RITES to develop some alternative roads in the city so that the problem of traffic congestion can be resolved. Next week, I will speak with their officials in Calcutta so that a comprehensive road plan can be drawn up and the new routes can be explored,” Deb said after the meeting. In Siliguri, traffic congestion is a major problem plaguing residents as well as others who visit the city every day. During rush hours, it is not unusual for commuters to spend an hour to travel a stretch of 5km. One of the major locations of congestion is Darjeeling More, the principal entry point of the city located at its northern end. Recently, Deb sent a proposal to the state government for the construction of a diversion at the location, said sources. On Saturday, a team comprising representatives of the BoA, the district magistrate, the commissioner of Siliguri metropolitan police, officials of the civic body and the state PWD also visited Darjeeling More and some other areas of the city to identify prospective alternative routes other than Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road and Burdwan Road, which are the three major roads of the city, to see which can be developed in due course. At the meeting, the BoA also decided to constitute a quality control unit (QCU) at SMC. It would have experts as members and will be assigned the task to keep a check on the quality of every infrastructure project carried out in the civic area. “In addition, a joint coordination committee comprising representatives of the SMC, the north Bengal development department and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority will be formed to keep a watch on any work jointly taken up by them,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
05-07-2021||West Bengal||Survey across 11 states and two Union territories suggests plastic ban has not been successful||A survey across 11 states and two Union territories across the Himalayan region in the country suggests that while most people were aware of the existence of plastic bag ban in their areas, most believe the ban has not succeeded. Zero Waste Himalaya and Integrated Mountain Initiative, a platform that works on the issue of waste in the mountains, recently conducted an online survey with 315 responses representing Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. The report published by Roshan Rai, Priyadarshinee Shrestha and Rajendra P. Gurung, core members of Zero Waste Himalaya, suggests that while 82 per cent of the respondents were aware of the existence of the plastic bag ban in their region, only 19 per cent felt the ban was highly effective. “Among the respondents of the survey, as many as 35 per cent felt that the ban was not effective at all while a significant 31 per cent said the ban was effective only for some time,” said Rai. While Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand have imposed a complete ban on plastic bags, Ladakh and Bengal have imposed a partial ban.  There are no bans in Manipur, Meghalaya and Mizoram. In Bengal, plastic carry bags are banned in Darjeeling and the Sunderbans. The ban in Darjeeling was imposed way back in 2001. Sikkim had started the ban in 1998. Studies suggests while the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 prescribed a minimum thickness for plastic bags at 50 microns, the survey revealed that thin plastic bags of less than 50 microns are widely found, with 52 per cent respondents indicating this. Over the years, there seems to be a rise in the use of non-woven polypropylene bags, a new avatar of plastic bags which deceptively look like cloth but are made of plastic. “A new line of bags labelled biodegradable, compostable and oxo-biodegradable are the latest addition. But they do contain plastic. Their use was found to be more in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura and J&K,” said Rai. Promoted as the so-called greener alternative, these bags are problematic. as they are just plastic with additives that accelerate the disintegration into microplastics, the study states. Single-use plastics, intended to be used only once and thrown away or recycled, like grocery bags, food packaging, bottles, straws, containers, cups still dominate in terms of presence. “Shopkeepers charging users extra for plastic bags could be a way to discourage their use, but 45 per cent of respondents said there were no charges,” said Rai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
05-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just a name||What looks like a storm in a teacup may spill over the rim. The debate in Tamil Nadu regarding the use of the term, ‘Union government’, by M.K. Stalin, the chief minister heading the new Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government, seems a waste of time. State leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, supported by their electoral allies in the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, have objected to the change from ‘Central government’, which the BJP-friendly AIADMK used while in power. They claimed, first, that a democratically elected government should not change an expression which the people are used to. That is just silly, of course. Why should this change of nomenclature disturb the Opposition? These terms are used interchangeably. But the BJP suspects a hidden agenda and mala fide intentions behind the new government’s preference. The DMK top brass’s argument is that the Constitution defines the country as a Union of states, just as cases in the Supreme Court refer to the Union of India. It is neither wrong nor is the Tamil term for it new, since it was used first by C.N. Annadurai in 1957 — and repeatedly by the DMK since then. The state BJP’s insistence that the Centre be called the ‘Central’ government has two sources. One is insecurity — it has been left on the Opposition benches together with the AIADMK in the state. The defeat here coincided with its resounding defeat in West Bengal and its frank absence in Kerala. The BJP’s professed intention to decimate all Opposition did not work in these states — they have voices of their own. Earlier, the DMK as Opposition had protested against the Centre’s infringement of states’ rights and had also made state autonomy a feature in its election manifesto. So the BJP is antsy about the timing of the DMK government’s change of nomenclature; it believes the government is ‘confrontationist’. In the larger context of the BJP’s vision of a monolithic nation, the DMK has touched a raw nerve. This is the second source of the state BJP’s jumpiness, because, instead of a federation of states, the BJP views India, according to the state BJP general secretary, as one entity with states formed only for administrative purposes. The BJP’s aggressive thrust for centralization in every sphere manifests this self-serving vision. Not a storm in a teacup then, but a political and philosophical conflict that underlies the tensions in India today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Mithali Raj sets a world record, teaching creative writing||Runaway success Sir — Hats off to the captain of the Indian women’s cricket team, Mithali Raj, for leading from the front to script a win in the third and final one-day international against the mighty English side. With her unbeaten knock of 75, Raj has also become the top run scorer in women’s cricket across all formats. This is quite an achievement and is yet another feather in her cap. She was rightly adjudged the Player of the Match. Due credit for the win should also be given to our bowlers, especially Deepti Sharma, who were able to restrict England to just 219 runs. Although we lost the ODI series 2-1, our team will be a force to reckon with in the Twenty20 series. Shafali Verma’s aggressive batting should give India a rollicking start. However, it is disappointing that our star batswoman, Harmanpreet Kaur, is going through a lean patch. One hopes that she works on her batting and finds her groove during the upcoming T20 series. India should buckle up for the games ahead. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — The ace Indian cricketer, Mithali Raj, set a world record and scripted history by overtaking the tally of the renowned English batter, Charlotte Edwards, to become the highest run scorer in international women’s cricket. The Indian skipper must be congratulated for this achievement. Such landmark feats have made Raj a cricketing legend. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — People who are brushing off Mithali Raj’s achievement as not significant epitomize everything that is wrong with the sport. Had any male player achieved a similar feat, praises would have poured in. Those who argue that the over-10,000 runs that Raj has scored are not significant because the tally combines all three formats of the game have perhaps forgotten that women cricketers do not have as many opportunities to play as their male counterparts. Moreover, cricket has always been an expensive sport to practise. Female cricketers in India are at a disadvantage because while they need to spend the same amount as men to develop their skills, they earn a fraction of what the men do and have fewer avenues of income through cricket. Raj thus deserves more credit than her male peers for her success. Rima Roy,Calcutta  Wrong formula Sir — Students of creative writing are taught about point of view, setting, building character, dialogue, imagery and how to use these tools effectively to produce ‘good’ writing. But who decides what is good writing? Can teaching styles and methods that are used in classics help students develop an individual style? Imitation is a great form of flattery, but it does not make for great art. Teaching creative writing is another way of mass producing bestsellers. Tara Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Careless state||India has a huge number of unorganized workers who do not have a fixed residence in their place of work. They are temporary migrants who move from one job site to another. They have no rights that can be easily established, are paid poor wages and have abysmal working and living conditions. They are a faceless, nameless mass of people who represent the ‘economic untouchables’: the economy needs them, but society refuses to integrate them. The two waves of the pandemic have hurt this section of the population the most. In 2020, thousands of migrants marched barefoot over highways with all their material wealth, journeying home when the lockdown suddenly took away their livelihoods. This year, too, a similar fate struck them during the second wave. The pictures of migrants walking hundreds of miles became the indelible image of Covid-19 in India. A few days ago the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for still not having created a National Database for Unorganised Workers to facilitate the distribution of benefits like food rations and cash transfers to these workers. The ministry of labour has been ordered to complete the project by July 31. In fact, the ministry had been instructed as far back as in August 2018 to create the portal with an updated registry of all migrant workers. The court used strong words, describing the lapse as unpardonable and indicative of the apathy of the government. It also remarked that the labour ministry was not alive to the concerns of migrant workers. In spite of the order of 2018, the government allocated only 45 crore rupees this year to set up the portal and update the data. In the context of this failure, three conclusions can be drawn. The first is the sheer inefficiency of the government in not being able to deliver on a low-budget and uncomplicated project. Secondly, this is not an issue of scarce financial resources; rather it is one of insensitivity towards people who have very little say in national politics. The third conclusion emerging from the failure to create the portal goes beyond mere apathy. It is part of a systematic effort to keep the larger working population under stress. The farmers and the workers all represent potential sources of trouble, capable of questioning economic policies that only create ever-widening inequalities in wealth and incomes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||How to heal with books||The second wave of the pandemic has proved to be devastating for India, with countless families losing their loved ones to the virus. These losses can be particularly challenging for children. Unable to express their pain and grief, children tend to feel lost, anxious and disillusioned under these challenging circumstances. Emotions — grief, sadness, shock and disbelief — can persist in varying degrees for days, weeks, even months. A supportive environment and, at times, therapy can go a long way in helping children cope with loss and grief. But how does one take care of children’s emotional health during a time like this? How should we discuss loss with them? Experts have identified reading and responding to literature as a powerful medium to introduce children to traumatic life-events. Research suggests that exposure to relevant literature during unprecedented circumstances can enhance children’s well-being. Picture books can play a unique role in supporting children’s grief reactions. Children’s picture books are a distinct literary genre, conveying meaning through image and text. This transactional and transforming relationship between images and text help children in ‘meaning-making’. Picture books deal with varied subjects. Think of a topic, and you are likely to find a picture book on it. There are even titles on death, grief and loss, some of them by Indian authors. Listening to stories or reading them can be therapeutic, especially when one is surrounded by grief and uncertainty. These books also liberate young minds from stress and anxiety. Moreover, children’s books facilitate conversation, providing a safe structure to discuss difficult topics like loss, death, grief and fear. Children find it easier to relate to characters responding to fear than to talk about their own worries. Books help build resilience and faith. Beloved literary characters offer children the courage to stand up for themselves and others. They also show young readers that emotions are transient, that bad days turn around, and there are ways to bounce back. The narrative and the characters are crutches for children learning to navigate complicated emotions. They learn to express embedded feelings through them. Besides, these titles also help children enhance their knowledge about life-altering events. For instance, one can explain what death is by using picture books. The Heart and the Bottle by Oliver Jeffers is a case in point. There are other exceptional children’s books on grief, including the Japanese pop-up masterpiece, Little Tree, and the Norwegian gem, My Father’s Arms Are a Boat. Text and image have combined in striking ways in these instances to comfort children. Children must be encouraged to turn to literature during crises. Conversing with children about unpleasant subjects from time to time is equally crucial for their well-being. In fact, Maurice Sendak, an illustrator and writer of children’s books, has argued that we should refrain from shielding children from the dark. Children who spend time reading books are more likely to find the light of hope and resilience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion|| A tightening noose: Cinematograph Act amendment||In the world of public relations communications, the trick to ensure that a negative story has minimum impact is to “bury” it on a “good day” which, in PR parlance, means a news-heavy day, when the attention is likely to be diverted by other big developments. And, invariably, it works. For the Union information and broadcasting ministry, June 19 was such a day. With the front pages dominated by the Twitter row, Milkha Singh’s death, the scandal involving fake Covid tests and new developments in Kashmir, it quietly pushed out details of the government’s controversial plan to create what will effectively be a “super” film censor as part of a radical overhaul of the existing film censorship regime by amending the Cinematograph Act, 1952. Sure enough, the news went almost unnoticed, as MIB mandarins had hoped. Many newspapers and television channels didn’t even pick it up on the first day. But, of course, film-makers noticed, and were surprised that such far-reaching changes were being sought to be pushed through so casually — almost stealthily. A number of high-profile figures such as Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Hansal Mehta and Anand Patwardhan have since spoken out, describing some of the proposed amendments as “regressive” and “dangerous”. Most controversially, the cinematograph (amendment) bill, 2021 proposes to give the Central government powers to ‘re-examine’ films already cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification, and to reverse the original decision of the board “if the situation so warranted”. In other words, the CBFC will be stripped of its status as the sole authority on film censorship matters, with the Centre itself assuming the role of the final arbiter of a film’s destiny. Critics fear that the whole process of film certification could become politicized once ministers and bureaucrats get involved. Although the CBFC will continue to be the first port of call for film-makers seeking an exhibition certificate, its independence is likely to be compromised as it will be constantly trying to anticipate and second guess the government’s reaction to its decisions. This, in turn, will colour its judgment as it will hesitate to clear a film which it might feel would not sit well with the ruling party’s ideological sensitivities. There are fears that the proposed dispensation will put film-makers at the mercy of ministers, with a film’s fate being determined by the political fashions of the day rather than its artistic merit. It would also embolden partisan pressure groups to harass film-makers they don’t like. For all the noise and bluster, the truth is that so long as there is a professional review process in place, and once a film is cleared for screening, the capacity of such groups for mischief is limited. For example, Anand Patwardhan’s Ram Ke Naam survived attacks from right-wing Hindu groups because it had been cleared by the CBFC after reviews. He has said that groups like the Bharatiya Janata Party’s students’ body, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, tried to stop its screenings, but because it had a censor certificate, they could not do anything. The new law will have the effect of boosting their nuisance value by undermining the sanctity of the board’s decisions, not to mention that film-makers will have the shadow of fear constantly looming over them as the government will have the power to ban a film any time it feels such an action is “warranted” in the interest of national security, public order, decency or morality among other things. Although such a provision also exists in the present law, it cannot be used, given that it was stayed by the Karnataka High Court after the Kannada film-maker, K.M. Shankarappa, challenged it way back in 1990. The ruling was later upheld by the Supreme Court, and the provision remains inoperative. The new law will reinstate it, setting the clock back to the 1990s. Film-makers are concerned as much by the nature of proposed changes as by the timing of the government’s move. In the midst of a pandemic and a looming economic crisis, surely there are more pressing matters that need its attention? I would argue that it is precisely during a crisis, when public attention is diverted, that governments tend to accumulate more powers, and smuggle in policies that may not have an easy ride in normal times. We are looking at sweeping changes with chilling implications for independent film-making. Yet there were no consultations with the film industry. Ostensibly, comments have been invited from the public, but given the tight deadline — the draft bill was released on June 19, and the last date for submitting comments was July 2 — it looks more like a box-ticking exercise. Given the government majority in Parliament, there’s little doubt that the bill will go through. But at what cost to free speech and India’s reputation as an open and free society? Among liberal democracies, India already has perhaps the toughest censorship regime, with the government so heavily involved in the business of film censorship. The new move risks feeding further into the growing idea of India as an “illiberal democracy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||The key element||Opposition parties are a fundamental aspect of democracy. A distinctive feature of democracy lies in dealing with difference. Kautilya and Machiavelli, two authorities on Statecraft, treated difference as a threat to stability. However, unlike feudalism or communism, democracy provides institutional status to the Opposition, incorporating it within the larger canvas of governance. In modern times, J.S. Mill, the liberal, did not recommend liberalism to India because, according to him, Indians had not reached the stage of self-rule. Despite this, democracy endured in India. The Opposition maintains constant vigil on the ruling party’s activities and provides the people with political choice for future elections. Understanding democracy through the Opposition party can reveal a novel, exciting picture. As the name suggests, the primary duty of the Opposition party is to oppose the policies and programmes of the party in power. However, the purpose of such opposition is not to impose its views in place of the ruling party’s. Instead, it needs to interrogate and critically evaluate, highlighting limitations and risks, explicit or otherwise, in the policies proposed by the government. The Opposition, thus, has a tricky and complex role to play and wait for its turn in the next elections. One of the complexities is choosing between maintaining consistency and playing the role of the opposer. For example, when in power, party X proposes programme S. Opposition party Y opposes S. If Y subsequently comes to power and chooses to promote S, X should strictly oppose S even though X had proposed it earlier. In this way, X helps expose any weakness in the programme, thereby minimizing errors in the policies implemented by the ruling party. Such role-playing also allows the Opposition party to examine its policies in a new light. Any questioning regarding the moral consistency of the Opposition party needs to consider this crucial political role assigned to it. The party in power can have long-term, deleterious effects on the functioning of democracy, undermining the open-mindedness and the continuous exploration of truth that are central to liberalism. The method, therefore, is far more critical than the moral consistency in upholding liberalism and the principles of democracy. In discharging this task, the Opposition parties can examine the ruling party’s policies in detail and from different angles. The party in power should facilitate this as they fulfil a duty essential to upholding a healthy democracy. Given the broad scope to criticize, the Opposition needs to vary its approach and avoid repetitive, predictable arguments. Adhering to expected lines of debate would expose the underuse of opportunities at the Opposition’s disposal and make it easier for the ruling party to circumvent criticism. This would weaken the Opposition’s ability to make a critical assessment of the government’s policies. Instead, the Opposition party can bring new facts into the discussion, offer new interpretations, and reveal new dimensions, helping both the people and the ruling party understand the policies. This philosophical method is a distinguishing feature of liberalism and democracy. One can find creative ways of opposing British rule in India in the works of modern Indian thinkers. For instance, Macaulay’s Minute on Indian Education presented all Western policies as good and all Indian practices as bad. Accepting this education policy was, therefore, tantamount to accepting British rule in India. On the other hand, suppose everything in Indian education is awful and rejected and the only perfect alternative is modern Western education. In that case, it leads to the next question — who can impart this education to Indians? In Macaulay’s colonial project, the answer is already embedded in the question — namely, the British. That would be their justification to be in India and to remain here, thereby continuing colonial rule. We can find a counter to this trap in the writings of Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. Macaulay’s underlying formula was based on ‘either-or’ — India could either continue with the existing education system and be doomed or reject the current educational practices entirely. Vivekananda and Aurobindo, however, abandoned this ‘either-or’ formula. Instead, they chose to accept some desirable features of the modern West and the positive aspects of Indian tradition. They conceded that there are evils in Indian society. They took the list of evils from their adversaries and made it their own. However, they also reminded those like Macaulay about the vices and the limitations of the modern West. The counter-strategy provided a creative alternative to the predictable rejection usually put forward by the Opposition. It offered a formula to undermine the British strategy and carve out an initial space for the Indian freedom struggle. This ‘and’ model is seen in post-Independence Indian society far more than Macaulay’s ‘either-or’ model. Similarly, Mahatma Gandhi proposed non-violence as an unconventional and creative political strategy to combat the British which led to much confusion for the mighty raj. Initially, they were unable to understand it as it did not fall within their rulebook. Then they underestimated it. When they ultimately recognized the power of this strategy, it was too late to deal with it other than by conventional force. Once that failed, they finally agreed to discussions. These instances give us an insight into the extensive opportunities available to those who are in the Opposition. More importantly, despite dissent, Opposition parties should refrain from ignoring and repressing the presence of the ruling party. This can have unforeseeable, long-term consequences. For example, in Hind Swaraj, Gandhi engages in dialogue with his immediate Indian adversaries. Likewise, the Opposition needs to engage with the ruling party’s policies and uphold the people’s best interests. Similarly, the ruling party needs to create a common platform to facilitate this engagement. The arguments put forward by the Opposition can help people evaluate the government’s policies better and take decisions regarding the next elections. This view through the lens of the Opposition thus gives us a different, and more precise, picture about the functioning of democracy. In addition, several examples from the Indian national movement can further enrich our understanding of the relationship between ruling and Opposition parties. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Obituary: Father Stan Swamy fought the good fight, finished the race||I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race. These Biblical words seem to sum up the life of Stanislaus Lourduswamy, 84, the Jesuit priest from Jharkhand, who died on Monday in Mumbai hours before his appeal for bail was heard. Accused of being an “Urban Naxal” in court, Swamy, or Stan, as his friends called him, had spent long years working among his beloved Advisasis in this eastern Indian tribal state. In 2016, moved by the plight of Adivasi prisoners in the tribal state, many of whom were falsely branded as “Naxalites”, Swamy conducted research on them. It was published as a report titled, Deprived of rights over natural resources, impoverished Adivasis get prison: a study of undertrials in Jharkhand. His study found that 31 per cent of undertrials and a little over a third of the convicts were tribals. The percentage of tribals in jail was far higher than their proportion of the population. Among other key findings were that 97 per cent of undertrials interviewed said that allegations that they were linked to Maoists were false, and 96 per cent of them earned less than Rs 5,000 a month, underlining the fact the poorest and the most vulnerable in the state were the among the ones arrested under stringent anti-terror laws. His study coming after three decades of work among the tribals which focussed on their community, land and forest rights, was considered authoritative but also discomfited the powers that be. Swamy who was born in Trichy in Tamil Nadu according to his friends, studied theology and did a Masters in Sociology at the University of Manila in the 1970s. Later he studied at Brussels where he struck up a friendship with Archbishop Holder Camara whose work among Brazils poor influenced him. He later worked as Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute at Bangalore from 1975 to 1986. As an activist for tribals in Jharkhand some thirty years ago, he worked for the release of tribal youths from imprisonment, often in cases where they were falsely accused. He took up the cause of tribals marginalised after their land had been taken over for dams, mines and townships, often without their consent. Two days before NIA took him into custody in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, the Jesuit priest claimed stringent laws such as UAPA were being misused to arrest tribals “indiscriminately” in a video message. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 9 last year had filed a charge-sheet against eight persons, including Father Stan Swamy, for their alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. Swamy who was arrested from his home in Ranchi on October 8, 2020 had said he had never been to Bhima Koregaon. But, he was taken to Mumbai where he was produced before a court and remanded to judicial custody. Father Swamy is the oldest person to be charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), officials had then said. NIA officials had said investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde -- to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he was convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials had claimed. They alleged literature, propaganda material of the CPI(Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Ahead of his arrest, Swamy had posted a video saying the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won't go," he had said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he had said. He had added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India," Swamy had said in the video. He had said he is part of "the process" and in a way happy to be so because he was not a silent spectator and is part of the game. "I am ready to pay the price whatever be it," Swamy had said. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 last year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017. Violence broke out the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon revival after 48 hours, expect heavy rain from Wednesday ||The southwest monsoon, which had weakened over Jharkhand, is expected to be revived after 48 hours, weathermen said on Monday with the state's northern, central and southern regions expected to experience heavy rainfall between Wednesday and Friday. "Monsoon which had become weak over Jharkhand due to the shifting of the trough towards the north is expected to revive around mid-week. Most districts would get a good spell of rain after 48 hours. We have also issued an alert of heavy rain in isolated areas from Wednesday, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Weathermen said a monsoon trough at mean sea level was running from northwest Uttar Pradesh to Tripura across east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Assam. Another north-south trough from northeast Bihar to south coastal Odisha across northeast Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal, at 1.5 km above mean sea level, would assist in rainfall activity. The southwest monsoon had weakened over Jharkhand for over a week. The Met department also issued a lightning alert for northern and south-eastern parts of Jharkhand during the next two days. Lightning was reports from several parts of the state on Monday afternoon, including Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, northern Ranchi, Chatra and Latehar. Light to moderate rain was also reported at a few places in the last 24 hours. Due to a weakened monsoon, several districts have been experiencing sultry weather, which in turned pushed up the discomfort index. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind patterns, was 60 degrees, five notches above normal, in Jharkhand on Monday. A climate analyst at IMD’s Ranchi office said the weather would be slightly warm and humid for the next two days. Statistics of monsoon rain revealed that so far Jharkhand has received 300.1mm against a normal of 246mm, a surplus of 22 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi district hospital to get 200 special O2 masks for children||The Ranchi district administration has placed an order for 200 special oxygen masks for infants and children in a bid to be ready for a third wave of Covid-19 and provide timely breathing assistance to patients who suffer from Covid-induced hypoxia, health officials said on Monday. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said that the oxygen masks ordered were smaller in size and had smaller nasal cannula. Each oxygen mask also had a different cuff for monitoring blood pressure and heart rate of the patient, he added. “Infants and young children have smaller faces than adults, so we cannot use the usual oxygen masks available in the hospital in case a child needs breathing assistance,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the freshly-procured oxygen masks will be used in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of Sadar Hospital in the state capital. These oxygen masks would be used for children in the age bracket of zero to eight years, said the civil surgeon, claiming that children older than eight years may require oxygen masks used for adults depending on various factors. This development comes close on the heels of an infant’s death, reportedly triggered by Covid-19. Sources in the department said that a five-month-old baby died of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Ranchi on Sunday. However, there was no official confirmation of the death by the time this report was filed. An expert committee of doctors constituted by the state government has predicted that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are feared to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, the committee has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India. The Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand has also started the process of setting up 1,000 ICU beds for children in a bid to prepare for a third wave of Covid-19. At least 500 of these ICU beds would be set up in private hospitals and the remaining 500 in government healthcare facilities. The state has been seeking guidance from experts in India and abroad to prepare a roadmap for tacking a third wave of Covid-19 and strengthen the health infrastructure for the same. So far, the state has held virtual meetings with doctors from the USA, World Health Organisation (WHO) members, health experts from reputed Indian institutions and various other stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Trans Himalayan Women's Expedition team to be trained at Garhwal Himalayas||Members of the Fit@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition will assemble in Garhwal Himalayas in October to train for the 4,500 journey. The expedition, which was scheduled in May, has been put off to March next year in view of the Covid 19 pandemic. It will be organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) in collaboration with ministry of youth affairs and sports under FIT India programme. The expedition will be led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. The 10-member expedition team, which comprises three Everesters, will stay at the base camp in Kaflon and will trek 13,615 Darwa Top. Kaflon, which is located along Uttar Kashi-Gangotri Highway, is the place where participants of TSAF’s annual outdoor leadership programme camp. The base camp has a kitchen, store room, audio-visual hall, instructors' room and an office-cum women instructors' room. The week-long training will be conducted under the leadership and expertise of Padma Bhushan Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to annex Mount Everest in 1984. The expedition team also includes Jamshedpur-based tribal Payo Murmu. The elite Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit has the required set up at Kaflon and the training can take place without any hassles whatsoever. The expedition team members have been indoors owing to the Covid and it was felt necessary to train since things have now opened up, a source at the TSAF said on condition of anonymity Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, said the training will take place in October and the team will camp at Kaflo. “Dates for the training will be worked out in due course of time,” he added. The team will commence the journey of an ultimate human endurance starting from the misty mountains of Arunachal Pradesh at Bomdila and then enter Bhutan. From there, the expedition will traverse through Bhutan cross over into Sikkim and cover Chitrey, Kala Pokhari and Sandakphu. It will then move into Nepal, where the route enters Dhaulagiri range and cover Salpa Pass, Lamajura Pass and also cross Thorang la (17,769 ft) around Annapurna Massif. From Western Nepal, the trail goes from Jumla and enters Kumaon district in Uttarakhand at Dharchula. From here, the expedition will cross Lamkhaga Pass (17,320 ft) - one of the toughest passes, which connects Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh with Harshil of Uttarakhand. The team will then traverse to Himachal. From here, they will trek through Spiti to cross Kaza, Kibber and cross Parang La (18,307 ft). The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railway police seize 36 bottles of liquor headed for Bihar at Tatanagar station||Railway police seized 36 bottles of whiskey that a man was trying to smuggle by boarding a Bihar-bound train from Tatanagar station on Monday. The liquor consignment was seized when the suspect was asked to scan his luggage at the scanner installed at the entrance of the railway station. However, the man sneaking in the liquor into the railway premise, escaped from the spot, the moment the cops realised that he carrying liquor in his luggage. Talking about the breakthrough, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar said that the man, in his early thirties had first tried to sneak into platform No 1. He was carrying a heavy bag. “The man appeared suspicious. One of the RPF officials who spotted him stopped him from entering the platform and asked him to get his luggage scanned. Reluctantly, he put the bag in the scanner. But by the time, the scanning was through and it was detected that there were liquor bottles inside the bag, the man fled from the spot leaving the consignment abandoned,”said Tiwari while talking to The Telegraph Online. The RPF inspector maintained that that they found 36 whiskey bottles of two different brands in the luggage. Tiwari reiterated that it is illegal to carry liquor bottles in train. He even out that the man wanted to take the consignment to Bihar as sale of liquor is prohibited there. He said that the Jharkhand Excise department officials have been informed about the liquor seizure so that the seized consignment can be handed over to them to initiate the necessary investigation. According to sources in the Tatanagar RPF post, the railway police had tried to trace the liquor smuggler by taking out CCTV footage at the railway station, but due to obscure image in the footage, the man could not be traced. “If the man could have been nabbed, then we would have interrogated him so as to know if the act of liquor smuggling to Bihar was attempted for the first time beside other angles to the issue,” said one of the RPF officials while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre answerable for Swamy's death, says Hemant ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren blamed the Centre's apathy and the denial of much-needed medical help for the death of 84-year-old Jesuit priest who was in judicial custody while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mumbai. Expressing shock at his demise, Hemant tweeted: “Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union Govt should be answerable for absolute apathy & non provision of timely medical services, leading to his death.” Leaders of the Church dubbed Father Swamy's death as the "murder of an innocent man". Theodore Mascarenhas, the Bishop of Ranchi, said, “We simply see it as an innocent man being killed. He was even refused a straw in jail and for seven months. Bail was denied. It’s time that the entire criminal justice system in India is reviewed.” Several tribal & civil rights groups called it a murder of democracy. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of rights groups, said, “It is a clear cut case of murder of a person who dedicated his life for the cause of adivasis. We have been demanding for his bail, citing how he was booked under false cases. The investigators and Central government didn't even consider his age..." Swamy was put on ventilator two days ago during treatment at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Dr Ian D’Souza of Holy Family Hospital informed the Bombay high court about his passing on Monday, a day before his bail hearing was scheduled. Swamy was the oldest defendant in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case at 84. He was  arrested by National Investigation Agency in October last year in connection to an ongoing probe related to Bhima Koregan blast in 2008. After testing covid-19 positive few weeks ago, Swamy was finally shifted to hospital from Taloja jail on May 30, where he was languishing since October last year, on Bombay high court’s directives. On Sunday too, JJM had demanded that the Centre and the Maharashtra government ensure that all necessary medical and specialised treatment was made avaialble to Swamy after he was put on ventilator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand activists, leaders saddened by Swamy's demise||Several tribal & civil rights groups and leaders of different parties in Jharkhand and across the country sunk into grief following the news of 84-year-old father Stan Swamy’s demise on Monday, two days after he was put on ventilator during his treatment at Holy family hospital in Mumbai Dr Ian D’Souza of Holy Family Hospital informed the Bombay high court on Monday that Swamy passed away at 1:30 pm. The Jesuit priest was awaiting bail despite his deteriorating health following his arrest by National Investigation Agency in October last year in connection to an ongoing probe related to Bhima Koregan blast in 2008. Expressing shock and condolences, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said, “I am saddened with the news. May he rest in peace and his family get strength to overcome the sorrow.” Former state Congress chief and party’s national spokesperson Ajoy Kumar said that it was a personal loss to him. “The void he left can’t be filled,” he said, adding that his death is a murder of democracy. “It is not death on a noble person but murder of democracy. Another feather in the cap of Modi Government!! Shameful, Brutal, Gruesome!” After testing Covid-19 positive few weeks ago, Swamy was finally shifted to hospital from Taloja jail on May 30, where he was languishing since October last year, following Bombay high court’s directive. Despite hosts of comorbid conditions and falling health, he wasn’t granted bail despite several activists including Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a group of different rights body demanding on numerous occasions at different platforms. On Sunday, JJM again demanded the central and Maharashtra government to urgently ensure all the necessary medical and specialised treatment to him after he was put on ventilator. JJM also demanded that the Bombay High Court to immediately grant him bail and sent back to Jharkhand. Swamy, who was in in judicial custody was booked under anti-national cases causing uproar among tribal and civil rights group globally. JJM had also accused NIA and central government for the sufferings of this elderly person. “The NIA court also played its role by denying him a bail on both medical grounds and merit. Assurances of the Maharashtra government regarding support for Stan Swamy are yet to be seen,” said JJM. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren too had condemned the arrest and expressed support and solidarity last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||105 recoveries against 11 fresh Covid cases push Ranchi's active caseload to 102||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to the 100-mark in Ranchi on Sunday as the district reported at least 105 Covid recoveries against only 11 fresh cases of infection on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 102 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Sunday. Ranchi, however, also reported the only Covid casualty in Jharkhand on the day, which took the toll in the district to 1585 and that in the state to 5115, the bulletin further revealed. While Simedga reported 10 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection on the day, no other district barring Simedga and Ranchi reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported four cases against 10 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 60, while Dhanbad reported five cases against the same number of recoveries. As many as 25 people were battling the viral infection in Dhanbad by the end of Sunday. At least six districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Godda, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. At least 162 recoveries against 52 cases brought the active caseload in the state down to 658 on the day, government data highlighted. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.02 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 3308.12 days against the national average of 646.07 days. So far, over 3.45 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus and 98.33 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 44,912 residents and only 0.11 per cent of them tested positive for Covid-19. So far, the state has tested over 1 crore residents for Covid-19 and less than 4 per cent of them were found infected by the virus. Jharkhand has so far received 75,41,260 doses of vaccine against Covid-19 and utilized 70,57,910 of them, a report released by the NHM on Sunday stated. The state had as many as 4,81,390 doses of vaccines in stock by the end of Sunday. As per government data, Jharkhand has wasted about 0.3 per cent of the total doses made available to the state by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
