06-07-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to mark Shahid Divas virtually for second year in row||Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that she will virtually address the people of the state on the occasion of Shahid Divas (Martyrs’ Day) on July 21 in view of the Covid- related restrictions. One of the biggest annual events of the party, the TMC observes Shahid Divas in memory of the 13 Youth Congress workers, who were killed in police action in 1993. Banerjee, too, was a leader of the grand old party's youth wing back then. “With the blessings of the people of Bengal who have willed us to a landslide victory and a historic third term in government, I will be addressing my brothers and sisters on July 21st #ShahidDibas at 2 PM, virtually, owing to the restrictions to curb the pandemic,” Banerjee tweeted. Last year, too, the TMC supremo had delivered her speech online on the occasion amid the Covid-induced curbs. “ShahidDivas on every 21st July is a solemn occasion for us to remember our 13 bravehearts who were brutally killed in a politically orchestrated violence back in 1993,” the CM added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Saffron camp members lack courtesy, decency: Mamata||Sharpening her attack on the BJP, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said members of the saffron camp “do not know courtesy and decency” and that was evident from the ruckus they created during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural speech in the Assembly. Dhankhar had on July 2 tabled his address, after reading out a few lines of his 18-page speech, amid protests by BJP MLAs over incidents of post-poll violence in the state. The TMC supremo, during her speech in the House, further said that the incumbent governor, chosen by the BJP leadership at the Centre, should have been allowed to address the House by the saffron party's MLAs in the state. “I have seen BJP leaders like Rajnath Singh to Sushma Swaraj... This BJP, however, is different. They (BJP members) do not know culture, courtesy, decency and civility,” the chief minister said, after thanking the governor for the inaugural address.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Father Felix Raj remembers Stan Swamy||It is with a deep sense of pain and anguish I write these few lines at the unfortunate death of Fr Stan Swamy in judicial custody on July 5. As if the world has not suffered enough in these trying times of the invisible enemy, we are beset by the heartbreaking news of the sudden demise of tribal rights activist, Jesuit Fr Stanislaus Lourduswamy. I remember my association with him and his prophetic voice. People of goodwill across the world are disturbed and angry. The Jesuit Order is devastated by the loss of its illustrious and exemplary member, and I express my deep condolences to all the Jesuit fraternity and Fr Stan’s family members. I am confident that the Jesuit Society and his friends will take forward the legacy of Fr Stan’s mission for justice and liberation, particularly among the underprivileged and the tribals. As Jawhar Sircar (former Union secretary) has tweeted, “What terrible act did this ailing octogenarian Jesuit priest do to be led to die like this? Have Indian State and a section of the Judiciary become so inhuman? Who else will take responsibility but the State?” “A caged bird can still sing,” Fr Stan wrote from jail some months ago. Fr Stan belonged to the Jesuit province of Jamshedpur. He had been working through various civil rights organisations for over 50 years and was based out of Ranchi. “Can neither walk, write nor eat. Taloja Jail has brought me to this situation,” Fr Stan told the court. Fr Stan was presented on Friday, May 21, before Bombay High Court from Taloja Jail via videoconferencing. Fr Stan told the court that he would rather “suffer and possibly die” than get treatment at a state-run hospital in Mumbai. “I have suffered much while in prison.” “I was brought here eight months ago. When I came to Taloja, my whole system, my body was still very functional. But during these eight months, I have gone through a steady regression of all bodily functions,” Fr Stan said. There should be international uproar against such violation of human rights. The massive protests across the world in May 2020 against the police brutality on George Floyd are still fresh in our minds. I remember what Floyd’s daughter said: “Daddy changed the world.” I wish and pray that Fr Stan’s death in custody inspires us to bury the draconian laws and inhuman treatment of prisoners. Fr Stan had been in custody in Taloja prison for the past nine months in connection with the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. The octogenarian’s health had deteriorated and the Jesuits had recently appealed to the Maharashtra government seeking medical attention for Fr Stan. Fr Stan was arrested on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency from Ranchi, Jharkhand, and taken to Mumbai the next day. He suffered from multiple ailments and had fallen down in the jail several times. For the past few months, Fr Stan was not keeping good health. He was being constantly shifted from the jail to the J.J. Hospital and back. Some of the ailments reported included the imbalance of limbs, lumbo-sacral degeneration and some degree of hearing loss. Urgent surgical assistance was recommended for the hearing loss and physical assistance owing to his general weakness. Pursuant to the court’s May 19 order, Fr Stan was shifted to the Holy Family Hospital where he breathed his last. Fr Stan told the court that while he had been examined by doctors at J.J. Hospital, he had not been given a chance to explain his complaints. He emphasised that he was not able to perform daily activities such as walking, writing and bathing without assistance any more. He mentioned that he had to be fed, and his appetite had greatly reduced. He stated that his hearing was greatly reduced, and he was not able to converse normally any more. The entire country is in a state of disbelief at the unfortunate passing of a Jesuit committed to the cause of tribal development. His bail petition was rejected a number of times, and this proves the inherent weakness of a section of the judiciary. His life and endurance has left a message for the world. May his soul rest in peace. Fr J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College to continue free tutorials in July ||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, that had started free tutorials last month for underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, is offering them in July as well following demands from many guardians. In July, the classes on digital platforms will be only for Classes IX and X. Since Class XI students will be busy with the admission process after the secondary board announces the Class X results this month, tutorials for Class XI have been put on hold. The Class XII tutorials have been suspended as the undergraduate and postgraduate final-year students of the Narendrapur college — the teachers for the classes — will be busy with their semester examinations in July. Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college told Metro, “We got letters and emails from the guardians about the continuance of classes. However, classes at the HS level have been put on hold as the third-year undergraduate and second-year postgraduate students will write their exams this month and Class X board exams will be announced in July.” A notice signed by the principal on June 29 says: “The HS (higher secondary) classes will be temporarily suspended until the Madhyamik and HS results are announced. A decision will be taken by the college after the announcement. However, the classes for the 9th and 10th standard will continue in the month of July.” As many as 42,159 students from Classes IX to XII had registered for free tutorials between May 24 and 28 for attending the classes in June. These children could not attend school because of the pandemic. Classes on Bengali, English, Mathematics and physical science will be held four days per week between 8am and 10pm. The new time-table has been uploaded on the website of the college. Seventy students of the college, who had undergone training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, are taking these classes. An official of the college said the objective behind the tutorial was to help the underprivileged students who could not afford private tuition to compensate for the absence of in-person classes because their families’ financial distress had aggravated during the pandemic. “The demand from the guardians for holding classes beyond June reflects this requirement,” he said. The notice by the principal says: “Since all our classes are uploaded now on YouTube you may refer to them again anytime as and when required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals refuse to follow new rates fixed for pathological and radiological tests||Private hospitals in Calcutta have refused to follow the new rates fixed by the state regulatory commission for pathological and radiological tests and said they would seek a clarification. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had on Friday capped the rates private hospitals can charge for a number of pathological and radiological tests. A private hospital, the commission’s order states, cannot charge more than Rs 400 for chest X-ray PA view and more than Rs 5,200 for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan). The commission-mandated ceiling was to be implemented with immediate effect. However, no private hospital in the city revised their rates on Monday. “We have not implemented the new rates. We will appeal to the regulatory commission seeking clarifications on several points, like on what basis the rates were fixed,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal. The association will write to the commission on Tuesday. “There is no scientific basis for fixing the rates. The revised rates are comparable with those of some of the diagnostic centres. But the costs incurred by diagnostic centres and hospitals are not comparable,” said Barua, also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The operational costs of corporate hospitals, he said, are 40 to 50 per cent more than diagnostic centres. “Hospitals have to function 24 hours and have to conduct pathological investigations for critical patients at odd hours. In such cases the cost of a test is higher as a single sample is tested. The cost is much more than when samples are tested in bulk,” Barua said. “Patients come to private hospitals for better treatment and quality care. And for that costs are involved. We need more personnel. So, if there are more such cappings, at some point it will no longer be viable for us to run a hospital,” sauid Barua. The CEO of another private hospital said they did not get subsidies for power, maintenance and other infrastructure expenses. “So why should there be cappings on basic tests?” he wondered. Also, according to him, private hospitals have to treat patients under various government schemes, whose rates are 40 per cent of what other patients are charged. Officials of some private hospitals said the rates of most pathological and radiological tests are almost double the commission-mandated ceiling. A Procalcitonin test costs between Rs 7,000 and Rs 8,000 but the commission has capped the rate at Rs 4,000. A Ferritin test costs between Rs 2,700 and Rs 3,000, compared with the capping of Rs 1,600. “There are high installation costs of equipment. We have spent Rs 1.25 crore on installing a digital radiology machine for better X-ray images," said Sudipta Mitra, the CEO of Peerless Hospital. “The commission has asked hospitals not to charge differential rates of investigations for various bed categories. But if the rates are fixed at such a low level, we’ll be unable to sustain,” he said. Capping, Mitra said, should be there for a certain categories of patients. “The commission can fix the percentage for such patients. But it cannot be a blanket rate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||14-year-old student commits suicide in Howrah||A 14-year-old student apparently committed suicide at her Howrah home and scribbled six digits on her wrist with lipstick that appeared to be the passcode of her smartphone, police said. The family of the girl, found hanging on Sunday night, alleged that she was forced to commit suicide after a man who befriended her on social media was allegedly using some of her photographs to blackmail her. The deceased was a Class VIII student, who had also participated in state and national-level karate championships.  “My sister had told me about a friend who was disturbing. I can’t never imagine that the matter aggravated so much” said the girl’s elder sister. The family lodged a complaint with Bally police station but failed to give the details of the accused. A friend of the girl said she had never shared her mobile phone’s passcode with anyone. “It is significant that she wrote the digits on her wrist before ending her life.” Anupam Singh, the deputy commissioner (North), Howrah, said, “The girl’s phone (which has been seized) will be sent for forensic test.” Officers of Bally police station said they would examine the family members and the friends she had met through social media to get to the bottom of the allegations made by the family. Police have started a case under section of abetment to suicide against unknown person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Private bus and minibus operators ‘hike’ fares to resume service||A section of private bus and minibus operators has decided to resume their services on Tuesday charging fares that have been locally agreed upon, instead of the one approved by the state government. At a meeting of bus owners to discuss their course of action late on Monday evening, several operators said commuters across many routes in Calcutta had told them that they were ready to pay increased fares provided the hike did not pinch them too hard. Since the passengers are willing to walk the extra mile, bus owners said they would resume their services on Tuesday and charge fares that had been locally agreed upon taking into account the diesel price. On Monday, a litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27, compared with Rs 77.41 on January 1. If the new rates come into effect, a ride on a private bus from Baguiati to Ultadanga could cost Rs 12, instead of Rs 7. A trip from MG Road to Howrah station will cost Rs 10, instead of Rs 7. The bus operators’ committees on a few routes said on Monday they had drawn up their new fares, while others said they were in the process of doing so. “The bus owners on some routes have worked out a rate chart themselves, wherein for every 4km the fare has been increased by Rs 5,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “Please understand we are not opposing the state government on anything. But this is reality.” Private and government buses, along with other forms of public transport, had been off the roads since May 16 as a precaution against Covid. The state government allowed resumption of bus services from July 1 but the majority of the 5,000-plus private buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas are yet to roll out of the garage, with the owners demanding a fare hike. The government has been sending feelers and requesting operators to resume their service but most stuck to their demand for a fare revision following a steep rise in fuel prices. On Monday, transport minister Firhad Hakim met Swarnakamal Saha, Trinamul MLA and leader of the Bengal Bus Syndicate, and engaged him to find a way out after talking to bus and minibus unions. Hours later, representatives of several bus and minibus unions came together to strategise their next step amid mounting pressure from the state government to run buses. After rounds of heated deliberations, a section of bus owners said it was not possible to resume service if the fares remained unchanged. “The last time fares were revised was in 2018. How can we now force bus owners to resume service? If passengers are ready to pay increased fares, the administration should ideally regularise the hike with a government notification,” said Rahul Chatterjee, the general secretary of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity. Hakim said the government was trying its best to arrive at a solution keeping in mind the woes of private transport operators. “But it is our appeal to all operators to resume services before there can be any discussion,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Motorists opt for smaller refills because of steep rise in petrol and diesel prices  ||A phrase once common at pumps across Calcutta is among the biggest casualties of the spiralling fuel prices. From private vehicles to yellow cabs, “tank full” or “pura tanki” was the choice of a significant section of vehicles at pumping stations every day. Not any more. Motorists are now opting for smaller refills because of the steep rise in the prices of petrol and diesel. Several car owners said their fuel consumption had not gone down drastically but they were cutting down on travel wherever possible and their buying pattern had definitely changed. Many have been forced to curtail the use of cars. Instead, they have been sharing a car with colleagues to work. Some others have stopped going out on long drives. Rahul Das, a New Alipore resident who works in the marketing department of a direct-to-home (DTH) operator, owns a diesel engine five-seater sedan and has to drive around 80km five days a week. His journeys are mostly between his home and his Salt Lake office and dealers and distributors in north Calcutta, Salt Lake and North 24-Parganas. “A little over a year ago, a full tank would cost me around Rs 2,600. Now, it costs me close to Rs 4,000. My conveyance entitlement (Rs 4.50 per km) from office has not been revised for four years, when the price of petrol was around Rs 65,” said Das, 38. He is buying Rs 1,000 worth of diesel at pumping stations now. “It is difficult to shell out Rs 4,000 every now and then....I have almost stopped going on drives on weekends," said Das. At a pumping station at the intersection of Diamond Harbour Road and Burdwan Road, many private vehicles that turned up in the evening would opt for a full tank earlier. “The number has been consistently going down over the past two years. The 5pm-to-9pm slot is still the busiest. But only a few vehicles are fully loading their tanks,” said an employee. At another pump on Sarat Bose Road, the employees were sitting idle around 5pm on Monday. The pump is frequented mostly by private cars and taxis. “One in 10 or 12 cars now get their tanks full. Two years ago, the number would be one in two,” said an employee. Yellow taxis have “almost totally” stopped fully loading their tanks, he said. A litre of petrol sold at Rs 99.84 at pumps in Calcutta on Monday. A litre of diesel sold at Rs 92.27. A 40-year-old man who looks after “loan against securities” of a private bank had to travel between his home in Ramlal Bazaar near Kasba and his office in Park Street. “Unable to bear the fuel expenses, I have stopped taking the car to work for close to a year. I take public transport. If I don’t get a bus or a Metro, I take an auto till Gariahat and then take a taxi,” said the man, who requested anonymity. Rajesh Lohia, who lives in Howrah and works with a private bank in central Calcutta, drove around 10km between home and office every day in a budget hatchback that runs on petrol till last year. This year, he has been “carpooling” with three others to work and back. A full tank costs him around Rs 3,200 now, compared to less than Rs 2,300 that he used to spend a little over a year ago. “What I used to spend on fuel in a month is getting spent in 20 days now. There was no other option. Many colleagues are doing the same thing,” he said. The rush of vehicles at busier pumping stations has not disappeared. Around 4.30pm on Monday, a pump operated by women in Alipore, had over a dozen vehicles lined up at three refill points.  But most of the vehicles opted for a partial refuelling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
06-07-2021||Calcutta||IIM alumni contribute  Rs 3.24 crore to create chair professorship and develop hybrid classrooms||A batch of former students at IIM-Calcutta have contributed Rs 3.24 crore which would be used to create a chair professorship and develop hybrid class room — a facility whose absence was flagged by the institute’s students’ council in February this year. The amount was raised by the class of 1992. The PGPEx classroom L-52 in the New Academic Block has been renamed CLASS of 1992 — 27 FOREVER Seminar Hall in recognition of contribution during a ceremony on Monday. Director-in-charge Subir Bhattacharya attended the event. An official of the institute said interest earned from the contribution would go into developing technological infrastructure, including hybrid classrooms. In hybrid classes, lectures are live-streamed for some students, while others attend them in person. The institute's students’ council in a letter on IT infrastructure woes addressed to then IIM C director Anju Seth on February 16 had stated: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes". The lacking has prompted them to think of hybrid classrooms. Apart from blaming the absence of a stable Internet connection in their hostel rooms, the students referred to the absence of hybrid class-rooms posing hindrances to their studies. Yash Verma, the IT representative from the students council had written: “We have reached a point where there is a need to revamp and invest heavily in the IT infrastructure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Boatload of vaccines reach remote islands of Sunderbans ||A boat containing Covid-19 vaccines reached remote islands of the Sunderbans on Monday where most residents are yet to be inoculated because of lack of awareness, shortage of doses and absence of Net connectivity. Four boats have been pressed into service to vaccinate potential super-spreaders such as migrant workers in 12 Sunderban islands over the next few days, said an official of the South 24-Parganas administration. The boats are stacked with vaccine vials and armed with Wifi connection. Internet connectivity is a must to run Covid vaccination because all recipients have to be registered on the CoWIN portal. The drive started at Kumirmari, around 90km from the heart of Calcutta, where a boat loaded with vaccines arrived on Monday. “On an average, three out of every 100 people were vaccinated at Kumirmari today,” said a district official. To start with, the focus is on vaccinating super-spreader categories like migrant labourers, who will soon leave home and spread across the state and the country for work. Since they move around, they are vulnerable to infection and prone to spreading the virus. “We have started with targeted vaccination of migrant labourers. The target is to get them vaccinated before they leave home for work,” said South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulganathan. Although vaccination drives have been initiated across the district over the past few months, more emphasis has been laid on urban sectors. Unlike cities and towns, where many people have easy access to government vaccination centres, Sunderbans residents have to travel for hours to reach their closest health centre. Often, at the end of the journey, they learn that the day’s stock had been exhausted. For example, for residents of Kumirmari, the nearest health centre is in Gosaba, around 4km away by boat. An official said there were several reasons for the people in the remote islands to remain unvaccinated. “There are island villages where people are still unaware of Covid, let alone vaccination. People who know find it difficult to reach the health centres and access vaccines,” the official said. At present, the district administration is coordinating with gram panchayats to identify the target groups and get them enrolled on the CoWIN portal. With four boats, the government expects to cover Kumirmari, Satjeliya, Bally, Chandipur, Kachukhali, Gosaba, Chotomollakhali, Radhanagar-Taranagar, Mousuni, Ghoramara, G-plot and K-plot islands in a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
06-07-2021||Business||Domestic air traffic goes up as Covid cases go down||Domestic air passenger traffic was back to the growth trajectory in June amid the falling number of COVID-19 cases in the country with around three million passengers flying on local routes in the previous month as against around two million in May, a report said on Tuesday. Though there is some recovery observed in June, stress on demand continues, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, credit rating agency ICRA said in its report. On a sequential basis, domestic passenger traffic was up 41-42 per cent in June over May. The domestic passenger volume, however, rose 51 per cent on a year-on-year basis, it stated. June 2020 was the full month of operations after domestic commercial flights were recommenced on May 25 following a nearly two-month ban amid the nationwide lockdown in late-March last year. It has now permitted increasing the capacity to 65 per cent with effect from July 5 and which will remain applicable up to July 31. For June 2021, domestic passenger traffic stood at around 29-30 lakh, implying a sequential growth of around 41-42 per cent as compared with around 19.8 lakh in May 2021, ICRA said in the report. The airlines' capacity deployment in May, which was reduced to 50 per cent from 80 per cent earlier following a government order, was around 46 per cent higher at around 31,700 departures, than 21,696 departures in June 2020, it stated. On a sequential basis, the number of departures in June were higher by around 14-15 per cent, as coronavirus infections demonstrated a downward trajectory, ICRA added. "For June 2021, the average daily departures were at around 1,100, significantly higher than average daily departures of around 700 in June 2020, and higher than around 900 in May 2021, though remains significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021," said Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head at ICRA. She added that the average number of passengers per flight during June 2021 was 94, higher as against an average of 77 passengers per flight in May, the ratings agency noted. Though there was some recovery observed in June, there exists continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, she added. Shah, however, added that both leisure and business travels have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections, she added. According to ICRA, the government's recent announcement of a scheme providing financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to around 10,700 recognised regional-level tourist guides is expected to provide the much-needed liquidity support to tourism and travel stakeholders (TTS). This, in turn, is expected to boost the overall travel and tourism sector, of which aviation remains a key beneficiary, it stated. Under the scheme, TTS will be eligible to get a loan of up to Rs 10 lakh each, while tourist guides can avail loans of up to Rs 1 lakh each. Additionally, to provide an impetus to the tourism industry, the finance ministry announced a scheme to issue one-month tourist visas free of charge to first five lakh customers. Validity of this is until March 31, 2022, or issuance of five lakh tourist visas, whichever is earlier. "This is a right step towards a demand push for the airlines sector, primarily directed at in-bound international travel. However, the impact of the same is expected to be realised only once scheduled international operations are permitted by the government on a regular basis and the global fear psychosis related to travel to India subsides," ICRA said. While the scheduled international operations have been suspended further till July 31, 2021, special overseas flight services are being carried out under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries, since May last year. The international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for Indian carriers has been around 37 lakh for the period between May 7, 2020, and June 30, 2021, it said. For June, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the VBM was estimated at around 1.47 lakh, a sequential growth of around 4 per cent, as flights to/from India remained suspended in June by many countries, citing the new variant of COVID-19 and high infection levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 2-day winning run, ends marginally lower||Equity benchmark Sensex closed marginally lower after a choppy session on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors TCS, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 18.82 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 52,861.18. The broader NSE Nifty fell 16.10 points or 0.1 per cent to 15,818.25. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by TCS, Maruti, Reliance, Sun Pharma and Infosys. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, Titan and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong closed in the negative terrain, while Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading in the red in mid-session deals. The rupee fell 24 paise to close at 74.55 gainst the US dollar. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 77.46 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 338.43 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Job openings for permanent staffers at risk due to 2nd wave, says study||Job openings for permanent staffers at fresher level will be adversely affected due to the overall hiring freeze amid the second wave of Covid-19, while temporary or gig workers seem to be better placed, says a survey. According to a survey by staffing and HR services company Genius Consultants, over 57 per cent respondents believe that new job positions for permanent employees will suffer a major impact of the overall hiring freeze. However, just 43 per cent of respondents believe the same for temporary or gig workers, it noted. The survey was conducted online with more than 1,000 company leaders and executives across sectors during May 28 till June 30, 2021. "In the beginning of the year, India was witnessing a steady economic recovery and an upward curve in hiring. But the overwhelming situation due to the second wave of Covid-19 had a huge impact on the employment rate and hiring process in the country. Restrictions in mobility also resulted in job losses in many sectors," Genius Consultants CMD R P Yadav said. Temporary or gig workers seem to be better placed than their permanent counterparts simply because of an array of opportunities available especially in the e-commerce sector, Yadav said. According to the survey, around 69 per cent of respondents felt that the travel and hospitality sector is the most vulnerable, followed by the manufacturing sector and the media and entertainment industry. The majority of respondents believe that the overall hiring scenario is on hold as the country is in the grip of the second wave of Covid-19. Further, the lockdowns and strict restrictions imposed by states due to the second wave of the pandemic impacted several sectors. Yadav, however, noted that this is a temporary halt and India Inc is optimistic about the market recovery at the end of the year. Around 51 per cent respondents were optimistic about it and around 61 per cent expect to see a robust growth of hiring in the private sector, the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises 55 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex inched higher by 55 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 55.46 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,935.46 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,858.40. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.69 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Tata Steel, Titan and Bajaj Auto, HDFC, M&M, L&T and Bajaj Finance. Infosys was up 0.06 per cent in early deals. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, TCS, HUL, and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE Sensex closed 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 338.43 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in the last couple of days. Further, expectations of further rise in crude prices with no agreement on ease of production in the OPEC meeting can weigh on sentiments further," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, we continue to believe any meaningful correction in the market should be offering opportunity to investors to get in quality stocks, Modi said. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 0.32 per cent to USD 77.41 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo gained, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the red in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Viacom18 Media signs three-year broadcasting deal with LaLiga||After the action and excitement of UEFA Euro 2020, Indian football fans can look forward to the Spanish  league that will kick off next month. Viacom18 Media, a joint venture of Mukesh Ambani-controlled Network18 and ViacomCBS, on Monday announced that it has signed a three-year broadcasting deal with LaLiga to bring the Spanish football league exclusively to the Indian sub-continent. Enabled and supported by Rise Worldwide — the sports and lifestyle arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) — LaLiga will air exclusively on MTV in India along with select national and regional network channels and be live-streamed on Voot and Jio platforms. Network18 holds 51 per cent in Viacom18 Media with the rest being held by ViacomCBS. A press statement from Viacom18 said that while LaLiga will start on August 13, the network will put its might behind extending the reach and resonance for the league among Indian viewers. “Viacom18 will connect with football fans through a massive marketing and communications campaign, further building the fandom and outreach for LaLiga in India.” “MTV’s extensive social media and digital clout will ensure that LaLiga engages fans through a multi-platform approach, potentially making football a part of dinner-table conversations across Indian homes and further widen MTV and Viacom18’s offering to its viewers,’’ the press statement added. MTV, the youth entertainment brand, has earlier pioneered shows such as Roadies, Hustle and Splitsvilla. This will be the first time it will telecast a well-known football league. According to Viacom18 Media, popularity of football in India has consistently increased over the past decade, particularly among the youth. In its 91st season, the Spanish football league is one of the most followed championships across the world and is home to Europe’s finest talent and football clubs, including Atlético Madrid, Real Madrid and  FC Barcelona. "We at MTV have always known that football enjoys a groundswell of support amongst young-at-heart Indians. The LaLiga in particular, is a cultural phenomenon all over the World. When the folks from RISE Worldwide introduced us to LaLiga team, we realized that this was a partnership waiting to happen – the vision was common, the vibes were good, and we quickly put pen to paper’’, Anshul Ailawadi, Business Head – Youth, Music and English Entertainment said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Restaurant body approaches CCI for probe against Zomato and Swiggy||Restaurant industry body NRAI on Monday said it has approached fair trade regulator CCI for a detailed probe against the ‘‘anti-competitive practices’’ of food aggregators Zomato and Swiggy. “Keeping the interests of restaurants in India in mind and how they have been affected by the inherently anti-competitive practices of Zomato and Swiggy, NRAI has filed an information with the CCI highlighting the practices by the two, which have an appreciable adverse effect on competition,” said the apex body of Indian restaurateurs. Issues such as bundling of services, data masking and exorbitant commissions, deep discounting, violation of platform neutrality and lack of transparency have been flagged in the submission. For over a year-and-half now, the association has been trying to sort out the problem areas with the food tech aggregators but without much result. Zomato and Swiggy did not comment on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex gains over 395 points to close at 52880||Optimism over Corporate India’s earnings saw the benchmark Sensex gaining over 395 points to close at 52880 on Monday. The earnings calendar for the first quarter of 2021-22 will kick off this week with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) declaring its numbers on Wednesday. “We expect healthy Q1 growth momentum on the back of seasonal strength (higher billing days and uptick in spending after budget allocation), with the US dollar revenue growth of 2.0-9.3 per cent quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) for Tier-1 companies,” analysts at Emkay said. “Revenue growth momentum should sustain on the back of broad-based demand, strong deal wins, continued traction in digital and cloud, ramp-up of large deals and demand recovery in highly impacted verticals — travel, hospitality and manufacturing,’’ the Emkay analysts added. The brokerage expects TCS to report a 32.6 per cent growth in its net profit at Rs 9,292 crore. Its topline is expected to show a rise of 20 per cent to Rs 45,936 crore. Dollar revenue is projected to show a sequential rise of 4 per cent. According to the technology report of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, a median US dollar organic growth of 3.3 per cent (sequential in constant currency terms) during the quarter is expected for companies in its coverage. Market circles added that the focus will also be on the guidance given by the companies. Infosys is expected to raise its revenue growth guidance from the current 12-14 per cent to 13-15 per cent. However, they caution that expectations are high and any disappointment could lead to a correction in these scrips. Stocks were also boosted by a strong rupee on Monday. The 30-share Sensex opened at 52682.89 and hit an intra-day peak of 52919.17 after which it settled at 52880 — a gain of 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15834.35. At the inter-bank forex markets, the rupee ended 43 paise higher at 74.31 against the US dollar. It opened at 74.51 against the greenback and rose to an intra-day high of 74.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business|| Shares of Panacea Biotec closes with gains of over 5 per cent ||Shares of Panacea Biotec on Monday closed with gains of over 5 per cent after the company announced it has received a manufacturing licence for the Sputnik V vaccine. Panacea received the manufacturing licence from the Drugs Controller General (India) pursuant to its collaboration with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RIDF). The RDIF is Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, which was established in 2011 to make equity co-investments, primarily in Russia, alongside other international financial and strategic investors. Panacea Biotec said the batches produced at its facilities at Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, were shipped to the Gamaleya Center in Russia for quality control. These batches had passed all the checks for quality parameters both at the Gamaleya Center in Russia and at the Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. On the BSE on Monday, the Panacea share opened higher at Rs 400.25 and rose to an intra-day peak of Rs 411 before closing at Rs 397.35 — a rise of Rs 19.95, or 5.29 per cent over Friday’s close. In May, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla had sold his entire stake in Panacea through an open market transaction for Rs 118 crore. These shares were picked up by SII. Panacea Biotec focuses on discovery, development, and commercialisation of prescription medicines and segments like vaccines, diabetes, transplant, gastroenterology, and oncology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business|| Food Corporation of India to expand storage capacity in the east||The Food Corporation of India has received approvals to expand its storage capacity in the east by another 3 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) to 12LMT, FCI eastern region officials said on Monday. The silos will be set up at six locations in Bengal — Malda, Murshidabad, Balurghat, Dankuni, Durgapur and Alipurduar — and will be ready in two years. The FCI at present has 32 warehouses in the state that can stock up to four months of foodgrains. The new facilities will also meet the needs of neighbouring states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Sikkim. “We are moving from warehousing towards bulk handling and silos. This approved capacity is expected in another two years. The projects will be implemented in a public-private partnership mode,” said S.K. Swain, general manager (Bengal), FCI. Another 8.25LMT capacity has been identified and sent for the approval of the central office and the government. Ajit K. Sinha, executive director (east), FCI, said lifting of foodgrains under the fourth phase of the poor relief scheme has started in Bihar, Odisha, Bengal and is expected to commence soon in Jharkhand and Sikkim. He added that despite the challenges of the Covid pandemic, after effects of cyclones, floods and landslides, the FCI has been able to keep its foodgrain supply momentum. Around 6.01 crore beneficiaries are covered under the National Food Security Act in Bengal and FCI is the major supplier of wheat to these beneficiaries. During the pandemic, the state has procured its allocated quantity of 6 LMT under the third phase of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana offering subsidised foodgrains. This includes both wheat as well as rice. A total of 20.62 LMT of foodgrains was distributed in the states under the eastern zone office during the third phase between May and June 2021. A fourth phase of the scheme has been announced and allocation for the eastern states has been expanded to a total of 51.63 LMT of rice and wheat. Bengal’s share in the allocation is 6.02 LMT of rice and 9.03 LMT of wheat. FCI officials also said that the Bengal government has been requested by the centre to encourage migrant NFSA beneficiaries to use the facility of portability under the One Nation One Ration Card plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Opec+ ministers called off oil output talks||Opec+ ministers called off oil output talks on Monday after clashing last week when the United Arab Emirates balked at a proposed eight-month extension to output curbs, meaning no deal to boost production has been reached. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman on Sunday called for “compromise and rationality” to secure a deal after two days of failed discussions last week. But on Monday, four Opec+ sources said there had been no progress and talks were called off, without a new date being set. The failure to agree on Monday means an expected increase in oil output from August will not take place, the sources said, helping to drive up the price of benchmark Brent crude, which was trading around 1 per cent higher at close to $77 a barrel. Oil prices are at the highest since 2018 and have already prompted concerns that inflation could derail a global recovery from the pandemic. Opec+ agreed on record output cuts of almost 10 million barrels per day (bpd) last year, about 10 per cent of world output, as the pandemic hit. They have been gradually relaxed and stand at about 5.8 million bpd. The UAE, sources said, on Friday accepted a proposal from Saudi Arabia and other Opec+ members to raise output in stages by about 2 million bpd from August to December but rejected extending remaining cuts to the end of 2022 from a current end date of April. The UAE is upset about the baseline from which its production cuts are being calculated and wants it raised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Two laws for issuing notices and reopening assessments leaves I-T assessees bewildered||The applicability of two sets of laws for the same purpose of issuing notices and reopening assessments has left income tax assessees bewildered and tax practitioners peeved. The procedures related to reassessments or re-computation of income escaping assessment and review of search related cases has undergone a major overhaul. Several sections of the Income Tax Act have been amended with the objective to lower litigation and make it easier for taxpayers. The prominent changes include the lowering of the time limit for issuing notices of reassessment from six years from the end of the relevant assessment year to three years. Such notices cannot be issued unless the assessing officer has information to suggest that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment. Before issuing any notice, an assessee will have the opportunity to be heard and after that the assessing officer will take a call on whether there is a case to issue a notice and serve a copy of the order along with such a notice. If the assessing officer has in his possession books of accounts or other documents or evidence which reveal that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment and the amount involved is Rs 50 lakh or more, a reassessment notice can be issued beyond the period of three years but not beyond an upper limit of 10 years from the end of the relevant assessment year. The changes, announced in the Union budget, are part of Finance Act 2021 and they take effect from April 1, according to the explanatory memorandum to Finance Bill 2021. The Finance Bill received the assent of the President on March 28. However, the tweaks come amid several extensions given by the Central Board of Direct Taxes. The time limit for reassessment of proceedings under the previous provisions of Section 147/148 of the Income Tax Act was also extended till June 30.  This has left the department with the option to issue notices under the provisions of the old regime which allows reopening of cases for assessment year 2013-14 to 2017-18, which tax experts point out cannot be reopened under the new provisions that came into effect from April 2021. “Two sets of legal provisions cannot be used for the same purpose of initiating proceedings for reopening of assessments during the period from April 1 to June 30, 2021 as the new provisions have come into effect from April 2021. Naturally earlier provisions have become redundant and any notice issued under the old provisions is bad by law,” said tax advocate Narayan Jain. Moreover, under the provisions of Section 148, assessment can be reopened for three years if a survey or search has been conducted even if no asset or incriminating material was seized. “This should not be allowed if the search report is nil. Scrutiny assessment is now only for the year in which the survey or search is conducted. Same system should continue,” Jain added. Narendra Goyal, president of Direct Tax Professionals Association, also expressed concern on the rampant issue of notices under Section 148 of the old provisions of the Income Tax Act. The Direct Taxes Professionals Association on Monday made a representation to the Union finance minister highlighting the issue. The issue of notices under Section 148 after April under the old provisions has been challenged in a writ petition by Armada D1 (a subsidiary of Shapoorji Pallonji Oil & Gas) in the Bombay high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Paytm to file draft prospectus for IPO with SEBI||One97 Communication, parent of the digital payments firm Paytm, is likely to file a draft prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) as early as next week for its much awaited initial public offering (IPO). According to a Reuters report, the draft prospectus may be filed by July 12 for the share float which will raise $2.3 billion. The IPO is likely to be a combination of offer for sale (OFS) and sale of fresh shares. EGM on July 12 Incidentally, One97 Communication will hold its extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on July 12 where it will take shareholders approval to raise Rs 12,000 crore through the fresh issue of shares. The company will also move a resolution to de-classify Vijay Shekhar Sharma as promoter of the company. Sharma currently holds 9,051,624 equity shares, amounting to 14.61 per cent of the total paid-up equity share capital of the company. The company also proposes to adopt a new set of articles of association (AoA) to conform to the requirements prescribed by stock exchanges prior to filing of the draft red herring prospectus with Sebi. One97 Communication said in its EGM notice that the issue of fresh shares will be up to an aggregate amount of Rs 12,000 crore and it will be made to various categories of investors and eligible employees. There will be an offer for sale by certain existing shareholders. After beginning as a mobile & DTH recharge platform, Paytm started offering services of a mobile wallet. It has now ventured into other financial services such as distribution of mutual funds and insurance products. It has also received approvals to launch stock broking, demat services and National Pension System  services. Some of the well known investors in One97 Communication include Softbank, Ant Financial, AGH Holdings, SAIF Partners, Berkshire Hathaway, T Rowe Price, and Discovery Capital. Ant Financial is its largest investor with a stake of around 40 per cent. Zomato plan cleared Food delivery platform Zomato has received Sebi’s approval to raise Rs 8,250 crore through an initial share sale. The IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 7,500 crore. Zomato’s first institutional investor  Info Edge (India) Ltd will make an offer for sale (OFS). Info Edge initially planned to offer Rs 750 crore, but has now reduced the size by half. Zomato filed preliminary IPO papers with Sebi in April and the firm obtained its observation on July 2, an update with the regulator showed on Monday. Sebi’s observation is very crucial for any company to launch public issues like IPO. Proceeds from the fresh issue would be used towards funding initiatives and general corporate purposes. The online food delivery segment has seen significant growth in the last few years with Zomato and Swiggy competing to grab market share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Activity in India’s services sector contracts sharply in June||Activity in India’s dominant services sector contracted sharply in June as tighter restrictions to contain a resurgence of coronavirus cases hammered demand and forced firms to shed jobs at a rapid clip, a private survey showed on Monday. IHS Markit’s Services Purchasing Managers’ Index plunged to 41.2 last month from an already depressed 46.4 in May. That was its lowest reading since July 2020 and well below the 50-level separating growth from contraction. “Given the current Covid-19 situation in India, it was expected that the services sector would take a hit. PMI data for June showed quicker declines in new business, output and employment that were sharp, but much softer than those recorded in the first lockdown,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Subdued demand conditions resulted in a second successive monthly drop in new business received by services firms. The pace of contraction was sharp and the quickest since July 2020, the survey said. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. The international demand for Indian services deteriorated further in June, with new export orders falling for the 16th consecutive month. “The drop in India’s PMI readings for June should soon reverse as the second virus wave has subsided and restrictions are being eased. But a rapid reopening increases the risks of fresh outbreaks, which could throw the recovery off course once more,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. Meanwhile, the overall level of business sentiment was down for the third month in a row in June, reaching its lowest mark since last August. The Covid-19 pandemic was the main factor seen as a threat to the outlook among survey participants. “Uncertainty about the path of the pandemic restricted business confidence among services firms, which were generally neutral in their forecasts for output in the year ahead. The overall level of sentiment slipped to a 10-month low,” Lima said. Lima noted that “with India expanding its vaccine options and the government announcing ambitious plans to immunise the entire adult population by the end of the year, it is hoped that the pandemic can be brought under control and a sustainable economic recovery can begin”. Private sector companies in India noted a second successive monthly decline in business activity during June as market conditions remained challenging because of the escalation of the pandemic. The Composite PMI Output Index, which measures combined services and manufacturing output, fell from 48.1 in May to 43.1 in June, signalling the sharpest rate of reduction since July 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||India||Indian embassy in Kabul trashes reports about closing its missions in Afghanistan||The Indian Embassy in Afghanistan on Tuesday described as "incorrect" reports saying India is shutting down its diplomatic missions in the country in view of escalating violence. In a Twitter post, the embassy said it is closely monitoring the evolving security situation, particularly around the cities of Kandahar and Mazar. "Media reports on #India closing its Embassy & Consulates in AF are incorrect. @IndianEmbKabul, Consulates in Kandahar & Mazar are open, functioning. We DO HOWEVER continue to closely monitor the evolving security situation particularly around Kandahar & Mazar cities," it said. The embassy last week asked all Indians visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan to exercise utmost caution with regard to their security and avoid all types of non-essential travel in view of a rising number of incidents of violence in various parts of the country. In an advisory, the embassy said the security situation in Afghanistan remains "dangerous" and that terror groups have carried out a series of complex attacks, including targeting civilians, adding that Indian nationals additionally face a "serious threat" of abduction. Afghanistan witnessed a series of attacks in the last few weeks as the United States looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from the war-ravaged country by September 11, ending nearly two decades of its military presence there. India is concerned over the increasing levels of violence as well as the Taliban's efforts to expand its influence in Afghanistan. Last month, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Taliban's relentless pursuit of power through violence has created an uncertain environment in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is "fluid" at this point in time. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. In March, Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar visited India during which External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar conveyed to him the country's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
06-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre on MNREGA wages||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that MGNREGA workers are not even getting their wages in some states and asked the government what kind of "achche din" (good days) are these. He said the rights of workers are being denied in the times of the pandemic, when they should be given financial assistance instead. "MNREGA workers in many states are not getting their wages. When the government should have given additional financial assistance to them during the pandemic, the money that is the workers' rights is also being denied. "There is a world beyond the false rhetoric where in some houses people are not able to even run their households - what kind of 'achche din' (good days) are these," he asked. His reference was to the promise of "achche din" (good days) made to the people by the BJP ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In another tweet, he posted a query with a Hindi couplet to attack the Modi government. "Fill in the blank: Rafale of 'friends', Tax collection - expensive fuel, blind sale of PSU-PSBs, Jail if you question. The Modi government is....," he asked in Hindi. The former Congress chief has been attacking the government on various fronts, including the poor state of economy, rising inflation and unemployment, mismanagement in Covid handling and slow vaccination pace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Quad summit in October, rising China on agenda||US President Joe Biden will host the leaders of Australia, India and Japan later this year, White House coordinator for the Indo-Pacific Kurt Campbell told Hindustan Times on Tuesday. The Quad, also known as Quadrilateral Security Dialogue is a strategic dialogue between the US, Japan, Australia and India during which the sides discuss economic and military cooperation. Its first inklings go back to 2007 but a recent resurgence is largely seen as a strategy to counter China's growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region. “You will see [our cooperation] later this year when the president [Biden] hosts the Quad leaders in Washington. You'll see some commitments,” Campbell told Hindustan Times at an online event hosted by the Asia Society group. He added that the summit should bring “decisive” commitments on such issues as vaccine diplomacy and infrastructure. According to diplomats based in New Delhi and Washington, the foreign ministers of quad will exchange notes on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in September to frame the architecture of the security grouping before the summit. While China calls the Quad security dialogue as the new NATO framed against Beijing, the Quad partners view it as a grouping where democratic countries can get together and cooperate to build up resilient supply chains, health architecture, disaster management and security to the shipping lanes handling trade of the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific. What started as an instrument to ensure freedom of navigation in the South China Sea (SCS) has now become a democratic tool to help the world in vaccine supply, human disaster relief, counter-terrorism, defence and trade cooperation. The Quad summit will also discuss the role of ASEAN countries in the security groupings, as well as countries like France and the United Kingdom, which seek cooperation with quad over Indo-Pacific. According to Hindustan Times, the summit leaders will discuss developments in Afghanistan which faces threats from fundamentalist Taliban running rampage all over the country. The Taliban wants to establish an emirate in Afghanistan where Sharia laws will prevail. The Quad summit will also be looking at countries like Indonesia and the Philippines which have a huge role to play in the Indo-Pacific due to geographical locations. While Indonesia sits on all the important ingress routes to the SCS, the Philippines forms the first island chain to deep Pacific. Indonesia has proximity to Malacca, Sunda, Lombok and Ombai Wetar states that box the South China Sea, the Philippines is the first island chain after Taiwan. The Quad summit also comes at a time when China continues to be aggressive against India in east Ladakh, against Australia on trade, against Japan Senkaku islands and against the United States for the control of South China Sea and the Indo-Pacific. While the US has been operating its aircraft carriers in the South China Sea for conducting freedom of navigation operations the Chinese Navy is on the verge of building an 85,000-tonnes aircraft carrier (Type 003) to expand the footprint of PLA Navy in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Modi govt creates separate ministry for strengthening cooperative movement||The Narendra Modi government has decided to create a new Ministry of Cooperation with an aim to strengthen the cooperative movement in the country, official sources said on Tuesday. Amid a strong buzz about a massive cabinet reshuffle exercise expected on Wednesday, government sources said the new ministry is being created for realising the vision of 'sahkar se samriddhi' (through cooperation to prosperity). This ministry will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country, sources added. A minister in charge for the new portfolio may be named on Wednesday. The new ministry will help deepen cooperatives as a true, people-based movement reaching till the grassroots, sources said. In the country, a cooperative-based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility, they added. The ministry will work to streamline processes for 'ease of doing business' for cooperatives and enable development of multi-state cooperatives (MSCS). The central government has signalled its deep commitment to community-based developmental partnership. The creation of a separate ministry also fulfils the announcement made by the Finance Minister in the Union Budget, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Swamy detained under due process of law, says Centre ||India on Tuesday rejected mounting international criticism over the handling of the case of Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial who died on Monday, saying the concerned authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain legitimate exercise of rights.  The Ministry of External Affairs said India remains committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens and that the country's democratic polity is complemented by an independent judiciary and a range of national and state-level human rights commissions.  Stan Swamy, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday.  Noting that Father Stan Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under law, the ministry said because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by courts.  "Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.  His comments came in response to media queries on the demise of Stan Swamy.  In view of Father Stan Swamy's ailing health, the Bombay High Court had allowed his medical treatment at a private hospital where he was receiving all possible medical attention since May 28, Bagchi said.  The MEA spokesperson said Swamy's health and medical treatment was being closely monitored by the courts and he passed away on July 5 following medical complications.  "India's democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society," Bagchi said.  "India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens," he added.  Earlier, the UN body on human rights said it was "deeply saddened and disturbed" by the death of 84-year-old activist in pre-trial detention. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and the UN's independent experts have repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy and 15 other human rights defenders with the government of India over the past three years and urged their release from detention, it said.  "We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India's Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act," Liz Throssell, the spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said.  "Father Stan had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest, charged with terrorism-related offences in relation to demonstrations that date back to 2018," she said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray dismissive about talk of patch-up with BJP||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday dismissed rumours that the Shiv Sena and BJP may come together again, and also slammed the opposition party for its conduct during the state legislature's just-concluded monsoon session. Speculation was rife in political circles in the last few days over possible reconciliation between the Thackeray-led Sena and the BJP which parted ways after the 2019 Assembly elections. “Something which didn't happen when we were together for 30 years, what can happen now,” he said to a question about whether the two parties would join the hands again. Talking to the media after the two-day session ended, the chief minister said the actions of the BJP members were not the sign of a healthy democracy. Twelve BJP MLAs were on Monday suspended from the Assembly for one year for allegedly misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber. “What was the need for the BJP to create a hue and cry over a resolution asking the Centre to provide census data of 2011 to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare empirical data of OBCs....should we say its animosity for OBCs came to the surface?” Thackeray asked. The conduct of BJP MLAs "made us hang our heads in shame", he said. “Even if you feel the resolution wouldn't yield anything, couldn't you still support it? What was the need to create ruckus. If the Centre is not providing us the data, how do you know there are mistakes in it,” Thackeray said. “If there were mistakes, why did the Devendra Fadnavis government seek information about it in 2019,” he asked. Monday’s ruckus was an attempt to destablize the Sena-NCP-Congress government, Thackeray alleged, adding the attempt failed and it had failed in the past too. “The BJP blames us for murdering democracy and called the MLAs' suspension a black chapter, then what are ED and CBI doing, painting the democracy white?” he further said. To a question on the pending election for Assembly Speaker, the chief minister said his government applies Covid-19 rules to itself too. “During a pandemic, the health of people and legislators is important. I underwent a Covid test on Sunday and got the report on Monday morning. (But) What about MLAs from rural areas, how can the 72-hour period for RTPCR test be implemented,” he asked. Justifying the delay in holding election for Speaker and short duration of the session, he said in two days “we could do a lot of work which will help people”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||PM Modi's mega cabinet expansion at 6pm tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mega cabinet expansion, is all set to be announced tomorrow at 6 pm. According to sources, the new cabinet is going to be the youngest ever. According to an NDTV report, the average age will be the lowest ever. More women ministers and special representation will be given to people with administrative experience. “Overall two dozen OBCs (Other Backward Class) will be represented. The plan is to involve the smaller communities,” said sources to NDTV. The cabinet ministers are supposed to be highly qualified too. Many are supposed to be armed with “PhDs, MBAs, post-graduates and professionals” indicated the NDTV report. Special focus will be on each state and even region in states, it stated. Ministers who can make it to the cabinet have arrived or heading to the national capital, including the likes of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)'s Pashupati Paras, Narayan Rane and Varun Gandhi. Jyotiraditya Scindia was seen offering prayers at Ujjain's famous Mahakal temple, hours before he took a flight to Delhi. "I was on a visit to Ujjain. After completing my visit here, I'm going to Delhi,” Scindia was quoted in the report. Former Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, is also set to be a Union Minister. So is Pashupati Paras, who led the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) coup in Bihar against ex-Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's son Chirag Paswan, mentioned the report. Union Social Justice Minister Thawarchand Gehlot's appointment as Governor of Karnataka today has left a significant vacancy in the government. Speculations are being made about Dinesh Trivedi and Jitin Prasada, TMC and Congress turncoats fitting the slot, said the report. Others camping in Delhi are Anupriya Patel (Apna Dal), Pankaj Chowdhury, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Ramshankar Katheria, Lallan Singh and Rahul Kaswan. The Union Cabinet, at present has 53 ministers but can be expanded to a 81 member team. This is the first time Modi is making changes to his cabinet since began his second term in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Govt must free activists jailed in Bhima Koregaon case, demand Opposition leaders||Senior Opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the release of all activists arrested in the 2017 Elgaar Parishad case, a day after Father Stan Swamy passed away awaiting his bail in the same case. "We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of India to direct 'your government' to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable. It is now incumbent that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition etc be released forthwith," the letter, as quoted by ndtv.com, reads. Father Stan Swamy, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case accusing rights activists of Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. The announcement of the Parkinson’s patient’s death came during his bail hearing in Bombay High Court. "We the undersigned leaders of major opposition parties are writing to you in deep anguish expressing our intense grief and outrage at the death of Father Stan Swamy under custody," the letter signed by ten oOpposition leaders read. Apart from the four leaders, MK Stalin, Hemant Soren, HD Deve Gowda, Tejaswi Yadav, D Raja and Sitaram Yechury also signed the letter. Stanislaus Lourduswamy was among 16 people arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case, an investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste clashes the next day that claimed one life. The case expanded into a purge of “urban Naxals”, a term used by the Hindutva Right to describe academics, writers, lawyers and activists like Fr Stan who are accused of clandestinely working for the banned CPI Maoist. The case was transferred from Maharashtra police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) soon after the BJP lost power in the western state. In May, Fr Stan had told the high court he would rather die in jail than go to the state government-run Sir Jamsetjee Jeejebhoy Hospital again. “I would rather suffer, possibly die very shortly if this were to go on. I would prefer this than be admitted to the J.J. Hospital.... One thing that I would request the judiciary is to consider for interim bail…. Whatever happens to me, I would like to be with my own,” he had said. “When I came to Taloja (prison), whole systems of my body were very functional, but during these eight months there has been a steady but slow regression of whatever my body functions were. Eight months ago, I would eat by myself, do some writing, walk, but all these are disappearing one after another.” The Jesuit’s health had continued to deteriorate in jail after his arrest in Ranchi in October last year. He lost his hearing, fell down several times in prison, and developed spinal problems and severe abdomen pain. However, he received little sympathy from the authorities. Parkinson’s Disease having left him unable to hold a glass of water, Swamy had had to move court last November for the use of a straw and sipper in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison. After the court gave the NIA 20 days to reply, the agency formally denied having seized the drinking apparatus Swamy had brought with him from Ranchi, shifting the scrutiny to the state authorities. Following this, the state government-run prison, which is responsible for the upkeep of all its inmates, sold a baby sipper to Swamy. Just before his arrest last year, Fr Stan had said in a video: “What is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone. It is a broader process that is taking place all over the country. “We are all aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, students, leaders, they are all put into jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India. We are part of the process. In a way I am happy to be part of this process. I am not a silent spectator, but part of the game, and ready to pay the price whatever be it.” Fr Stan had denied any knowledge of the purported pieces of communication with Maoists that the NIA had, during his interrogation, claimed were from his computer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Amarinder meets Sonia amid crisis in Punjab Congress||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi at her residence here amid efforts by the party leadership to end factionalism in the party unit in the poll-bound state, sources said. The meeting comes amid continued attack by former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on the chief minister. Singh and Sidhu have been at loggerheads over various issues. Sources said that during the discussions, Singh and Gandhi will work out a formula to end factionalism by accommodating all sections, castes and regions in the overhaul of the Punjab state unit of the party as well as the state cabinet, with just months to go for the assembly polls. Singh was in Delhi twice last month to meet the three-member panel headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. Singh's meeting with Sonia Gandhi came days after Sidhu had met former party chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Deeply saddened and disturbed over Stan Swamy's death, says UN||The UN body on human rights on Tuesday said it was deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old rights activist Stan Swamy during his pre-trial detention. It said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and the United Nations' independent experts have repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy, a Jesuit priest, and 15 other human rights defenders with the Indian government over the last three years and urged for their release from detention. Swamy, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday. "We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India's Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act," Liz Throssell, the spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said. "Father Stan had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest, charged with terrorism-related offences in relation to demonstrations that date back to 2018," she said in a statement. Throssell said Swamy was a long-standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous people and other marginalised groups. "High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet and the UN's independent experts have repeatedly raised the cases of Father Stan and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the same events with the government of India over the past three years and urged their release from pre-trial detention," she said. "The High Commissioner has also raised concerns over the use of the UAPA in relation to human rights defenders, a law Father Stan was challenging before Indian courts days before he died," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Maharashtra Assembly demands 3 crore doses from Centre per month ||The Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution, asking the Centre to provide a minimum of three crore COVID-19 vaccine doses per month to the state to reduce the impact of a possible third wave of the viral infection. Health Minister Rajesh Tope, who moved the resolution in the House, said the state machinery was well equipped to vaccinate 10 lakh people per day, provided the doses were available. "With this number, we can vaccinate three crore people in the next two months. Expediting the vaccination drive is necessary for the economic revival as well," he said. The Centre has so far provided 2,84,39,060 vaccine doses and the state government has purchased 25,10,730 doses, the minister said, adding that 3,43,82,583 have been inoculated till now. He said the state has so far conducted 4.25 crore tests for coronavirus, out of which 61 lakh have come out positive, while 1.23 lakh patients succumbed to the viral infection. After one-and-a-half years (since COVID-19 outbreak), there are 1.23 lakh active cases in the state, he said. "Maharashtra tops the list of states in the number of (COVID-19) infections, deaths and active cases. There are 21 cases of the 'Delta Plus' variant of coronavirus and 5,500 cases of mucormycosis (also known as black fungus). This is a serious situation," he said. Shiv Sena's Sunil Prabhu said the state should consider vaccinating citizens from the deprived and poor sections, as well as homeless people, who not have Aadhaar cards or other documents. Congress member Prithivraj Chavan attacked the Centre over what he claimed was "profiteering", and said a single order of vaccines for the entire nation was a must. "Who is responsible for the profiteering? No other nation has done this where people have to pay Rs 1,200 per dose (of COVID-19 vaccine). Instead of asking states and municipalities to procure vaccines, the central government should purchase vaccines through one order for the entire nation and then sell them or distribute to states,'' the former chief minister said. He said 6.5 crore vaccine doses were exported, "when we should have kept them for our own people".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
06-07-2021||India||Twitter India chief agrees to cooperate with UP Police if they do not arrest him||Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari has told the Karnataka High Court that he is ready to appear before the Uttar Pradesh Police within 24 hours, regarding tweets about the assault of a Muslim man in Ghaziabad, provided that they do not arrest him. According to a report by ndtv.com, his lawyer has said that the Uttar Pradesh Police have to give an undertaking. If UP Police gives an undertaking to the court that they will not arrest me, I am ready to appear before the police in Ghaziabad within 24 hours," he said on Tuesday. "We don't want to arrest Manish Maheshwari... we just need his co-operation in the investigation." the UP Police have responded. "Manish Maheshwari was summoned only as a representative of Twitter. Nothing more... nothing less... Not to arrest him. All we want to know is who is the in-charge of Twitter in India... nothing else. Notice to Manish Maheshwari was also for the same," it added. According to the report, the court demanded to know if UP Police had conducted preliminary inquiries to establish Twitter India's connection to the case. "When I make an allegation against X for omission or commission, that must be mentioned. Is there anything to show omission by Twitter India? Is it capable of removing the content?" the court asked. "That is a matter of investigation," UP Police responded. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest. Later, the Karnataka High Court restrained Ghaziabad police from initiating coercive action against Maheshwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Case against RSS leader: BJP delegation meets Rajasthan Governor, seeks his intervention||A BJP delegation on Tuesday met Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, seeking his intervention over an FIR against a senior RSS leader in a graft case involving the alleged demand of Rs 20 crore "commission" from a firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection here. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has booked RSS leader Nimbaram in the case, under which it had arrested suspended Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation Mayor Somya Gurjar's husband Rajaram Gurjar and a representative of BVG company. The case was lodged after a video clip surfaced on social media, in which Rajaram Gurjar and the company representative are allegedly seen engaged in a conversation related to the Rs 20 crore "commission" from the firm for getting its payment released from the municipal body. RSS regional pracharak Nimbaram is also seen sitting with them in the video. The BJP delegation led by Satish Poonia alleged that the case against Nimbaram was lodged to "tarnish the image of a nationalist organisation to divert attention from real issues". "There is no complainant and despite that a case was registered and the leader of the organisation was named in the FIR," Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore said. They demanded from the Governor that the file of the case against the RSS leader be called, he get a legal examination done and issue instructions to the state government, Rathore told reporters at the party office. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari, former BJP state president Arun Chaturvedi and other leaders were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Centre moves SC seeking transfer of pleas on IT Rules||The Centre on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of pleas pending in different high courts across the country challenging the validity of new IT Rules to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. A senior law officer confirmed the development. Several petitions challenging the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are pending adjudication in different high courts, including the Delhi High Court. The petitions pending in the high court have challenged the new IT Rules intended to regulate social media firms like Facebook, Twitter as well as OTT players. Under the new Rules, the social media firms will have to put in place the complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country to deal with online contents flagged by authorities and courts. Earlier in the day, the Delhi High Court directed Twitter to inform it by July 8 as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer in compliance with the new IT Rules after the microblogging platform submitted that it was in the process of doing so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Congress at forefront to tackle all challenges India faces, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday asserted that the party has always taken a "leading role" in tackling the challenges posed before the country. "The Congress has always been taking the leading role in tackling the challenges posed before the country. It very well knows how to discharge its role of sacrificing everything for the country," Vadra said while addressing a two-day training programme of party workers in Jhansi through video conferencing. In a statement issued by the UP Congress, she said, "Today, the situation of the country has become adverse owing to the anti-people policies of the government. Spiralling inflation, poverty, malnutrition, crime and challenges before the democratic values, Constitution and Constitutional institutions, can only be tackled by the Congress. For this, everybody has to play an active role." Urging the Congress workers to understand the pain faced by the people, Vadra said, "The history of the Congress has been to reduce the pain of every section of the country. This is our present as well as the future. Hence, our first priority is the country and the people. Stand with them, share their pain, and work hard to help them get rid of the pain." She also said that the BJP governments at the Centre and in UP have "committed the sin of pushing people into problems". The Congress will question the BJP government on inflation, unemployment, increasing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and also stage protests on these issues. The government jobs are falling prey to corruption and the candidates selected for jobs are moving from pillar to post to get their appointment, she said. The Congress general secretary also said, "The BJP government has no vision. It is cheating the youth and the unemployed persons, and doing injustice. Instead of answering questions, it speaks lies, and avoids accountability." "Several crimes are taking place in Uttar Pradesh. The prominent agenda of the Yogi Adityanath government is exploitation of the Dalits, the deprived and the exploited (sections of the society). Silent support to the criminals is making the situation explosive. The government is as usual far from giving relief to the people," she further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia flies to Delhi amid Cabinet reshuffle buzz||Amid buzz around Union cabinet expansion, BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday cut short his tour of the Malwa-Nimar region in Madhya Pradesh and took off for Delhi from the Indore airport after taking darshan of the famous Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain. Many workers of BJP and local leaders were present at the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar airport when Scindia reached there. He was seen greeting them with folded hands. "My Ujjain tour is over and I am leaving for Delhi now. I will return next week," Scindia told reporters. Scindia, however, remained tight-lipped about speculations that he might be inducted in the Union cabinet during its expansion and said he had no information about the same. Scindia embarked on a three-day tour of the Malwa-Nimar region on Sunday and he was supposed to leave for Delhi on Wednesday morning as per the earlier schedule. Earlier in the day, when reporters asked Scindia in Indore whether he will get a berth in the Union cabinet, he merely said that he was leaving to attend his next programme. Scindia paid tribute along with other BJP leaders at the statue of Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syamaprasad Mookerjee on his 120th birth anniversary in Indore. Meanwhile, when asked about speculations about Scindia joining the Union council of ministers, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh said, "Many congratulations to him if he is being inducted as a minister in the Central government . In March 2020, 22 MLAs of Congress led by Scindia resigned from the party and crossed over to the BJP, leading to the collapse of the then Kamal Nath-led government in Madhya Pradesh, which paved the way for the BJP to return to power again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy's death an institutional murder, say friends and family in statement||Terming activist Stan Swamy's death an "institutional murder", the family members and friends of the other accused arrested in the Elgar Parishad case said on Tuesday that they held the "negligent jails, indifferent courts and malicious investigating agencies" responsible for it. In a statement, they said it was "unconscionable" that someone as old as Swamy and who was suffering poor health was put in jail amid a pandemic. They also said that they feared for the lives of their family members and colleagues in jails who were facing "similar injustices" in jails. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Ranchi in October 2020 under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad case and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. The 84-year-old died at the Holy Family Hospital, where he was admitted on May 29, in Mumbai on Monday, a day after he suffered a cardiac arrest and was put on ventilator support. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made by some activists at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Police claim these speeches triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the city and that the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. "We, the friends and family members of those accused in the Bhima Koregaon conspiracy case, are deeply pained and shaken to the core by the loss of Father Stan Swamy. This is not a natural death but the institutional murder of a gentle soul committed by an inhuman state," the statement said. "Having spent his life amongst the 'Adivasis' in Jharkhand, fighting for their right to resources and lands, Father Stan did not deserve to die in this manner, far from his beloved Jharkhand, falsely imprisoned by a vindictive state," it said. "Even his Covid disease was not diagnosed in jail and could only be detected after he was moved to the hospital on orders of the (Bombay) high court," it added. Swamy was the last of the 16 people to be arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. Suffering from Parkinson's disease, he was the oldest and the frailest among those arrested, the statement said. "While we grieve at the passing away of Father Stan Swamy, we unequivocally hold the negligent jails, the indifferent courts and the malicious investigating agencies firmly responsible for his unfortunate death. We fear for the health and lives of our family members and colleagues, who are facing similar injustices in the same jails, under the same unaccountable system," it added. The statement further said, "We continue our vigil for everyone's safety and security, and as Father Stan would appreciate, 'we refuse to be silent spectators and are ready to pay the price!'" Swamy had said he had never been to Bhima Koregaon. NIA officials had said investigations established that he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The agency also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" to further the group's activities. Others arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case include some of India's most respected scholars, lawyers, academicians and activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Covid: SC directs Centre to test, vaccinate people at mental health homes||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to ensure that people lodged in mental health establishments are tested for Covid-19 and are completely vaccinated at the earliest. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took serious note of the Maharashtra government's shifting patients lodged in mental health institutes to homes for beggars and asked it to discontinue the practice immediately saying it is counter-productive and runs against the provisions of Mental Health Act. The top court also directed all the states and Union Territories to extend all cooperation and participate in the meeting of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to be held on July 12. It asked the states/UTs to remove the discrepancies in figures submitted about the people who have been cured but are still languishing in mental health institutions or who still need treatments. The bench said that from now on it will monitor the case and would start listing the matter after three weeks as it is a very sensitive matter. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal in which he has said that around 10,000 people, who are fit to be discharged, are forced to live in different mental hospitals across the country and institutes due to social stigma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep administration denies entry to Left MPs from Kerala||The Lakshadweep administration has rejected the application of eight Left MPs seeking entry permit to the islands, citing that their visit will "certainly disturb" the calm and peaceful atmosphere there. The lawmakers are Elamaram Kareem, V Sivadasan, Binoy Viswam, M V Shreyams Kumar, K Somaprasad, John Brittas (Rajya Sabha) and Lok Sabha MPs Thomas Chazhikadan and A M Ariff. Two days ago, the administration had rejected the application of Congress MPs Hibi Eden and TN Prathapan seeking entry into Lakshadweep, citing the same reasons. In his order issued on Monday, Lakshadweep collector Asker Ali said the visit of parliamentarians to the islands "for political activities will certainly disturb the calm and peaceful atmosphere in the islands and it will be against the interest of the general public, public order and security of the Union Territory". Lakshadweep has been witnessing a series of protests by residents for the past few weeks against Administrator Praful Khoda Patel's decision to implement reform measures in the islands. The Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), a platform of protesters, has alleged that the measures were being implemented without taking people of islands into confidence. Accusing the administration of going ahead with the "anti-people reform measures" in the islands, the SLF has said they would continue their protest till such measures are withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi, likely to meet Sonia Gandhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday left for Delhi where he is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi, amid reports of factionalism in the Punjab Congress. Singh left for the national capital in a chopper from Chandigarh at around 11 am. He is expected to meet Sonia Gandhi later in the day, said sources. The meeting assumes significance as the party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit of the Congress and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go for the assembly polls. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters. There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp. A few days ago, Sidhu had met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. On June 22, Singh had appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The panel had then asked Singh to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government. The panel had earlier met other party leaders and submitted a report to the party high command. Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the assembly polls. On June 23, AICC general secretary and party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||PDP will not participate in delimitation process, party writes to commission||The People's Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday said it will not meet the Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission as the Centre did not initiate any steps to ease the lives of the people and the outcome of the delimitation exercise was "widely believed" to be "pre-planned". "Our party has decided to stay away from this process and not be a part of some exercise, the outcome which is widely believed to be pre-planned and which may further hurt the interests of our people," PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said in a letter to the commission. Addressed to Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, who leads the commission, Hanjura reiterated in the letter the PDP's stand that the constitutional changes with regard to Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 were made "illegally" and "unconstitutionally". Hanjura said the party believes the commission lacks constitutional and legal mandate and its very existence and objectives have left the people of Jammu and Kashmir with many questions. The Reorganization Act being a product of the same process, we are of the considered opinion that the Delimitation Commission lacks constitutional and legal mandate in the first place and its very existence and objectives have left every ordinary resident of J&K with many questions, he said. There are apprehensions that the delimitation exercise is part of the overall process of political disempowerment of the people of J&K that the government of India has embarked on. At the very core of these apprehensions is the process through which the commission has been constituted and the fact that while the delimitation process across the country has been put on hold till 2026, J&K has been made an exception," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
06-07-2021||India||Centre appoints new governors for 8 states amid Cabinet expansion buzz||In a major move ahead of a possible Cabinet reshuffle, President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed new governors for eight states. Union Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot was appointed as Karnataka Governor and Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel were named as the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communiqu . The announcement comes amid reports of Union Cabinet reshuffle. Gehlot, a Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh, is the Social Justice and Empowerment Minister. Patel, a BJP leader from Gujarat, will be the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, it said. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel was holding an additional charge of Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind has approved the appointments of Hari Babu Kambhampati and Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as Governors of Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh respectively, it said. BJP leader from Andhra Pradesh Kambhampati succeeds P S Sreedharan Pillai, who has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa, the communique said. Arlekar, BJP's leader from Goa and former Speaker, replaces Bandaru Dattatraya who has been transferred and appointed as Haryana Governor, it said. Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana is transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura, the statement said. Tripura Governor Ramesh Bais has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand, succeeding Droupadi Murmu, according to the communique. These appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||IT Rules: Delhi HC censure on Twitter for delay||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed Twitter to inform it by July 8 as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer in compliance with the new IT Rules after the microblogging platform submitted that it was in the process of doing so. Justice Rekha Palli took exception to the fact the court was not informed that the earlier appointment of the resident grievance officer (RGO) was only on interim basis and he has already resigned. The high court pointed out that only an interim RGO was appointed by Twitter and a wrong impression was given to the court on May 31 as it was not informed that the officer was on interim basis. If he went away on June 21, the least Twitter could do was to appoint another officer in these 15 days since you knew that this matter was coming up for hearing on July 6. We are considered with the compliance. How long does your process take? If Twitter thinks it can take as long it wants in my country, I will not allow that, the judge said. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, said though Twitter is in process of making the appointment, it was true that as on date there is no chief compliance officer, RGO and nodal contact person. So as the court said yes Twitter is not in compliance of rules as of now. But it is in the process of appointing the officer. When an intermediary is not in compliance of rules, it loses safe harbour protection. It is indeed that Twitter should and Twitter will comply with the rules. Please grant a reasonable time, he said. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said the rules were notified on February 25 and three-month window was given to the intermediaries to comply with the rules, which has expired on May 25. We are on July 6. It is a 42-day complete non-compliance. They are most welcome to do business in India. But this attitude cocks a snook to the digital sovereignty of this country, he argued. To this, the judge said, I have already told them they have to comply with the rules. I am not giving them any protection. If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. I have already made it clear if they want to work, they have to follow rules. When the ASG went on saying that there is 42-day non-compliance and the government has not taken any action, the court said I don't think you are making these submissions for me. During the hearing, the court passed over the matter for a while, asking the Twitter's counsel to take instructions on how much time will it take to complete the process of appointment. However, when the matter was again called up, Poovayya said due to the time difference between Delhi and San Francisco, where Twitter Inc's office is situated, he was unable to take instructions and sought a short accommodation. The high court granted time till July 8 and said, it is expected that on the next date of hearing, Twitter's counsel will be ready with its stand regarding compliance with all other requirements. Come up with clear instruction, otherwise you will be in trouble, it said, adding that Let the government and everybody else know your stand. The court noted that on May 31, when the petition claiming non-compliance with the Centre's new IT Rules by the microblogging platform, came up for hearing, Twitter's counsel on instructions had submitted that in compliance of the IT Rules, it has already appointed a RGO on May 28. In view of the statement, it was permitted to file a short reply, the court said, adding that after perusing the affidavit, it came to know that as on May 31, the platform had only appointed an interim grievance officer, which fact was not brought to the court's notice. Regarding the petition, Twitter's counsel said the petitioner's grievance was that two tweets needed to be pulled down and Twitter has said that it is unable to conclude that the tweets were defamatory. To this, the court said it will deal with this prayer later on and right now it was concerned with the prayer on compliance of IT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Rath Yatra to be held only at Puri Jagannath Temple and nowhere else, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed pleas seeking permission to conduct 'rath yatras' at various places other than Jagannath Puri in Odisha. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that it would not interfere with the directions passed by the state government under the Disaster Management Act. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas filed by individuals and groups, including the Odisha Vikas Parishad, challenging the Odisha government's decision to cancel the Rath Yatra (except at Puri Jagannath Temple) because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a report by ndtv. com, the central government had also wanted Rath Yatras to be held at other places in the state. Additional Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said this could be done without upsetting health protocols. "We are sorry. We also feel bad," the bench said. "We hope and trust God will allow the Rath Yatra next time., the bench said. "I also go to Puri every year... but have not gone for the last one-and-a-half years. I do puja at home... and it can be done at home. (The state) government has taken the right decision," CJI Ramana said. The Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri is an annual ritual and this time, it is scheduled for July 12. The state has allowed Rath Yatra only at Jagannath Puri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Covid: State reports first single-day spike of less than 50 cases in second wave||Jharkhand on Monday reported a single-day spike of less than 50 Covid cases for the first time since the second wave hit the tribal state earlier this year, causing over 3,000 deaths and more than 1 lakh cases in hardly six months, figures released by the health department highlighted. While the state reported a spike of only 46 cases against 93 Covid recoveries on the day, at least two more patients, one each from Gumla and East Singhbhum, died during treatment, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The two fresh casualties reported on Monday took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5,117 and that in East Singhbhum to 1,038. However, Ranchi, which has reported 1585 Covid casualties so far, continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid caseload and fatalities. With recoveries outnumbering fresh cases on Monday, the active caseload in Jharkhand dropped to 609, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin. While none of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a double-digit-spike in cases, at least nine districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Koderma, Jamtara, Hazaribag, Godda, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of coronavirus infection on the day. By the end of Monday, there were 100 active cases of Covid-19 in Ranchi, while all the remaining 23 districts had fewer cases. Ranchi reported eight cases against nine recoveries on the day, while East Singhbhum reported six cases against 11 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 55. Bokaro reported three cases against four recoveries and Dhanbad reported two cases against three recoveries. The state on the day tested swab samples of 49,659 residents and less than 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have contracted Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.34 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. The doubling rate in Jharkhand reached 3662.90 days against the national doubling rate of 664.89 days on Monday. The state on Monday administered over 1 lakh vaccines against Covid-19 for the second day in a row. As per government data, as many as 70,409 residents, including almost 57,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Monday. The second dose was administered to 25,703 beneficiaries, mostly those above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||India logs 34,000  Covid-19 cases, lowest one-day spike in 111 days||India saw a single-day rise of 34,703 coronavirus infections, the lowest in 111 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,06,19,932, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,03,281 with 553 daily fatalities, the lowest in around 91 days. The active cases have further declined to 4,64,357, the lowest in 101 days, and comprise 1.52 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.17 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 17,714 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,47,424 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,14,24,881, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.40 per cent, according to the ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 54th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,97,52,294, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 35.75 crore under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Modi's meeting with Union ministers stands cancelled amid Cabinet expansion buzz||Amid speculations of a possible Cabinet expansion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with the BJP top brass has reportedly been cancelled. According to a report by ndtv.com, the meeting, which had been scheduled at 5 pm on Tuesday, would have gone forward with the agenda of a discussion on the performance of ministers and proposals on future schemes. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other Union Ministers including Dharmendra Pradhan, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal and Narendra Singh Tomar were likely to attend the session. On Monday too, Modi held marathon meetings with Shah and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh in what is being seen as the final touches being given to the details of a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet. Sources said Shah and Santhosh confabulated with Modi at his residence for several hours on Sunday amid a "strong possibility" that the Cabinet reshuffle may happen very soon. Some sources said the swearing-in may happen as early as Wednesday. However, there was no official word on it. If the prime minister goes ahead with the exercise, he will be expanding his Council of Ministers for the first time since assuming the charge in May 2019 for his second innings. BJP leaders Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam chief minister who made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma in the state, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Modi are seen as strong ministerial probables amid indications that some allies of the saffron party may also get berths. The states which will go to the assembly polls early next year, including the all-important Uttar Pradesh, may figure high. West Bengal may also see its representation in the Union Council of Ministers go up, the sources said. It is believed that the BJP's allies like JD(U) and Apna Dal can also get representation. Presently, Republican Party leader Ramdas Athawale, a junior minister, is the only ally in the government after parties like the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal severed ties with the BJP. Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, a Cabinet minister, had died last year and all eyes are on whether his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras will be part of the expansion. Paras is engaged in a bitter battle with Paswan's son Chirag Paswan for the control of the party and has been recognised as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha after five of its six MPs lent their support to him. The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, besides Modi, and its maximum number can be 81. For the last few weeks, Modi has been meeting Union ministers in groups with BJP president J P Nadda also being present in the exercise to review their works and gather feedback. The BJP brass has also held organisational meetings in different states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Modi pays tribute to Syama Prasad Mookerjee on birth anniversary||Paying tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951, on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said he devoted his life to India's unity and progress, and his lofty ideals motivate millions across the nation. Mookerjee led a campaign against Article 370, which gave special powers to Jammu and Kashmir, and died under detention in the erstwhile state in 1953. He was born in Calcutta in 1901. The Jana Sangh was the progenitor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was founded in 1980. The Modi government nullified Article 370 in 2019, fulfilling a foundational agenda of the BJP. In a tweet, Modi said, "I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India's unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Swamy death news greets bail hearing in HC||Father Stan Swamy, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case accusing rights activists of Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. The announcement of the Parkinson’s patient’s death came during his bail hearing in Bombay High Court. The court was also due to hear the Ranchi-based Jesuit and tribal rights defender’s plea challenging provisions of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which many activists in India and abroad have termed a draconian law and under which bail is a rarity. Stanislaus Lourduswamy was among 16 people arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case, an investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste clashes the next day that claimed one life. The case expanded intoa purge of “urban Naxals”, a term used by the Hindutva Right to describe academics, writers, lawyers and activists like Fr Stan who are accused of clandestinely working for the banned CPI Maoist. The case was transferred from Maharashtra police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) soon after the BJP lost power in the western state. As the bail hearing began on Monday afternoon, Ian D’Souza — medical superintendent of the Holy Family Hospital, Bandra — told the division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that Fr Stan had passed away at 1.24pm. Fr Stan had been on a ventilator since Sunday after suffering a cardiac arrest. His lawyer Mihir Desai demanded a judicial inquiry into alleged negligence by the NIA and the prison authorities. For now, the body has been sent for post-mortem. In May, Fr Stan had told the high court he would rather die in jail than go to the state government-run Sir Jamsetjee Jeejebhoy Hospital again. “I would rather suffer, possibly die very shortly if this were to go on. I would prefer this than be admitted to the J.J. Hospital.... One thing that I would request the judiciary is to consider for interim bail…. Whatever happens to me, I would like to be with my own,” he had said. “When I came to Taloja (prison), whole systems of my body were very functional, but during these eight months there has been a steady but slow regression of whatever my body functions were. Eight months ago, I would eat by myself, do some writing, walk, but all these are disappearing one after another.” The Jesuit’s health had continued to deteriorate in jail after his arrest in Ranchi in October last year. He lost his hearing, fell down several times in prison, and developed spinal problems and severe abdomen pain. However, he received little sympathy from the authorities. Parkinson’s Disease having left him unable to hold a glass of water, Swamy had had to move court last November for the use of a straw and sipper in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison. After the court gave the NIA 20 days to reply, the agency formally denied having seized the drinking apparatus Swamy had brought with him from Ranchi, shifting the scrutiny to the state authorities. Following this, the state government-run prison, which is responsible for the upkeep of all its inmates, sold a baby sipper to Swamy. This treatment prompted Congress leader P. Chidambaram — who had widened the scope of the UAPA as Union home minister — to castigate the coalition government in Maharashtra where his party is a partner. Chidambaram had tweeted: “Are the administrators of the Jail department and especially the DG, Prisons so bereft of human compassion that they cannot provide straws to the old and ailing prisoner?” The state government has since ignored pleas from civil society to recommend interim bail and release for the Elgaar prisoners — most of them aged and ailing — to the high-powered committees mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic. Despite statements from internationally renowned activists and human rights advocates every few weeks in the last three years seeking better treatment of the accused, the NIA has consistently opposed bail pleas in the case. Another co-accused and academic Hany Babu M.T. had to move court for his spectacles, and is now in hospital after an eye infection. Prison superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar, who had asked the Elgaar defendants to be shifted out of his jail as they were making “false complaints”, was transferred out this weekend. The Jesuits — shy of making political statements to the media — had found a novel way of championing Fr Stan’s cause by leaking excerpts of his letters written to friends and fellow clergymen. One of these had asked for prayers for Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, now out on bail after his health and mental faculties deteriorated rapidly. Rao’s family has blamed the poor sanitation in jail and alleged his urinary catheters had remained unchanged for months. The suffering had failed to sap Fr Stan’s courage or darken his mood. “Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison,” he had written in a letter, saying he was being fed and bathed by co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, a former professor, and Arun Ferreira, a cartoonist and lawyer. Fr Stan had been charged with handling funds for the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which the NIA has termed a front for the CPI Maoist. He was later also accused of Maoist activity through the Vistapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan. Fr Stan was publicly involved with both organisations, documenting the plight of tribal youth in Jharkhand who were jailed as Maoists for participating in protests against forcible land acquisition. This alleged bagman of a terror group had only a table, three chairs, a cupboard and a bed to his name, which were attached by a court in 2019 when he failed to appear to answer a case against his support for a legal code for the Adivasis’ Sarna faith. Just before his arrest last year, Fr Stan had said in a video: “What is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone. It is a broader process that is taking place all over the country. “We are all aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, students, leaders, they are all put into jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India. We are part of the process. In a way I am happy to be part of this process. I am not a silent spectator, but part of the game, and ready to pay the price whatever be it.” Fr Stan had denied any knowledge of the purported pieces of communication with Maoists that the NIA had, during his interrogation, claimed were from his computer. As his condition worsened in jail, he was moved to the Holy Family at his own expense on May 30. He tested positive there for Covid, days after he was given the vaccine in jail. The virus eventually left him, but other ailments were aggravated and eventually his heart failed. His last public act before dying was to challenge the UAPA, a plea that lapsed with his death before it could be argued. His writ petition challenges Section 43D(5) as unconstitutional as it creates a de facto ban on the grant of bail. His plea also challenges the use of the term “front organisation” and argues that not only is this not backed by law but it violates fundamental rights. Delhi-based activist Rona Wilson, another co-accused lodged in Taloja, had asked Bombay High Court in February to quash the case on the basis of a data forensics report by an American firm that said key elements of the purported evidence had been planted on his computer through Internet malware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||People express shock on Father Stan Swamy's death||People from all walks of life expressed shock on the death of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Fr Stan, 84, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in 2020 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. While paying glowing tributes to Fr Stan, they also condemned the treatment meted out to him by the central agency and the jail authorities. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted: “Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest and incarceration.” “The Union government should be answerable for absolute apathy and non-provision of timely medical services, leading to his death,” Soren added. Vasvi Kiro, former member of the Jharkhand Women’s Commission who knew Fr Stan closely, said: “Stan who belonged to Tamil Nadu worked for the demand of jal (water), jangal (forest) and zameen (land) of the tribals of Jharkhand, reminding us of Che Guevara who also went to fight for people of a different country.” “Knowing him for a long time, I know for sure he never went to that area, let alone getting involved in the Bhima Koregaon case,” she added. Kiro alleged the central government “murdered” a 84-year-old priest who was suffering from several ailments “by falsely implicating him in a case he was never involved in and denying him proper treatment when he needed it most”. “The powers that be are always against those siding with the tribals,” she further said, reminding that “even Birsa Munda was murdered in jail in 1900”. Miners’ rights activist Xavier Dias said: “Life was his key word. Stan fought for the right of life so that everyone gets the joy of life. I never found him compromising on this.” Dias knew Fr Stan since mid-seventies. Dias said he met him when he was a student in Bangalore and Stan was the director of Indian Social Institute there. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “Everyone respected him and no one believes Father Stan Swamy could be involved in that case. It was a part of the design of the central government for suppressing the intellectuals and dedicated workers who fight for the causes of the oppressed.” The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a joint forum of activists and NGOs that Fr Stan helped to form, said in a statement: “His death is the result of murder by state. We hold the NIA and the central government wholly responsible and strongly condemn their role in Stan’s death, which once again exposes the fascist face of the BJP government at the Centre.” Describing Fr Stan as a fighter for justice and a symbol of courage, Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, in a statement issued on behalf of the Ranchi Catholic Archdiocese, said: “The fact that this sick man suffering with Parkinson’s disease was arrested at the age of 84, refused bail for over seven months, not even allowed a sipper and finally contracted Covid in jail itself is a sad reflection on those who got the innocent man arrested and the courts that refused him bail.” Carnatic musician and culture critic-activist T.M. Krishna, said in a Facebook post: “Just heard that Stan Swamy passed away. The Indian Government and our insensitive Judiciary are responsible for all that he went through towards the end of his life.” “An 84-year-old person suffering from Parkinson’s disease who was denied even a straw and sipper, had to go to court for just that and still wait for over a month to be given that little aid. We are a vile nation,” added Krishna. DMK MP Kanimozhi tweeted: “Poraligal Vithaikapadugirargal, Puthaikapaduvathillai (Fighters are sown, not buried),” along with a picture of the priest. “Stan Swamy (84), who suffered from Parkinson’s, was arrested by the BJP government as Anti-national. His health conditions were never considered. He slipped into coma and passed away,” Kanimozhi, who is also the DMK women’s wing secretary, added. The United Christian Forum of North East India on Monday expressed its deep pain and anguish at the demise of Fr Stan. The forum said he was “falsely” implicated, imprisoned and “made” to suffer because of his mission and work among the Adivasis, Dalits and other marginalised communities, as he believed, that the poor must have life and life to the full, with honour and dignity, as enshrined in the Constitution. Northeast has over 78 lakh Christians. Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya are Christian-dominated states. While offering their condolences to those who stood by Fr Stan and prayed for him during this “moment of trial and suffering”, forum spokesperson Allen Brooks said community members have pledged to recommit themselves to take forward the legacy of Fr Stan and to “work” for peace, justice and reconciliation. Additional reporting by M.R. Venkatesh from Chennai and Umanand Jaiswal from Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Covid cluster detected after two from India attend US wedding||A cluster of four Covid-19 cases detected after two guests from India attended an open-air wedding near Houston, Texas, has underlined the capacity of the Delta coronavirus variant to cause infections in recipients of multiple vaccines. Genome sequencing of viruses from the six patients — all vaccinated — suggests the Delta variant may be able to evade immune responses in patients who have received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines or India’s Covaxin, researchers at the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, said. Joseph Petrosino, director of molecular virology, and his colleagues probed six Covid-19 cases in April that occurred soon after a wedding gathering in a large, open-air tent with 92 attendees, for which the guests required to be fully vaccinated. They found that a man, designated patient “0a”, and a woman, designated patient “0b”, both in their 60s, had travelled from India to Houston to attend the wedding, 10 days after receiving their second Covaxin doses. The woman complained of fatigue on the first night of the wedding. The man developed a cough two days after the wedding and both developed a fever after three days. Both tested positive for Covid-19 four days after the wedding. Four other patients with breakthrough infections who tested positive confirmed having close encounters with patients 0a and 0b during the wedding. Two of them had received the Pfizer vaccine, while the other two had received the Moderna vaccine. “Encounter timings and viral sequence similarities suggest that the strain containing the Delta variant was transmitted to wedding guests from two patients travelling from India,” the BCM researchers said in a research paper not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, a pre-print server, on Sunday. Their study suggests that antibodies elicited in patients who had received the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines and Covaxin may provide decreased immunity to the Delta variant. It is possible that some individuals in the study had failed to produce an effective immune response, the researchers said. Patient 0a was admitted to a hospital where his symptoms continued to worsen and where he died a month later. In an independent study conducted across three hospitals in Delhi, researchers have found that the Delta variant not only dominated infections among vaccinated healthcare workers, it could also spread rapidly among fully vaccinated healthcare workers. Medical researchers say the findings from both the Houston and Delhi studies highlight the importance of continuing precautions such as wearing a mask and avoiding crowds even after vaccination. “These results should be eye-openers for fully vaccinated people that they cannot lower their guard,” said Chand Wattal, the chair of clinical microbiology and immunology at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the three participating hospitals in Delhi. But public health researchers say that despite the emergence of breakthrough infections, all observations to date show a strong protective effect of the vaccines against severe disease. Lab studies have shown that vaccine-elicited antibodies are effective against coronavirus variants. “Partial efficacy of current vaccines (70 to 75 per cent coverage) is theoretically sufficient to stop a pandemic,” Petrosino and his colleagues said in their paper. “Slowing the spread could prevent the emergence of future variants, hastening the end of this pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
06-07-2021||India||Covid: CBSE to bifurcate Class X and Class XII exams in 2022||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold the board exams for Class X and Class XII in two parts in 2021-22 in view of the pandemic affecting activities in schools. According to the special scheme for 2021-22, the academic session will be divided into two terms, each covering about 50 per cent of the syllabus. Subject experts will do this by looking into the interconnectivity of concepts and topics. There will be a board exam at the end of each term on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. “This is done to increase the probability of having board-conducted Classes X and XII examinations at the end of the academic session,” the circular said. The first-term exam will be held by the CBSE between November and December 2021 within a window of four to eight weeks. The specific dates will be notified later. The question papers will have multiple-choice questions on the 50 per cent syllabus and the duration will be 90 minutes. The question papers will be sent by the CBSE to the schools along with the marking scheme. External superintendents and observers appointed by the CBSE will supervise the process. The answer sheets will be sent to the board’s portal and evaluated automatically. The marks will be uploaded by the school the same day. The second-term exam will be held around March-April 2022. The papers will be of two-hour duration and carry questions in different formats such as case-based, situation-based, open-ended short answer or long answer. However, if the situation is not conducive for a normal descriptive examination, a 90-minute exam based on multiple-choice questions similar to the first-term exam will be conducted at the end of the second term. Marks obtained in both exams will contribute to the overall score. The venue of the exams will depend on the situation. If the students can go to the schools or the centres, the CBSE will conduct both the tests there. If the schools remain closed completely during November-December 2021, the first-term test will be done online or offline from home. In such a case, the weightage given to this exam in the final scores will be reduced. If the schools remain closed during March-April 2022 after the first-term exam has been held at the schools or the centres, the final results will be based on students’ performance in the first-term exam and internal assessments. If the pandemic forces a complete closure of the schools and both the exams are taken from home, the results will be computed on the basis of the internal assessments or practicals or project work and theory marks obtained through the tests taken from home. In such a situation, the theory marks will be moderated to ensure the reliability of the assessment. Educationist Usha Ram welcomed the decision and said it was the best possible option to ensure the students remained safe while being subjected to assessment. “The division is there, anyway. The schools conduct half-yearly tests; now the board will conduct it. Like the college system, the students will have two semesters. It’s a welcome move. They have done this to ensure the safety of the students and announce the results without much difficulty,” Ram said. The details of the bifurcated syllabuses and guidelines for internal assessment (IA) for all subjects will be notified this month. The schools will continue teaching in the distance mode till they are allowed to open by state authorities. For Classes IX-X, the internal assessment will include three periodic tests, student enrichment, portfolio and practical work or speaking and listening activities or projects. For Classes XI-XII, the internal assessment will include unit tests or exploratory activities or practicals or projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Rafale scam: A.K. Antony questions Modi's silence on agreement||Former defence minister A.K. Antony on Monday expressed outrage at the attempts to bury the Rafale scam, arguing that the Narendra Modi government will not be able to escape accountability now. Referring to the new revelations and start of investigations in France, the former defence minister said: “The subsequent series of events and documents placed in public record have now affirmed the stance of the Congress party about wrongdoing and corruption in the Rafale deal. What is, indeed, mysterious is the fact that despite 48 hours having lapsed, the Prime Minister and the defence minister have decided to maintain complete silence on ordering of investigation into the Rafale deal by the French Public Prosecution Services.” Antony, who had stalled the deal during the Manmohan Singh government when the BJP raised suspicions about the existence of a middleman, said: “The simple question is why has the government chosen to remain mum? Why have the Prime Minister and the defence minister not come forward to react on the shocking and sensational development of a corruption probe in the Rafale deal by the Public Prosecution Services of France? Can the Modi government escape accountability for corruption allegations by its intriguing silence? Is it not the responsibility of the government to come forward and accept the truth?” He added: “This is even more important as 36 aircraft are being purchased by the Modi government under an ‘inter-governmental agreement’ and one party to the agreement, that is, the French government, has proceeded to order an investigation through a judge. The only way forward is to accept accountability and order a free and fair JPC (joint parliamentary committee) probe into the entire set of facts, evidence and allegations of corruption in Rafale deal.” Antony had raised serious questions about the deal, particularly the violation of laid-down procedures, in the past as well. Arguing that corruption in the Rafale deal was prima facie apparent, Antony said: “The intriguing silence of the Modi government points towards mal-intent to hush up the corruption. The refusal of the BJP government to probe and punish the guilty is even more astonishing, pointing towards a concerted effort to bury the scam.” Rahul Gandhi also posted on Twitter a video in which a journalist of the French news portal Mediapart is seen asserting that former President Fracois Hollande clearly said he had no choice in selecting Reliance as the partner, with this message, “Truth can’t be silenced. Unlike ‘Modia’.” Antony recalled that Modi had unilaterally announced the purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft without going through any tender process in complete derogation of the “Defence Procurement Procedure” and said: “Every defence expert was shocked by this unilateral order which is India’s biggest defence deal. It was even more surprising because there was an ongoing negotiation for purchase of 126 Rafale aircraft in pursuance of an international tender, which envisaged 108 aircraft to be made in India by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and 18 aircraft to be purchased in fly-away condition. This international tender for 126 aircraft also envisaged the all important ‘transfer of technology’ to India.” He added: “Till today, neither the Prime Minister nor the BJP government have explained the reason for reducing the number of aircraft from 126 to 36 or the reason for sacrificing transfer of technology to India. The BJP government has also not explained the basis or the reason for enhancing the price of the 36 aircraft or for denying the offset contract to the government’s PSU, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The BJP government has also not stated the reason for the fact that when clearance from ‘Defence Acquisition Council’ had been given and there was an ongoing tender for which negotiations were being finalised, how could the Prime Minister and the government unilaterally enter into another agreement?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||'Friendship' with the BJP 'intact' despite a divorce: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Monday said their “friendship” with the BJP was “intact” despite a divorce, signalling a thaw that is being seen as the result of a determined effort by the BJP to destabilise the Opposition alliance government in Maharashtra. Raut’s remarks came a day after BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said his party and the Shiv Sena, a former ally, were “not enemies”. The BJP has been trying to pull down the Opposition government in Maharashtra since ally Shiv Sena broke away and joined the NCP-Congress to form the government in the key state after the polls in November 2019. The earlier efforts were focussed on splitting the parties in the alliance and also driving a wedge between the partners in power, but the latest move appears to be centred on weaning away Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray by offering the chief minister’s chair to him, according to sources. “We are not like India-Pakistan. Look at Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao. It is like them. Our (Sena, BJP) political ways are different but the friendship will remain intact,” Sena leader Raut said on Monday. This was in response to Fadnavis’s statement a day earlier. “We were never enemies...,” Fadnavis said when asked whether the two former allies were coming together. “There are no ifs and buts in politics. Decisions are taken as per the prevailing situation,” he added. The latest move to gain power in Maharashtra is believed to have been initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he had a one-on-one meeting with Uddhav in Delhi last month. The meeting came in the backdrop of strains in the three-party ruling alliance. After the meeting, the Sena fuelled speculation by talking about “deep personal relations” between Modi and Uddhav. Many saw the Sena’s dalliance with the BJP as a tool to leverage its dominance in the ruling alliance. However, internally, BJP leaders indicated towards a serious effort to win back its old partner. Not much information has trickled down as the effort is believed to be led by the Prime Minister, but many in the party aver that the expansion of the Modi cabinet has been held up to accommodate the Shiv Sena if a deal is finalised. In the Modi-led move, sources said, the BJP is also ready to sacrifice the chief minister’s chair, baring the desperation to dislodge the Opposition government in Maharashtra. Though some key party leaders denied such an offer, but speculation is refusing to die down. The Shiv Sena, which fought the November 2019 polls in alliance with the BJP, had claimed the chief minister’s chair and had snapped ties after it was denied. The BJP has not been able to come to terms with its failure to gain power in a state such as Maharashtra despite winning the polls in alliance with the Sena. Apart from capturing power, which remains the primary motive, party insiders said the effort was to get back the Sena, a natural ally. “The Shiv Sena and the BJP’s ideology is the same. We are natural partners,” one BJP leader said, adding that sooner or later the Sena will break out and align with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||J&K: People’s Alliance demands statehood before polls||The alliance fighting for restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday belatedly announced that the recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was disappointing and said Assembly elections must be held only after statehood is restored. The alliance has also decided to reach out to other parties who favour restoration of statehood and seek their support for evolving a common position — which is that statehood should precede the elections. Leaders of the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration met for the first time here to discuss the outcome of the June 24 all-party meeting with Modi, the first outreach towards Jammu and Kashmir politicians after the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories. “All the members of the PAGD expressed their disappointment at the outcome of the Delhi meeting,” CPM state secretary M.Y. Tarigami, the alliance’s spokesman, said in a statement. Tarigami said Delhi has not taken any confidence-building measures such as releasing political and other prisoners from jails or taken concrete steps “to end the siege & atmosphere of suppression that has choked J&K since 2019”. “This would have initiated the much needed process of reaching out to the people of J&K who are the biggest stakeholders & sufferers of the J&K problem,” the statement said. It said the BJP had committed on the floor of Parliament to restore statehood and they “must honour their word”. “So any Assembly election must be held only after restoration of full statehood for J&K. To this end, the PAGD has decided to reach out to other political parties in J&K with a view to taking a common position on the issue,” Tarigami said. Earlier, the National Conference, which is the key constituent of the alliance, had favoured Assembly elections after restoration of statehood, indicating the party was warming up for business with the Centre that is firmly against any rethink on Article 370. It seems that other parties are now also favouring the option. National Conference MP from Anantnag, Hasnain Masoodi, said there was now consensus within the alliance that Assembly elections should follow the restoration of statehood. “For that we thought we should reach out to other parties who do not agree with us in seeking restoration of the August 4 position (restoration of Articles 370 and 35A) but want restoration of tatehood. What is wrong if we join hands for that and fight for statehood only after elections,” Masoodi told The Telegraph. The Modi government has promised to restore statehood but favours delimitation, which will carve out more seats, and Assembly elections to precede that. It is widely believed the Centre wants to allot more seats to Hindu-majority areas of Jammu through delimitation so that its goal of getting a Hindu chief minister is fulfilled. It perhaps explains why the Centre is ready to give statehood after elections. Masoodi said his party is committed to restoration of autonomy (the 1952 position when the state had its own Prime Minister) but parties in the alliance have their own positions. “Despite our position on autonomy, the parties of the alliance have come together for restoration of Article 370. Now we want to join hands with those who are at least fighting for restoration of statehood,” he said, clarifying they are also ready to talk to Jammu-based groups. Tarigami said it was the considerate view of all alliance partners that the meeting with the Prime Minister was disappointing. “The chairman of the alliance, Farooq Abdullah, had called for a meeting immediately after our return from Delhi. But Mehboobaji was busy with some personal engagements for which the meeting was delayed. Otherwise, we all believe that the meeting was disappointing because Government of India has not given us any concrete assurance, a confidence-building measure which can generate some hope,” he told this newspaper. “We raised the question of releases (of prisoners). The home minister (Amit Shah) said the LG (lieutenant governor) has been told to review the cases. For the last many days, how many prisoners have been released?” Tarigami said the only good thing about the meeting was that the Prime Minister reached out to the politicians for the first time in years. “It was a good beginning. Till yesterday we were a gang and now all of a sudden we have become respectable. This is the little change but then there is a question of delivery.” The alliance met on Sunday evening under Farooq’s leadership in the presence of vice-chairperson Mehbooba, Tarigami, Masoodi, Javed Mustafa Mir and Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. The alliance has reiterated its commitment to fight together to reverse the “unconstitutional and unacceptable changes foisted on the people of J&K on 5th August, 2019, using all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Lalu blames Centre for destroying economy and communal harmony||A frail-looking Lalu Prasad returned to active politics after three-and-a-half years on Monday, accused the BJP-led central government of destroying the economy and communal harmony, and took pot shots at chief minister Nitish Kumar. “They (the Sangh parivar) are shouting slogans about (a Krishna temple in) Mathura after (the Ram temple in) Ayodhya. What’s the matter? What do they want?” the 74-year-old Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief said. “They want to destroy the country for the sake of power. We are already battling economic problems, and efforts are being made to damage the social fabric.” Lalu, who is in daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti’s house in Delhi, was addressing his party’s 25th foundation day celebrations in Patna after digitally inaugurating it. This was the former chief minister’s first public address since being convicted in various fodder scam cases in December 2017 and January 2018 and jailed. He received bail in April this year and has since been in Delhi, undergoing treatment for various ailments. Lalu’s return to public life seems to have perked up RJD leaders and workers, who see in the development the beginning of the end of the state’s NDA government. Nitish has a thin majority while Lalu is a master at using his mass appeal to build new political equations. The RJD chief’s speech was punctuated with huge cheers from the Patna gathering, with many party supporters teary-eyed. Lalu said he was ill but would return to Patna soon. “I shall make my presence felt not only in Patna but every district of the state. Be patient,” he said. Lalu appealed to party workers to strive to strengthen the country’s social fabric. “The country has been pushed backward. We are continuously regressing. Compensating it will not be easy,” he said. “Inflation has broken the back of the common man. Poverty reigns. They are selling the railways, airlines and other things at throwaway prices. This is not good for the country.” Lalu claimed the public would have brought everything to a standstill had so much inflation been witnessed during his rule. He said his tenure reflected the “rule of the poor”, which had overturned the traditional idea of the government and given deprived communities the opportunity to go to the polling booths. “We will prefer to be broken down and destroyed but will not retract our steps. The bread was being baked on just one side for centuries in Bihar; I overturned it. Those who disliked this made noises about a ‘jungle raj’, but my government was the government of the poor,” Lalu said. He compared the Covid pandemic to Judgement Day and expressed concern about the predicted third wave. “So many people have died of Covid in the country. A large number of people died in Bihar too in the absence of treatment. No facilities were arranged,” Lalu said. Attacking Nitish, he said: “Not a single day passes without three to four murders in Bihar. Corruption is at its peak. Our state lags behind. Lakhs of people from here are forced to go to other states as migrant labourers.” He added: “I have seen five Prime Ministers and helped form their governments. I never bothered about becoming a Union minister. Nitish was fretting about it, so I got him appointed a (Union) minister.” Lalu’s wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi, who is with him in Delhi, too participated in the event along with Misa. His sons — leader of the Bihar Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Hasanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav — Bihar party chief Jagadanand Singh and other senior leaders attended the physical function in Patna and delivered speeches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Supreme Court declines ‘toolkit’ plea against Congress||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition seeking deregistration of the Congress for allegedly creating a “toolkit” to blame the Narendra Modi government for the massive loss of lives during the pandemic, saying no such order can be passed as India is a “democracy”. “...If you don’t like the toolkit, ignore it. It’s all part of a political propaganda,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah told advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha who had filed the petition. Jha had sought a probe by the National Investigation Agency into the alleged “toolkit” circulation and deregistration of the Congress if the allegations were found to be true. Jha had filed the petition on the ground that the alleged toolkit had lowered the country’s image in the globe as he claimed the Congress chose to brand the coronavirus as an “Indian variant”. The advocate argued that even Singapore had taken an exception when a certain strain of the virus was described by some people as the “Singapore variant”. “But, India is a democracy, right,” Justice Chandrachud quipped. Justice Shah said the plea of the petitioner cannot be entertained under Article 32 of the Constitution. Under Article 32 a person can move the Supreme Court directly for his or her fundamental right. In the present case the court felt no fundamental right of the petitioner was violated by the purported toolkit. “Why should we issue directions in petition under 32? People have remedy in criminal law,” the bench said. “Mr Jha, please withdraw this. You may pursue your remedies under appropriate law,” the bench added, following which the petitioner chose to withdraw the petition. The alleged “toolkit” was at the centre of a controversy in May. While BJP leaders had accused the Congress of creating it to defame the government, the Opposition party rejected the allegation outright and filed police complaints accusing the BJP of forging it. It sought forensic examination of the “toolkit” and a fair investigation. BJP leaders’ posts on the purported “toolkit” were marked as manipulated media by Twitter, triggering loud protests from the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Activists blame govt for Father Stan Swamy's custodial death||Activists and academicians on Monday blamed the government for the custodial death of tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy and demanded immediate release of political prisoners languishing in jails. Historian Ramachandra Guha called the death a “judicial murder” while economist Jean Dreze saw it as cruelty by the “Indian state”. “Father Stan Swamy spent a lifetime working for the dispossessed and the disadvantaged. His tragic death is a case of judicial murder, for which the Home Ministry and the courts are jointly culpable,” Guha tweeted. Dreze said: “This is a sad day for all his friends and a tragedy for the country. Stan was a wonderful human being and an exemplary citizen. His death is the culmination of a series of acts of abominable cruelty on the part of the Indian state.” Rights activists Walter Fernandes and Enakshi Ganguly said Fr Stan’s fault was that he was working for the poor tribal people and against corporates. “Swamy was working on issues of human rights of tribal youths who have been jailed in false cases. He was working on issues related to land, displacement and bonded labour. This was not liked by the corporates and the State. They brought false charges against him,” Fernandes said. He said all those arrested in cases related to the Bhima Koregaon incident and the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act must be released. “The time has come for all to work for the release of activists jailed in different cases and also work for the freedom and rights of the common people for whom the jailed activists have been fighting,” he said. Ganguly said Fr Stan fought for the idea of an inclusive and just India.“He died declared an anti-national under the draconian (anti-terror law) UAPA. Not just that despite his age and ill health the treatment meted to him in jail amounted to torture. Is this death or murder by his own country?” Ganguly asked. Social activist Nikhil Dey, who works with the Mazdoor Kishan Shakti Sangathan in Rajasthan, said the cases were framed against Fr Stan because of political vendetta. “All these cases are because of political vendetta. The government is using the UAPA indiscriminately to crush dissent and any kind of opposition. Such misuse of the law is in a way a threat to the law itself. Whenever it (UAPA) would be used, including genuine cases, it would be seen with suspicion,” Dey said. He said Fr Stan was a man who stood for the rights of prisoners and of tribal people. “If the government had great evidence against him, it should have produced them in the court and fast-tracked the trial. He was no threat to the State. He did not do anything unlawful. Yet UAPA was invoked against Swamy,” Dey said. The Peoples’ Union for Civil Liberties said Fr Stan unceasingly and fearlessly exposed how the then BJP-ruled state government in Jharkhand and police had imprisoned thousands of Adivasis for years in jail without bail only because they opposed the destruction of dense forests and handing over tribal land to corporates for mining and industrial projects. “We strongly condemn the totally callous, insensitive and vengeful approach of the prosecution authorities to the prayer for interim bail to Fr Stan and other prisoners like him who suffered medical conditions making them vulnerable to Covid infections while inside prison,” the PUCL said in a statement. The All India Kisan Sabha and National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled also expressed anguish over Fr Stan’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Supreme Court's dictum of bail as 'rule' and jail as 'exception' flouted||The Supreme Court’s 1977 dictum that bail is the “rule” and jail the “exception” is more often breached than honoured by the lower courts, legal experts said on the day 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy died in Mumbai waiting for bail. Contacted by The Telegraph, Justice Madan B. Lokur, former Supreme Court judge, said Father Swamy’s death was “very unfortunate and tragic” and regretted that Indian courts tended not to follow the Supreme Court’s prod. Senior advocate Colin Gonzalves said Delhi High Court’s grant of bail to Natasha Narwal and Gauhati High Court’s relief to rights activist Akhil Gogoi were exceptions, the “general trend” being for courts to go by what the central government told them. “Knowing Stan Swamy as a friend, knowing him as a peace-loving activist for decades, I feel very bitter that the courts treated him the way they did,” Gonzalves told this newspaper. “Ultimately, a good man has died. A good person has died in jail because of somebody’s negligence. And I do hope that the person responsible for the negligence understands it. It is unforgivable.” In State Of Rajasthan, Jaipur vs Balchand @ Baliay, the apex court had on September 20, 1977, laid down that bail should be the “rule” for the accused and that they should be remanded in jail only in exceptional circumstances. The judgment, authored by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, has been reiterated in many apex court orders. Sections 436 to 439 of the CrPC deal with the grant of bail to accused as well as convicts who appeal before a higher court. As a norm, bail is easier to secure in less heinous cases and more difficult in cases related to offences like murder, attempt to murder, rape, terrorism or narcotics. In the Balchand case, the apex court had held: “The basic rule is bail, not jail, except where there are circumstances suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice or creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and the like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail from the court. “When considering the question of bail, the gravity of the offence involved and the heinousness of the crime which are likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of justice must weigh with the court.” In 2012, in the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee Representing Undertrial Prisoners v Union of India, the apex court had ruled that prisoners cannot be detained indefinitely pending trial. Once it becomes obvious that a timely trial is not possible and the accused has suffered imprisonment for a significant length of time, courts would ordinarily be obliged to free them on bail, the top court had held. On February 1 this year, the bench of Justices N.V. Ramana (presently Chief Justice of India), Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose had ruled that an accused is entitled to bail even under stringent anti-terror and narcotic laws when there is little possibility of the trial being completed early. The bench had granted bail to K.A. Najeeb, facing trial in Kerala under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly chopping off a professor’s hand. The National Investigation Agency had approached the apex court for cancellation of Najeeb’s bail, granted by Kerala High Court. “Even in the case of special legislations like the (now repealed) Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, or the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, which too have somewhat rigorous conditions for grant of bail, this court... enlarged the accused on bail when they had been in jail for an extended period of time with little possibility of early completion of trial,” the apex court said. “The constitutionality of harsh conditions for bail in such special enactments has thus been primarily justified on the touchstone of speedy trials to ensure the protection of innocent civilian.” The apex court had agreed with the NIA that the charges against Najeeb were serious but noted that he had already spent five years in jail and there was no likelihood of the trial concluding anytime soon. The bench also noted that 276 witnesses were left to be examined. Justice Lokur said the courts should consider bail a matter of right unless there are compelling reasons to deny the relief. “All the three agencies — courts, investigating agencies and prosecution — must take a compassionate view while considering bail,” he said. Justice Lokur said the existing CrPC provisions gave “enough room” to courts to grant bail and there was little need to tweak them to ensure more liberal grant of bail. Under Article 141 of the Constitution, the law laid down by the Supreme Court is binding on all civil and judicial authorities of the country, including the high courts. Yet the courts have in recent times tended to put more faith in the contentions of the prosecuting and investigating agencies, Gonzalves told this newspaper. He said people “must learn to stand up to the tyranny” of the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Father Stan Lourduswamy: Jesuit priest devoted to tribal rights ||Father Stan Swamy, who died aged 84 in Mumbai on Monday, was a Jesuit priest with a Marxian understanding of society and its problems that he imparted to thousands of youths while campaigning for tribal rights for over five decades. Stanislaus Lourduswamy, which was his real name, was best known for his championing of the Adivasi cause in Jharkhand but hailed from Tamil Nadu. He was born on April 26, 1937, in Trichy and went to St Joseph’s School, where he was so deeply inspired by the work of the Jesuit priests that he decided to join the order. He began pursuing religious studies in May 1957 and committed himself to the cause of the poor and downtrodden. In 1965, he was sent to St Xavier’s High School in Lupungutu, Chaibasa, West Singhbhum, in present-day Jharkhand for his regency, the stage at which trainee Jesuits spend two years taking up assignments for the order. “The real breakthrough with regard to his ideas about social action came when he began his regency,” said Father Peter Martin, a Ranchi-based advocate who had been associated with Fr Stan for more than two decades. “His experiences as a teacher and hostel prefect had a deep impact on him. He would visit the weekly bazaar in Chaibasa on Tuesdays with his students and saw for himself how the merchants and their agents cheated the Adivasis.” On holidays, Fr Stan visited his boys and their families in their villages. It gave him a sense of their culture. The values they held deeply impressed him. “Another decisive turn came after his regency, when he went to Manila in the Philippines in 1967 to study theology. He did a master’s in sociology. Some of the subjects dealing with indigenous peoples gave him a greater understanding of how indigenous peoples were exploited in various regions of the world, and of their struggles,” Fr Martin said. After Fr Stan returned to India and joined the Jesuit Jamshedpur Province in 1971, he was assigned the responsibility of director of the Catholic Relief Services charity for the area (Sundernagar on Jamshedpur’s outskirts). He spent 1971 and a part of 1972 setting up a warehouse for relief supplies and arranging for a vehicle and an office. He trained his ex-students to do office work and handle the distribution of relief materials. During this period, he attended a three-month course on community development at the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, and kept in touch with the director, Father Henry Volken. “He told the then head of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, Father Bill Tome, that he wanted to live in an interior Ho (a tribe) village, learn their language and get to know their world,” Father Tony PM, another Ranchi-based Jesuit, who had been associated with Fr Stan since 1993, said. “Swamy moved to Badaibir village of West Singhbhum. One of the families readily offered him a room. He contacted youths within a radius of about 15km and helped them think critically about their lives in all its dimensions. Soon enough, some of his ex-students and some volunteers with backgrounds in the All India Catholic University Federation joined him.” The early and mid-1970s saw an upsurge of students and youths across the country as Jayaprakash Narayan called for civil disobedience. The Indian Social Institute in Bangalore became a hub for university students looking for an alternative vision of society. They asked the institute to teach them the fundamentals of Marxian analysis of society. Fr Volken proposed that Fr Stan head the Indian Social Institute. “But Father Swamy felt he needed to study more about social analysis. He got a scholarship to the Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium for a year (1974-1975),” Fr Tony said. “Although he could have gone on to do a doctorate, he felt he should come back and take on the new role of (helping) youth from the exploited sections understand society and its dynamics scientifically and develop effective strategies of action to bring about change.” Fr Stan then had a fairly long stint — 1975 to 1990 — at the Indian Social Institute, where together with Dr Duarte Barreto and other committed colleagues he reached out to several hundred young men and women from the fringes of society through systematic training sessions. He followed it up with field action. Participants from various parts of India and neighbouring Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal began to attend his three-month course on social analysis and community organisation. The Indian Social Institute also published a series of booklets on social analysis. “Some members of the Catholic hierarchy were upset by the institution’s ‘Marxist leaning’. But the Jesuit superiors stood by the team. Father Swamy’s efforts to train people in scientific social analysis and his lived example of taking the side of the oppressed has inspired many social activists in South Asia and beyond,” Fr Martin said. In 1991, Fr Stan decided to return to his “first love”, the Adivasis of Jharkhand. Returning from Bangalore, he put up with the Jesuit community of St Xavier’s High School in Lupungutu while working to revive the Jharkhandi Organisation for Human Rights (Johar). He later moved into the office of the organisation, which began championing popular causes and reviving the traditional self-governance (Munda-Manki) system of Ho society. Simultaneously, Fr Stan began contacting social activists and socially committed people. “Towards the end of the 1990s, the phenomenon of Adivasis and moolvasis being displaced from their land became rampant. Other Jesuits also became involved in mass struggles,” Fr Tony said. “The Netarhat Field Firing Range project in the Palamu and Gumla districts and the Koel-Karo Dam in Ranchi and West Singhbhum were threatening large-scale displacements. Jesuits involved in social action felt the need to establish a centre in Ranchi to coordinate the efforts of (social) organisations and movements fighting the processes of marginalised communities becoming pauperised. Stan Swamy was given the responsibility of creating this centre.” In June 2001, Fr Stan moved to Ranchi from Chaibasa and took up residence at Gharana Apartment, Purulia Road. He contacted various organisations and movements to coordinate their struggles against displacement. The Ranchi Jesuit Province agreed to give an acre of land on the campus of the Agriculture Training Centre, Namkum, on Ranchi’s outskirts for the proposed social action centre, Bagaicha. Fr Stan began looking for an Adivasi architect to design the structure, and the central zone of the Jesuits took on the responsibility of financing the construction. Work began in 2004 and was completed in 2006. Fr Stan lived in Bagaicha since then till the NIA took him away on October 8 last year. In the mid-2010s, the Munda Adivasis of Jharkhand’s Khunti district began erecting in their villages stone slabs inscribed with the provisions of Schedule Five of the Indian Constitution which grants special autonomy to tribal areas. This came to be known as the Pathalgadi movement and was a nod to the age-old tradition of demarcating ancestral plots by erecting stone slabs that commemorated the ancestors’ contributions. However, the then BJP government of Raghubar Das termed the movement “anti-development and anti-national” and deployed police and paramilitary troops to suppress it, triggering a social media furore. The state government filed sedition cases against 20 activists, including Fr Stan, on the basis of their Facebook posts stating the government should engage in peaceful dialogue with the Adivasis engaged in the Pathalgadi movement rather than repress it. In January 2021, three months after Fr Stan had been arrested and lodged in a Mumbai jail, he was awarded the Mukundan C. Menon Award 2020 for human rights activism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||SC shocked on Information Technology Act still being used||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed “shock” and “amazement” over the manner in which people were still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that was declared unconstitutional by the apex court way back on March 24, 2015. “It’s amazing and shocking. That’s what I can say. Shreya Singhal is a 2015 judgment. What is going on in the country is terrible,” Justice R.F. Nariman observed after senior advocate representing the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) brought to the court’s notice the continuing foisting of cases under the scrapped section and courts taking cognisance of the same. The Justice Nariman-led bench also comprised Justices K.M. Joseph and B.R. Gavai. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, on behalf of the Centre, sought two weeks’ time to file the Centre’s counter-affidavit on the matter. According to PUCL, 745 cases filed under Section 66A of the IT Act are pending in different courts till date. PUCL has in its petition urged the apex court to direct the Centre to collect data on FIRs, investigations or pending cases in which Section 66A has been invoked. During the hearing, Venugopal submitted that Section 66A is still there in most of the law books. “When police have to register a case, the section is still there with only a footnote that mentions that the Supreme Court has struck it down. There has to be a bracket in 66A with words struck down,” the country’s highest law officer said. “You file a counter as it is a shocking state of affairs,” Justice Nariman told the AG. According to PUCL, the Supreme Court had in a subsequent order on February 15, 2019 directed the states and Union Territories to desist from invoking Section 66A, but the police continue to file cases under the provision. “…the applicant discovered that Section 66A of the IT Act has continued to be in use not only within police stations but also in cases before trial courts across  India,” the PUCL stated. PUCL said the information was available on www.zombietracker.in — a website developed by a team of independent researchers. The website provides information of such cases and acts as a tool for convenient mapping of the use of Section 66A of the IT Act across India. The findings of the website reveal that as on March 10, 2021, as many as 745 cases are still pending and active before the district courts in 11 states wherein the accused persons are being prosecuted for offences under Section 66A of the IT Act. Hence, the PUCL has sought the following directions: ⚫ Direct the Union government to ensure full compliance immediately with Shreya Singhal through issuance of appropriate circulars/advisories addressed to the chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, and the DGPs of all states and Union Territories, or equivalent officers thereof for onward circulation to the police stations; ⚫ Direct the Supreme Court Registry to dispatch a copy of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India to all high courts to pass appropriate orders in pending cases concerning Section 66A of the IT Act as well appropriate circulars, bringing Shreya Singhal to the notice of all district courts within their jurisdiction to prevent failures of justice; ⚫ Direct Centre to collect and furnish data for all prosecutions invoking Section 66A after March 24, 2015 before the apex court in order to secure compliance with Shreya Singhal On March 24, 2015, the Supreme Court came down heavily on the tendency of the authorities to jail individuals for posting “offensive” material on social networking sites and struck down the controversial Section 66A of the IT Act as being “unconstitutional” and in violation of the freedom of expression and speech guaranteed by Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution. While striking down the legislation, the apex court had said the provision had been vaguely defined to bring under its ambit any form of opinion expressed on the Internet. This can be chilling deterrent on free speech, the apex court had said. However, no one has been convicted so far under the provision, though dozens of persons are incarcerated in jails under the impugned offence. Besides Section 66A, the court had struck down Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act, which provided for a similar punishment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
06-07-2021||India||Stan's death to bring India’s rights record into global focus again||The custody death of Father Stan Swamy on Monday is likely to bring India’s rights record into focus again in western capitals where there is considerable alarm at New Delhi’s slide on human rights as well as democracy. As the western world woke up to the news, offices and individuals tasked with monitoring human rights across the world were quick to respond. “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities,” tweeted Eamon Gilmore, the European Union’s Special Representative for Human Rights. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders (HRDs), Mary Lawlor, who had been keeping an eye on Swamy’s condition, tweeted: “The news from #India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing HRDs is inexcusable.” Last night, Lawlor had expressed concern about Swamy’s condition after learning that he was on life support. She had articulated the hope that the octogenarian priest would be provided specialist treatment. From Washington, the Chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, Nadine Maenza, tweeted: “Heartbreaking: death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got Covid. He was elderly priest & human rights activist imprisoned on false terrorism charges. USCIRF spoke out against his arrest & when he was denied bail as his health deteriorated.” Swamy’s death was picked up by most major international media houses and will add to the corpus of negative coverage India has been attracting, particularly over the Modi government’s handling of the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
06-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Glare on sudden NIA transfer by Modi govt||The tragic death of 84-year-old tribal rights defender Father Stan Swamy has brought the politics behind the Elgar Parishad case into focus as many politicians, activists and intellectuals condemned it as “murder” by State. The Narendra Modi government had abruptly transferred the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as soon as the new Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra declared its intention to review it. Ironically, the previous state government led by the BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis and the Centre had vehemently opposed the plea in the Supreme Court to transfer the case to the NIA. The somersault of the Modi government came when the Congress and the NCP openly campaigned for review of the Elgar Parishad case, describing it as a BJP conspiracy. NCP veteran Sharad Pawar wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray suggesting a special investigation team be set up to examine the case in the wake of allegations that Pune police had cooked up evidence to frame activists critical of the RSS-BJP. The activists were accused of plotting the assassination of Prime Minister Modi. The Congress and NCP had even publicly objected to Uddhav’s decision to give consent to the NIA to take over the case. The then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said in public the chief minister overruled him as the Congress-NCP wanted to resist the attempt of NIA’s intervention by moving court. The NIA takeover dashed the hopes of the arrested activists who had thought the change of regime in the state would facilitate delivery of justice. In fact, two arrested persons — criminal lawyer Surendra Gadling and poet Sudhir Dhawale — even moved Bombay High Court, challenging the case being transferred to the NIA in February this year, arguing that the decision was politically motivated. The plea cited a petition filed by historian Romila Thapar, economist Prabhat Patnaik and other intellectuals before the Supreme Court in August 2018, where the Centre had defended the role of Pune police in the investigation. Thapar’s petition had argued that a case involving a plot to assassinate the Prime Minister and the accused from so many states required an investigation by a central agency like the NIA or CBI. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Fadnavis government, fiercely opposed the demand, saying the court should be loath to entertain a writ petition of this nature when the investigation of a serious crime was in progress according to statutory provisions. Mehta submitted that the investigation was being conducted responsibly and impartially and strictly in accordance with the law. Another top lawyer, Harish Salve, appearing for the complainant (who filed the FIR), argued that the court must enquire whether the investigation was regarding such unlawful activity or was merely to stifle dissenting political voices. “If it is the former, the investigation must be allowed to proceed unhindered,” he said. He added that the court must lean in favour of appointing an SIT or an independent investigating agency only when the grievance made is one about the investigation being derailed or being influenced by some authority. After such illuminating arguments on behalf of the Centre and the BJP government in Maharashtra, the home ministry’s inexplicable decision to suddenly transfer the case to the NIA after the BJP was ousted from the state was bound to attract criticism. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted on Monday: “Who in the apparatus of the Indian state will be held responsible for this tragedy? Make no mistake — it is the Indian state that killed Fr Stan Swamy, who was such a passionate crusader for social justice.” Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness.” While Pune police had already filed a chargesheet in the case, followed by a supplementary chargesheet, the Centre didn’t think between 2018 and 2020 that the NIA’s intervention was needed. The NIA dealt with the activists, who had no criminal record, without any compassion, so much so that Fr Stan, a Parkinson’s disease patient, had to move court to be allowed a straw and a sipper. Fr Stan’s bail plea was forcefully opposed by the NIA despite his serious illness. Yet, it did not seek his custody for interrogation, asking him to be sent to judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
06-07-2021||India||The letter Stan wrote before being led away||Father Stan Swamy had expected his arrest and written a letter from his home, Bagaicha, near Ranchi, on October 8, 2020, which was forwarded to right activists, lawyers and journalists just hours before he was taken away by a team of the National Investigation Agency. Excerpts from the note follow. Sentences in bold letters had been made so by Fr Stan. I was interrogated by the NIA for 15 hours during a span of 5 days (July 27, 28, 29, 30 Aug. 6). Apart from my bio-data and some factual information, several extracts allegedly taken from a computer implicating my connection to Maoist forces were placed before me. I told them all these are fabrications stealthily put into my computer and I disowned them. The nature of the present NIA investigation of me has nothing to do about Bhima Koregaon case in which I have been booked as a ‘Suspected-accused’ and consequently raided twice (28 August 2018 and 12 June 2019). But it had everything to do to somehow establish (i) that I am personally linked to extremist leftist forces, (ii) that, through me, Bagaicha is also related to some Maoists. I denied both these allegations in strongest terms. After six weeks of silence, I am being summoned to appear in the NIA office in Mumbai. I have informed them (i) that I fail to understand the need for interrogating me further given the fact I have been subjected to that for 15 hours already, (ii) that I am not in a position to undertake the long journey given my age (83) and the nature of the epidemic ravaging the country. Besides, Jharkhand State Govt. has given a directive that during the lockdown period elderly persons above the age of 60 may not appear in public, (iii) that if the investigating agency wants to interrogate me further it can be done through video-conference. IF NIA will refuse to consider my request and insist that I go to Mumbai, I'll tell them that it will not possible for me to go for the above reasons. Hoping human sense will prevail. If not, I/we must be ready to face the consequences. I would just add that what is happening to me is not unique. Many activists, lawyers, writers, journalists, student leaders, poets, intellectuals and others who stand for the rights of Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and express their dissent to the ruling powers of the country are being targeted. Grateful to all who have stood in solidarity with me all these years. Attached is a note on the questions that I have been raising — What is the ‘crime’ I'm supposed to have committed? Stan Swamy What is the ‘crime’ I'm supposed to have committed? Stan Swamy, Jharkhand During the past three decades, I have tried to identify myself with the Adivasi People and their struggle for a life of dignity and self-respect. As a writer, I have tried to analyse the different issues they are faced with. In this process I have clearly expressed dissent with several policies, laws enacted by the govt in the light of the Indian Constitution. I have questioned the validity, legality, justness of several steps taken by the govt and the ruling class. I have questioned the non-implementation of the 5th Schedule of the Constitution (Indian Constitution, Article 244(1) which clearly stipulates that a ‘Tribes Advisory Council’ (TAC) composed solely of members from the Adivasi community who will advise the Governor of the State about any and everything concerning the protection, well-being and development of the Adivasi people in the State. I have asked why the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act… has been neatly ignored which for the first time recognized the fact the Adivasi communities in India have had a rich social and cultural tradition of self-governance through the Gram Sabha. I have expressed disappointment at the silence of the govt on Samatha Judgment, 1997 of the Supreme Court. The judgment was meant to provide some significant safeguards for the Adivasis to control the excavation of minerals in their lands and to help develop themselves economically. I have cried aloud at the half-hearted action of govt on Forest Rights Act, 2006… meant to correct the  historic injustice done to the Adivasi and other traditional forest-dwellers. I have queried why the govt is unwilling to carry out the SC order 'Owner of the land is also the owner of sub-soil minerals' ... and continues auctioning coal-blocks to industrialists without a due share to owners of the land. I have expressed my apprehension at the recently enacted Amendment to 'Land Acquisition Act 2013' by Jharkhand govt  which sounds a death-knell for Adivasi Community. This does away with the requirement for "Social Impact Assessment' and allows the govt to give away even agricultural and multi-crop land for non-agricultural purposes. I have strongly disagreed with the setting up of  ‘Land Bank’ which I see as the most recent plot to annihilate the Adivasi people because it claims that all 'gair-majurwa' land ('Commons') belong to the govt and it is free to allot it to anybody (read industrial houses) to set up their small and big industries. I have challenged the indiscriminate arrest of thousands of young Adivasis and Moolvasis under the label of ‘naxals’ just because they question and resist unjust land-alienation and displacement. I've taken  legal action against the Jharkhand State by filing a PIL in the HC praying that (i) all Under-Trial Prisoners (UTP) be released on bail on personal bond, (ii) speed up the trial process which surely will acquit most of them, (iii) appoint a judicial commission to probe the reasons why the trial process is indefinitely being delayed, (iv) the police submit all needed information about all UTPs to the petitioner. It is now more than two years since the case was admitted but the police is yet to provide all needed information about all UTPs. This, I believe, is the main reason why the State is keen to put me out of the way. The most feasible way is to implicate me in serious cases and stall the judicial process to give justice to the poor innocent Adivasis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Vidhan Parishad could facilitate Mamata retain job without polls||Bengal will soon have an upper house -- the Legislative Council -- a resolution for which was passed by the state assembly today amid BJP opposition. Of the 265 MLAs present in the House, 196 voted for a Vidhan Parishad, which the opposition claimed has no legal status and is being created to help Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee become a member of the assembly in the absence of a by-election. The state's Vidhan Parishad, considered a symbol of elitism, was scrapped by the earlier Left Front government in 1969. According to NDTV report, the ruling Trinamul Congress's plan revive it, which was part of the party's pre-election promises, however, is likely to run into rough weather in Delhi. The upper house in the state assembly can be formed only with the nod of Union cabinet. The proposal goes to the Union Home Ministry. In case it is shot down, it will mean trouble for Mamata Banerjee, who lost the election against the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, and is not an elected MLA at the moment. The Chief Minister needs to win an election within six months, which ends in October. There, however, is considerable doubt whether a by-election will be held in that period given the criticism directed at the Election Commission following the second Covid surge. In case there is an upper house in the state assembly, Mamata Banerjee can be nominated to it if the by-polls are delayed. Finance minister Amit Mitra also did not contest the assembly elections. Currently seven assembly seats are vacant in Bengal, where a mammoth nine-phase election was held in March-April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly passes resolution to create legislative council||The Bengal Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution supporting an Ad-hoc committee report that favoured the creation of a legislative council, amid opposition by the BJP. The resolution - 'Consideration of report of the ad hoc committee to examine the recommendation for creation of a Legislative council' -- was moved by state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee under Rule 169 of the Procedures of Conduct of Business of the House. Voting was duly held, with 196 of the 265 members present in the House supporting the creation of the council and 69 opposing it. The BJP legislative party, while opposing the resolution, said the TMC wants to pursue "backdoor politics" to help party leaders get elected as lawmakers despite having lost the assembly polls. The saffron party also argued that the move would put pressure on the state exchequer. Echoing the BJP, lone ISF MLA Naushad Siddiqui also opposed the resolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||Opinion|| In Mamata’s Bengal, women are crossing age-old boundaries, so what if the personal is political?||Linen has been around since the Egyptians and the Mesopotamians used the fabric. No one gave much thought about how and where to wash attire until a Frenchman by the name of Napoleon Bonaparte objected to the act of cleaning dirty linen being turned into a public spectacle. Decades later, Victorian Brits acknowledged Bonaparte’s suggestion and soon all its colonies were following their masters till a former capital of the British empire in the present time thought otherwise. These days, a lot of dirty linen is coming out for cleaning in Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal than ever before with more and more ruling party members putting on display their private lives, leaving no question answered. Algernon Moncrieff in Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest had found scandalous, “the amount of women in London who flirt with their husbands… It looks so bad. It is simply washing one’s clean linen in public.” Clean or unclean, women in Calcutta are no longer ashamed to hang them out to dry. Why else would a newly elected MLA rush to a hospital at midnight where her estranged husband was kept following his arrest by the CBI? Why would the man’s live-in partner keep crying and knocking on prison doors with cameras focussed on her? Politics in Bengal never overlapped with the personal until now when personal allegiances opened doors to rewards or banishment. Sujata Mondal bagged the Trinamul’s membership and, also a ticket to the Assembly from Hooghly’s Arambagh, some 117 km from her hometown Barjora in Bankura district. Sujata Mondal lost. None of this would have happened had Sujata’s husband, Saumitra Khan, not walked out of the Trinamul to join the BJP. Infidelity, if any, in the short-married life of Khan and Mondal was strictly political, but the bedroom became the arena for settling political scores. And this is not the only instance. When he found new love, former mayor Sovan Chatterjee walked out on his wife of 23 years and two grown-up sons and ended up losing his position of power as well. During a cabinet meeting, Mamata had asked Sovan to decide which one he wanted to focus on, his role as a minister or a lover. Sovan’s estranged wife Ratna, “the wronged woman”, found comfort in the unbridled support she received from the chief minister. Today, Ratna is an MLA from a seat that her husband once represented, and sees a political career ahead of her. Chatterjee, without the two women in his life, would have been dumped from public memory by now. How many of its former mayors can Calcutta recall every day? Since he is without a political party, Chatterjee can hardly be called an active politician. Keeping Chatterjee fresh in the mind of city residents is his partner Baisakhi Banerjee. She posted two videos with Sovan in which he announced his decision to leave his property to her. Her Facebook profile mentions her name as Baisakhi Sovan Banerjee, a practice common in Maharashtra and some other parts of the state but unusual in Bengal. If in other parts of India, the husband’s name is seen as a sign of patriarchy, it is the reverse in Baisakhi’s case. By including his name, Baisakhi has staked her claim on her life with a man that she loves. This was emulated by a media person a few weeks ago, which after a furore appears to have been reversed. Now, people are owning up to their relationships. The young MP, Nusrat Jahan, flaunts her pregnancy out of wedlock. Her contemporary and friend Shrabanti Chatterjee, who contested unsuccessfully in the Assembly elections, is on the way out of her third marriage while trotting out her latest relationship. Shrabanti has not let her career, or her motherhood, come in the way of who she is. She is determined to fulfil her desires, both as a woman and an artiste. It didn’t take long for newly elected Trinamul MLA Kanchan Mullick, a name that has been doing the rounds of Calcutta’s film and television industry for almost two decades, to have his domestic squabbles and personal dalliances come out in the open since being elected to the Assembly. For Mullick’s actor-wife, her estrangement with him could open doors to another career. There is something absolutely Calcuttan about this trend. Unlike other ancient cradles of civilisation burdened with centuries of tradition and morals, Calcutta was always free. Calcutta was no Benaras or Delhi. It was modern in the strictest meaning of the word. As it grew, Calcutta was creating its own idiom. Right from its inception, Calcutta was breaking social norms. Like Job Charnock taking up an Indian wife. There are more such instances.  Catherine Werlee’s -- married to an East India Company officer George Francois Grand-- alleged affair with Phillip Francis was one of the longest-running scandals of its time in the late 18th century since Francis was caught at the Grand household trying to break into the woman’s bedroom, while the husband was away playing a game of cards. A divorce and a duel followed. Catherine later moved to France and found herself in Napoleon’s court. As the British roots dug deeper, Calcutta’s native society to found itself clinging to the moral code of its colonial masters. Till the Mondal-Khan episode, or the triangle amoureux, involving former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Ratna Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee exploded on the living rooms of Calcutta, the city maintained a Victorian approach to scandals in politics. “There were rumours about a minister and an IAS officer in the days of the Left Front government. Nobody knew the truth. Neither spoke about it, always hush hush. Not like how it unfolds now almost every day,” said a retired IAS officer. Hush hush is passe in Mamata Banerjee’s Calcutta. Love has always been around and so has lust. The two often go together, hand in hand. A veteran Congressman in Bengal is rumoured to have forced the former husband of his wife to sign their divorce papers. The two got married and lived happily ever after. “For good or bad, the CPM while in power kept the personal space separate from politics. They could have got the husband to file a case, give him political protection and embarrassed our party and the leader. They didn’t do any of it. Nobody ever discussed this “marriage” again. There were other such instances too,” said a Bengal Congress functionary. “Imagine if a leader from the BJP today decides to marry and does something similar. The entire state CID will be after him.” Even when events went beyond control in such dalliances in Calcutta and blood was spilled, the personal still remained personal. Sometimes in the 1990s, a former councillor’s partner was killed in firing. Police did not pursue the case. Same for the suicide of a daughter-in-law in a prominent political family of south Calcutta, who was allegedly involved in an extra-marital affair.  Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had sent CCTV footage of two Trinamul MPs “caught in the act” in the Parliament complex to Mamata. The issue was never discussed in the party. For most of the years that Jyoti Basu was chief minister, his visits to then Great Eastern Hotel and occasionally meeting “old friend” R.P. Goenka post-Writers’ Buildings, were possibly the only glimpses into what was personal in his long life. His successor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, on the other hand, would spend his evenings at Nandan, where the Information and Cultural Affairs department had an office, sipping black coffee and sometimes watching a film. At this same office, Bhattacharjee often met members from the film and theatre fraternity that gave rise to some salacious gossip, all of which died a natural death. For some in the CPM family who led a colourful life, neither the party nor the Opposition raised a stink. “CPM old-timers recall that if rumours about any party member got too loud, Jyoti Basu would comment, ‘Esab ki hochchhe (what’s going on?’.” The matter would end there. The past it seems was all about men. That is what has changed now. Under a woman chief minister, and a feisty one who rose from the ranks smashing patriarchy and male domination in Bengal’s politics, the trend of today is centred around women claiming the right to their sexuality. The women in Calcutta are unafraid of breaking social mores. In India, the public and the private have always been separate constructs, a colonial variant of a European idea. A politician’s image had to be squeaky clean for him to engage in public service.  There has been a departure of some sorts here. Social anthropologist and teacher at Jadavpur University Amitesh Mukhopadhyay says women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment. “By giving a sewing machine to a woman, society tells her this is what you can do. Society sets the limits for her. Women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment,” says Mukhopadhyay. Mukhopadhyay says the prism that the middle-class viewed society through is being shattered. “The middle class created boundaries and then becomes the gate-keeper, keeping a watch on those who cross the line. What young women in public life like Nusrat Jahan have achieved is that they have crossed the boundaries that society had set for them in various roles. She has done what many of us are struggling with,” says Mukhopadhyay. History is the key to looking at the present. Like Calcutta, which grew unburdened of any legacy, neither of these women is looking for any approval from any corner. Given that the reigning deity of Calcutta is Kali, it was possibly something pre-ordained. This had to happen and happen in Calcutta. After all Kali is the free spirit, the symbol of existence, of freedom that does not need any validation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy's wife Krishna Roy passes away||TMC leader Mukul Roy's wife Krishna Roy passed away in a Chennai hospital on Tuesday after suffering from post-Covid ailments for almost two months. Krishna Roy was suffering from post-Covid issues for since long. She had been admitted to a private hospital at EM Bypass in Calcutta on May 11, before being shifted to a hospital in Chennai. In Calcutta, she was even put on ECMO support for a while. The TMC leader's wife passed away at around 5 am in the hospital while under treatment. According to a report by anandabazar.com, her son Shubhrangshu was there by her side when she took her last breath. Mukul Roy, however, is in Calcutta at the moment and won't be heading to Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Soaring fuel prices leave people in distress: Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Narendra Modi||Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Narendra Modi about the “great distress” the masses were subjected to because of the steep spike in fuel prices, expressing her “deep concern and anguish” over his government’s pursuit of policies that had allegedly resulted in substantial difficulties for the common man. The Bengal chief minister said she found it “shocking” that the retail price of petrol had crossed Rs 100 a litre in several states, including some parts of Bengal. She urged the Prime Minister to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel levied by the Centre to offer relief to the common people and check the overall inflationary trends in the country. “I have come to learn that petrol and diesel prices were hiked by your government 8 times since May 4, 2021 and out of these, prices were hiked 6 times in the month of June, 2021 only and shockingly, 4 times in one week,” read Mamata’s letter which pointed out that in the middle of the pandemic, the Centre had collected a “staggering” revenue of Rs 3.71 lakh crore from oil and petroleum products in the 2020-21 fiscal. On June 29, Darjeeling had joined many other parts of the country where petrol had breached the three-digit mark. The price crossed Rs 100 at some north Bengal towns on July 2. Oil companies are allowed to mark up petrol on account of transport cost if the fuel is hauled to distant places. As a result, prices differ from one location to another even within a state despite the fuel being subjected to the same amount of central and state levies. The common man is bearing the brunt of surging oil prices, which are increasing the cost of commute as well as general merchandise.“This rather cruel hikes in petrol and diesel prices have affected the common people most adversely and has directly impacted the dangerously rising inflation in the country,” wrote Mamata. The chief minister pointed out that over the past six years under Modi (since the 2014-15 fiscal), the Centre’s tax collection from oil and petroleum products has increased by 370 per cent because of hikes in central excise duty on such products, including cesses and surcharges. So far, the Modi government has shown no desire to do so and instead called on states to cut local taxes. “Here I may mention that government of West Bengal has voluntarily given a rebate to both petrol and diesel as a token of our empathy for common people,” she wrote. Bengal did walk the talk and cut prices of both petrol and diesel by Rs 1 a litre on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections. The rebate, which had been in place till June 30, has been extended for another three months. “It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the central government on petrol and diesel be substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to the common people and also to check the overall inflationary trend in the country today,” said Mamata. The chief minister wrote she was also “alarmed” by the Centre “constantly” increasing the cess component of central tax revenues. “… which results in denying the states its legitimate share of 42 per cent of tax collected by government of India, without sharing with the states. I sincerely urge you to desist from the anti-federalist trend developed in the last few years,” read her letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul starts 10-day protest against failure of Narendra Modi government to rein in fuel prices||Trinamul on Monday started a 10-day protest against the failure of the Narendra Modi government to rein in fuel prices, the event coinciding with petrol price touching Rs 100 a litre in south Bengal districts such as Bankura, Birbhum, Purulia and Hooghly. Bengal’s ruling party decided to counter the BJP’s growing support base by exposing the “anti-people policies of the Modi government”, and the protest against the rising fuel prices was an outreach in that direction, a Trinamul insider said. In Bankura’s Raipur, Trinamul leaders rode on a dozen bullock carts and started a “dedicated route from Bankura to Calcutta and Bankura to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in Delhi” in a mock gesture against fuel price rise. “We brought out bullock carts to showcase the plight of rural commuters grappling with high fuel prices. With the price of petrol touching Rs 100 on Monday, taking out two-wheelers has become difficult. We will take the movement to various blocks of the district,” said Raju Singh, Trinamul youth president in Bankura. Trinamul leaders in several south Bengal districts said the protest will fan out to places where the BJP did well in recent Assembly polls. In Hooghly’s Pursurah, Arambagh and Khanakul, three Assembly seats where the BJP won, Trinamul workers met people who came to buy petrol. “We started our movement from Pursurah today (Monday) and will hold protests elsewhere in Arambagh subdivision. We will tell people how the Modi government has increased people’s burden by pushing up fuel prices,” said Arambagh youth Trinamul chief Gopal Roy. A Trinamul insider in Burdwan said the party had failed to convince farmers in Bengal about the dangers of the Centre’s contentious farm laws but wanted to drive home the point that rise in fuel prices would affect them directly. “For example, the cost of farming will rise for those who depend on diesel-run submersible pumps,” he said, adding that diesel rate was hovering below Rs 93 per litre. A Trinamul leader in East Burdwan said: “Farmers are feeling the impact of rising fuel prices. We are telling farmers that chief minister Mamata Banerjee was trying to help them with sops, but the Modi government is burdening them by hiking fuel prices.” Apart from Trinamul, the CPM took out rallies in many Bengal districts to protest the hike in fuel prices. CPM veteran Mohammed Salim led a rally in East Midnapore’s Egra while young party colleague Minakshi Mukherjee addressed a gathering in Haldia. In Birbhum’s Bolpur, CPM workers took out a protest with empty LPG cylinders and motorbikes to condemn the rise in fuel prices. “Fuel price hike, along with the rising price of LPG cylinders, have hit the common man and woman hard. Our protests aim to create awareness against anti-people policies of the Centre,” said Goutam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member in Bolpur. Virtual Martyrs’ Day Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said the party would, for the second year in a row, hold its annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21 virtually, in view of the pandemic situation. Last year was the first time Mamata Banerjee’s party held the event virtually. Last year, she had promised a spectacular event — with likely participation from major players in the national Opposition — after the Assembly election victory. Trinamul did win, but in the wake of the devastating second wave she decided once again to have the event conducted virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress MPs meet Ram Nath Kovind with plea for Tushar Mehta ouster||Trinamul on Monday petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to remove solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta for his reported one-on-one meeting with BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari, an accused in both the Narada and Saradha cases, billing it as “impropriety” and “conflict of interest”. The party’s Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra met the President on Monday with a memorandum on Mehta’s removal. Kovind accepted it and said he would look into it. Trinamul raised the pitch on the purported meeting between Adhikari and Mehta ever since reports about the meeting and footage of Adhikari entering the solicitor-general’s residence on July 1 appeared in media. Mehta later said the BJP MLA came unannounced and he didn’t meet Adhikari. President Kovind served as a lawyer, which the Trinamul memo noted, citing he was “familiar with the rules of practice...” “The Solicitor General's conduct must be investigated and pending such inquiry, he must tender his resignation” the memo read. “We have reasons to believe such a meeting has been organised to influence the outcome of criminal cases where Mr. Adhikari is an accused person, using the high offices of the Solicitor General...Such a meeting between one of the highest serving law officers of India...who is also appointed as the Special Public Prosecutor of the Central Bureau of Investigation – and an accused person being investigated by the same agency raises extremely serious issues of impropriety.” A Trinamul turncoat, Adhikari is under CBI scanner in the Narada ‘sting’ and Saradha deposit scam cases. Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, was in Delhi last week when he met Union home minister Amit Shah. In its memo, Trinamul called the Shah-Adhikari meeting “improper” before the BJP MLA’s purported meeting with Mehta . The memo said: “The majesty of the office of the Solicitor General of India must be protected so that the public faith in the criminal justice system is not shaken.... Public interest, integrity and neutrality of the office of the Solicitor General of India are required to be protected at all costs.” Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted why Mehta did not release “the 20 mins of CCTV footage of his OWN HOUSE to corroborate his OWN STATEMENT” of not meeting Adhikari. “Mr SG, with such weak defence you can continue serving as @BJP4India’s SECRET GENERAL, not INDIA’S SOLICITOR GENERAL.” In his clarification, Mehta had claimed Adhikari did visit his residence but was seated in the waiting room and he (Mehta) apologised and conveyed through his staff his inability to meet him. After meeting the President, Moitra told the media that Mehta’s clarification was “untenable” as one can’t simply saunter into the solicitor general’s residence. “It is news for us and the people of India that the solicitor-general has to apologise to an accused for not meeting him,” she added. She also iterating the party’s demand tweeted by Abhishek that Mehta release CCTV footage of his house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 885 fresh cases||Bengal on Monday logged 885 new Covid-19 cases, a three-digit total for the first time since March 31, 96 days ago. Monday was the 15th straight day of a drop in Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases, which fell by 830 to 17,950. The state reported 1,697 recoveries and 18 deaths, including two from Calcutta. “Getting the daily new infection count to less than 1,000 again was an important milestone. Now, we can safely say we are on our way past the residual impact of the second wave,” said a minister. Bengal’s active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 22 per cent in these 15 days. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.19 on Monday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.63 per cent on Monday, with the national rate at 97.09. Its mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. With Calcutta logging 64 new infections and North 24-Parganas 109, Monday was the eighth successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections and Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. North 24-Parganas reported three deaths while five districts just one each and a dozen others zero deaths on Monday. Bengal now has a total of over 15.06 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.7 lakh recoveries and 17,817 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||SFI activists protest actions of vice-chancellor on Visva-Bharati campus||Around 50 SFI activists staged a six-hour demonstration on the Visva-Bharati campus on Monday to protest against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s alleged undemocratic ways in running the institution. The demonstrators led by SFI all-India general secretary Mayukh Biswas said the VC had suspended three students for protesting against several of his moves, including his alleged attempt to saffronise the campus. “The VC is destroying the culture of this esteemed institution and is trying to saffronise the campus. His anti-student moves have been defined by suspending students and teachers who dared to raise voices against him. We demand revocation of suspension of the students and want the varsity to be run in keeping with its tradition. Else, we will be forced to launch a bigger movement,” said Biswas. Visva-Bharati’s acting public relations officer Anirban Sarcar didn’t respond to the fresh protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s revenue dips in second Covid wave||The second wave of Covid-19 has left the exchequer of the Bengal government stressed as the state’s revenue generation has dipped significantly and officials are worried whether current austerity measures would be enough to tide over the crisis. “The state’s own revenue generation has come down to Rs 2,700 crore to Rs 2,900 crore a month after the second wave hit the state in April, compared to Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 5,500 crore in the pre-Covid period. As a result, the state government was forced to cut down expenditures in all possible areas,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the state’s financial condition has been hit further after the Mamata Banerjee government decided to introduce the welfare schemes that the chief minister had promised ahead of the Assembly polls. The financial assistance for farmers under Krishak Bandhu has already been enhanced and a sum of additional Rs 2,000 crore is being spent. Soon, Laxmir Jhanpi, a scheme to give monthly assistance of Rs 500 to women belonging to General Castes and Rs 1,000 to SC/ST women, will be launched. This particular scheme is likely to put a further burden of Rs 11,000 crore on the state exchequer. “The state government would have to allot funds for these schemes in the budget that would be tabled this week. If additional funds are allotted to welfare schemes, the state would have to cut down expenditure on several other schemes,” said another official. The finance department has already issued an order making it clear that no department will be able to launch schemes worth more than Rs 30 lakh. Only departments like PWD and PHE can initiate projects worth up to Rs 1.5 crore in the ongoing financial year. The sources said the state’s revenue generation had been hit hard in May and June after stricter measures had been announced to curb Covid’s spread. “The state was hit hard because the revenue from the GST had come down to less than Rs 500 crore a month when Bengal’s average collection from the GST is around Rs 1,200 crore a month. Similarly, revenue from excise had plummeted to almost nil in May. It marginally improved in June after liquor shops were opened. But it was much less than the Rs 1,000 crore mark a month, which is usually generated in a normal situation,” said another official. The situation has turned critical, the sources said, as the Centre was not clearing GST dues on time. “We have a backlog of nearly Rs 5,000 crore, which is a huge amount given the current financial condition of the state,” said a source. The state is also spending more than Rs 400 crore every month in order to provide free treatment to Covid patients and run safe homes.Senior officials said they expected that the situation would change to some extent from August. “Between November 2020 and February this year, the state’s revenue generation had almost returned to normality. The revenue had crossed Rs 4,500 crore then. But after the second wave had hit, the revenue dipped significantly. It is expected we will cross the Rs 3,000 crore mark in terms of revenue generation from August,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Kurseong Municipality decides to name new community hall after Subash Ghisingh||Kurseong Municipality has decided to name a new community hall on Dow Hill Road after Subash Ghisingh, the late GNLF chief still considered the tallest political leader of the hills. The civic body’s recent move to call the building Municipal Community Hall drew flak from Trinamul and the GNLF, forcing the change. “We have decided to rename the new community hall as the Subash Ghisingh Memorial Community Hall. The decision was taken at a meeting of the board of councillors on Sunday evening,” Kurseong Municipality vicechairman Subhash Pradhan said on Monday. In 2018, chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her visit to the hills announced the project and asserted it would be named after Ghisingh. The north Bengal development department allotted funds for the hall and the state PWD built it. The local civic body, however, named it differently, prompting GNLF leaders in Kurseong to threaten a movement against the civic body and Trinamul Rajya Sabha member from the hills Shanta Chhetri to accuse the civic body of going against the chief minister’s announcement. Chhetri on Monday said: “I appreciate their decision to go by the chief minister’s announcement and name the hall after the most respected leader of the hills."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong gets new block in Pedong||Kalimpong district got a new block in Pedong on Monday on a day pending demands such as setting up School Service Commission (SSC) in the hills and extending the Darjeeling Mail’s journey to Gulma near Sukna were raised once again. Kalimpong-II block was bifurcated into Pedong and Lava blocks. While the new Pedong block will be headquartered in Pedong, Lava block, which is what the old Kalimpong-II has been renamed as, will be headquartered at Algarah, Kalimpong-II block’s old office. Kalimpong was upgraded to a district by the state government on February 14, 2017, but till date lacks a subdivision. With Pedong, the district will now have four blocks, Kalimpong 1, Pedong, Lava and Gorubathan. Pedong block will cover six gram panchayats but many want the headquarters of Pedong block be in the interiors for more use to people in villages such as Kagay, Lingsey and Lingseyka. Kalimpong district magistrate Vimala Ranganathan said Pedong was picked as block headquarters as it fulfilled certain criteria. “We will ensure all facilities will reach the doorsteps of the people,” she said. The new block formation notification had come some months back and Pedong BDO Kaushik Chakraborty had been appointed before the Assembly elections but could not assume charge because of the model code of conduct. People still demand at least 14 more blocks be made in the GTA area, which now has nine blocks. There was a demand to make Algarah-Pedong a separate subdivision along with Kalimpong Sadar and Gorubathan-Jaldhaka subdivision. In Darjeeling, a demand for starting and ending Darjeeling Mail from Gulma station in Darjeeling instead of New Jalpaiguri station was raised by the National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body. “In 2014-15, during a meeting at Darjeeling DM office, in the presence of the chief minister, I had asked for it and the idea was appreciated, but, there was no follow-up after that,” said Trilok Dewan, former Darjeeling MLA and NGC vice-chairman. Dewan said that despite the train named Darjeeling Mail, the train to Calcutta, starts and ends at Jalpaiguri district. The former legislator then took up the matter with former Darjeeling MP S.S. Ahluwalia. “The MP was kind enough to prepare a detailed technically viable proposal after discussing the same with the concerned railway authority. The proposal was then forwarded to NEFR general manager stationed at Katihar,” said Dewan who added that the issue was also raised before Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar recently. A teachers’ organisation from Darjeeling on Monday also wrote to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration with an appeal to set up a separate School Service Commission (SSC) for the hills and start recruiting teachers whose credentials were verified last year. The last SSC (Hills) examination was held in 2000 and after that there is no structured system for teacher recruitment in hill schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Police rescue four Assam girls from woman ‘trafficker’||Police rescued four girls, including two minors, from a bus terminus here on Sunday and arrested a suspected woman trafficker who had planned to take them to Delhi on the pretext of providing them with jobs. Anindya Bhattacharjee, inspector-in-charge of Alipurduar police station, said the woman, along with one of her accomplices, was supposed to board a train from Alipurduar for Delhi. “We arrested one of the two women. During preliminary probe, it was found that both are members of a trafficking racket in Assam.” The rescued girls hail from Gossaingaon of Assam. Later, the minor girls were sent to a home in Cooch Behar and the adults were handed over to their guardians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets victims of post-poll violence in East Midnapore||Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday met BJP supporters, who were the alleged victims of post-poll violence, at Bhupatinagar in East Midnapore district in the backdrop of accusations that his party had failed to stand by ordinary workers affected by the clashes across the state. Rabindranath Maity, the BJP MLA of Bhagabanpur, claimed at least 80 houses of party workers had been ransacked and more than 250 people rendered homeless at Bhupatinagar since May 2 when the Assembly poll results had been announced. Maity blamed the alleged inactivity of local police and the administration for the violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamul Congress cadres. Mohitosh Arui, a local BJP booth president, said he had requested Adhikari to ensure the protection of him, his family and the rest at the village. He said the party could’ve ensured his security if it wanted to. “I’ve shed my sweat to help the party win in Bhagabanpur. We ensured the BJP’s win by around 27,500 votes. Yet, the party can’t provide shelter to us,” Arui said. “I told Suvendubabu that he is the leader of the Opposition. It is his duty to save his people,” he added. MLA Maity told The Telegraph that Adhikari had asked the BJP workers to move the court if the police didn’t accept complaints. “He has asked us to speak to the National Human Rights Commission.” Trinamul denied all the allegations and claimed BJP supporters had ransacked the houses of the ruling party’s workers at Bhupatinagar. “In fact, BJP workers are attacking us. We have complained to the police superintendent and the NHRC,” said local Trinamul leader Tarun Jana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||West Bengal||Howrah-Radhikapur special train derailed near Burdwan station||The carriage and guard coach of the Howrah-Radhikapur special train derailed near Burdwan station on Monday, making passengers panicky and delaying the train by over two hours. No one was injured, railway officials said, as the train had slowed down as it advanced the station around 10.40am. Eastern Railway  chief public relations officer Ekalabya Chakraborty said a technical team was sent to fix the snag. The train left minus the derailed coach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
06-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Birthday bumps||Centenary birth celebrations of a behemoth have begun. The Chinese Communist Party — its gargantuan reach affects the lives of 92 million people — has turned 100 and remains, by all accounts, quite sprightly on its feet. The energy of the CCP — India’s communist outfits appear decidedly somnolent in contrast — needs to be understood in terms of a context that weaves in the national and the international. The CCP remains the undisputed political force in China with the president, Xi Jinping, an ambitious and authoritarian leader, setting the agenda for party and nation. There can be no doubting the ground that China has covered under the party’s watch. It is now the second largest economy with a blistering pace of growth. China managed to grow, albeit slowly, even as other economies were being battered by the pandemic. Beijing’s political heft, augured by its economic muscle, is now considerable; so much so that the position of the world leader, long held by the United States of America, is up for grabs. The CCP has also served as a torch-bearer of progressive change, ushering in literacy, public healthcare, championing women’s rights, even though the upper echelons of the party resemble an old boys’ club. The irony, however, is that the CCP also remains the architect of monumental tragedies. Mao Zedong, Mr Xi’s mentor presumably, watched as millions died in the course of the Great Leap Forward: the Cultural Revolution and, later, the Tiananmen Square killings demonstrated that the Party does not think twice before turning the gun — real and metaphorical — on the people. These transgressions are an embodiment of the antithesis that informs the relationship between totalitarian societies and the ideals of freedom, rights, dissent and democracy, and attempts to purge China of ‘historical nihilism’ by the party apparatus are unlikely to bear fruit. Worryingly, China’s belligerence is no longer an internal affair. In a telling speech to mark the CCP’s centenary, Mr Xi thundered that China’s competitors would get their ‘heads bashed’ if they were to intimidate Beijing. Words have, for a while, been followed by action with China raising the global temperature with unprecedented acts of aggression in different corners of the world, from Tibet to Taiwan, the South China Sea to Ladakh to Hong Kong. The world order is also being realigned in the process with the West and the East meeting to contain the dragon in the room. Several blocs, military and economic — be they Quad or the B3W — have emerged as a result of the lines being redrawn. An age of aggression will dawn as Beijing pursues a global order with Chinese characteristics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
06-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sri Lanka acid spill results in marine life destruction, Covid and healthcare workers||Grave loss Sir — The remains of at least 176 turtles, 20 dolphins and four whales have washed up on the shores of Sri Lanka following the sinking of an acid-laden ship in late May. This is only a fraction of the actual numbers as many marine mammals sink to the sea-bed after dying. The acid spill has caused irreparable damage to the environment. The shipping company must be held accountable for the incident. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Not enough Sir — The pandemic has been difficult for everybody, but few groups of people have fought it as closely and as relentlessly as healthcare workers (“Special place”, July 2). Doctors all over the world have laid down their lives in the fight against Covid-19. In India, with its overwhelmed healthcare system and lack of basic amenities, doctors, nurses and other healthcare personnel have been pushed to the brink. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 early last year, the medical community has worked tirelessly at the expense of their own well-being and that of their families. It was thus heartening to see the prime minister, Narendra Modi, pay tribute to healthcare professionals on National Doctors’ Day. Around the same time, the audience at Wimbledon gave a rousing ovation to the scientist designing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and the staff of the National Health Service on the first day of the tournament. The pandemic exposed the many failures of governments across the world. While appreciating the services of the medical community is essential, it is not enough. There is an urgent need for a substantial increase in resources and a commitment towards a scientific mindset. The Indian government has, so far, failed on both counts. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — In the last year and a half, countless doctors have lost their lives to Covid-19. It is absolutely imperative that we recognize their service, but not just on National Doctors’ Day. India suffered from an acute shortage of oxygen and other life-saving drugs just about a month back as a result of government apathy and oversight. Thus, the gratitude expressed by the prime minister seems somewhat hollow. Had the government prepared for the second wave of the pandemic, many healthcare professionals would still be alive. One can only hope that the government will not repeat its mistakes. Surabhi Jain,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Beyond votes||When there is excitement over a speech that asserts what should have been normal, it is clear that India is going through hard times. In the Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Trust lecture, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, underscored the nature of a functioning democracy. In it people’s sovereignty is manifested by their dignity and autonomy, achieved through a public discourse both ‘reasoned and reasonable’. The emphasis on reason and on people’s dignity hit hard at a time when both are seriously endangered. In this context the CJI declared that the mere right to change rulers every few years is no guarantee against tyranny. Articulating something that democratically-minded Indians have been feeling for a while, this statement gave to the speech a deep, strongly reverberating dimension. The CJI did say that Indians have shown themselves up to the task of electing governments — they chose a different party or combination eight times out of 17 elections — but his vision of democratic space implied their continued engagement. Besides elections, integral to democracy are day-to-day public discourses, criticism and protests. But these require an atmosphere of justice. The CJI spoke of the possibility of oppression by weaponizing law, as the colonial rulers did. That was rule by law, not the rule of law, the subject of his speech. The rule of law would need an independent judiciary free of pressure from the executive and legislature and, nowadays, from the amplified force of social media. At the same time, law must be used to render justice, not to inflict oppression. By referring to the tyranny of the elected and the use of law for oppression, the CJI’s speech went to the core of current experience. It gained a sharper point with his suggestion that it was necessary to reflect how far the rule of law was used for the protection and welfare of the people during the pandemic. The CJI’s speech ignited hope that the rule of law, bound by ideals of justice, would perhaps be applied to issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the imprisonments in the name of the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Equally important would be the recovery of the democratic space with public discourse and expressions of dissent, for that would offer the most meaningful resistance to tyranny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Taxing plan||The G7 countries are mooting to subject large businesses to a global minimum corporate tax rate on a country-by-country basis. According to the G7, subjecting companies to a minimum tax rate would end the “race to the bottom” on corporate tax rates and tackle base erosion and profit shifting practices employed by large businesses. While the proposal may have some peculiar advantages, it is not as straightforward as it seems. Firstly, the idea of a global minimum tax is not new. As part of its 15-point BEPS Action Plan, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has come up with a range of recommendatory reports to tackle some of the common ways in which businesses avoid paying corporate tax in countries in which they operate. Since 2018, the OECD has been discussing a reform package — bifurcated into two pillars — to address the direct tax challenges posed by the digital economy. The Pillar 1 approach, on allocation of taxing rights, faced serious objections from developing countries that felt that their taxing rights were not being protected. The Pillar 2 approach, on introducing a global minimum corporate tax rate, would be meaningless in the absence of fair and equitable reallocation of taxing rights in the context of the digital economy. Secondly, it is true that countries lose billions of dollars in tax revenues every year to corporate tax avoidance, but we must ask who the proposal would benefit the most? As per the proposal, any “top-up” tax collected from businesses that have paid less than the minimum tax rate in foreign jurisdictions would be clawed back by the United States of America as the country of residence. Since most large businesses that benefit from preferential tax rate structures are tax residents in the US, it is the US that will benefit significantly from additional tax revenues. Thirdly, the rate of tax — currently mooted to be at least 15 per cent — is likely to be an issue of disagreement. The rate is too low and will kindle a new “race to the minimum”. Most countries apply a corporate tax rate of more than 15 per cent, but companies pay much less in tax, thanks to tax incentives and schemes. The proposal would die sooner if countries continue to provide tax incentives or insist on overbroad carve-outs. Finally, the G7 finance ministers do not set the global tax agenda. Recent international tax reform has taken place under the umbrella of the G20 nations, which includes emerging powers such as India and Brazil. To call the G7 proposal a “global agreement” is misleading at worst and naïve at best. It is imperative to keep in mind that the average corporate tax rate in the world has gone down significantly over the last few years. Perhaps governments realize that low corporate tax rates attract foreign investment. The proposal unfairly targets smaller countries that have few options other than keeping their corporate tax rates low to attract investments and retain their overall competitiveness. It is unfair on the part of a handful of rich countries to ask these smaller countries to surrender their national sovereignty to legislate on tax law and policy. India must strongly oppose a G7-centric proposal in the guise of international tax reform. Doing so becomes particularly important when the country is reeling under economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A tax system should be certain and fair. But it must also be flexible, which includes making changes to tax rates to suit the immediate and long-term needs of the exchequer without external control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Shadow boxing in Cornwall||Touted as a counter-response to China’s Belt and Road Initiative project, the G7, an inter-governmental political forum of the world’s wealthiest democracies comprising the United States of America, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada launched the Build Back Better World initiative at the recent Cornwall summit. Proposed by the US president Joe Biden, it seeks to focus on providing “values-driven, high-standard, and transparent infrastructure partnership” to help narrow the $40 trillion needed by developing nations by 2035. However, there is no commitment on the modalities to mobilize resources to fund the projects under B3W. The BRI is a multi-trillion dollar, politico-economic, transcontinental, long-term policy and investment project, which aims at infrastructural development and the economic integration of China with member countries. Apart from geopolitical ambitions, one crucial motivation for China to launch the BRI in 2013 was the domestic saturation of the infrastructure market; so much so that there were reports of Ghost Cities — constructed townships — lying vacant because of infrastructure surplus. This, however, is not the case with the G7 nations launching their B3W, particularly with the US that faces one of the worst infrastructure deficits of all time. The G7 is neither endowed with capital surplus nor is it a saturated domestic construction market like that of China. The US’s ageing and dilapidated domestic infrastructure requires massive investments. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the US faces a $2.59 trillion infrastructure deficit that calls for massive government spending. The Biden administration had proposed a $2.25 trillion infrastructure plan to be spent over eight years, but it has been downsized to $1.7 trillion as per the latest estimates. The report by the ASCE also states that in the absence of significant infrastructural investments, the US economy would lose $10 trillion in growth, with exports declining by $2.4 trillion coupled with the loss of three million jobs domestically. Construction has become China’s major export. Beijing possesses an enormous capital surplus, with its forex touching a record $1 trillion in May 2021. China has been the most resilient economy in the post-Covid world. It grew positively at 3.2 per cent during the pandemic as opposed to the G7 economies, which registered a sharp contraction in GDP varying from 9 to 21 per cent in the April-June quarter of 2020. According to the International Monetary Fund, unemployment in the G7 countries has risen, varying from 3.3 per cent to 11 per cent. According to the University of Southern California’s US-China Institute, Japan and the European Union members of the G7 collectively have greater trade ties with China than they do with the US. However, the trade equation between the EU and the US may ameliorate, subject to the relaxation of tariffs imposed by the Donald Trump administration. All these factors shall impact the nature and scope of the B3W project. B3W differs from BRI. The former is a collective endeavour of seven countries with a democratic political system as opposed to BRI that is solely designed and executed by China that follows a one-party communist system. But the B3W is not without its infirmities. Given their trade and investment deals with Beijing, Germany, Italy and the EU may be hesitant to sever their ties with China. Second, the pandemic has adversely affected the growth of the G7 economies. Finally, regime changes in G7 countries due to their democratic political systems make the B3W a volatile project. The BRI has had its fair share of criticisms due to allegations of corruption, lack of transparency and signs of malinvestments and corporate debt in the projects undertaken. However, a hurried, uncritical acceptance of the US-backed B3W as a panacea to the BRI would be undesirable. Moreover, pitching the G7’s B3W against China’s BRI may resurrect an ecosystem of two-bloc politics reminiscent of the Cold War. India was invited, along with Australia, South Korea and South Africa, to the G7 summit. New Delhi’s response to the B3W was positive. However, India’s assessment must be based on to what extent does the B3W benefit New Delhi. Given India’s extensive economic ties with China and its political ties with the US, it would be challenging for India to decide whether it should adhere to and engage with a potential power bloc-based configuration or call for a revival of NAM 2.0 but not as a ritual performed every three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Bigger picture||As Pakistan-administered Jammu and Kashmir  goes to the polls on July 25, the constitutional and practical realities underpinning the electoral exercise across the Line of Control will once again highlight some of the limitations of the popular global discourse around the Kashmir issue. A total of 2.88 million people are reportedly eligible voters. The diverse political unit of Jammu and Kashmir which came together because of a confluence of many factors in the 19th century, has propounded many myths. One such myth relates to PAJK, a sliver of the undivided princely state that has been controlled by Pakistan since 1947, which has often escaped popular discussion. Pakistan refers to this area as “Azad Jammu and Kashmir”, meaning independent Jammu and Kashmir. Its legislative assembly has the power to elect its prime minister and president. At international fora, the nomenclature of executive positions and a separate Constitution are presented as evidence by Pakistan that the region is an independent entity. However, the reality is a lot different. On top of this, the whole electoral exercise is held in a manner that perpetuates the unrealistic expectations and ideas that Pakistani society has about Jammu and Kashmir. This in turn has held all the efforts towards subcontinental cooperation hostage. First, there are contradictions between the Pakistani and PAJK Constitutions. For instance, Article 257 of Pakistan’s Constitution holds that the “people of Jammu and Kashmir will define their relationship with Pakistan after obtaining freedom”. On the contrary, Part 2 of Section 7 of the 1974 PAJK Constitution says that “no person or political party in Azad Jammu and Kashmir shall be permitted to propagate against or take part in activities prejudicial or detrimental to the ideology of the state’s accession to Pakistan”. Under Section 5(2)(vii) of the PAJK legislative assembly election ordinance of 1970, “a person will be disqualified for propagating any opinion or action in any manner prejudicial to the ideology of Pakistan, the ideology of the state’s accession to Pakistan or the sovereignty and integrity of Pakistan”. Thus, without signing an affidavit of allegiance to the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to Pakistan, nobody is allowed to take part in the PAJK legislative assembly elections. In the past, the Amanullah Khan-led Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front and the All Parties Nationalist Alliance espousing an independent state of Jammu and Kashmir were not allowed to participate because they refused to sign the affidavit. Within the same Constitution, the oath of office for the appointment to important posts like those of the prime minister, president or Speaker in PAJK contravenes the claim that PAJK is an independent country. For instance, the oath of office for the president of PAJK reads: “As President of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, I will be loyal to the country and the cause of accession of the state of Jammu and Kashmir to Pakistan...” Second, there are 45 elected seats which include 12 “refugees constituencies”. These 12 seats have been used as an instrument to skew the overall result of the assembly in a particular direction. They are reserved for the people who migrated from the Indian side of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947 and settled down in various parts of Pakistan. In 1947-48, approximately 80 per cent of the migrants settled down in the Punjab province of Pakistan. As compared to the hilly PAJK, Pakistani Punjab offered more economic opportunities for the migrants. The number of original refugees and their descendants living in different parts of Pakistan is estimated to be at least two million. Nine of these seats are located in different parts of the Punjab while the remaining constituencies are scattered in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and Sindh. Equal seats — six each — have been allocated for refugees coming from Kashmir province and Jammu province respectively, the two culturally, ethnically and linguistically distinct provincial units of Jammu and Kashmir. However, on the ground, it results in absurdity in terms of representation. The data of the 2006 assembly elections reveal that there were 5,46,031 registered voters for the six seats for Jammu whereas there were only 35,256 voters for the six seats reserved for the Kashmir province refugees. Although the number of seats is the same, the number of voters from the Kashmir province is only .06 per cent of the total migrant vote bank. Even within the six seats for the Jammu province, the strength of the constituencies is uneven: LA5 and LA6 in Rawalpindi had 5,000 and 1,50,000 voters respectively. Holding elections for these refugee constituencies has little practical representational and legislative relevance as the descendants of the 1947 migrants are socially and economically well-integrated in Pakistan, particularly Punjab. In fact, the bulk of Muslim migration was from the Dogri and Punjabi speaking Jammu plains of Jammu province. Even before 1947, a substantial portion of the population living on the Jammu plains was tied to neighbouring parts of Punjab province — now in Pakistan — because of family, trade, education and employment. The geography played its part as from Jammu city — the winter capital of Jammu and Kashmir — major Pakistani cities like Sialkot and Lahore — the capital of Pakistani Punjab — are less than one hour and less than two hours away respectively. In contrast, the distance between the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar, Lahore is at least 10 to 12 hours away. Moreover, with regard to refugee seats, past experience demonstrates that candidates who are close to the ruling dispensation in Islamabad are able to win these seats. In 1975, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party brought down the government led by the Muslim Conference, a PAJK-based party, on the strength of these refugee seats. In 1990, the Muslim Conference won all the 12 refugee seats. Nawaz Sharif, the then prime minister, boasted that his government had given these seats to the Sardar Qayoom-led Muslim Conference as a gift. Similarly, in 1996, when Benazir Bhutto assumed power in Pakistan, these seats were won by the PAJK chapter of the PPP. There were cases where people fraudulently contested elections. In 1996, a politician was elected on a PPP ticket although it was found that he had illegally registered himself in the electoral list when he did not have any connection to Jammu and Kashmir. In the 2016 elections, six seats reserved for Jammu refugees went to the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz of the then prime minister, Sharif, whereas the party won three out of the six seats for the Valley refugees. Third, Islamabad has the power to dismiss any PAJK government. Article 53 of the PAJK Constitution gives the federal government the power to dismiss an elected government in PAJK. This provision is part of the emergency provisions of the Pakistani Constitution. Therefore, the federal government enjoys the same emergency powers over PAJK as it does over any other province of Pakistan. The broader constitutional and procedural contours within which elections to the PAJK assembly had been previously held demolish the myth that the region is an independent entity. The holding of elections for Jammu and Kashmir migrants in different parts of Pakistan merely serves as an instrument to benefit the ruling party in Islamabad. More important, it perpetuates a selective pan-Pakistan societal narrative on Jammu and Kashmir that consequently limits the scope and ability of the Pakistani State to approach the Kashmir issue and the broader India-Pakistan peace process with realism. With little change to the overall structural variables, the bigger picture that emerges after the July 25 elections is going to be no different. Luv Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet clears new industrial policy, aims to create 5 lakh jobs||The Hemant Soren cabinet has cleared a new industrial policy for Jharkhand with the aim of creating five lakh jobs by attracting investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore and also sanctioned a bonus for contractual healthcare workers for their service during the pandemic. Titled, Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Policy (JIPP)- 2021, the new document, cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel said on Tuesday, would phase out the exiting policy framed during the term of the former BJP goverment headed by Raghubar Das. "The focus of the new policy is to churn out investments to the tune of 1 lakh crore and 5 lakh jobs,” she said. Dadel said the new policy has identified five high-priority and eight priority sectors to attract investments. The high priority sectors include textile and apparel, automobile and auto components, agro and meat processing and allied units, pharmaceuticals and electronics, design & manufacturing (EDM). Priority sectors comprise start-ups, healthcare, education, tourism, IT and IT- enabled services, renewable energy, among others. On incentives to investors, she said, “For the first time, fiscal incentives have been introduced for ‘early birds’ and anchor units who will be given capital subsidy between 5-25% on projects and investments. Other incentives include a comprehensive project investment subsidy, stamp duty subsidy, assistance for quality certification and patent registration, reimbursement of state GST, interest subsidy, among others. Private universities and healthcare institutions too  will receive the subsidies.” In another significant decision, the state cabinet also sanctioned a bonus equivalent to one month’s salary to all contractual employees engaged in Covid-19 work on a one-time basis. Dadel said the government would be spending close to Rs 16 crore for this. The cabinet also okayed hiring of medical staff across hospitals and medical colleges for a period of six months on contract in view of a manpower crunch. On remunerations, she said, “For final year PG students, Rs 3500/per/shift honorarium is fixed. For MBBS, it will be 2,000/per/shift, Rs 1,200 for final year MBBS, Rs 500 for B.Sc nursing, among others.” Keeping in mind that competitive exams could not be held because of the pandemic, the cabinet granted a one-time approval for admission to B.ED colleges in the state through merit list prepared on the basis of marks obtained at the graduation level. “Jharkhand Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board has been made the nodal agency to work out modalities for admission without entrance test,” she said. A proposal to launch a new scheme titled, Guru-Shishya Parampara, mooted by the state art and culture department to conserve dying art forms was also approved by the cabinet. In all, the state cabinet took up six proposals at Tuesday's meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vendors, shoppers defy social distancing norms at Sakchi’s Mangala haat||Vendors returned to the Mangala Haat at Sakchi market on Tuesday after a gap of about three months. However, they failed to adhere to the social distancing norms laid down by the government. Both shoppers and other visitors were also seen flouting Covid appropriate behaviour amid threat of a possible third wave. Relaxations of police vigil led to the footpath vendors entering the commercial hub in large numbers post 9 am today. Significantly, this was the first time in the past three months that Sakchi market witnessed this huge a crowd today. Shoppers wanting to purchase from footpath vendors, mainly added on to the swelling number of crowd. The footpath vendors had been allotted a piece of land at the Aam Bagan ground in Sakchi for transacting business. They have been using that land for selling their wares for last three months. But, today, they turned up in large numbers at their original place at Sakchi market, thereby, creating a chaos. Maintaining a distance of one metre is the usual norm inside the market. But no one- neither the vendors nor customers paid heed to this norm. Several vendors and shoppers were spotted without a mask at the haat, which was open till evening. Notably, erstwhile Dhalbhum SDO Nitesh Kumar Singh had adopted strict measures and had been instrumental in shifting the footpath vendors from Sakchi market to the near-by Ambagan ground. Following a state government notification on Monday Singh was transferred to the state tourism department. The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has taken note of it. “We are aware of today's crowding at Sakchi market and violation of social distancing norms. Some permanent shopkeepers had lodged complaints of violation of social distancing norms by footpath vendors and buyers. We have requested the district administration to prevent such crowd in that market,” said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of the trade outfit. Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, said random Covid test in different markets would resume in one or two days amid threat of a third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur FC lets go of Spaniards for upcoming session||Jamshedpur FC look set to miss the Spanish flavour in edition 8 of the Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa later this year. Its contract with two Spaniards, Aitor Monroy and David Grande, who were part of the Jamshedpur squad in the 2020-21 season, has ended and the Tata Steel-owned club has not signed them on for the cash-rich tournament ahead. While midfielder Monroy’s contract was for two years, forward Grande’s was for one-and-a-half years. It is not sure if Jamshedpur would again go for Spanish footballers this time. Spaniards were always part of the squad since the 2017-18 season when JFC took the ISL field for the first time. The likes of Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri), Sergio Cidoncha, Carlos Calvo, Pablo Morgado, Sergio Castel and Noe Acosta have donned JFC jerseys in the earlier ISL editions. Centre back Tiri has even led the side. Jamshedpur had one Spanish player in the 2017-18 season, five each in the 2018-19 and 2019-20 season and two in the 2020-21 season. Apart from Spanish players, two Spaniards Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo have worked as mentors for JFC before Scotland-born Owen Coyle took charge in the 2020-21 season. Coyle has his own style of operating and players are drafted into the squad as per his recommenations. It was Coyle who, among others, ensured the signing of English defender Peter Hartley and Lithuaian goal machine Nerijus Valskis for Jamshedpur in the last season. Coyle also introduced his own style of play as tiki-taka (short passes), the style followed during Ferrando and Iriondo’s tenure as head coaches, took a backseat. A member of the JFC team management said both Monroy and Grande do not fulfill the requirement of head coach Owen Coyle. “Nationality of players does not matter when it comes to squad formation. Players who fulfill the requirement of the head coach are considered,” he said on condition of anonymity. Apart from Monroy and Grande, JFC might also miss the services of Alex Lima, a Brazilian midfielder who has so far shown no willingness to join the club. This apart, JFC Is all set to feel the absence of towering Nigerian defender Stephen Eze who is looking to play in the European circuit. The Men of Steel stood sixth with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL held in Goa. Goa will once again host the upcoming edition of the tournament starting in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand villagers build their own bridge with bamboo||Hundred santhali families living in a dense Jharkhand forest, with no roads connecting them with the district and block headquarter, or bridge to cross the rain fed river during the monsoon did something out of the box. They not only made a kutcha kachcha road but also a 50-feet long bridge to overcome their problems. Their unbelievable work has not just made them earn praises from officials but has also made them promise funds to have proper bridge and road developed. The road and bridge in question has been made by the villagers of Panchda village that falls in Ango panchayat, around 23kms away from Barkagaon block haedquarters and 53kms away from Hazaribagh town. Villagers maintained that they had been facing connectivity problems for a long time. Despite managing to travel amid all difficulties, it was getting difficult for them to take pregnant women for medical treatment due to lack of roads or bridges. Led by one Deepak Karmali, villagers began cutting a pathway, about a fortnight ago. First they made a kutcha road from Panchda village to Jhikhore where the major challenge was to cross a fifty-feet wide rain-fed river. Villagers made a bamboo bridge to cross the river. According to Karmali the determined villagers took four days to construct the road by using spades and shovels. “Villagers worked and made a road and bridge through shramdan,” he said. Barkagaon block development officer Prakash Kumar Saw said what villagers did is inspiring. “I will ensure a proper road there and will look into the bridge issue also,” he said. Villager Motilal Manjhi said, “We want better facilities here but officials to people's representatives never cared to ensure that for us. We did what we could without waiting for any action from government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais named new governor of Jharkhand ||Ramesh Bais (74) will succeed Droupadi Murmu as the new governor of Jharkhand after a formal notification was issued from the office of the President of India on Tuesday. Bais, who was governor of Tripura before being assigned to Jharkhand, is among seven others whom President Ramnath Kovind appointed in various states. Bais will be the 10th governor of Jharkhand. Murmu who was appointed in May 2015 as the first woman governor of the state also holds the distinction of being the first resident of Raj Bhawan to have completed a five-year term in the state since its creation in year 2000. Bais, who is from Chhattisgarh, has been a member of the BJP and served as Union minister of state (Independent charge) for environment and forests during the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government from 1999. He was elected to the 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Lok Sabha from Raipur. His appointment has evoked mixed reactions in Jharkhand. BJP’s Khunti MP and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda said, “I congratulate honorable Ramesh Bais on his appointment as governor of Jharkhand. He has an illustrious experience in politics and parliamentary affairs and his wisdom will help in overall development of the state.” State health minister and Congress MLA from Jamshedpur West Banna Gupta, however, questioned the logic and timing of replacing incumbant Droupdai Murmu. He also accused the Centre of being anti-tribal and anti-women. “Droupadi Murmu, a tribal lady, was well spoken and sensitive Governor. Her removal by Centre exposes its mindset towards tribals and women. It was an honor for Jharkhand to have a lady tribal as the governor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Underground cabling turns Dhanbad roads into pothole zone||The 125km underground cabling work being carried out by the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited as part of the Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Yojna has turned the different roads of Dhanbad into pothole zones, complicating the traffic woes of the residents due lack of proper repair of dug up roads The 500 meter stretch of Hirapur road from Tiwari hotel to Lindsay club is the worst affected at the heart of the town as the road dug up for laying cables remained closed for more than 20 days aggravating the traffic situation. Moreover, even after the completion of one part of cable laying, proper repair of road was not carried out near the exchange chowk. Expressing disgust at the situation, Sanjay Kumar, a cyber face operator of Vinod Market adjacent to Tiwari Hotel said, “I faced a lot of difficulty reaching to market from my house at Barmasia due to unplanned digging carried out in front or our market, which further narrowed down the road.” “The potholes remained uncovered for several days inviting accidents and we even planned to lodge a written complaint but before that the cabling work was completed and somehow the potholes were covered but not properly,” said Kumar. Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of Park Market Chamber of Commerce, said, “The situation presents a glaring example of unplanned development and wastage of public money due to short sightedness of authorities.” “Instead of carrying out the underground cabling work after the strengthening of roads, the strengthening of roads should have been carried out before the launching of underground cabling work” said Chaurasia. "Even if if the underground cabling was launched after the road strengthening the estimate of the underground cabling work should have proper budgetary provision for proper repair of road dug up during the cabling work,” further elaborated Chaursia and added that several other roads like the road connecting Housing colony to Golf Ground front gate is also facing the similar situation as even after more than one year after its digging it is still awaiting repair. “We will raise the issue with the JBVNL officials in writing soon demanding proper repair of the road” said Chaurasia and added that if the situation persists than school students will have to face a lot of problem after the reopening of schools. Contacted, General Manager of Dhanbad Supply area of JBVNL, Ajit Kumar, said,“We will immediately look into issue and ensure proper repair of roads.” Notably, 70% work of Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Yojna under which the underground cabling of 33000 volt cables as well 11000 volt cables is to be carried out has already been completed. Two gas insulated substation besides other substation are to established as part of scheme which aims to ensure greater safety, lower transmission losses, lower maintenance cost and uninterrupted power supply during adverse weather condition like storm, rain etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
