07-07-2021||Calcutta||Fuel past Rs 100, expenses shoot up in Calcutta||The spiralling fuel prices have scalded most people whose livelihoods are inseparable from their vehicles. The petrol price will cross the hundred rupee mark in Calcutta on Wednesday, when motorists will pay Rs 100.23 a litre for the fuel. Oil marketing companies increased price by Rs 0.40 a litre overnight. The Telegraph spoke to two such people affected by spiralling fuel prices, for the second time since March this year. Sandip Kayal, 43Owner of a car rental business with three cars Kayal gets Rs 40,000 from the client for the 3,000km contract, like he used to in March. But the price of diesel has risen from Rs 84 a litre in March to Rs 92 a litre now. Kayal has to pay Rs 14,000 to the driver of the vehicle, similar to what it was four months ago. But in March, he had a margin of Rs 5,000 on the contract. Now, he barely has Rs 1,000 after paying Rs 25,000 for diesel and Rs 14,000 to the driver. “Paying for the EMI, insurance and maintenance from my own pocket makes no sense. So, I have stopped two similar contracts. Only one 3,000km contract is still active because the client does not travel more than 2,500km,” Kayal told The Telegraph. Usually, he rents out a car for 10 hours, with a cap of 100km, for Rs 1,500. The cost of diesel for 100km is around Rs 920. The driver’s commission is Rs 500. That means he is left with Rs 70. In March, a similar deal left him with around Rs 250. The rate was the same but the price of diesel was Rs 84 and the driver’s cut was Rs 400. “I have my back to the wall,” said Kayal. To cut costs, he has discontinued the services of a domestic help. He has also stopped English tuitions for his son, a NEET aspirant. Kapil YadavTaxi driver In Calcutta, the base fare for a metered taxi is Rs 25 for 2km, and thereafter Rs 12 a kilometre. If Yadav travels 100km a day, he goes without any passenger for at least 20km. In the metered fare, Yadav earns around Rs 1,000 for 80km and needs about 10 litres of diesel to run 100km. That means Rs 920 for 100km at the current rate of Rs 92 a litre. “Insurance, permits and taxes eat up my savings. Ideally, I should be able to pay them from my earnings. If the fare does not go up, I don’t know what lies ahead,” said Yadav. He has been earning some extra bucks ferrying people to Howrah and Esplanade over the past few days, in the absence of too many public transport options. He takes four people and charges Rs 75 from each for a ride from Behala to Esplanade. Yadav had to sell his wife’s jewellery for their son, who has started a training course to be a technician of electrical appliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||International Baccalaureate announces Class XII results||The International Baccalaureate announced the results of Class XII (diploma programme) on Tuesday, the first board to announce the results of a public exam that could not be conducted this year. The result is of the exam that was scheduled for May but was cancelled across the country because of the pandemic. Three schools — Calcutta International School, The Heritage School and Modern High School for Girls —  offer the IB diploma programme (for Classes XI and XII) in the city. Schools said the results were as expected. “The students submitted research papers in all subjects which were graded by IB,” said Tina Servaia, the IB coordinator at Calcutta International School. Modern High School for Girls sent out the second batch this year. “The final grades that our students obtained matched the school’s predicted grades,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||75-yr-old gifts an ambulance to St Xavier’s College on her birthday||A woman who turned 75 on June 19 did not host a party to celebrate the occasion. Shakuntala Lakhotia, instead, turned up at St Xavier’s College on Monday to give an ambulance to the institution. Lakhotia, from Lake Town, would have gifted the ambulance worth Rs 9 lakh on her birthday itself. Son Sanjay said the handover had to be deferred because the manufacturing company could deliver the ambulance only on July 5. “As she completed 75 this June, we were getting ready to throw a big party to make the occasion a memorable one. But my mother had some other ideas. She advised us to desist from wasting resources on hosting a party during the pandemic and suggested we find a way to make a contribution to an institution that has a history of carrying out philanthropic work,” said Sanjay. “She herself proposed that an ambulance be donated amid these trying times”. Many in the extended family of the Lakhotias, who run businesses over the years, have studied at the Park Street college. A homemaker throughout her life, Lakhotia told Metro: “This is not the time to host a lavish party. We see how people are suffering around us because they lack resources. After the Covid outbreak, getting an ambulance for a Covid patient or any other patient became so difficult. So I thought it was time to do something to help those in distress in whatever little way possible." She arrived at the college on Monday with son Sanjay and other family members. A small event was held on the quadrangle of the college in the afternoon. “We have earlier received donations in the form of funds, scholarships. But never have we received a donation like this. It is unusual. She sacrificed her celebrations. I just hope what she has done becomes a precedent. We want many more Shakuntala Lakhotias to help fellow citizens,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, told Metro on Wednesday. “Many of our students, from the college and the school, and staff come from economically weaker sections. During a health emergency, they cannot afford the cost of hiring an ambulance. They will benefit with this contribution. If required, we will make the service available to outsiders as well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Lawyer held for forgery, illegal use of blue beacon in Calcutta||A lawyer was arrested on Monday night on charges of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and unauthorised use of blue beacon on his vehicle. Police said Sanatan Roy Chowdhury, the accused, was masquerading as a CBI counsel as well as the state’s standing counsel in a purported attempt to sell a property in south Calcutta’s Mandeville Gardens. A resident of 8 Mandeville Gardens lodged a complaint with Gariahat police station alleging that a man who had introduced himself as the state’s standing counsel and CBI counsel apparently possessed forged documents to establish his claim on a part of the property. The accused allegedly intended to hand over the documents to a developer without the knowledge or consent of the owner of the property. “We contacted the competent authority in the state judicial department and found that there was no state standing counsel called Sanatan Roy Chowdhury. We also asked the CBI about the person. They, too, said there was no CBI counsel by that name,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The police found a board at the Mandeville Gardens premises that mentioned Roy Chowdhury as the state’s standing counsel and legal receiver of the property. An officer said they had dialled a phone number mentioned on the board and found that it did not belong to any state government office. During inquiry, the police found that Roy Chowdhury allegedly in connivance with a woman and a purported developer had forged court papers and posed as the “receiver” of the property after the death of the complainant’s father. The accused claimed he had the power to sell the property to a developer. After his arrest on Monday, the police apparently found Roy Chowdhury’s Ford EcoSport at a location in north Calcutta based on his statements. The vehicle was fitted with a blue beacon and had multiple boards claiming the car belonged to the state standing counsel and the CBI counsel. The resident of Mandalpara in Baranagar was produced in court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody. This was the third case in recent past in which an accused was allegedly found using a beacon on his car illegally. Vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer, is said to have been found in possession of a car flaunting a blue beacon last month.  Days later, another man, who was arrested on the charge of posing as a central vigilance officer, was allegedly found in possession of a beacon-fitted vehicle on Theatre Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Bus fare hike at will in Calcutta, Bengal govt looks other way||The number of private buses on Calcutta's roads increased on Tuesday and operators said more would roll out over the next few days. The difference was made by an unofficial fare hike, effected by private bus operators but yet to be accepted by the government. Across thoroughfares, private buses came to the rescue of commuters during morning and evening rush hours with passengers paying more than the government-approved fares on most routes. Most commuters did not mind because even after paying the hiked fares, they coughed up less than what they used to over the past few days when autorickshaws were the only option. “I paid Rs 15 for a ride from Baguiati to Sovabazar on a private bus. At least buses were available and the wait was not infinite,” said Joyjit Mukherjee, a private firm executive. Private bus operators said they had circulated the new fare charts to most bus route committees across Calcutta. While they have already come into effect on some routes, they will do so on others from Wednesday. “Once the new fares are implemented on most routes, the number of private buses on the roads will increase further. Many more owners will roll out their buses from tomorrow,” said an operator. The new fares are Rs 10 for the first 4km, Rs 15 for the next 8km and Rs 20 for 4km thereafter. “We have distributed posters to bus route committees. They will be pasted on vehicles and on route charts,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “Since this is an unofficial fare chart, we have not informed the transport department. We can't.” Several bus owners said the new rates had been arrived at considering the price of diesel, availability of passengers and the government’s stipulation that buses and minibuses would run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. A litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27 on Tuesday, a rise of nearly Rs 15 since January 1. Some bus unions, though, said they were not in favour of drawing up such a rate chart without the consent of the state government. The Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, for instance, has convened a meeting of its members on Wednesday to discuss the demand for a fare hike. For many passengers, the new fares did pinch but not as much as the auto fares they had been paying over the past few days. Metro has reported that commuters, including those from the fringes, were paying nearly four times the bus fare for their daily commute by breaking journeys on autos. The government on Tuesday sent yet another appeal to private bus operators asking them to resume their services. "Please bring out your buses and resume the services first. Discussions can follow," transport minister Firhad Hakim had said on Monday. Sources said the issue of commuters’ woes would come up at a "special meeting of the cabinet" that the chief minister called in the Assembly on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Rising diesel price sets Calcutta market on fire||The rising price of fuel over the last few weeks has resulted in a hike in the prices of vegetables and other items that come to Calcutta from a distance. Capsicum, which cost Rs 60 a kg in March, is now selling between Rs 100 and Rs 110 a kg at retail markets. On Tuesday, green chillies sold for Rs 90 a kg, compared with Rs 50 a kg in March. Brinjal sold for Rs 80 a kg on Tuesday, compared with Rs 50 three months back. The price of chicken has gone up from Rs 180 a kilo a few months back to Rs 250 a kilo. Across markets in Calcutta, retailers said vegetable prices were unusually high around this time compared to previous years. Transportation of vegetables from wholesale markets — such as Koley market in Sealdah — is costing them nearly double even though lesser volume is being fetched per trip. “Earlier, we would bring around five tonnes of vegetables from Sealdah to Behala for Rs 600. Now we are paying Rs 1,200 for two tonnes,” said Sadhan Maity, a vegetable seller from Behala. “Transporters are citing the rising diesel price. Customers have stopped buying in bulk. We are forced to sell vegetables at a much higher price compared to wholesale rates for the sake of our survival.” A litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27 on Tuesday, a rise of nearly Rs 15 since January 1. Not just vegetables like capsicum and beans that are sourced from Karnataka, even the ones that are grown in the state have become costlier because of the rise in the fuel price. Wholesalers across most mandis in Calcutta said the transportation cost of around six tonnes of vegetables from Bagdah and Basirhat in North 24-Parganas had shot up from Rs 5,000 a few months back to around Rs 8,000. As a result, the prices of pointed gourd and lady's finger in wholesale markets have gone up from Rs 20 and Rs 25 a kilo to Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kilo, respectively. In retail markets, the price of pointed gourd has gone up from Rs 40 a kilo to around Rs 70. Similar is the rise in the price of lady’s finger. However, the prices of some vegetables such as ridge gourd, bitter gourd and cucumber have gone down because of bumper harvest in North and South 24-Parganas and Nadia. The rising prices of most vegetables are burning a hole in the pockets of most customers. Retailers said bulk purchase was almost gone and customers who would earlier buy four or five kilos of vegetables are now settling for two kilos. “Earlier, around 150 trucks and Matadors would line up outside Koley Market at night. Now, there are barely 50 vehicles,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors Association. As for the rise in the price of chicken, poultry farmers are attributing the trend to the rise in the transportation of poultry feeds from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “A truckload of soy-feed would earlier cost Rs 60,000. Now, it’s Rs 72,000,” said Madan Mohan Maity of the West Bengal Poultry Federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal primary education board will hold online counselling from next week to appoint teachers ||The state primary education board will hold online counselling from next week to appoint teachers at the primary level (Classes I to V). Manik Bhattacharya, the president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education, said the online mode had been opted for because of Covid-19. A notice issued on Tuesday said counselling would start next Monday. During the counselling, the aspirants are required to opt for schools based on vacancies, as intimated by the district primary councils. An official of the board said if there were no vacancies in the district where an aspirant lived, she or he had to choose a school from other districts. “The vacancy figures have been uploaded. During the online counselling, the aspirants have to opt for the districts where they want to teach. They will finally be allotted schools based on their ranks on the merit list, which was announced in March,” Bhattacharya said. Around 5,000 aspirants had been appointed in schools located in their respective districts before the Assembly elections. The aspirants are being recruited based on their performance in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) held in 2014, personality test and interview. The high court had last Friday extended the interim stay on recruitment of teachers at the upper primary level (VI to VIII) till July 9 following complaints of irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Rage at ‘institutional murder’ of Father Stan Swamy||A rally in memory of Father Stan Swamy in Calcutta on Tuesday expressed “more rage than grief” at what speaker after speaker called a “planned institutional murder by the State”. The Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case in which rights activists stand accused of having Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. The rally, called by the Bengal against Fascist RSS-BJP, was initially planned as a march from Moulali to Esplanade. But police refused permission citing Covid-19 norms, forcing the organisers to stage a demonstration at the Moulali intersection, on a slice of CIT Road cordoned off by the cops. “Swamy was an anti-national. All others opposed to the policies of the BJP regime are indeed anti-nationals,” said Anirban Banerjee, one of the speakers. “There are multiple nations within one nation. For some, the nation starts and ends with a handful of Narendra Modi’s corporate friends. We are opposed to that nation. Stan Swamy was opposed to that idea of nation. For us, the nation means the country’s oppressed class of people,” said Banerjee. “Stan Swamy was arrested in October last year in Ranchi. He suffered from Parkinson’s disease. His health continued to deteriorate in jail. But he received little sympathy from the authorities. Basic human rights were dumped in garbage in Stan Swamy’s case, in clear violation of international norms,” said rights activist Sujato Bhadra. Binayak Sen, a doctor and rights activist who spent more than three years in jail on the charge of having Maoist links, was among those who attended the rally. The assembly observed a minutes’ silence in memory of the priest, after which one of his messages was read out. “I would just add that what is happening to me is not unique. Many activists, lawyers, writers, journalists, student leaders, poets, intellectuals and others who stand for the rights of adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and express their dissent to the ruling powers of the country are being targeted,” Father Swamy had said in the message. Mahasweta Samaddar, a convener of the forum, said Stan Swamy was part of a “freedom struggle”. “He was part of the freedom struggle to ensure freedom for all sections of people of the country. His arrest and the treatment meted out to him is an attempt by the State to instil a sense of fear among people like us, protesters who are out of jail,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-07-2021||Business||RBI includes retail, wholesale trade under MSME category||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday notified the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) category.  This will help retail and wholesale trade benefit from priority sector lending under RBI guidelines.  Earlier on July 2, the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises had decided to include retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs for the limited purpose of priority sector lending.  The revised guidelines will benefit 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders. The move would also allow them to register on the Udyam portal for MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex ends above 53,000 for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 194 points to close at a fresh record on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Tata Steel and ICICI Bank. Closing above the 53,000 mark for the first time, the 30-share BSE index jumped 193.58 points or 0.37 per cent to 53,054.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 61.40 points or 0.39 per cent to its fresh record peak of 15,879.65. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Nestle India, Asian Paints and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, Titan, Maruti, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. "Markets bounced back into the positive terrain in afternoon trade led by metal stocks. Cabinet reshuffle today created interest amongst market participants as we saw some hectic activity in smaller private sector banks," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.64 per cent to USD 75.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Odisha government approves five major industrial projects in state||In a major move, the Odisha government has approved five industrial projects worth Rs 1.46 lakh crore in the metal and metal downstream sector, at a high-lLevel clearance authority meeting chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, which is likely to generate employment opportunities to over 26,959 people in the state. According to a press release by the government, the state has been able to attract investments worth Rs 2.96 lakh crore in financial year 2020-21. The government approved the expansion of Bhushan Power and Steel Limited’s integrated steel plant from 5 MMTPA to 15 MMTPA against an investment of INR 55,000 crore to be set up in Rengali of Sambalpur district , which will generate potential employment opportunities for over 10,000 people. It has also approved the expansion of Tata Steel Limited’s Crude steel production from 3 MTPA to 8 MTPA, Hot rolled coil from 3 MTPA to 7 MTPA, 2.2 MTPA cold-rolled products and 2 MTPA long products against an investment of INR 47,599 crore to be set up in Kalinga Nagar, Jajpur, which will generate potential employment opportunities for over 4,625 people. Keonjhar, the mineral-bearing district will get a mega steel plant of 3 MT capacity. This is the first big investment in manufacturing in Keonjjhar. Among the other projects approved are the expansion of Jindal Steel and Power Limited’s 6 MTPA existing Integrated steel plant from the proposed capacity of 18.6 MTPA to 25.2 MTPA. This will be the largest single location steel plant capacity in the world and employ over 1,000 people in Angul. Expansion of Rungta Mines Limited’s Integrated Steel Plant from the proposed capacity of 2.85 MMTPA capacity to 7.55 MMTPA by adding capacity of 4.7 MMTPA was also approved. The existing steel-making capacity in Odisha is about 30 MT. The government's approval another 27.5 MT steel making capacity will almost double the installed capacity in Odisha over the next few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Asian Paints at TCS. After starting on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index turned positive to trade 119.36 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 52,980.54 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 25.10 points or 0.16 per cent to 15,843.35. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Tata Steel, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finserv, Maruti and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, UltraTech Cement, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 18.82 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 52,861.18, and Nifty fell 16.10 points or 0.1 per cent to 15,818.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 543.30 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in recent weeks. Accordingly, FIIs have turned out as large net sellers, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, improving business momentum with ease of business curbs started offering comfort, he added. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.15 per cent to USD 74.42 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. US equities ended mixed as supply chain bottlenecks started weighing on the economy, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex hits record high, later slumps with rising crude prices and lower GST collections||The Sensex on Tuesday hit a record high but its climb was thwarted by rising crude prices and lower GST collections in June. The profit booking that ensued saw the Sensex closing marginally lower after rising almost 250 points during intra-day trades. Fears of inflation as a result of higher crude oil prices also had its impact on the G-Sec market as bond prices fell and yields on the 10-year paper rose to 6.18 per cent — its highest in nearly three months. The bond markets were also disappointed by the RBI’s choice of securities for the second round of G-SAP 2.0 as all the papers have very low liquidity. On July 8, the RBI will again purchase five government securities of different maturities, aggregating Rs 20,000 crore. The Sensex opened at 52874.85 and surpassed 53000 to hit a record high of 53129.37. It could not sustain these peaks and ended at 52861.18 points — a drop of 18.82 points. The Nifty too came very close to its all-time peak of 15914 but closed at 15818.25. The rupee weakened by 24 paise to close at 74.55 against the dollar on Tuesday as firmer dollar and rising crude prices weighed on sentiment. Aviation soars Aviation stocks were flying high on Tuesday after the civil aviation ministry permitted airlines to operate at 65 per cent capacity. Shares of InterGlobe Aviation rose 3 per cent during intra-day trades to hit Rs 1,810 but gave up the gains  to close at Rs 1,769.40 — a rise of 0.79 per cent. The SpiceJet scrip rose 4 per cent to a day’s high of Rs 82 but closed at Rs 79.30, a rise of 0.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover to begun deliveries of new Range Rover Evoque in India||Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday announced that it has begun deliveries of the new Range Rover Evoque in India. The car is available in petrol and diesel powertrains. The pricing starts from Rs 64.12 lakh, ex showroom in India. President and MD of JLR India Rohit Suri said, “With the introduction of new interior colours and latest technologies, the new Evoque’s style quotient is even more enhanced and the new Ingenium powertrains make it more powerful and efficient.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover says global semi-conductor chips shortage to effect drop in wholesale volume||Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover on Tuesday said the global shortage of semi-conductor chips may lead to a 50 per cent drop in its wholesale volumes in the July-September quarter apart from an operating cash outflow of about £1 billion and a negative EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) margin in the same period. The announcement, which showed how global chip shortage continues to plague the auto industry, sent the shares of Tata Motors crashing more than 8 per cent on the bourses today. At the BSE, the scrip settled lower Rs 29.10 or 8.41 per cent at Rs 316.95 after falling around 10 per cent to Rs 311.45 during intra-day trades. The chip shortage which has affected several industries is not going away anytime soon. JLR expects the scarcity to be greater in the second quarter ended September 2021 than in the first three months. In a regulatory filing on Tuesday, Tata Motors said the situation was very dynamic and it was not possible to give any forecast about the future. JLR expects the situation to improve after September but it would take another 12-18 months to clear the bottleneck, which is the time it would take for its suppliers to make the investments and produce the new chip-enabled components. The company, therefore, expects some level of shortage to continue through to the end of the year and beyond. Amid the supply constraints, JLR will continue to prioritise the production of higher margin vehicles with the available supply of chips. JLR reported a 68 per cent year-on-year increase in retail sales during the April-June period at 1,24,537 units , reflecting the continuing recovery in demand from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group to acquire 74.9% stake in Fullerton India Credit Company||Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group (SMFG), Japan’s second largest lender, is acquiring a 74.9 per cent stake in Fullerton India Credit Company (FICC) for $2 billion. A non-banking finance company (NBFC), Fullerton India, provides personal loans, business loans, loans against property, vehicle loans and housing finance among others. FICC started its India operations in 2007 and has established a presence across 600 towns and more than 58,000 villages through 629 branches and over 13,000 employees offering lending products to 2.3 million retail and small business borrowers. It is an wholly owned subsidiary of Fullerton Financial Holdings Pte Ltd (FFH), which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore. SMFG and FFH on Tuesday reached an agreement wherein SMFG will acquire a 74.9 per cent stake in FICC from FFH, subject to regulatory approvals. SMFG will eventually acquire 100 per cent of FICC, a press statement from Fullerton India said. Though it was silent on the deal, it is understood that Sumitomo will pay $2 billion for the 74.9 per cent stake and another $500 million for the additional purchase. The investment will combine SMFG’s Asian push towards consumer and MSME lending with FICC’s expertise in serving mass-market consumers and MSME customers in India. “We are pleased to partner FFH and jointly accelerate FICC’s growth strategy. India is one of our focus markets ...where we want to build a deeper presence. As a long-term investor, we believe that the FICC platform’s innate strengths of multi-product focus and pan-India distribution will enable us to build a comprehensive financial service offering in India,’’ said Jun Ohta, president & group CEO of SMFG, said. Fullerton India Home Finance Company Ltd (Grihashakti) will continue to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of FICC. Citigroup, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, Allen & Overy were financial and legal advisers to FFH, while JP Morgan, Anderson Mori & Tomotsune were financial and legal advisers to SMFG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Covid: India might witness third wave in August||India may see the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic from the second fortnight of August and cases would peak by September, a report by the economic research wing of State Bank of India (SBI) has said. “India has achieved its second wave peak on May 7 and going by the current data, India may experience cases around 10,000 somewhere around the second week of July. However, based on historical trends the cases can start rising by the second fortnight of August with peak cases at least a month later,’’ the special report — Covid-19: The race to finishing line —said. According to the report, global experience shows that countries with high per capita GDP have been associated with higher Covid-19 deaths per million, while low per capita countries had lower death rates. High income countries suffered more during the pandemic. Commenting on the Indian experience, the report said that states with high per capita GDP have been associated with higher Covid-19 deaths per million, while it is lowerfor states with per capita GDP. “Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Rajasthan all have low per capita income and low deaths per million. At the same time, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh have high per capita income and high deaths per million,’’ the report noted. It pointed out that the pace of vaccination picked up in the country recently after the Centre changed the vaccination strategy. India is now receiving more than 40 lakh vaccination doses per day as shown by the seven day moving average. “The cases are now hovering around 45,000 from the past seven days. In the first wave as well, the cases declined gradually, with cases above 45,000 for around 21 days before any meaningful decline in daily cases. Certain States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Uttarakhand have already given vaccine double dose to larger percentage of population above 60 years. Total vaccine doses as percentage of population above 60 years is more than 100 per cent for these states, implying double dose to many’’, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Global crude oil prices spike to three year high||Global crude prices spiked to a three year high of $77 per barrel as Opec+ failed to reach an agreement and analysts expect it to touch $100 a barrel soon. If the rising prices are passed on to consumers by state-owned oil firms, it would add to inflationary pressure and slow down economic recovery at a time petrol prices across several cities have already crossed Rs 100 a litre. Rising inflation amid a slowing economy would put pressure on the Modi government to cut excise duties to provide some relief to consumers. The other option of bringing it under the Goods and Services tax appears remote as it would further shrink the taxing options of the state governments which have little revenue sources. While Opec+ members Saudi Arabia and Russia are in favour of increasing oil production by 4,00,000 barrels a day from August till the end of the year, UAE has not yet agreed to the proposal. If oil production and supply levels do not increase in line with rising global demand, it could lead to crude breaching $100 per barrel, according to the International Energy Agency. The Indian basket of crude on June 5 was $75.62 per barrel and the exchange rate was Rs 74.39 to a dollar. Every dollar increase in the price of crude raises India’s import bill by Rs 10,700 crore on an annualised basis. Economists have stated that high fuel prices could delay economic recovery by lowering demand and weakening consumer sentiments. It has already led to a sharp rise in inflation, evident by the price rise seen across several products and services. Petrol and diesel have a combined weight of 4.69% in the wholesale price index and 2.34% in the retail price index. Any increase in the prices of the transport fuels affect the WPI more than the CPI but what is more worrisome is the pass through effect the increase in fuel prices can cause. The retail price inflation, which impacts the day-today lives of the common man, hit 6.3% in May, according to the latest available numbers. This is higher than RBI’s threshold of 6 per cent. Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das had urged the government for a calibrated unwinding of fuel taxes to reduce price pressure in the economy after consumer price inflation refused to ebb since the beginning of the year. The Modi government has been raking the benefits of the excise duty on petroleum products as a milching cow with revenue sources yielding little down due to economic slowdown. Data showed that the excise duty collection swelled three times to Rs 36,963 crore during the first two months of the current fiscal. The latest government data showed that the government collected Rs 10,956 crore in the corresponding period last year and the duty collection for the first two month of FY20, the normal year, the government kitty got Rs 17,333 crore. Analysts said the Modi government can provide some relief to motorists, analysts said by cutting the cess levied on petrol and diesel, which would, however, not impact the overall collection and would be similar to FY21 levels. “Higher consumption of fuels should support a rise in the indirect taxes levied on them, affording a window for a partial reversal in the cess hikes that were imposed last year. Our calculations suggest that the cesses levied on petrol and diesel could be reduced by Rs. 4.5/litre each, while maintaining the total cess revenues of the government on these fuels in FY2022 at the FY2021 level. Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA said. The benefits from the revival in consumption of fuels, the aggregate revenue generated from the cesses imposed by the Government of India (GoI) on petrol and diesel is estimated to expand by 13% or Rs. 0.4 trillion to Rs. 3.6 trillion in FY2022. As pandemic spread last year and the global crude prices dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues.  The Centre levies Rs 32.90 a litre on unbranded petrol and Rs 31.80 on unbranded diesel. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 percent of diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court to hear Centre’s plea to club cases against new IT rules||The Supreme Court is likely to hear this week the Centre’s petition seeking transfer of the pleas pending in different high courts challenging the validity of new IT Rules to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. Several petitions challenging the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are pending adjudication in different high courts, including the high courts of Delhi and Madras. The Delhi high court had sought a response from the Centre on these petitions. According to the new IT Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. The new rules also seek to regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries. According to the case status shown on the apex court website, the Centre's plea, which was filed earlier, is likely to be listed for hearing on July 9. Query for Twitter The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed Twitter to inform it by July 8 as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer (RGO) in compliance with the new IT Rules after the microblogging platform submitted that it was in the process of doing so. Justice Rekha Palli took exception to the fact the court was not informed that the earlier appointment of the RGO was only on interim basis and he has already resigned. The high court pointed out that only an interim RGO was appointed by Twitter and a wrong impression was given to the court on May 31 as it was not informed that the appointment was on interim basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Tata Steel to invest Rs 10,000-12,000 crore per annum over five years||Tata Steel is going to invest Rs 10,000-12,000 crore per annum for the next five years to scale up the India business even as it plans reduce leverage by at least $1 billion (Rs 7,400 crore) on an annual basis in the next few years. The company wants to blend the urge to grow with the caution of strengthening the balance sheet, taking advantage of the commodity up-cycle which has led to record profits for steelmakers . In 2021-22, Tata Steel will step up investment from Rs 7,000 crore spent in the last fiscal even as it may reduce gross debt as much as $2 billion or twice the stated target. In 2020-21, it had brought down gross and net debt by $4 billion. Much of the cash will be funnelled to Kalinganagar in Odisha, where the company is scaling up capacity to 8 million tonnes (mt) from 3mt to take the India business at 25mt by the end of fiscal 2024. The investment numbers do not,  take into account potential acquisitions, the company told investors on Tuesday. “We are now poised to capitalise on the growth opportunities in India. We have 3 active sites viz. Kalinganagar, Jamshedpur and Angul. And between these three sites, we can go up to 40mt if we have the EBIDTA, balance-sheet and the demand for that,” T V Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel, told investors. The share of the profitable Indian business, vertically integrated with iron ore mines, to the overall pie of Tata Steel Group, will reach 73 per cent by 2030, if the company decides to scale up the three sites by 15 mt between 2024 and 2030. The share now stands at 57 per cent with India capacity of 19.6mt. The company pointed out they would look out for acquisitions to bolster long products capacity and mentioned opportunities that may come up from disinvestment programmes of Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd and RINL. Debt to fall The company informed the investors that it would prioritise retiring offshore debt. In the first quarter alone, Tata Steel has made repayment of debt from their Singapore and European balance sheets, though it did not quantify the amount. “This year we can certainly say that it will be much more than the announced policy of $1 billion,” Tata Steel executive director and CFO Koushik Chatterjee said Investors wanted to understand why the management is guiding a net debt to EBIDTA ratio of 2, wondering if the company is holding back cash for big ticket  deals. The management took pains to remind the investors that steel is a cyclical business with ups and downs but informed that net debt to EBIDTA number would be “much lower than 2x” in this fiscal. “For the next 2-3 years, we intend to prioritise, at least about a $1 billion of repayment each year prior to the allocation of surpluses towards growth. If there are acquisition opportunities, we will revisit the level,” Chatterjee told the investors. The company ended the last fiscal with a net debt to equity of 2.44. Net debt has been restored to FY 18 level of around Rs 75,000 crore in the last fiscal despite the acquisition of Bhushan Steel and Usha Martin’s steel business for Rs 40,000 crore.  “We reduced interest cost by about Rs 600 crore in FY 21. You will see more reduction in the current year,” Chatterjee added. The management said the European business would be cash positive this fiscal and the company plans to maintain that and stop cash burn at the Indian side. It would spend around Rs 3,500 every year for sustenance capex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
07-07-2021||Business||Goods and services tax collection slips below Rs 1 lakh crore in June||Goods and services tax (GST) collection slipped below Rs 1 lakh crore in June for the first time since September 2020, a sign the second wave of the coronavirus has severely hurt the economy. The collections at Rs 92,849 crore are the lowest in 10 months since August when it was Rs 86,449 crore, official numbers released Tuesday showed. The collections in June 2021 are primarily for supplies made in May — a month when most states were under different levels of lockdown, reducing business activity, the finance ministry said. The gross GST revenue collected in June is Rs 92,849 crore, of which central GST is Rs 16,424 crore, state GST is Rs 20,397 crore, integrated GST is Rs 49,079 crore, including Rs 25,762 crore collected on import of goods, and cess Rs 6,949 crore, including Rs 809 crore collected on import of goods. GST collection had remained above the Rs 1 lakh crore mark for eight months in a row and was Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May. “The easing of lockdowns and increased pace of vaccinations will pull up the demand and supply vectors in the coming months, that may again support the tax collections above 1 lakh crore,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG & Associates said. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. said “the collections are lower than expected. It is probably because of the complete or partial lockdown imposed by most of the states. Given that the 2nd wave is behind us, we should see a rebound in the collection figures for the coming months”. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said despite declining to a 10-month low, the June collections provided a positive surprise. “Overall, the GST collections in the first quarter are nearly twice as high a year ago, highlighting the narrower impact of the state-wise restrictions necessitated by the second wave of Covid-19, as compared to the stringent nationwide lockdown last year. ” “This will buffer the revenue situation of the Centre and the states, which should support a ramping up of expenditure going ahead,” Nayar said. Deloitte India senior director M.S. Mani said while the collections are lower than Rs 1 lakh crore which had become the norm for the past few months, considering the fact that it relates to transactions in May which was badly impacted by the pandemic, it would be considered as a very satisfactory collection.” EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said “the collections are for the supplies made in May, where several parts of the country were under the lockdown, so this dip is on the expected lines. With significant relaxations in lockdown and business supplies picking up, the collections should see a definite uptick in the coming months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
07-07-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation IPO likely to get cabinet  clearance this week||The much awaited initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation is likely to get the clearance of the cabinet this week, which is expected to give a leg-up to the Modi government's ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal. Although the amount of the stake the government will sell in this mega IPO is unclear, it could be up to 5 per cent, according to indications. The government at present owns 100 per cent in the insurance behemoth. Once listed, it is likely to be one of the leading companies by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. Officials expect the IPO could hit the market in mid-January if the government and LIC follows the timelines of the sale and market conditions were favourable. The government has notified 27 amendments in the LIC Act, 1956, which are part of Finance Act 2021, paving the way for the 65-year old corporation, with over Rs 35 lakh crore assets, to corporatise and list its shares on the domestic stock exchanges. The amendments to LIC Act include putting in place a board with independent directors in line with listing obligations, increasing the authorised capital to Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each. Legislative changes have also been made for LIC to appoint an audit committee, select auditors, declare dividend and issue bonus shares. The amendments do not alter the legal position of the corporation or turn it into a company. It continues to be governed by the LIC Act. Amendments have also been done to ensure that the Centre will hold at least 75 per cent stake in LIC for the next five years after listing and at least 51 per cent in the insurance behemoth after that period. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had informed parliament. The government will remain the majority shareholder and will continue to retain management control, safeguarding the interest of policyholders, he had said. NMDC selloff The government on Tuesday was assured of at least Rs 3,700 crore from NMDC’s share sale after institutional investors overwhelming subscribed to the OFS on Day 1. The government is selling over 21.95 crore shares or 7.49 per cent stake in state-owned miner NMDC at a floor price of Rs 165 a piece.  This is the first PSU offer for sale (OFS) in the current fiscal. The two-day offer for sale will open for subscription by retail investors on Wednesday. Over 2.19 crore shares would be offered to retail investors at a floor price of Rs 165 a piece On Tuesday, as against over 10.55 crore shares on offer for institutional investors, they put in bids for over 22.55 crore shares or 2.14 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: List of new ministers||Among the 36 new faces in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's council of ministers, eight are lawyers, four are doctors, two are former IAS officers and four MBA degree holders, besides several engineers, making it an eclectic mix of professionals. Apart from addressing regional and community aspirations, the focus it seems has been on bringing in highly qualified members and those with experience of administration in states in an effort to reboot the government midway in its term. Ashwini Vaishnaw, who has been given charge of the Railways Ministry besides Communication and Electronics and Information Technology, is a former IAS officer of the 1994 batch. The 50-year-old Rajya Sabha MP for Odisha also has an MBA from Wharton School, Pennysylvania University and MTech from IIT Kanpur. During his tenure, he handled important responsibilities for over 15 years and was particularly known for his contribution to the PPP framework in infrastructure. He has held leadership roles across major global companies such as General Electric and Siemens. Among the new faces with management skills is former Congress leader and now BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya M Scindia who is serving his fifth term as a parliamentarian. He has been allocated Civil Aviation portfolio, which was once held by his father Madhavrao Scindia. He has an MBA from Stanford University and BA from Harvard University. Rajeev Chandrasekhar, a Rajya Sabha MP for Karnataka who is serving his third term, has an MTech in Computer Science from Illinois Institute of Technology, along with Advanced Management Program from Harvard University. Another IAS officer who has made it to the council of ministers is Ramchandra Prasad Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP for Bihar serving his second term as MP. He is the new Steel minister An alumnus of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Singh is a retired IAS officer of the 1984 batch, having served over 25 years across various capacities and domains. He holds an MA in International Relations. Bhagwanth Khuba, a Lok Sabha MP for Bidar in Karnataka, holds a BTech degree in Mechanical Engineering. Modi's council of ministers also has cardiologists, gynaecologists, surgeons and general practitioners. Subhas Sarkar, a first-time Lok Sabha MP for Bankura in West Bengal is a gynaecologist and board member of AIIMS Kalyani. He holds an MBBS degree from Calcutta University. Another doctor in the fold with expertise in multiple fields of medicine, Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad is a Rajya Sabha MP for Maharashtra, serving his first term as MP. He runs Dr Karad Multi Specialty Hospital and Research Center in Aurangabad and holds MBBS, MS (General Surgery), MCh (Pediatric Surgery), and FCPS (General Surgery) degrees. With a three-decade-long career as a cardiologist and professor of medicine in Gujarat, Munjapara Mahendrabhai, a Lok Sabha MP for Surendranagar, will join Modi's council of ministers as a first time MP. He holds an MD in General Medicine and Therapeutics. Another first-time MP, Bharati Pravin Pawar from Dindori in Maharashtra was a medical practitioner before joining politics. She holds an MBBS degree in Surgery from NDMVPS Medical College, Nashik. Legal eagles seem to dominate the group of newcomers with as many as eight having LLB degrees. These include Meenakshi Lekhi, a Lok Sabha MP for New Delhi who is still practising in Supreme Court. Sarbananda Sonowal, a two Lok Sabha MP from Assam who served as its chief minister from 2016-21, has an LLB from Guwahati University. He will be the new Ports and Shipping minister besides holding charge of AYUSH Ministry. L Murugan, the BJP Tamil Nadu chief and another new inductee had practised law at Madras High Court for 15 years before joining public life full-time. He holds an LLM and Ph.D. in law from Madras University. The others with law degrees include Bhupender Yadav, a Rajya Sabha MP for Rajasthan, serving his second term. Known for his leadership across many Parliamentary Committees, Yadav, before beginning his political career, was an advocate in the Supreme Court and also served as government counsel for important Commissions. He has an LLB from Government College, Ajmer Rajasthan. First-time MP from Nainital, Ajay Bhatt practiced as a lawyer in Ranikhet. Fifth term MPs, Satya Pal Singh Baghel and Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, also have an LLB degree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
07-07-2021||India||Vardhan, Javadekar and Prasad out in Afternoon of Long Knives ||Everyone knew it was coming. But till the very last minute, nobody had a hint of the extent of the carnage that was about to take place as Prime Minister Narendra Modi axed a dozen ministers including health minister Harsh Vardhan and headline-hogging figures like Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad. Vardhan is seen as the sacrificial lamb for the government’s failure to contain the catastrophic second wave pandemic. while the exits of Javadekar and Prasad come amid the ongoing Twitter standoff and a clash with media houses. By nighttime, the critics were gathering to roast Modi for making a hash of handing out portfolios with one newcomer, Ashwani Vaishnaw, getting a bizarre mix of Railways, telecommunications, electronics and information technology. Vaishnaw, a newcomer to the Modi cabinet, is a former IAS officer who was a key figure in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee PMO, and holds an MBA from Wharton and an MTech from IIT Kanpur. Another key takeaway from the shuffle is the downward slide of Piyush Goyal who loses the key Railways portfolio. Once considered a shining star, he has been losing ground with his ill-disguised ambition of becoming the finance minister. Goyal upset his mentor Arun Jaitley when he took charge of finance during Jaitley’s medical leave. Since then, it has been a downhill journey for him. In the swearing-in ceremony of the Modi government Version 2, he dramatically lost rank in the protocol order, being demoted to minister of commerce. Less of a surprise was the downfall of Vardhan because it has been clear for some time that he has been given the role as the fall guy for the government’s failure to control the devastating second Covid-19 wave.  “Poor Dr Harsh Vardhan, a good man has been made a scapegoat for monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else,” tweeted Congress MP Jairam Ramesh. “The resignations of the Union Health Minister and the Minister of State, Health is a candid confession that the Modi government has utterly failed in managing the pandemic,” tweeted senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram. Vardhan has now been replaced in health and family welfare by Gujarat MP Mansukh Mandaviya. In Gujarat, Mandaviya has been called the Minister for Padayatras because of the long walks he undertakes around the state for good causes. He’s an animal lover who studied veterinary sciences and later also studied political science. He’s a Rajya Sabha member. In total, Modi booted out 12 ministers, including seven of cabinet rank, in his first ministerial overhaul since his sweeping 2019 win. They handed in their resignations in what was quickly dubbed the Afternoon of the Long Knives.  A total of 43 ministers, including 36 new members, were sworn into the Council of Ministers as part of of the mega-shakeup. Seven were promoted. The Modi government, which used to criticise the previous Congress government for its jumbo ministerial team now has 30 cabinet ministers, up from 21. Totally there are now 77 ministers -- close to the maximum limit of 81. “In a clear sign that the government has its eyes on the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, new cabinet includes seven ministers from UP. “We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India," Modi said after the swearing-in ceremony. Congress said the sheer size of the shakeup was an admission by the Modi government that it had massively underperformed. The promotion of Anurag Thakur to the crucial Information & Broadcasting portfolio has evoked mixed reactions. At one level, he’s a polished performer in person. But he was banned from campaigning for 72 hours for declaring “shoot the traitors” during the Delhi elections. In his new job, he’ll have to conduct delicate negotiations with the media industry which is up in arms about proposals dealing with online news portals. Thakur will also supervise the efforts of India’s star athletes at the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Also, Kiran Rijuju, a lawyer, has been given the extremely crucial Law & Justice portfolio, a step up from his role as minister of state for youth, sports and minority affairs. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who’s new to the world of saffron, has been rewarded for his role in ousting the Madhya Pradesh Congress government with the highflying but temporarily grounded during the pandemic Civil Aviation portfolio. Scindia will get the knotty job of supervising the Air India sale and breathing life back into the aviation industry which has been pummelled by the pandemic. The civil aviation ministry was once held by his father, Madhavrao Scindia ,who died in a 2001 plane crash. Hardeep Singh Puri, who was handling the Ministry of Civil Aviation as a junior minister, will now go on promotion and look after the stuff that goes into aeroplanes at the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. He will continue to look after the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs but as a full-fledged cabinet minister. Puri gets the unenviable task of shepherding through the highly controversial Central Vista project which is bound to earn him constant flak. New to the government is another senior BJP figure, Bhupendra Yadav, who is taking over the critical Environment and Climate Change Ministry and also the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Yadav has been a key backroom BJP strategist. Modi didn’t make any changes in the core ministries of defence, external affairs, home and finance, though External Affairs now gets three junior ministers including lawyer Meenakshi Lekhi. Amit Shah remains home minister but has also been named to head the new Ministry of Cooperation. The ministry will promote a cooperative-based economic development model as part of Modi’s goal of creating “Sahkar se Samriddhi” -- prosperity through cooperatives, according to a government statement. One little-noticed minor casualty was Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari who loses the shipping portfolio. Gadkari has been stuck in the same ministry for the last seven years and while he won’t be totally edged out because of his strong Nagpur connections, it’s clear he shouldn’t expect a promotion while Modi is the prime minister. The reshuffle showed that the BJP has paid particular attention to Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra and that it has also attempted extremely delicate caste engineering. There are seven ministers from Uttar Pradesh and, noticeably, they each represent key regions in the state. Reflecting caste sensibilities, in Gujarat, for instance, it’s brought in three Patels and three OBCs. Unusually, the government also released information about the caste and subcastes of the new ministers who are being brought in, indicating considerable thought had been given to this issue even though the national elections are almost three years away. The reshuffle has reduced the average age of the council of ministers to 58 from 61. The youngest new minister is Nisith Pramanik, 35, from Cooch Behar. The Modi government has faced considerable setbacks since returning to power. Most importantly, it has been accused of failing to tackle the pandemic properly and get enough vaccines ready on time. Besides that, it’s also been accused of mismanaging the economy even before the pandemic struck. Four ministers have been inducted from Bengal, meanwhile, indicating that the BJP has not given up on the state even after its recent defeat in the assembly elections. The BJP had done well in the assembly constituencies of the ministers who have been inducted. By contrast, the party fared poorly in the assembly constituencies represented by Babool Supriyo who’s been dropped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
07-07-2021||India||Farmers gear up for protest against fuel price hike||Large contingents of farmers have started arriving at protest sites in preparation for their agitation Thursday against fuel price hike, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Wednesday. "At the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, protests will be organised across India tomorrow (July 8) from 10 am to 12 noon for two hours against the hike in diesel, petrol and cooking gas prices," the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions said. The protestors will reach designated public locations with any means of transport including scooters, motorcycles, tractors, cars, buses, trucks and also with empty gas cylinders, it said. On Wednesday, the petrol prices in Delhi as well as Kolkata crossed the Rs 100 a litre mark. The SKM has demanded that the fuel prices be halved with immediate effect. It has also appealed to the protestors to keep the demonstration peaceful and on the roadside, without blocking any pathways. This is an issue that affects every section of the society, and SKM appeals that farmers, labourers, youth, students, women, employees, shopkeepers, transporters, traders and others be part of these protests everywhere, the body said. The SKM has also planned fresh rounds of protests during the monsoon session of the parliament scheduled later this month, when 200 protestors will agitate everyday outside the Parliament building reiterating their demands of repealing the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support price (MSP). Over the last seven months, thousands of farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting at Delhi borders against the new farm laws which, they claim, will do away with the MSP system and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been protecting the laws as major agricultural reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: Eye on 2022 polls, seven new ministers from UP||Seven ministers from Uttar Pradesh were sworn in at Rashtrapati Bhavan Wednesday, all picked with an eye on next year's assembly polls in the state. Of the seven newly inducted ministers from UP, Anupriya Patel heads BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) and was a minister in the first Narendra Modi government. The rest are from the BJP. Anupriya Patel, Pankaj Chaudhary and B L Verma are from the Other Backward Classes, which BJP leader in UP say make up 50 per cent of voters in the state. Three others -- Kaushal Kishore, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma and S P Singh Baghel -- are from the Scheduled Castes category. Ajay Kumar is the lone Brahmin in this batch of ministers from the state. There was speculation earlier that Jitin Prasada, a Brahmin face of the Congress who recently joined the BJP, may be given a ministerial berth. But with Ajay Kumar, the state's Terai region also gets representation. Barring Rajya Sabha MP B L Verma, the new ministers are from the Lok Sabha. A regional balance is maintained. Anupriya Patel (Mirzapur) and Pankaj Chaudhary (Maharajganj) are from eastern Uttar Pradesh. From western UP, Baghel represents Agra and Rajya Sabha MP B L Verma hails from Budaun. Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, who represents Jalaun is from the Bundelkhand region. Ajay Kumar represents Khiri parliamentary constituency in Terai and Kaushal Kishore is from Mohanlalganj, adjacent to capital Lucknow. BJP leaders say that the OBCs constitute about 50 per cent of the voters in the state and the Scheduled Castes make up 20 per cent. Anupriya Patel, a minister of state at the Centre from 2016 to 2019, has been jockeying for a separate ministry to solve problems faced by the OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Supreme Court to deliver verdict on Facebook India VP Ajit Mohan's summons plea||The Supreme Court is scheduled to deliver its verdict on Thursday on a plea filed by Facebook India Vice President and MD Ajit Mohan and others challenging the summons issued by Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee for failing to appear before it as witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots matter. A bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy had on February 24 reserved its verdict on the plea. During the arguments before the apex court, Mohan's counsel had argued that right to silence is a virtue in present noisy times and the assembly has no legislative power to set up a panel to examine the issue of peace and harmony. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Facebook official, had said that setting up of the peace panel was not the core function of Delhi assembly as the law and order issue fell under the domain of the Centre in the national capital. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, representing the panel of the assembly, had said that the assembly has the power to summon. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had opposed the submission of the panel of the assembly saying that law and order squarely fell under the domain of the Delhi Police which is accountable to the Central government. Earlier in December last year, the Peace and Harmony committee had moved the top court seeking to intervene in the plea filed by Mohan and others. On October 15 last year, the Centre had told the top court that proceedings of the Peace and Harmony committee is without jurisdiction as the issue pertained to law and order. The apex court had said that its September 23 order asking the assembly's panel not to take any coercive action against Mohan, would continue till further orders. The plea filed by Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc has contended that the committee lacks power to summon or hold petitioners in breach of its privileges for failing to appear and it was exceeding its constitutional limits. They have challenged the September 10 and 18 last year notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan's presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots in February and Facebook's role in spread of alleged hate speeches. The Delhi Assembly had said that no coercive action has been taken against Mohan and he was only summoned by its committee to appear as witness in connection with north-east Delhi riots. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the Delhi Assembly had said that Mohan has not been issued any summons for breach of privilege.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Covid: Delhi HC seeks Centre’s reply on setting up liquid oxygen buffer||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought the Centre's response on the issue of setting up buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen in the national capital to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, even as the AAP government submitted that it has 419 metric tonnes of LMO. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the Centre to positively respond within one week on the steps taken by it in terms of the Supreme Court's April 30 order asking it to create buffer stock of LMO, as it is pending for a long time. The court was informed by the Delhi government counsel that it has 419 metric tonne LMO in buffer as of now and it will be maintained and that the facility is being created at state hospital. The court also directed the Delhi government to file a status report on the issue of buffer stock of oxygen and give details of the location of different storage tanks and how much quantity of the LMO is being stored there. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, submitted that the LMO stock was being stored with the oxygen suppliers, later it would be transported here. The court observed that if the Delhi government has storage facility, it should be used not to store the oxygen so that in case of a surge in COVID-19 cases, it would be readily available. There might be a possibility that you have the capacity to store but you would not get the oxygen quantity when you need it and your storage tanks will be empty. At the time of crisis, every state will run for oxygen and they you will find it difficult to get, the bench said. You go by our experience of April and May. You had issues of transportation, infrastructure, no storage facility. These were the bottlenecks.., it said, and asked the government whether the issue was scientifically examined. The court also asked the Centre to file a status report in response to recommendations made by IIT Delhi on oxygen storage in the national capital in which the institution has proposes certain steps to be taken by the central government. It also asked the Centre and Delhi government to file reports within a week giving data of usage of transportation and accommodation facilities, extended by them to the health workers. During the hearing, the court was informed by the amicus curiae and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao that steps have been taken by the Centre on fixing of prices of oxygen concentrators, which were being sold at exorbitant rates during the second wave of the COVID-19. The court asked the Centre to place on record the notification on fixing MRP of oxygen concentrators and capped trade margin on the prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet revamp: New ministers take oath in presence of President||A bunch of new ministers on Wednesday were sworn in to the Union cabinet as Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted a new, bigger team. (This is a breaking news story. More details to be added soon.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle means distribution of spoils of power: Congress||Ahead of a major reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers, the Congress on Wednesday said the exercise was not driven by performance or governance but meant for "distribution of the spoils of power" and "adjustment" of defectors. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said if the cabinet expansion was to be done on the basis of performance then the prime minister should have been the first one to be removed for his failures in providing governance. He also said the finance minister, home minister and the defence minister too should have been axed as they failed in their respective roles. “The present cabinet expansion is not performance or governance driven, but is a distribution of spoils of power and defectors adjustment programme,” he told reporters. “Overall, this cabinet expansion is not a performance appraisal. It is only a means of serving the interests of their allies and not for the country. But when will there be an appraisal of PM Modi's performance who brought the nation to the brink of poverty after turning away from its responsibility in the Corona epidemic,” he asked. If performance and governance were the criteria then the first person to be sacked should be Modi as he has brought the government and the entire country to a standstill, he said. “Progress and peace and harmony have been thrown into the dustbin of history and the present prime minister would be remembered as an autocrat, who decimated India's economy, who ensured India was pushed into an abyss of unemployment and who ensured that India's strength as the super power of the 21st century was grossly undermined," the Congress leader alleged. Surjewala also said if performance and governance were the criteria, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman too should be sacked, citing their failures to tackle the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, the continued problems of naxalism and terrorism and rising cases of mob lynching, and the poor economic condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Modi’s cabinet overhaul: 43 ministers sworn in||In a major overhaul, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday brought in Sarbananda Sonowal, Narayan Rane and Jyotiraditya Scindia in the Cabinet while dropping as many as 12 ministers including Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar. Fifteen Cabinet ministers and 28 ministers of state, comprising new faces and those elevated, were sworn in at a ceremony held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. While most of the members took oath in Hindi, a few of them took it in English. This is the first reshuffle in the Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019. An extensive and protracted review was carried out by Modi and the BJP top brass through a series of meetings with ministers ahead of Wednesday's big exercise. These meetings were also held in the wake of widespread criticism of the Central government's handling of the COVID crisis. But the exits of IT and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, health minister Harsh Vardhan and environment minister Prakash Javadekar stood out. The axe fell on Vardhan after months of firefighting as the second surge of Covid engulfed the nation, exposing its inadequate health infrastructure. Cities ran out of oxygen and hospital beds and burning pyres at crematoriums and bodies floating in rivers became defining images of an unprecedented national crisis. Javadekar was among the chief spokespersons of the government, a role he has performed for years. Ravi Shankar Prasad's resignation was a shock as he was seen to be in the core team of the government's troubleshooters. Rane, 69, a Rajya Sabha MP and a former Maharashtra chief minister, was the first to take oath. After Rane, Sonowal, former Assam chief minister, took oath in English. The 58-year-old leader has earlier served as Union Minister of State (Independent charge) for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship; and Sports and Youth Affairs under Prime Minister Modi Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, a Rajya Sabha MP from Madhya Pradesh, also took oath as a Cabinet minister. The 50-year-old leader was Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power and Union Minister of State for Commerce & Communications in the earlier UPA government. Lok Sabha MP from Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh Virendra Kumar, Rajya Sabha MP from Odisha Ashwini Vaishnaw, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and JD(U) leader R C P Singh, Lok Sabha MP from Bihar's Hajipur Pashupati Kumar Paras, were also sworn-in as Cabinet ministers. Kiren Rijiju, R K Singh, Hardeep Singh Puri, Mansukh Mandaviya, Parshottam Rupala, G Kishan Reddy and Anurag Thakur were elevated to the Cabinet level. Bhupendra Yadav, who has been serving in the BJP organisation as a general secretary, was also sworn-in as a Cabinet minister. As many as 28 ministers of state took oath including seven from Uttar Pradesh which goes to polls next year with the BJP seeking a second term there. Pankaj Choudhary, Anupriya Patel, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, Kaushal Kishore, S P S Baghel and Ajay Kumar-- all Lok Sabha MPs from Uttar Pradesh -- took oath as new Union Ministers of State. B L Verma, a Rajya Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh, was also sworn-in as a Minister of State. Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Shobha Karandlaje, MPs from Karnataka; Darshana Vikram Jardosh from Gujarat; New Delhi Lok Sabha MP Meenakashi Lekhi; Annpurna Devi (Jharkhand), A Narayanaswamy (Karnataka); Ajay Bhatt (Uttarakhand), Chauhan Devusinh (Gujarat), were also sworn in as MoS. Others who took oath as Ministers of State at the ceremony were Bhagwanth Khuba (Karnataka); Kapil Moreshwar Patil (Maharashtra); Pratima Bhoumik (Tripura); Subhas Sarkar (West Bengal); Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad (Maharashtra); Rajkumar Ranjan Singh (Manipur); MPs Bharati Pawar (Maharashtra), Bishweswar Tudu (Odisha) and Shantanu Thakur (West Bengal) Munjapara Mahendrabhai (Gujarat), John Barla and Nisith Pramanik (West Bengal); and BJP's Tamil Nadu state president L Murugan. At least 16 entrants to the Council of Ministers are first time MPs. Earlier, four senior Union ministers -- Prasad, Javadekar, Vardhan and Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" -- were among 12 ministers who resigned on Wednesday ahead of the cabinet reshuffle. Besides these four, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar, Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre, Minister of State for Women and Child Development Debasree Chaudhuri, Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria and Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo also resigned. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot had resigned after he was made Governor of Karnataka on Tuesday. Prasad and Javadekar, who had been the face of Cabinet briefings announcing key Cabinet decisions on several occasions in the past few years, were present at the swearing-in ceremony here after resigning as ministers. Vardhan was also present at the ceremony. The average age of the new council of ministers has reduced to 58 years from 61 years previously. Nisith Pramanik (35), the Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal's Cooch Behar, is the youngest minister to be sworn in, while the oldest member in the council of ministers is 72-year-old Som Parkash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||TRP scam: Mumbai court grants anticipatory bail to three accused||A Mumbai sessions court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to three Republic TV employees in connection with the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging scam. The three employees - Shivendu Mulherkar, Ranjit Walter and Sivasubramaniyam Sundaram - had filed their pleas before the court in November-December last year, their lawyer Vikram Kamath said. The court heard the pleas on Monday, he said. On Wednesday, Additional Sessions Judge A D Deo allowed the anticipatory bail applications of the three employees, their lawyer said. They had submitted before the court there was no ground against them (for arrest) and they were not named in the FIR registered in the case. Subsequently, a charge sheet was filed and they were named as accused. So, whatever material was there, it was before the court. Hence, their custodial interrogation was not required, Kamath had argued. In a supplementary charge sheet filed in the case in June this year, the Mumbai police had named the three as accused, along with senior journalist and Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light in October last year when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group (HRG), alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The HRG had been tasked with installing barometers for recording channel viewership data at sample households. Police had arrested about dozens of people, including top officials of the BARC and Republic TV. Most of them are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||Delhi HC asks Centre to file status report on availability of Black Fungus drug||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Centre to file a status report on availability of Liposomal Amphotericin B, used for treating patients of black fungus which primarily affects those who have recovered from Covid-19. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the Centre to also indicate the status of quantities of Liposomal Amphotericin B actually imported and the outstanding supplies and also its domestic production. The report shall be filed by the Central government within a week, the court said. The court inquired whether there is any shortage of the medicine currently, to which the amicus curiae submitted that there is no shortage currently as the number of patients have gone down. But the issue is whether the medicine would be available in sufficient quantity when the need would arise, he said. The bench observed, “if we are preparing for the third wave of Covid-19, we need to see the arrangement for it”. The court also asked the government to deal with the issues in terms of urgency and first take up the aspects which are more urgent, like availability of medicines and buffer stock of oxygen. The court was informed by the Centre's counsel that presently there are 17,000 cases of black fungus in the country, which have come down from 23-24,000. Regarding Remdesivir, which was being used in Covid-19 treatment, the high court asked the Centre to file status report indicating whether export of the medicine has started and also the status of its stock. The court also asked the Centre to inform if stock of the medicine which was manufactured for export purposes is now permitted to be sold in the domestic market. Earlier, exports of Remdesivir were stopped by the Centre and the high court had questioned the holding of exports of the medicine at the ports if it cannot be diverted to the domestic market. The court was informed that the criteria for prioritising patients for administering Liposomal Amphotericin B for treating mucormycosis (Black Fungus) was young patients and those in whom surgical debridement is not possible or incomplete. The issue of shortage of the medicine for treating black fungus was raised by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who said these cases are rising. According to the Union Health Ministry, mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||File status reports on filling up of posts, SC tells states||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre and states to file status reports in four weeks on compliance with its 2019 verdict for time-bound filling up of posts of Information Commissioners at CIC and state panels under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. In an important verdict on transparency law, the apex court had come out with a slew of directions on February 15 and ordered that the selection process to fill vacancies at the Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions (SICs) should begin two months before they arise and the search committee should select people of eminence from various fields and not be limited to bureaucrats. A bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari noted that the Centre's last status report on compliance was filed over a year ago and asked Additional Solicitor General Madhvi Divan to file a fresh one on the status of vacancies, the steps taken to fill them and observance of other directions. "Respondents, Union of India and states, are directed to file the latest status and compliance reports within four weeks from today. List after four weeks... Petitioner (RTI activist Anjali Bhadwaj) is also permitted to file an additional affidavit in the meantime," the bench said in its order. The top court also permitted lawyer Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the activist, to file additional affidavit in the case after he sought a direction that the Centre be asked to file the dissent note of Leader of Opposition Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who was part of the appointment panel which includes the Prime Minister and the Home Minister. He said Chowdhury, during the meeting of the selection committee, had raised the issue of not being provided with the selection criteria for the CIC and ICs. Bhushan also said that the Centre should be directed to put on record the criteria for shortlisting of candidates for appointment as CIC and ICs and information such as the existing vacancies and the names of persons who had applied for the posts. The top court was hearing the plea of the RTI activist seeking implementation of the 2019 verdict on appointments to the CIC and SICs under the Act. Bhardwaj has also sought a direction to government authorities on implementation of the top court's order asking them to appoint information commissioners. At the outset, Bhushan said an application has been filed for filling up of vacancies in CIC and SICs. Directions were given in 2020 that these posts need to be filled up well in time. Another important direction was issued. The court had deprecated the practice of selecting only bureaucrats or having a selection committee made up only of bureaucrats, he said. He said there have been vacancies in SICs in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka and West Bengal and there was a need to implement the directions of this court in entirety. He alleged that around 75,000 and 36,000 cases under RTI are pending adjudication in Maharashtra SIC and the CIC respectively and the efforts have been made to render the RTI legislation ineffective. Seeking selection criteria on record, Bhushan alleged that a bogus journalist has been appointed in the CIC and moreover, only bureaucrats are being considered for such appointments. The ASG opposed the submissions and term bogus journalist used by Bhushan and asked him to file an affidavit to this effect for soliciting a response from the Centre. They cannot make accusations or call the members bogus journalists. The maximum strength is up to 10 members. That doesn't mean that there are vacancies. Right now we have 7 members, the law officer said. The apex court, in 2019, had said selection of information officers for the CIC and SICs should include people of eminence from various fields and not be limited to bureaucrats, a "bias" which is "writ large" in the current selection process. It had said Parliament intended persons of eminence in public life be taken as CIC as well ICs but a "strange phenomenon is happening", that those persons who have been selected belong to only one category which is public service. It had also said that to bring transparency in selection of ICs, states should adopt the Centre's process in which it uploads on the website the names of the Search Committee, the names of the candidates who have been shortlisted as well as the criteria followed for selection. The top court had then directed the Centre and eight states -- Bengal, Orissa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Nagaland, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka -- to fill up the vacancies without any delay within a period of one to six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
07-07-2021||India||India cautions UN on attempts to divide terrorism into different terminologies||India has cautioned that 20 years after the 9/11 terror attacks, there are attempts again to divide terrorism into different terminologies such as violent nationalism and right wing extremism, asserting that the world should not return to the era of your terrorists and my terrorists but fight the scourge collectively. Participating in the UN General Assembly debate on adoption of resolution on 7th Review of Global Counter Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) on Tuesday, India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador T S Tirumurti said that the international community has acknowledged that the threat of terrorism is grave and universal, and can only be defeated by collective efforts of all UN member states, without any exception. It is only after 9/11 that we accepted that terrorism in one part of the world can directly impact another part of the world and we all came together to fight terrorism collectively, he said. The envoy said the international community should not forget that before the 9/11 terror attacks, the world was divided into your terrorists or my terrorists . Two decades later, we are now seeing attempts to divide us once again by adopting new terminologies under the guise of emerging threats such as racially and ethnically-motivated violent extremism, violent nationalism, right wing extremism, he said. "I do hope that member states do not forget history and divide terrorism again into different categories and take us back to the era of 'your terrorists' and 'my terrorists' and erase the gains we have had over the last two decades, Tirumurti said. He noted that the continued absence of a universally agreed definition of terrorism is detrimental to our shared goal of eliminating the global scourge. The current strategy fails to resolve the stalemate preventing the adoption of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, which India has championed, Tirumurti said. According to the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism, the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy is a unique global instrument to enhance national, regional and international efforts to counter terrorism. Through its adoption by consensus in 2006, all UN Member States agreed the first time to a common strategic and operational approach to fighting terrorism . The UN General Assembly reviews the Strategy every two years, making it a living document attuned to member states' counter-terrorism priorities. The General Assembly reviews the Strategy and considers the adoption of a resolution on this occasion, the UN agency said. Tirumurti said the Global Counter Terrorism Strategy was adopted by consensus 15 years ago and was a major step forward in maintaining and achieving international peace and security. It was agreed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations should be condemned, there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, and wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed. It was also recognised that the menace of terrorism cannot be and should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilisation or ethnic group, Tirumurti said. He said it is essential for all member states to not only not squander the gains of what we have achieved so far but also ensure that we do not give the slightest opportunity to provide excuses or justification for terrorism, thereby diminishing our collective fight". "Justifying terrorism in any way, whether on grounds of religion, ideology, ethnicity or race, will only provide the necessary fodder for terrorists to enhance their activities even more, he said. Noting that while the matter of religious phobias finds mention in the current document, Tirumurti said India is once again constrained to point out that this listing has been selective and confined only to the three Abrahamic religions. This august body has once again failed to acknowledge the rise of hatred and violent terrorist attacks against other religions, inter alia, Buddhism, Sikhism and Hinduism. Further, we need to make a distinction between countries which are pluralistic and those which resort to sectarian violence and trample over minority rights. United Nations is not a body or the forum where member states should take sides on religious-phobias, but should instead truly foster a culture based on universal principles of humanity and compassion so that terrorists' narratives are fought collectively, he said. The envoy also asserted that success of this strategy will depend only if member states walk the talk by sincerely implementing the provisions and fulfilling their obligations as envisaged in the strategy. As a victim of cross-border terrorism for several decades, India has been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism and one of the major victims of terrorism. However, it's time to call out those that blatantly violate global commitments by harbouring terrorists and terrorist entities by willfully giving moral, material, financial and ideological support to these groups, he said. Tirumurti said the misuse of internet and social media for terrorist propaganda, radicalisation and recruitment of cadre; misuse of new payment methods such as block-chain currencies, payment wallets, crowdfunding platforms for terrorism financing; and misuse of emerging technologies such as drones, 3D printing, Artificial Intelligence, robotics have emerged as the most serious threats of terrorism, which warrants collaborative actions from all member states. The international community needs to adopt a policy of zero-tolerance towards terrorism. Our collective condemnation of terrorism must be loud, clear and without any ambiguity, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||IT Rules: Delhi HC refuses to grant interim protection to digital media portals||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to grant protection from coercive action to digital media portals as it adjourned their challenge to the new IT Rules after being informed that a plea has been moved by the Centre to transfer them to the Supreme Court. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee if the Transfer petition has been preferred, to which the latter replied, Yes. The court then proceeded to adjourn the pleas by The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation till August 20. According to amended Information Technology Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Senior Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, appearing for the portals, urged the court to pass an order of interim protection as the Central government was yet to even reply to the petitions filed by digital media portals. Notice has gone on the rules and they have not filed reply. Now they are asking me to report to them. This is the first step in submitting to the discipline (of regulation of content by government). Please hear my stay application and grant me protection, she said. She added that the central government's conduct was totally in the face of Supreme Court decision that government regulation of content of media is unacceptable. In response, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said that 1700 digital media has already submitted information as per the IT Rules. It is not a matter voice-vote, Ramakrishnan stated as she asserted that the digital media portals before the court had preferred to challenge the new IT Rules. The Court, however, refused to pass any order and directed the Centre to file counter affidavit. The high court had earlier issued notices and sought responses of the Centre on the petitions by Foundation for Independent Journalism, The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation which is the parent company of Alt News. The bench had refused however to pass any interim order and said it will be considered at a later stage. The petition by Quint Digital Media Ltd and its director and co-founder Ritu Kapur has challenged the constitutional validity of the IT Rules under the provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000, inasmuch as they purport to apply to 'publishers of news and current affairs content' as part of digital media, and consequently regulate these entities under the Rules by imposing government oversight and a Code of Ethics' which stipulates such vague conditions as good taste', decency' and prohibition of half-truths'. Creating a differential classification by way of subordinate legislation, when not contemplated by the parent IT Act is an overreach by itself and this has been done to specifically target digital news portals, by subjecting them to an unprecedented regulatory burden and State interference, which no other form of news publication is subject to, it said. It claimed that this overreach is aggravated by a virtual legislation by reference, inasmuch as the Rules incorporate the Journalistic Norms under the Press Council Act, the Programme Code under the Cable TV Act, and vest draconian powers and control in the State. The pleas sought striking down of the specific part of the IT Rules on the ground that it violates Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution creating a chilling effect on media freedom, Article 14 of the Constitution by creating an unreasonable classification and by setting up a parallel adjudicatory mechanism to be overseen by the officials of the executive and is ultra vires the IT Act. The 2021 Rules regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||Several ministers quit Union cabinet ahead of Modi's mega rejig||As many as 14 ministers have quit ahead of the scheduled Cabinet reshuffle this evening, and more are expected to follow their leads. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar has also resigned from the Union Cabinet. Ramesh Pokhriyal was another prominent minister who quit the cabinet. He held the post of Education minister in the Cabinet. Union Ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar resigned from their posts too. Both have reportedly given health reasons in their resignation letters, according to ndtv.com. Later, health minister Harsh Vardhan also quit his post. He was widely criticised for his Covid-19 handling role. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Chaube also resigned. Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda also resigned from the Union Council of Ministers. Besides being the chemicals and fertilizers minister in the Narendra Modi government, Gowda has also held portfolios like Railways, Law, Statistics and Programme Implementation. Sanjay Dhotre, Debashree Chaudhuri, Pratap Sarangi, Ratan Lal Kataria and Rao Saheb Dhanve Patil have also resigned from their posts. Minister of State Babul Supriyo has tendered his resignation as well. Gangwar, who held the position of Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour and Employment resigned from his post early this morning. When asked whether he has resigned from the post of Labour Minister, Gangwar answered in the affirmative. "Yes I have resigned," he told PTI. He, however, said he is not aware of what his new role in the government will be. This will be the first reshuffle in the Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Narendra Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019. The Prime Minister is expected to bring in young faces and give representation to various social groups and regions in the reshuffle. Meanwhile, a number of leaders, many of whom are likely to be inducted as ministers, arrived at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's residence to meet him. Those meeting Modi included BJP's Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ajay Bhatt, Bhupender Yadav, Shobha Karandlaje, Pritam Munde and Meenakshi Lekhi, LJP's Pashupati Paras and Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||Ranchi's active Covid caseload drops below 100 as city reports 25 recoveries in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 100 in Ranchi on Tuesday, while that in state reached 555 as Jharkhand reported at least twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. After Tuesday’s developments, none of the 24 districts have an active caseload in triple digits, while at least four districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Godda and Garhwa – have less than 10 Covid patients, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi reported five Covid cases against 25 recoveries on Tuesday, which brought the active caseload in the district to 80. East Singhbhum reported a spike of 17 cases and the active caseload there rose to 59 as only 12 patients recovered from Coronavirus infection there. At least 55 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 108 Covid patients recovered. At least 12 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 65,991 residents and only 0.8 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.36 per cent of them have recovered. On Tuesday, another Covid patient, a resident of East Singhbhum, died during treatment, taking the toll in the district to 1039 and that in Jharkhand to 5118. The state has so far reported a Covid mortality rate of 1.47 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 reached close to 4000 days in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the growth rate remained 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per government data, it would take at least 3920.44 days for the number of Covid cases to double in the state at the current growth rate. The national doubling rate was 710.58 days. Jharkhand administered vaccines against Covid-19 to over 1 lakh beneficiaries for the third day in a row on Tuesday. As per government data, the first dose was administered to 988,878 residents, while 41,330 beneficiaries received the second jab. More than 80,000 of the beneficiaries were younger than 45 years. The state distributed 13,080 doses of Covaxin among the 24 districts on Tuesday and had 2,52,270 doses of vaccines in stock before the vaccination centres opened on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||NewsClick chief editor gets interim protection from arrest||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted interim protection from arrest to news portal NewsClick's editor-in-chief and founder in connection with a Delhi Police FIR concerning foreign funding. Justice Yogesh Khanna issued notice on the plea by Prabir Purkayastha seeking anticipatory bail and sought status report from Delhi Police. The court sought reply and granted interim protection from arrest to NewsClick director Pranjal Pandey as well on his anticipatory bail plea in the FIR. The judge said he would pass a detailed order on the pleas later in the day. The allegations in the FIR, registered by the Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police, are that the company, PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt Ltd, received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19, in violation of the law. Senior Advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Purkayastha, contended that funding from the US-based company was received by NewsClick in the year when there was no cap on FDI. He is a famous journalist and runs a digital media platform. Digital media platforms were allowed to get money from outside... The cap came the following year, Sibal argued. He further argued that there was no question of siphoning off of funds as the same had been utilised for paying salaries to employees and that there was no loss to the exchequer in the process. The high court has already granted Purkayastha protection from coercive action in the money laundering case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, he said. Sibal informed the court that the investigating agency issued summon to Purkayastha on June 30 to appear before it on Thursday, July 8. Manjziit S Oberoi, appearing for the State, objected to the anticipatory bail plea, stating that Purkayastha "has directly come to the high court". The FIR alleges that the investment was made by greatly overvaluing the shares of the company to avoid the alleged cap of 26 per cent of FDI in a digital news website. It was further alleged that over 45 per cent of this investment was diverted/siphoned off for the payment of salary/consultancy, rent and other expenses, which payments are alleged to have been made for ulterior motives. Therefore, the company has violated the FDI and other laws of the country and has caused a loss to the government exchequer, it alleged. The company, through another petition, has already sought quashing of the Delhi Police FIR on the allegations of foreign funding on the ground that it does not disclose any cognisable offences as alleged. The petition seeking quashing of the FIR is already listed for hearing on July 29. The high court had on June 21 directed the ED not to take coercive action against the news portal and its editor-in-chief in connection with the money laundering case. It had issued notice to the ED on the portal's plea seeking a copy of the ECIR lodged by it in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||Elgar case accused observe hunger strike in Mumbai jail against 'institutional murder' of Stan Swamy||Ten accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case went on a one-day hunger strike in the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai on Wednesday to protest against what they termed as an "institutional murder" of co-accused Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. They also demanded action against officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the Elgar Parishad case, and former superintendent of the Taloja jail. Swamy, 84, was arrested by the NIA from Ranchi in October 2020 under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He suffered a cardiac arrest and died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The other accused in the case termed Swamy's death an "institutional murder" and held the "negligent jails, indifferent courts and malicious investigating agencies" responsible for it. As a mark of protest, 10 of the co-accused in the case - Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Gautam Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe - went on a one-day fast in the Taloja jail on Wednesday. They informed about the protest to their family members, who released a statement saying all Elgar case prisoners have blamed the NIA and the Taloja jail's former superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar for the death of Father Stan Swamy. They believe that "the separation of Stan Swamy from them is a deliberate institutional murder," the release said. The statement alleged that the NIA and Kurlekar never missed a single opportunity to "harass" Stan Swamy, whether it was the "ghastly treatment" inside the jail, the haste to transfer him back from hospital to jail or even protesting against trivial things like a sipper (which Swamy required due to his medical conditions). "It is these that have caused the death of Stan Swamy and therefore, for this institutional murder, NIA officials and Kurlekar should be tried under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code," the statement said, while demanding a judicial inquiry into his death. The statement said the family members of the accused will submit these demands to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray through the Taloja jail administration. It also said that though these accused were lodged in different barracks, they met on Tuesday and shared their memories of Father Stan Swamy, and also observed a two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to him. Three women accused in the case- Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen and Jyoti Jagtap - are currently lodged at the Byculla prison in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India|| Ahead of Cabinet reshuffle, ministerial probables meet Narendra Modi||Ahead of the Union Cabinet expansion on Wednesday evening, ministerial probables met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence. Those meeting Modi included BJP's Narayan Rane, Sarbananda Sonowal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ajay Bhatt, Bhupender Yadav, Shobha Karandlaje, Sunita Duggal, Meenakshi Lekhi, Bharati Pawar, Shantanu Thakur and Kapil Patil, JD(U)'s R C P Singh, LJP's Pashupati Paras and Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel. Some ministers of state, including G Kishan Reddy, Parshottam Rupala and Anurag Thakur, were also there, and they may be elevated, sources said. BJP president J P Nadda is also there. The expansion exercise is scheduled to be held at 6 pm at Rashtrapati Bhawan. Amid the buzz that Modi may also drop some ministers, Union minister Santosh Gangwar has quit. This will be the first reshuffle in his Council of Ministers by Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019. The prime minister is expected to bring in young faces and give representation to various social groups and regions in the reshuffle. The exercise comes against the backdrop of a massive review, which has stretched for weeks, undertaken by the BJP top brass of the works of Union ministers and the organisation against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. A BJP leader said the reshuffle is expected to be a "big shake-up" with Modi addressing political challenges, including the assembly polls in five states early next year, and governance issues. The prime minister is also scheduled to chair a Cabinet meeting, hours before the expected reshuffle. His review of the works of his ministers, early next year assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab and the COVID-19 pandemic that has been a factor in the internal evaluation of the party's governance and organisational works are likely to weigh heavy in the expected reshuffle. Representation of BJP MPs from Bengal and the Northeast may go up. Another BJP ally All India Jharkhand Students Union may also get a berth, sources said as the BJP looks to boost its partners' representation in the ministry after its old allies like Shiv Sena and Shiromani Akali Dal severed their ties with it. Ramadas Athavale, a junior minister, is the only BJP ally in the government as of now. The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, including Modi, and its maximum number can be 81. Against the massive review exercise within the central government and the party machinery, the prime minister may go for new faces with an eye on grooming younger leaders while also factoring in caste and regional balances. There is also a buzz about Modi inducting some professionals and those with domain expertise besides bringing in more women. The reshuffles undertaken by Modi so far, all in his first term, have also seen some ministers being dropped or removed from key portfolios on account of their performance. The prime minister has also sprung surprises in the past by inducting those with apolitical background, like S Jaishankar and Hardeep Singh Puri, as ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||Petrol price crosses Rs 100-mark in Delhi||Petrol price on Wednesday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark after fuel prices were increased in line with firming international oil trends. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, petrol now costs Rs 100.21 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.53 per litre. Delhi is the last of the metro cities to see petrol rising above the Rs 100-a-litre mark. Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune already have prices above that mark. Calcutta also saw petrol prices climbing over Rs 100 per litre on Wednesday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government as petrol prices crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Delhi, charging that the Modi government runs on "tax extortion". Petrol prices crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark after fuel prices were increased in line with firming international oil trends. "Your car may run on petrol or diesel, Modi government runs on tax extortion," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, using hashtag 'TaxExtortion'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||ED arrests NCP leader Ekanath Khadse's son-in-law in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested NCP leader Eknath Khadse's son-in-law Girish Chaudhary in a money laundering case linked to alleged irregularities in a 2016 purchase of a land plot in Pune, officials said on Wednesday. They said Chaudhary was arrested on Tuesday night after he was questioned at length in the case at the office of the central investigative agency in south Mumbai. The officials alleged that Chaudhary was not cooperative during the questioning. He is expected to be produced before a special court that tries cases registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Khadse, 68, had left the BJP to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) of former Maharashtra chief minister Sharad Pawar last year. He was questioned in the case by the ED early this year. Khadse, 68, had resigned from the then Devendra Fadnavis-led Maharashtra cabinet in 2016 after facing allegations regarding the same land deal. It was alleged that he misused his official powers to facilitate the purchase of government land of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) by his family in the Bhosari area of Pune. He denied any wrongdoing, saying that the Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau as well as the Income Tax department had given him a clean chit in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||India records over 43,000 Covid cases, 930 deaths||India added 43,733 new cases of coronavirus taking the total tally to 3,06,63,665, while the active cases further declined to 4,59,920, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,04,211 with 930 daily fatalities. The active cases have further declined to, 4,59,920 and comprise 1.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.18 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 19,07,216 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 42,33,32,097. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.29 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.39 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 55th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,97,99,534, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
07-07-2021||India||Mehul Choksi moves Dominica High Court to quash charges against him||Alleging that his arrest in Dominica for illegal entry was "dictated" by representatives of the Indian government, absconding diamantaire Mehul Choksi has filed a case in the high court of Roseau, seeking to quash the proceedings against him, local media there reported. The case was filed against the immigration minister of the Caribbean nation, its police chief and the investigating officer of the case. Choksi, who went missing from Antigua and Barbuda where he had been living since 2018 after his escape from India, was arrested on May 23 in neighbouring Dominica for illegal entry. He was declared a prohibited immigrant by the Ministry of Immigration in Dominica. The 62-year-old diamantaire wanted in connection with a Rs 13,500-crore scam in the Punjab National Bank has approached the high court in Dominica, alleging that the decision of Lincoln Corbette, Acting Chief of Police in Roseau, and investigating officer Sergeant Alleyne to charge him for illegal entry was "not a product of their independent judgement". "...they allowed themselves to be dictated by third parties, representatives of the Indian government...," Choksi alleged. Seeking to quash the proceedings against him, Choksi pleaded before the high court that the decision to charge him for illegal entry was violative of law and accordingly, null and void, Caribbean media outlet Nature Isle News reported. Choksi said he is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda, where he has challenged a move to extradite him. He claimed that he was kidnapped from Antigua and Barbuda and forcibly brought to Dominica by Indian men. Choksi claimed that he had narrated his ordeal to the Dominican police but they did not launch any investigation into his allegations. "The arrest and prosecution of the applicant is an abuse of the process of the court because the police who charged the applicant participated in and/or colluded with the applicant's kidnappers in and/or condoned the forced entry of the applicant into Dominica," he said. His lawyers on Tuesday told the magistrate court where his case of illegal entry is going on that they have filed the plea in the high court. Choksi has sought a permanent order staying the criminal charge" brought against him for illegal entry. He has also sought a court order stating that the minister of immigration and national security declaring him an illegal immigrant was a breach of the principles of natural justice, and is accordingly null and void, and of no effect, the website reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Stanislaus Lourduswamy hailed as a martyr by fellow Jesuits||Clothed in the red vestment that symbolises martyrdom for Catholics, Stanislaus Lourduswamy was hailed as a martyr by fellow Jesuits at his funeral service in Mumbai on Tuesday. Father Stan Swamy died in judicial custody on Monday, held captive in a case in which the priest was an accused in an alleged Maoist plot that has evoked incredulity among civil society. Although a Jesuit who celebrated the funeral Mass clarified that they would not be seeking for Fr Stan to be formally recognised as a martyr by the Catholic Church, the symbolism of a Mass being offered for a “martyr” created in a democratic country is significant. During the service that was livecast online, Jerome Cutinha, provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, delivered an obituary for Fr Stan who was based in Ranchi until his arrest last October in the Elgaar Parishad case. “May the martyrdom of Stan inspire and challenge us and the entire nation to recommit ourselves to take forward the legacy of Father Stan in the mission of justice and reconciliation. We offer to God the friends of Stan, the hundreds of Adivasi undertrials who languish in jails on false charges. We offer the co-accused of Stan, accused of fabricated charges and now incarcerated,” Cutinha said. Frazer Mascarenhas, former principal of Mumbai’s St. Xavier’s College and parish priest of the St Peter’s Church in Bandra where the Mass was offered, told The Telegraph later: “He paid the price for doing his justice work. In that sense he is a martyr…. We don’t mean it in the religious context.” The All India Catholic Union, the country’s main association of Catholics who are not priests or nuns, echoed the martyrdom reference, reflecting the widespread perception that the death was a result of harassment by investigators. The Flagellation of Christ according to the Gospel of John was read out by Joseph Xavier, director of Bangalore’s Indian Social Institute. The episode in the Bible describes how Pontius Pilate is unable to find fault with Jesus when he is handed over to be crucified. Among the verses read were: “Once more Pilate came out and said to the Jews gathered there, ‘Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him.’ “…As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him (Jesus wearing the crown of thorns), they shouted, ‘Crucify! Crucify!’ “But Pilate answered: ‘You take him and crucify him. As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him.’” Fr Stan, a tribal rights defender, was among 16 people arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case — an investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on the eve of 2018 which was followed by caste clashes the next day that claimed one life. The case expanded to a purge of “urban Naxals”— a term coined by a Right-wing commentator to brand academics, lawyers and rights defenders like Fr Stan who are accused of clandestinely working for the banned CPI (Maoist). The case was transferred from Maharashtra police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) soon after the BJP lost power in the state. In religious terms, the last time a death was termed as martyrdom by the Church in India was in 2011 when catholic nun Valsa John Malamel was hacked to death in Jharkhand. She was involved in a predominantly Santhal tribal movement against coal mining in the Sahibganj district and was reportedly targeted for taking up the cause of a rape victim. However, the formal process to declare her a martyr by the Catholic Church has not begun. In 2017, Pope Francis bestowed the “decree of martyrdom” — a path to sainthood where the process is shorter than other categories — on another nun, Rani Maria, who was killed for organising landless labourers near Indore in 1995. In May this year, nun María Agustina Rivas López, who was killed by Maoist rebels in Peru in 1990, received the decree. Stanislaus D’Souza, president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia, said via videoconference during the Mass: “He (Fr Stan) was hounded because of his staunch support to the struggle of the Adivasis and the Dalits for their basic human rights…. His death was hastened because of the rough treatment that was meted out to him in custody.” Delivering the eulogy, Mascarenhas, the parish priest, said: “I like to remember him with the word he used for himself and for his friends. The word: ‘comrade’. He said ‘my comrades are important to me’. “Now don’t think for a while that comrade means Maoist, violent type. Nothing to do with Stan. That is absolutely a ridiculous accusation. Stan was gentle and one who loved peace. So, there is no question of violence about him. But he considered all those working for humanity, especially the deprived sections of humanity, as his comrades.” Mascarenhas added: “That’s the reason why he was effective and became a thorn in the side of the powerful… because he became successful in the constitutional method of getting rights for people.” The All India Catholic Union said in a statement: “The course of the various stages of his bail application, the manner in which the investigating agencies and the prosecution insisted he was too dangerous to be released are ample evidence that the State wanted to make an example out of him, and the others arrested with him.… “In life and in his martyrdom, Fr Stan Swamy has become a beacon for all who struggle for human rights, specially the rights of the tribals and other marginalised people, and a role model for young men and women across the nation.” It added: “The All India Catholic Union reaffirms this demand for a judicial enquiry, and also demands the repeal of the UAPA and such draconian laws under which thousands of people, old and young, have been put in jail and denied rudimentary justice.” Fr Stan’s lawyer Mihir Desai told this newspaper that no decision had been taken yet on how to pursue the demand for a judicial probe. Fr Stan was cremated by the Jesuits in Mumbai after the Mass. His ashes will be taken to Ranchi where a memorial monument is planned. Transporting the body itself, said a Jesuit source, could face logistics hurdles. In Delhi, several SFI activists, including Aishe Ghosh and Dipsita Dhar, were detained in a police station for protesting against what they called the “State-sponsored murder” of Fr Stan. The protesting farmers in Ghazipur, too, paid homage to Fr Stan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Modi in RSF's 'Predators of Press Freedom' list||International media watchdog Reporters Sans Frontieres (RSF) has placed Prime Minister Narendra Modi in its list of “Predators of Press Freedom”, a “gallery of grim portraits” that includes North Korea’s Kim Jong-un, Pakistan’s Imran Khan and China’s Xi Jinping. The list of 37 heads of state or government who have been accused of cracking down on media freedom also has Iran’s Ali Khamenei, Syria’s Bashar Al-Assad, Myanmar army general Min Aung Hlaing, Russia’s Vladimir Putin and Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro. In the explanatory note of the list that the RSF has brought out after a gap of five years, the organisation has said that some of these “predators of press freedom” have been operating for more than two decades while others have just joined the “blacklist”. The RSF is a France-headquartered international non-profit and non-government organisation that aims to safeguard the right to freedom of information. Women have made it to the list for the first time — Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Hong Kong’s Carrie Lam — as has a European leader, Hungary’s Viktor Orban. “All are heads of state or government who trample on press freedom by creating a censorship apparatus, jailing journalists arbitrarily or inciting violence against them, when they don’t have blood on their hands because they have directly or indirectly pushed for journalists to be murdered,” the RSF said. Modi has been classified as a “predator since taking office”, and the explanatory note has pointed out that India is ranked 142nd among 180 countries in the 2021 World Press Freedom Index. There was no response from the Union government till Tuesday evening after The Telegraph sought comment on the inclusion of Modi in the RSF list. The RSF has identified the Indian Prime Minister’s “predatory” method to be “national populism and disinformation”, flagging the pejoratives used by the Right-wing ecosystem for their critics — “sickulars and presstitues”. About Modi, the RSF said: “His leading weapon is to flood the mainstream media with speeches and information tending to legitimise his national-populist ideology. To this end, he has developed close ties with billionaire businessmen who own vast media empires. This insidious strategy works in two ways. “On the one hand, by visibly ingratiating himself with the owners of leading media outlets, their journalists know they risk dismissal if they criticise the government. On the other, prominent coverage of his extremely divisive and derogatory speeches, which often constitute disinformation, enables the media to achieve record audience levels. All that is left for Modi is to neutralise the media outlets and journalists that question his divisive methods.” For this, the RSF noted, Modi has a “judicial arsenal with provisions that pose a major threat to press freedom”. The note cited the use of the sedition law as a case in point. “He has a judicial arsenal with provisions that pose a major threat to press freedom. For example, journalists risk the possibility of life imprisonment under the extremely vague charge of sedition. To round off this arsenal, Modi can count on an army of online trolls known as ‘yodha’ (the Hindi word for ‘warriors’), who wage appalling hate campaigns on social media against the journalists they don’t like, campaigns that almost routinely include calls for the journalists to be killed,” the RSF said. The RSF referred to the 2017 murder of veteran journalist Gauri Lankesh, calling her “the best-known victim of Hindutva, the ideology that spawned the Hindu nationalist movement that worships Modi”. The RSF also said that the attacks on the media “are even more virulent if the targets are women journalists, who are labelled as “presstitutes”. “Rana Ayyub and Barkha Dutt, for example, were subjected to calls for them to be gang-raped and their personal data was posted online to facilitate attacks,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Mathura court rejects Siddique Kappan’s bail plea||A Mathura court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of journalist Siddique Kappan, in jail for eight months for alleged sedition and terror funding, saying that the charges against him were serious. One of the charges is that “Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 had been deposited in the bank account of the accused on different dates for illegal activities”. Anil Kumar Pandey, the additional sessions judge, said on the second day of the hearing that Kappan was free to move Allahabad High Court. Kappan was arrested on October 5 along with three suspected members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) while he was on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen for a Malayalam news portal to which he contributes. Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi, counsel for Kappan, told The Telegraph: “The bail plea was rejected without taking into consideration the arguments in support of Kappan. There is no proof that he is a member of the Popular Front of India. In any case, the PFI is not a banned organisation.” “The entire case was built around his identity as a PFI member,” Chaturvedi said. The PFI describes itself as a “neo-social movement” for empowering marginalised sections but opponents view it as an Islamist organisation with a hardline agenda. “The court rejected the bail application while observing that the charges were serious,” Chaturvedi said. The court order said: “The accused had said he was a journalist and was going to Hathras for journalistic work. But an identity card mentioning Tejas News was recovered from him at the time of his arrest. It has been stated that Tejas News was closed in December 2018.” “It was found during the investigation that the accused had been working for the PFI and working on the direction of the PFI to instigate communal/class conflict. It was found that he was involved in anti-national activities…. Write-ups recovered from the laptop of the accused… were found to be provoking communal hatred. The accused was found involved in illegal activities on the pretext of journalism. “It was also found that the accused belongs to the PFI and is a member of a terrorist group that receives funds from within the country and abroad and is involved in disturbing the country’s integrity and communal harmony,” the court added. “Some literature of the banned organisation Simi was found from his residence in Delhi during a raid. He was found in touch with the top leaders of Simi. It was found that Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 had been deposited in the bank account of the accused on different dates for illegal activities…. The co-accused have already been denied bail in the case by the sessions court. “So going by the facts, situations and seriousness of the case, I don’t find a valid reason to release the accused on bail,” the court said. Last month, the court of the divisional district magistrate of Mathura had discharged Kappan and three others in a case relating to breach of peace. Uttar Pradesh police had lodged a case in the court of the sub-divisional magistrate on October 5 under Section 116(6) of the CrPC, accusing Kappan and the three others of travelling to Hathras with the motive of breaching peace. On October 7, a second case was lodged against them under UAPA Sections 17 (raising funds for terrorist act) and 18 (conspiracy) and Indian Penal Code Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 295A (malicious acts to outrage religious feelings) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Sections 65 and 72 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, dealing with tampering of computer sources and breach of confidentiality and privacy were also slapped against them. This case is being heard by the additional sessions court that denied bail to Kappan on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Covid: Govt flags concerns over 'violation' of precautions||The Union health ministry on Tuesday flagged concerns about what it said were “violations” of Covid-19 precautions by the public in markets and tourist sites amid an ebbing second wave but large outbreaks evident in 73 districts in 17 states. Any laxity in precautions such as wearing masks or avoiding crowds could nullify the gains made so far through efforts at curbing the epidemic, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry. “People are walking in bazars and hill stations without physical distancing, without masks,” Agarwal told reporters, displaying images of crowds at markets in Delhi and Mumbai and at tourist sites in Manali, Shimla and Mussoorie. “If restrictions have been eased, it doesn’t mean the virus has gone away. The virus is very much here. Laxity could allow the virus to spread again,” he said. “We’ve been saying right from the start that we need community participation in our response.” India recorded 34,026 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday after a near-steady decline in daily new infections over the past eight weeks from a peak of 414,188 new cases on May 7. The number of active patients has also declined to 450,000 from over 3.6 million in mid-May. Only 91 districts have recorded more than 100 new daily cases over the past week, compared with 531 such districts in early May, although the number of daily tests done has been about 1.8 million since early May. But 18 districts in Arunachal Pradesh, 10 in Rajasthan, nine in Manipur, seven in Kerala and six in Meghalaya are among the 73 districts in 17 states where the test positivity rate — the fraction found positive among those tested — is 10 per cent or higher, an indicator of large outbreaks. The test positivity rate should ideally be below 5 per cent and as low as possible. A high rate implies that testing needs to be increased so that cases are detected early enough and isolated to prevent further spread. “District-specific measures should continue to be guided by test positivity rates there,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. “If the rate is below 5 per cent, we can ease restrictions. If the rate goes beyond 10 per cent, we need to instate certain restrictive measures that have been shown to be effective. And we have to continue to maintain high testing levels.” Over half of the 73 districts are in the northeastern states where, in some districts, the test positivity rates are extremely high — 98 per cent in Anjaw, 78 per cent in Tirap and 70 per cent in Upper Siang, all in Arunachal Pradesh, and 40 per cent at Ri Bhoi in Meghalaya. Health experts say such high levels point to the need for rapid increase in testing. The ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology had earlier this year recommended the step-wise introduction of restrictions at the district level depending on three key criteria — the test positivity rate, trends in daily new cases and the occupancy rates of oxygen-supported and intensive care unit beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Nitish expresses surprise over the amount of rainfall and floods||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday expressed surprise over the amount of rainfall and deluge in June and July in the state after undertaking an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas. “I saw several places have been submerged. This is just the beginning of July. So much flood had never come so early in the state. It used to affect in late July, August or September. Such a situation is rare,” Nitish told reporters after the aerial survey. The chief minister took a chopper ride over East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Muzaffarpur districts to get a first-hand account of the deluge that has affected a large population and forced thousands to abandon their homes in search of safer places. “Floodwater has reached several places, but not all areas. I also saw the state of several rivers. I am going to conduct a meeting with the district magistrates of areas affected by the floods and discuss the situation. I will survey the situation in Samastipur, Madhubani and Darbhanga on Wednesday. My present concern is to provide help to the people,” Nitish added. This is the second spell of floods in Bihar this year. The first one struck in mid-June just as the monsoon descended in these parts bringing very heavy rain in Bihar and Nepal. The neighbouring country has the catchment areas of a majority of rivers flowing through Bihar. Weather scientists also corroborated Nitish’s observations pointing out that the rainfall was way above the normal at this time of the year. “Bihar received 111 per cent above normal rainfall in June this year. This is unprecedented compared to recent years. If we take into consideration July also, the cumulative rainfall is 92 per cent above normal,” India Meteorological Department (IMD) Patna centre director Vivek Sinha told The Telegraph. “The above normal rainfall could be attributed to heavy pre-monsoon rain in the first week of June due to a depression, early onset of monsoon and the monsoon trough being positioned over Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh,” he added. At least 16 districts — East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur, Khagaria, Araria, Purnea, Katihar, Kishanganj, Supaul — have been hit by flood so far. Civic amenities, including roads and hospitals, have been submerged or damaged at several places in these districts. People have had to also grapple with the disruption of power supply. Though the discharge of water from the Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages into the Gandak and Kosi rivers, respectively, decreased on Tuesday, several of the flood-causing rivers are flowing above the danger level. These rivers include the Bagmati, Budhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Adhwara and Khiroi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy: Centre cites 'due process' of law for detention ||The external affairs ministry on Tuesday said the arrest and detention of Father Stan Swamy had been made by following the “due process” of law and that India remained committed to the protection of the human rights of all its citizens. The comments, the government’s first reaction to the death of the 84-year-old ailing human rights activist and Jesuit priest in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail after eight months of incarceration, came in the aftermath of growing criticism from global organisations. The apex UN human rights agency said on Tuesday that it was “deeply saddened and disturbed” by the death of Fr Stan during his pre-trial detention and urged India and other countries to release individuals detained “without a sufficient legal basis”, including dissenters. Without referring to any particular statement that has come from overseas on Fr Stan, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said: “Father Stan Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under law. Because of the specific nature of the charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by the courts. Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law.” Adding that Fr Stan had been receiving treatment at a private hospital since May 28 according to Bombay High Court’s instructions, the official statement said: “India’s democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state-level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens.” The ministry issued the statement after the United Nations Human Rights office had tweeted: “#India: We are saddened & disturbed by the death of 84-year-old human rights defender Father #StanSwamy, after prolonged pre-trial detention. With Covid-19, it is even more urgent that States release every person detained without sufficient legal basis.” During a media briefing in Geneva, Liz Throssel, spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, provided an insight into how the world views the case. “Fr Stan had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest, charged with terrorism-related offences in relation to demonstrations that date back to 2018. He was a long-standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous peoples and other marginalised groups,” she said. “While in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, his health deteriorated and he reportedly contracted Covid-19. His repeated applications for bail were rejected. He died as Bombay High Court was considering an appeal against the rejection of his bail application,” Throssell added. She also said in a statement: “We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” “In light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more urgent that States, including India, release every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including those detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views. This would be in line with the Indian judiciary’s calls to decongest the prisons,” the statement added. “We stress, once again, the High Commissioner’s (for Human Rights) call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association,” it said. Throssell’s remarks and similar statements on Monday from the European Union’s Special Representative for Human Rights and the Chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom make it clear that India’s frequent iterations of commitment to democracy and human rights are being measured against actions on the ground. “UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and the UN’s independent experts have repeatedly raised the cases of Father Stan and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the same events with the Government of India over the past three years and urged their release from pre-trial detention,” Throssell said. Fr Stan was among 16 people arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case, an investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste clashes the next day that claimed one life.“The High Commissioner has also raised concerns over the use of the UAPA in relation to human rights defenders,” Throssell said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Modi greets Dalai Lama on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi let the world know on Tuesday that he had personally wished Tibet’s spiritual leader the Dalai Lama a happy 86th birthday in a phone call, in what is being seen as a signal to China. “Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life,” Modi said on Twitter. Beijing regards the Dalai Lama, who has lived in exile in India for more than six decades, as a separatist, and frowns on any engagement with him. This is the first time Modi has acknowledged contact with the Dalai Lama since taking office in 2014. Neither has he publicly acknowledged the Dalai Lama’s wishes to him since 2015. There was no immediate response from the Chinese foreign office or the embassy in New Delhi to the Prime Minister’s tweet. Modi’s tweet, which was followed by several chief ministers greeting the Dalai Lama, was indicative of a stalemate in the bilateral efforts to de-escalate and disengage at all the friction points along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “This is the first public greetings. Till last year even party officials were not allowed to publicly greet him,” said Srikanth Kondapalli, a professor of Chinese studies at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. In June last year, Chinese troops attacked an Indian border patrol, killing 20. China later said it lost four soldiers during that clash. Relations have been tense since. Modi’s decision to announce his conversation with the Dalai Lama is seen as a bid to play the Tibetan card just like India’s announcement of the use of the covert Special Frontier Force along the LAC last year. The government not only acknowledged the use of SFF — a force raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines — for patrolling the LAC, but also allowed a lot of publicity for the funeral of a SFF company leader killed in an accidental mine blast while on duty. Just three years ago, when Modi was pursuing a detente with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his government had asked Tibetans in India not to hold a rally to mark the 60th anniversary of the uprising. Chinese troops seized Tibet in 1950 in what Beijing calls a “peaceful liberation”, and the Dalai Lama fled into exile in 1959, following a failed uprising against Chinese rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||CBSE surprise inspection on schools preparing Class X and XII results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has directed its regional offices to conduct a surprise inspection at schools preparing Class X and XII results to ensure the assessment policy issued by it is implemented effectively. With the board exams being cancelled because of the second wave of Covid-19, schools have been tasked with tabulation of results using separate alternative assessment policy announced by the CBSE for the two classes. “To ensure that policy issued by the CBSE is implemented effectively, it has been decided that schools be immediately visited by the officials of the regional offices to verify the work done by the schools under their jurisdiction,” CBSE examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a letter to regional offices. The board has directed that the schools may be inspected in such a manner that at least each category of schools — private, government, KVS (Kendriya Vidyalaya Samiti) and NVS (Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti) — is covered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||J&K: Enforcement Directorate summons Mehbooba Mufti’s mother||The Delimitation Commission’s first trip to Jammu and Kashmir after Narendra Modi’s all-party meeting with Valley leaders began on a controversial note after the Enforcement Directorate summoned PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s mother in a money-laundering case and the former chief minister linked the move to her refusal to meet the visiting delegation. Fissures appeared in the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration fighting for the restoration of Article 370 after Mehbooba’s PDP and the Awami National Conference chose to boycott the commission, alleging that it lacks “constitutional and legal mandate” and that it has been set up to help the BJP realise its “political vision” in Jammu and Kashmir. It is widely believed in Kashmir that the BJP wants to install a Hindu chief minister in Jammu and Kashmir by granting more seats to its Hindu majority areas despite the community constituting only 25 per cent of the population. The Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference, the CPM and two other constituents of the alliance met the members of the commission, although they said they were committed to their goal of seeking the reversal of the August 5, 2019, moves to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and bifurcate the state into two Union Territories. While the commission’s meeting with party representatives was under way at a highly secured hotel on the banks of the Dal Lake, Mehbooba tweeted that the ED had summoned her mother, Gulshan Nazir, to appear before it on July 14. “On a day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summons to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores,” Mehbooba tweeted. The ED letter Gulshan has received states that she has been called for an investigation under provisions of the Money Laundering Act, 2002. The letter has been signed by Sunil Kumar Meena, assistant director of ED. Earlier in the day, the PDP shot off a letter to the Delimitation Commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, claiming that the panel “lacks constitutional and legal mandate in the first place and its very existence and objectives have left every ordinary resident of J&K with many questions”. “There are apprehensions that the delimitation exercise is part of the overall process of political disempowerment of the people of J&K that the Government of India has embarked on. At the very core of these apprehensions is the process through which the commission has been constituted and the fact that while the delimitation process across the country has been put on hold till 2026, J&K has been made an exception,” the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
07-07-2021||India||Kerala sub-judge quits over social media posts ||A sub-judge in Kerala who had landed in trouble for his social media comments on several issues, including court orders, has chosen to resign rather than face disciplinary action. Sub-judge of Perumbavoor, S. Sudeep, announced his decision in a Facebook post on Monday: “I resigned today and submitted a one-line resignation letter.” He sent his letter to the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court that had served him a notice and sought his explanation based on the findings of an inquiry conducted over his social media posts. Sudeep wrote another post to condole the death of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy in custody on Monday. “A man who was a judge in his ‘poorvashram’ (previous abode) apologises to that man. The name of the most unfortunate man in this world is Stan Swamy,” Sudeep wrote. The judicial officer with a massive following on social media for his bold statements didn’t forget to thank the establishment he had served for 19 years. “Thanks to the establishment that gave me an opportunity to serve for 19 years. Thank you, the lamps that shed light along my path,” he wrote thanking Kerala High Court Chief Justice S. Manikumar, several district judges and others. The high court panel that probed his Facebook posts over a few years had found that Sudeep had violated a 2017 circular that restrained judicial officers from making comments on sensitive matters. The high court had earlier withheld his three increments as part of its disciplinary action. Faced with possible termination of service over his comments that were found in violation of the circular, Sudeep had on Saturday posted a lengthy take that began with: “The resignation letter is in my pocket. I shall submit it whenever it’s needed.” He went on to reproduce the five violations cited by the investigation officer who was a district judge. The first charge is based on his Facebook post in 2017 in which he allegedly hurt religious sentiments by commenting on a Hindu ritual for the departed souls. He noted that the inquiry did not find any offence in his comments. The second one was allegedly about insulting Swami Ayyappan, the deity of Sabarimala temple, with some remark on his celibacy in 2018. The third comment was one that lauded a 2018 Supreme Court judgment that allowed women of all ages to enter Sabarimala. The allegation was that he hurt the religious sentiments of traditionalists who were against the verdict since entry of women of child-bearing age was prohibited since several years. The fourth allegation was over commenting on a high court verdict that ordered the removal of flex billboards in Kerala. Sudeep noted that the inquiry commission did not find anything offensive in the social media posts. He questioned how any of his posts would come under the ambit of the 2017 circular which was found to have been violated. He said: “How does my supporting court orders and rule of law become controversial and sensitive? As an Indian citizen I am duty-bound to defend court orders and rule of law. Who can say such comments cannot be made on public platforms?” He even cited an example of what could be construed as a “controversial” statement. “Kashmir could be controversial for some, not me. If I say Kashmir is an integral part of India it is certainly not controversial. Saying the opposite is, without doubt, controversial,” he posted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||JEE-Main to be held from July 20-25 and July 27- August 2||The pending editions of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main will be held from July 20 to 25 and July 27 to August 2, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced on Tuesday. The results of the two editions, which were postponed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, are likely to be announced in August. “The third edition of JEE Main will be conducted from July 20 to 25 while the fourth edition will be held from July 27 to August 2. The exams will be conducted by following all Covid protocols and keeping the safety of the candidates in mind,” Pokhriyal said. According to an official notification issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), the candidates who had applied for the postponed phases can modify their particulars from July 6 to 8 for the third edition and from July 9 to 12 for the fourth. “In order to address the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the number of cities has been increased from 232 to 334. The number of examination centres in every shift will also be increased from 660 to 828,” said Sadhana Parashar, senior director of the NTA. “The total number of candidates who have already registered for the April session is 6.80 lakh and 6.09 lakh for the May session,” she added. JEE Main, through which admissions are made to engineering colleges, is being conducted four times a year from the coronavirus-hit current academic session to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase in February was followed by the second in March, while the next editions were scheduled for April and May. But the latter two were postponed after a spike in Covid cases during the second wave of the pandemic. The JEE Advanced exam, which is conducted for admission to the IITs, was also postponed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy death: Opposition plea to President  for action||Leaders of 10 Opposition parties, including three chief ministers, on Tuesday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct the Narendra Modi government to act against those responsible for “foisting false cases” on Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who died in custody on Monday. Besides acting against the people who foisted the cases on Fr Stan, the Opposition leaders also want the government to take action against those party to his continued detention and inhuman treatment. “They must be held accountable. It is now incumbent that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition, etc, be released forthwith,’’ said the joint letter by Opposition leaders to the President. According to the letter, Fr Stan was denied treatment for his various ailments, including the debilitating Parkinson’s disease. Detailing the various stages of his deteriorating health when he was denied treatment, the Opposition leaders sought the President’s immediate intervention in ensuring action against those responsible for his death in custody. The signatories to the joint letter are Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister and JDS leader H.D. Deve Gowda, chief ministers of Bengal, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu — Mamata Banerjee, Hemant Soren and M.K. Stalin — respectively, Sharad Pawar of the NCP, Farooq Abdullah of the National Conference, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury and CPI’s D. Raja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Stan's treatment darkest tag on denial of freedom: National Lawyers Campaign||The National Lawyers Campaign (NLC), a representative outfit, has termed the imprisonment of Father Stan Swamy and repeated bail refusal as “one of the darkest incidents of denial of the fundamental freedom of life and liberty” that was unheard of even in the medieval era. In a statement issued in New Delhi, NLC president Mathew J. Nedumpura said the 84-year-old and ailing tribal rights activist who died in judicial custody on Monday while waiting for bail ought not to have been arrested in the first place and that no court should have remanded him in custody. “The denial of bail to Father Stan Swamy, which led to his incarceration and eventual death in a private hospital in Bombay still under judicial custody, is one of the darkest incidents of denial of the fundamental freedom of life and liberty enshrined in our Constitution,” Nedumpura said. “Even during the medieval days, the custody of a person accused was permissible only if the offences committed were so grave and such that if the person was at large he would not be available for trial and to undergo the punishment,” he added. Asserting that the sacrifice made by Fr Stan would not go in vain, the NLC hoped the judiciary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah would take note of the injustice that had “stained” India’s image the world over. The NLC also sought the immediate release of thousands of undertrials who are languishing in jails for years, denied speedy trial. Nedumpura recalled the words of legendary English jurist William Blackstone who in his Commentaries on the Laws of England had stated that “…the guilt of a man ought not be wrung out of him, and ought to be established by other men and means, through a complete protection against self-incrimination”. Pointing out that bail is a matter of right and can be denied only if the offender is likely to commit further crimes or is a flight risk, the NLC stated that this protection against incarceration and self-incrimination that has been an undeniable facet throughout the common history of law is being denied in 21st-century India. “The octogenarian, weak and sick Fr Swamy ought not to have been even arrested and no court should have remanded him in police/judicial custody. I have no words to condemn the injustice done to Fr Stan Swamy,” Nedumpura said. “I believe the sufferings of Fr Stan will not go in vain, and that the Prime Minister, home minister and the judiciary will take note of the fact that the injustice meted out to Fr Stan has stained India’s image all over the world, and has created a dent in the faith of the common man in the judiciary. “The reforms we need are drastic, revolutionary. The worship of meaningless procedures and technicality, we must abandon. Thousands of undertrials accused of petty offences, many of which are mere fabrication, ought to be released, and it is the duty of the Bar to raise its voice against injustice,” Nedumpura added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy: Kapil Mishra's 'natural death' tweet disappears||A Delhi BJP leader blamed for last year’s communal riots tweeted that Father Stan Swamy deserved to be punished but later deleted the tweet. Kapil Mishra, a  former AAP minister and current BJP rabble-rouser celebrated by Hindutva extremists, had tweeted on Monday: “Very sad about the natural death of #StanSwamy. He deserved punishment by the law for the heinous crimes he committed against humanity and the nation.” On Tuesday, the tweet vanished. Asked, Mishra told The Telegraph: “I generally delete after 24 hours because some people try to report. I stand by what I said yesterday.” Replying to a question on whether his party asked him to delete the tweet, Mishra said: “He (Fr Stan) was in jail for planning to kill the PM of India. I don’t think even remotely there is a chance of sympathy in the BJP for a Naxalite…” like Stan Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Evidence planted on Surendra Gadling's computer, says report||Forensic analysis has pointed to the alleged planting of evidence on the computer of another accused in the Bhima-Koregaon Maoist-links case by the “same attacker” that had targeted human rights activist Rona Wilson. The Washington Post on Tuesday published an article on the report of a US-based data forensics firm that found that Nagpur lawyer Surendra Gadling’s computer had been hacked with the NetWire malware in 2016 via email and a total of 14 documents had been planted between December 4, 2016, and October 22, 2017. One of the documents — on Maoist funding — that had allegedly been planted on Gadling’s computer in 2017 was the same as the one planted on Wilson’s computer around the same time, it said. The 14 documents deal with Maoist movements, attacks, funding through hawala channels and getting rebels released from jail. Boston’s Arsenal Consulting, quoted by The Post, has been bringing out reports on the alleged plants. The report on human rights activist Wilson had been made public in February this year. Arsenal, a digital forensic consulting company, has been cited in court by the defence team of Wilson. Arsenal’s third and latest report, on which The Post article is based, describes the evidence planting thus: “It should be noted that this is one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering that Arsenal has ever encountered, based on various metrics which include the vast timespan between the delivery of the first and last incriminating documents on multiple defendants’ computers.” Gadling and Wilson are in jail since 2018 in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Sixteen rights activists, including Father Stan Swamy who passed away in judicial custody on Monday, have been jailed in connection with the investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on December 31, 2017, at Maharashtra’s Bhima-Koregaon that was followed by caste clashes the next day that claimed one life. Arsenal’s third report, accessed by The Telegraph, says in its summary: “Arsenal’s analysis in this case has revealed that Surendra Gadling’s computer was compromised for just over 20 months by the same attacker identified in Reports I and II. The attacker responsible for compromising Mr Gadling’s computer had extensive resources (including time) and it is obvious that their primary goals were surveillance and incriminating document delivery. “Arsenal has effectively caught the attacker red handed, based on remnants of their activity left behind in file system transactions, application execution data, and otherwise. It is important to note that Arsenal has also recovered communications with the attacker’s command and control server from Mr Gadling’s computer. “Arsenal has connected the same attacker to a significant malware infrastructure which was deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Mr Gadling’s computer for 20 months, but to attack his co-defendants in the Bhima-Koregaon case and defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well.” The Post has verified the findings with independent experts. In May, the National Investigation Agency had opposed Wilson’s plea to quash the case on the basis of Arsenal’s reports on a digital copy of electronic evidence seized from his home in Delhi. In an affidavit to Bombay High Court, the NIA had said: “However, this report does not form part of the chargesheets which are filed by the NIA and the Pune police. It is a settled position of law that documents which are not part of the chargesheet cannot be relied upon by Mr Wilson and as such there is no question of looking into the report of Arsenal Consultancy and the entire petition deserves to be rejected.” Gadling, a Dalit, was the counsel for paraplegic academic G.N. Saibaba, serving a life sentence for links to the banned CPI (Maoist), Dalit author Sudhir Dhawale and Kabir Kala Manch activists under trial in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Relatives and friends of the 16 undertrials said in a statement on Monday night: “His (Fr Stan’s) claims that these documents had been surreptitiously planted was firmly upheld through the stunning disclosures of Arsenal Consulting…. We are outraged that Father Stan had to pay the price of this malicious fabrication of evidence with his life.” The statement added: “Later, as his health continued to deteriorate in prison, his medical bail plea was mechanically turned down by the same blind, unfeeling and insensitive NIA court. Even his Covid disease was not diagnosed in jail, and could only be detected after he was moved to the hospital on orders of the (Bombay) High Court…. “While we grieve the passing away of Father Stan Swamy, we unequivocally hold the negligent jails, the indifferent courts and the malicious investigating agencies firmly responsible for his unfortunate death. We fear for the health and lives of our family members and colleagues who are facing the similar injustices in the same jails, under the same unaccountable system.” Last year rights group Amnesty International and University of Toronto’s Internet watchdog Citizen Lab had revealed that in 2019, a coordinated spyware operation was used to target at least nine human rights defenders, eight of whom are campaigning for the release of the Bhima-Koregaon 16. Also in 2019, Israeli spyware Pegasus — sold only to governments — was discovered to have been used to spy on human rights defenders by penetrating their mobile phones via WhatsApp. Under constant grilling in the Rajya Sabha, that year, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had told the House: “To the best of my knowledge, no unauthorised interception has been done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||BJP lawmaker at door of seers for support against Yediyurappa||A BJP lawmaker who is leading a rebellion against Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa has started knocking on the doors of religious institutions without whose support it has become difficult to further their cause of a leadership change. The chief minister’s bugbear, Basanagoud Patil Yatnal, who has already unleashed a no-holds barred attack to replace Yediyurappa, has been meeting some prominent seers to seek their blessings for his operation. He met the seers of Devanur mutt and Hosamutt and visited the Srikanteshwara Temple atop Chamundi Hills in Mysore on Monday as part of his plan to seek the blessings of religious leaders for his mission. But sources privy to the meetings at two of the mutts said the seers usually welcomed anyone who visited them and that alone doesn’t guarantee their support since Yediyurappa still held sway. However, Yatnal skipped Suttur mutt, an influential Lingayat institution, although dissident state minister C.P. Yogeeshwara and lawmaker Ramesh Jarkiholi had visited the seer recently. One who could never meet eye to eye with Yediyurappa, Yatnal has been a major headache for the BJP that failed in disciplining him despite several warnings against anti-party activities. “I have been elected to the Lok Sabha twice and I am not here as a lawmaker because of Yediyurappa, but because of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s blessings,” he told reporters on Tuesday in Mysore, where he has been visiting religious leaders seeking their support to replace the chief minister. He brushed aside a question on why the party would go for a new chief minister after recently clarifying it had no such plans, Yatnal said nothing could be predicted. “Who knows if the high command would place that responsibility on my shoulders? No can discount any possibility. Did anyone expect D.V. Sadananda Gowda becoming chief minister?” Yatnal said. After Yediyurappa was forced to resign following a land scam in 2011, the party had surprised everyone by picking Gowda. “At one time no one could predict the BJP would come to power in Karnataka and Yediyurappa would become chief minister. So let’s not rule out anything,” Yatnal said. While he did not disclose how many more seers he planned to meet in the coming days, Yatnal was critical of some religious leaders and accused them of playing politics. “Mutt leaders should change to khadi from saffron since they are playing politics,” he told reporters in Mysore on Monday, alluding to some of the most powerful mutts that traditionally strengthened the hands of Yediyurappa. He met A.H. Vishwanath, another BJP leader who has been seeking a leadership change, at a hotel in Mysore setting off speculations about the dissidents coming together to take on Yediyurappa. One of the 17 turncoats who jumped ship from the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition to the BJP in 2019, Vishwanath had in June accused Yediyurappa of trying to use an irrigation project worth Rs 21,473 crore to get a “kickback” without even seeking financial clearance. The flurry of activity from Yatnal who even met some party leaders miffed at Yediyurappa left the BJP circles abuzz with talks about the possible impact of the latest round of rebellion brewing in the party. A party source, who requested not to be named, said they were not in a position to make matters worse. “The central leadership had already made it clear that there would be no change in Karnataka. Yet the dissents cannot be ignored since these are senior leaders. So our leaders will certainly take stock of the situation and pacify everyone,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot appointed as Karnataka governor ||Social justice minister Thawar Chand Gehlot was appointed Karnataka governor and many leaders said to be nurturing ministerial ambitions made a dash for Delhi on Tuesday, signalling that the first cabinet expansion of the Narendra Modi government’s second term was imminent. Speculation has been rife about filling up cabinet vacancies and also going for a rejig with sources saying it could be done at 6pm on Wednesday. Gehlot had also been the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. Three more BJP leaders were appointed governors of Mizoram, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, while four others were interchanged. The Rajya Sabha term of Gehlot, a Dalit leader, was to expire in 2024 and it seems likely that a new face will be elected to the Upper House for the rest of his term and that this person will also get a place in the government. The names of Trinamul turncoat Dinesh Trivedi and Congress defector Jitin Prasada are doing the rounds. A bunch of leaders who are seen as probables for cabinet berths rushed to Delhi on Tuesday after receiving phone calls asking them to come to the capital, BJP sources said. Prominent among them was Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose defection from the Congress had helped the BJP to pull down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh last year. Scindia is expected to be rewarded with a key ministry at the Centre. Scindia was spotted offering prayers at the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Tuesday before he left for Delhi. The BJP has already got him elected to the Rajya Sabha as he had lost his Gwalior Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 elections. Former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who stepped aside to make way for Himanta Biswa Sarma, also landed in Delhi. Sonowal is likely to get a place in the Modi government. The leader who evoked the maximum interest, however, was Pashupati Paras, the brother of late Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan. Paras, who was seen shopping for clothes in Patna, had led a coup against Paswan’s son Chirag and the BJP helped him get appointed as the leader of the Lok Janshakti Party in Parliament. The sources said Paras had received a call from Union home minister Amit Shah to come to Delhi. “Raaz ko raaz rehno do (let the secret remain a secret),” Paras said when asked whether he had received a call for being sworn in as minister. Paswan was a cabinet minister in the Modi government at the time of his death in October last year and Paras is likely to fill the slot. Modi’s council of ministers can have 81 members. It now has 53 members, which means another 28 can be inducted. It’s unlikely that Modi will have a full house and the upcoming Assembly polls in five states, prominent being Uttar Pradesh, will be kept in mind while making the fresh inductions. The BJP sources said some ministers could be dropped or shifted to other ministries based on a review by Modi. Many ministers are now holding more than one key portfolio. BJP leaders said the exit of the 73-year-old Gehlot was also an indication that young faces could find a place in the ministry. The BJP has unofficially fixed 75 as the retirement age from active politics. The expansion plans could face a hurdle in the form of Bihar ally Janata Dal United with Nitish Kumar’s party demanding four berths, the sources said. BJP chief J.P. Nadda has been negotiating with JDU MPs R.C.P. Singh and Lallan Singh, both of whom could be inducted into the cabinet. In addition, the JDU is said to be pressing for two junior ministers, the sources said, arguing that the BJP with 17 MPs from Bihar had five central ministers from the state. The JDU is the second largest partner in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance. The JDU had refused to join the government in 2019, rejecting the offer of just one berth as token representation. The BJP wants the ally to be part of the government to send out a message that it is keen on taking its partners along, particularly after losing the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||India||Uddhav govt brings bills to amend farm laws||The Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra on Tuesday introduced three amendment bills in the Assembly related to agriculture, co-operation, food and civil supplies, in a move to counter the new farm laws enacted by the Centre that are facing stiff opposition from farmers. The bills have provisions for higher than MSP rate for produce in farming agreement with traders, timely payment of dues, three-year jail term and Rs 5 lakh fine or both for harassment of farmers. They also have provisions to give power to the state government to regulate and prohibit production, supply, distribution and impose stock limits on essential commodities. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the central farm acts were passed without discussion and several of their provisions encroach on rights of state governments. “The state government has right to make laws and we want to suggest amendments to the central agriculture laws which we feel are anti-farmer,” he said. The bills which have been placed in public domain for two months for suggestions and objections are — Essential Commodities (Amendment), Farmers (Empowerment and Protection), Guarantee Price; Agriculture Related Agreements (Maharashtra Amendment) and Amendments to Central Government Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation). The draft bills have been prepared by a cabinet sub-committee headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Pawar said the draft bills will be in public domain for two months during which all stakeholders can hold discussions and debates on their provisions. The bills will be taken up for discussion and passage during the winter session of the legislature in Nagpur (held in December), he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
07-07-2021||West Bengal||WBJEE 2021 admit cards to be released in a few days||The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examinations Board (WBJEE) admit card will tentatively be available from July 12, reports hindustantimes.com. The candidates, who have applied for WBJEE 2021, will be able to download their admit card from the official website - https://wbjeeb.nic.in/ The examination will be held on July 17 and will be conducted in two shifts i.e. paper-1 (Mathematics) from 11 am to 1 pm and paper-2 physics and chemistry from 2 pm to 4 pm. Earlier the examination was scheduled to be held on July 11. However, the examination was rescheduled due to the Covid 19 situation in the country and keeping in mind the health and academic interest of the candidates. The date of the publication of the result will be notified later. WBJEE 2021 will be one of the first major exams being conducted in the state in offline mode amidst the pandemic. Officials have mandated that everyone appearing for the exam in the state have to follow the Covid-19 protocols. Candidates are also expected to follow all Covid -19 related guidelines to ensure the safety of all. There will a minimum of 4 to 5 feet of distance maintained between the seats of two candidates. The seating arrangement will be such that two candidates will be seated on a bigger desk while one candidate will be made to sit on a smaller desk, officials said. It is mandatory for all registered students to download the admit card and take a print of it, before going for the exams, as candidates will not be allowed to enter the centre with the hall ticket. Apart from the admit card, candidates will also need to carry a passport size photograph, and Aadhar card, as per the official notice by WBJEE. The pattern of the exam will be in multiple-choice format and will be consist of 75 questions from the mathematics section and 40 questions each from the physics and chemistry sections. The papers carry a total of 200 marks and one-fourth of the marks will be deducted from each question if the answer is wrong. According to officials, about 92,000 students are appearing for WBJEE 2021. These students will be made to appear for the exam in 274 exam centres in the state. WBJEE 2021 is being held for candidates who want to secure admissions to undergraduate courses. These undergraduate courses are in engineering, technology, pharmacy and architecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||4 Bengal MPs rewarded with ministerial berths||Thirtyfour, 39, 41, 43: the names of the four BJP MPs from Bengal – Subhas Sarkar, Shantanu Thakur, John Barla and Nisith Pramanik-- tipped to be inducted into the Narendra Modi ministry at the Centre on Wednesday evening were as placed in this order in a list of 43 new inductees that was doing the rounds of television news channles and news portals. The induction of the four on Wednesday is an indication that the BJP’s central leadership has not given up on its hopes from Bengal. It has the tough task of retaining the 19 seats it won in 2019 in the next Lok Sabha polls as well as wrest a few from the Trinamul. Pramanik, Barla and Sarkar are being rewarded for the BJP's good performance in the Assembly segments in their Lok Sabha constituencies. Thakur’s caste identity made him indispensable in the Bengal BJP. A representative of the Matua community, Thakur is believed to have held sway on the two crore members of the community, spread all over the state. Since 2019, the community has moved onwards to the BJP from the Trinamul. Since 2019, the two MPs holding junior ranks in Union ministries were Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chowdhury, with portfolios of environment and women & child development, respectively. Both were asked to submit their resignations earlier in the day on Wednesday. The BJP had fared miserably in the Assembly segments of the Lok Sabha constituencies that the two represent, Asansol and Raigunj. Supriyo also contested from the Tollygunge Assembly seat and lost. In both the constituencies, BJP could win only two seats each. The 2019 Lok Sabha poll results gave high hopes to the BJP in Bengal, which despite bagging the highest number of seats it ever had won in the state,  was nowhere near the majority mark to pose a serious threat to Mamata Banerjee's chief ministership. Since the election results were announced, the Bengal BJP has been speaking in different voices. On the one hand is state president Dilip Ghosh , who is at loggerheads with legislature party leader Suvendu Adhikari. Despite being a turncoat, Adhikari has managed to cement his position in his new party after defeating Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. Adhikari has been working on his own in the party. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijaywargiya is staying away from the state since its once-prized catch Mukul Roy switched to the Trinamul after becoming an MLA on a BJP ticket. The decision to drop the two junior ministers from the Union council of ministers was music for chief minister Mamata Banerjee. "Did Babul-Debasree harm BJP? Why have they fallen out of favour?" she asked at the state Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo says he was asked to step down from post, deletes post afterwards||Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who quit the cabinet on Wednesday ahead of a mega reshuffle, said he is "extremely happy" that he left the stint "without a spot of corruption on me". However, this was not his initial reaction. Earlier in the day, he posted on social media, "I have been asked to resign and I have." "I thank Prime Minister for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers, he posted on his Facebook account. Later, the BJP MP from Bengal deleted the post and replaced it with a new one. "Yes, when there is smoke there must be a fire somewhere. Not being able to take phone calls of my friends in the media who care for me hence let me spell it out myself... Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers (As I had framed it earlier, 'Asked to resign' may not be the right way to put it)," he said. "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers. I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might and having enjoyed their confidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the margin in 2019 again," the BJP MP said. His announcement of quitting as a Minister of State came hours before a list of 43 new names in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet was made public. Some of the big exits include Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks PM to do 'Petrol and vaccine ki baat' instead of 'Mann ki Baat'||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "making a mess of the country's economy" and urged him to hold 'petrol and vaccine ki baat' instead of 'Mann ki Baat. Referring to the proposed Union Cabinet reshuffle, the chief minister, during a press meet in Calcutta, said the removal of Babul Supriyo from the council of ministers shows that "they (BJP government) have also lost it even before the arrival of their end" in 2024. Noting that none of the letters she wrote to the PM evoked any response, Mamata said despite appeals for Jagdeep Dhankhar's removal as governor, nothing was done about it. "The entire economy is in the doldrums. Fuel prices are increasing everyday and the Union government is sitting idle. "Our prime minister is only busy with his Mann ki Baat. He should instead hold petrol ki baat, diesel ki baat and vaccine ki baat," she insisted. Asked about the possibility of BJP MP John Barla's induction in the Union ministry, weeks after he demanded a separate union territory for North Bengal, Mamata said it will reflect the "divisive mindset" of the saffron party. "I won't comment on ministry reshuffle. Will reshuffle end the woes of the people?" she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Budget: State government grants road tax waiver, stamp duty rebate||The West Bengal government on Wednesday waived road tax on passenger transport vehicles and offered a rebate on stamp duty as it tabled a Rs 3.08- lakh- crore Budget in the assembly for fiscal 2021-2022. Presenting the Budget, state industry minister Partha Chatterjee, who had placed the vote-on-account in the House on February, said the government has decided to extend the one- time exemption of motor vehicle tax for the period starting July 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. The government has also proposed to reduce stamp duty by two per cent for registration of deeds, while circle rate was slashed by ten per cent. Chatterjee presented the budget as finance minister Amit Mitra is indisposed due to ill health. Talking about the student credit card scheme, launched on June 30, the minister said that interest rate of four per cent will be charged as a part of subvention, while the rest will be borne by the government. The budget speech was further critical of the rise in fuel prices in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC judge exits from Mamata's case against Suvendu's Nandigram win||Justice Kausik Chanda of the Calcutta High Court Wednesday recused himself from hearing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition challenging the election of Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, while imposing a cost of Rs 5 lakh on her. Observing that a deliberate and conscious attempt was made to influence his decision before the recusal application was placed before him, Justice Chanda imposed the cost for the manner in which the recusal was sought and directed that the amount be deposited to the Bar Council of Bengal within two weeks. "Such calculative, psychological and offensive attempt to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of Rs. 5 lakh is imposed upon Petitioner," he said in the order. Justice Chanda had on June 24 reserved order on Mamata's application that the judge recuses himself from hearing her election petition apprehending bias on his part. As the judge released the election petition from his court, the matter will now be referred to Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for assigning it to a different bench. Seeking his recusal, it was claimed that Justice Chanda was an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the Additional Solicitor General of India in 2015 and since the election of a BJP candidate was challenged, there were apprehensions of bias in the adjudication of the election petition. Justice Chanda had said that he was never a convenor of the BJP Legal Cell, but had appeared in many cases representing the party before the Calcutta High Court. Mamata's counsel had earlier written to the Acting Chief Justice of the high court seeking reassignment of her election petition to another bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||20-year-old youth killed in South 24-Parganas, glare on co-accused||A youth, who had been named as an accused in a murder last year, was killed near his home at Kulpi in South 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning allegedly by his co-accused, less than a day before he was scheduled to appear in court as an approver and give testimony. Police and local sources said Abdul Guffur Purkait, 20, a resident of Rajramghat village, was hacked to death by three youths, one of who was out on bail along with co-accused Rakib Sardar and Raju Mollah. All were scheduled to appear before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kakdwip on Wednesday. Family members claimed that Guffur had decided to make a submission before the court confessing to the crime and had apparently earned the wrath of the co-accused. However, Sunderbans police authorities have claimed that no such agreement was reached with the deceased. According to local sources, Khokon Mollah, one of the victim’s distant relatives, was murdered in the area last year, in which connection Guffur had reportedly been asked to give testimony as an accused. On Tuesday, Kulpi police began a probe based on a complaint filed by his father. "This was a planned murder because he had agreed to become an approver," said Saiful Purkait, the deceased's father. Sunderbans superintendent of police, Bhaskar Mukherjee, however, claimed local police had no knowledge of Guffur's enlistment as an approver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court lawyer ‘with BJP links’ arrested for fraud||Calcutta police on Monday nabbed a high court lawyer, Sanatan Roy Chaudhuri, on charges of fraudulent activities, forgery and impersonating as a public servant, close on the heels of the arrest of fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb. Sources in Calcutta police said multiple documents seized from Sanatan established purported links between him and the BJP. According to the police, Sanatan claimed to be a member of the state government’s standing council and a CBI counsel. Cops said he would travel in a car with a blue beacon and a CBI sticker. He was arrested on Monday from his residence in Sinthi by officers of the Gariahat police station on charges of trying to usurp a property worth crores in south Calcutta by flaunting his fake identity. Police sources said a piece of paper that appeared to be a receipt for donation made to the BJP had been seized from Sanatan. The date on the receipt is August 10, 2014. A visiting card carrying the lotus symbol of the BJP has also been seized from him.. The card proclaimed Sanatan as a national executive member of the BJP and bore the address of its Delhi headquarters. A photograph featuring the accused and BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate for the recently concluded Assembly polls, Rudranil Ghosh, a Trinamul turncoat, has also been recovered. Another picture showed Sanatan in the company of former state minister and Trinamul’s Bankura district chief Shyamal Santra. Santra has denied knowing Sanatan. Sanatan had come from Calcutta and wanted to meet Santra, a request the latter had kept, he said. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “Many people have become our members by giving missed calls. We don’t know all of them. What he did is unacceptable and everything happened under the state government’s nose.” Rackets busted East Burdwan police arrested eight people from Memari on Monday on allegations of extorting money from young men against fake promises of jobs in the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Police claimed that more than a lakh in cash, seven mobile phones, and several documents including a purported letter of appreciation from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar along with his picture were seized from the accused. “We are trying to verify if the documents are genuine,” said Kalyan Sinha Roy, ASP (headquarters), East Burdwan. Krishnagar police began a case against a woman, who allegedly extorted money from youths with fake job promises. Radharani Biswas, 43, claimed she was a senior CID officer. She has been charged with criminal breach of trust and cheating on the basis of complaints lodged by two unemployed youths who claimed to have paid her around Rs 10 lakh for providing them with jobs. Police have also brought similar charges against her husband Nripendra Biswas, her daughter and one of their close aides in the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly moots Vidhan Parishad after 52 years||The Bengal Assembly on Tuesday sanctioned the resurrection, after 52 years, the state’s legislative council or Vidhan Parishad with a vote of 196:69 (nearly three-fourths of the 265 members present), in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pre-poll commitment. Bengal’s Vidhan Parishad was formed in June 1952, with 51 members, but was abolished in March 1969. Mamata has, since coming to power in 2011, been in favour of the Parishad’s revival. Before the 2021 Assembly polls, the Trinamul chief said her government would bring back the Upper House, should it win a third term.. After the landslide mandate in her favour, the state cabinet green-lit the process in May. However, bringing the bicameral legislature back to life in Bengal involves a fairly long road ahead. The motion will now be sent to Delhi, following governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s approval. There, it would be considered by the Union law ministry, under Ravi Shankhar Prasad, and sent for consideration and passing by both Houses of the Parliament. Should it clear those steps, it would need President Ram Nath Kovind’s signature. The BJP’s Bengal unit has made it clear that the party is opposed to the return of the Parishad in Bengal and the proposal would be voted out by the BJP’s brute majority in the Lok Sabha. Trinamul has argued that it is a constitutional provision (Article 169 of the Constitution), and of the six states in the country that still have such a council, that is, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,  three are BJP or NDA-ruled. “They aren’t opposed to the existence of the Upper House in Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but here, they are talking about burden on the exchequer and whatnot,” said parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee later, referring to claims by leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari that resurrection of the Parishad would mean an extra burden of Rs 600-800 crore over five years. “How do they know that? It hasn’t been decided yet if the Parishad would be a 40-seat (stipulated minimum) or a 98-seat (stipulated maximum of a third of the 294-seat Assembly) House,” said Chatterjee. “We found his (Adhikari’s) boasts of his party’s Lok Sabha majority and how it (the motion) would be terminated there in poor taste.” He added the BJP was trying to bulldoze the “very federal form of the Constitution”. To become a member of the Parishad, a citizen of India must be at least 30, of sound mind, not an insolvent, and enrolled as a voter of state. Somebody who is an MP or an MLA cannot simultaneously be a member of the Parishad. The members of the legislative council – MLCs – occupy seats for six years, with a third of the total strength of the Parishad retiring every two years. Adhikari, a Trinamul turncoat, insisted that it was being done by the state government to ensure “backdoor entry” to the legislature for those who lost the Assembly election, including Mamata, and her “loyalists” in civil society. Chatterjee rubbished it, accusing Adhikari of “losing his mind, under tremendous pressure”, adding Mamata would contest the Assembly bypolls from Bhowanipore. Bypolls remain pending for Khardah, Gosaba, Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata and Santipur, besides Bhowanipore. Sources in the treasury benches said the ruling party would like to reward some veterans who were denied Assembly tickets this time with Parishad memberships, but there was no plan to bring only “loyalists” from civil society. “She (Mamata) also plans to bring several respected leaders of the Left and the Congress, who were reduced to zero seats for the first time since Independence,” said a Trinamul leader. The CPM and the Congress have, so far, been opposed to the idea. The lone Sanyukta Morcha (an alliance of the Left, the Congress, and the ISF) member in the Assembly, ISF leader Nawsad Siddique, opposed it on Tuesday. A Trinamul vice-president said it was becoming increasingly clear that the BJP had chosen disruptive practices as their principal strategy. “Earlier in the day, Suvendu Adhikari and team created ruckus in the House as the Speaker (Biman Banerjee) urged him not to keep referring to the Nandigram election result, as it is sub judice now. They staged a walkout and accused the Speaker of being partisan,” he said. During the discussion on the governor’s address, a belligerent Mamata raised questions on the neutrality of the Election Commission of India on the floor of the House and asserted that without the commission’s alleged help to the BJP, it would not have secured even 30 seats in the election. “Without the Election Commission’s support, the BJP would not have even won 30 seats…. Whatever (Narendra) Modi and (Amit) Shah wanted was done by them (the commission),” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Malda zilla parishad sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal quits||Malda zilla parishad sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal resigned after Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dismissed his plea to withhold a meeting scheduled for July 8 to discuss a no-confidence motion against him. Mandal had become a zilla parishad member in 2018 on a Trinamul candidate. But, he joined the BJP in March this year and contested from Manikchak against Trinamul’s Sabitri Mitra. He was defeated. On June 23, 23 of 37 elected members at the zilla parishad moved a no-confidence motion against Mandal. Accordingly, a meeting was scheduled for July 8 to discuss the motion. Mandal filed a petition in the high court, seeking a stay on the meeting. The high court dismissed his plea on Tuesday and soon, Mandal tendered his resignation. He submitted the resignation letter to the divisional commissioner. “I have done so in consultation with the BJP leadership,” said Mandal. District Trinamul leaders said he had any other option. “We have 24 elected members at the zilla parishad. Mandal had realised that the no-confidence motion would be passed and he would have to step down. The new sabhadhipati will be elected shortly,” said Mausam Benazir Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 962 new active cases in a day ||Bengal on Tuesday logged the 16th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 675 to reach 17,275, as it reported 1,620 recoveries, 962 new infections and 17 deaths. Active cases fell till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, the number climbed by over 56 per cent, before falling by 25 per cent again over these 16 days. “We are in the driving seat again. A steady, sharp fall in active cases is now a foregone conclusion,” said a minister. With worst-hit districts Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reining in new infections at 59 and 92, Tuesday was the ninth successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and Malda, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. West Midnapore was the only district on Tuesday with a three-digit figure. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 on Tuesday, meaning a shrink in Covid spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.67 per cent, with the national rate at 97.15 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Of the day's 17 deaths, three were from Calcutta and six from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, South 24-Parganas just one. Bengal now has a total of over 15.07 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.72 lakh recoveries and 17,834 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||10-year-old student accidentally strangled to death in Hooghly||A 10-year-old student was accidentally strangled by a cloth that her father had hung from a wooden structure attached to the bed to create a makeshift swing for his two daughters at home in Hooghly’s Polba late on Monday evening. Sources said Ankita Manna, 10, was playing with her sister Sanghita, 5, in their bedroom. As the sisters were playing with the swing, the cloth accidentally strangled Ankita. When the accident took place, Sandip Manna, the father of the two kids, had left for work, and the two sisters were under the care of their grandparents. Sandip, who works as a daily wage earner, had recently separated from his wife and the two kids had been staying with him. “There was none present when the children were playing in the room. The cloth accidentally got entangled on Ankita’s throat. When my wife went inside the room to enquire about the children, she found Ankita lying unconscious with the cloth around her throat,” said Laxman Manna, grandfather of the girls. He added Sanghita was too small to raise an alarm. After the grandparents cried for help, neighbours of Laxman rushed Ankita to Imambara district hospital in Chinsurah, where doctors declared her dead. Police said no foul play had been reported. “The girl was killed in an accident. We have started a case of unnatural death. No foul play has been reported so far,” said Amandeep,  the SP of Hooghly rural.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Police rescue 14-year-old Siliguri boy from Jammu & Kashmir||Police have rescued a 14-year-old boy, who had been missing since May 31, from Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir and handed him over to his parents here. Police sources said the boy had fled his home at Agam Singh Giri Nagar here. Raju Sarkar, an assistant sub-inspector, said the boy’s mother had received a phone call from her son who told her that he was in Kashmir. “We tracked the cellphone number and learnt the call had been made from some place under Nowgam police station near Srinagar,” Sarkar added. A police team left for Kashmir on June 21 and rescued the boy from an ice factory at Kunzer in Baramulla. He was handed over to the parents on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
07-07-2021||West Bengal||28-year-old youth dies in police custody, mob torches vehicles in West Burdwan||A 28-year-old youth’s death in police custody on Tuesday sparked off violence with a mob torching a jeep of the law enforcers and two motorbikes parked at Barakar police outpost in West Burdwan. Kulti police had picked up Mohammad Arman Ansari, a resident of Barakar, on Monday night in connection with a theft case. The police found him lying unconscious at the lock-up on Tuesday morning and rushed him to Asansol district hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Around 11am, about 100 relatives and friends of Arman barged into the Barakar police outpost, where he had initially been taken for interrogation before being shifted to the Kulti police station lock-up. Accusing the police of killing Arman in custody, the mob ransacked the outpost and torched a police jeep and two motorcycles parked on the premises. They also pelted the law enforcers with stones when they tried to pacify the mob. Outnumbered by the mob, who took over control of the area, policemen ran to save their own lives. The angry protesters blocked the road outside the police outpost and the Barakar-Purulia road. Later, a large police contingent led by Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur arrived and brought the situation under control. The police used batons and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the mob. “My son was picked up last night by the police for no reason. When I went to Barakar police outpost this morning to enquire about him, they sent me to Kulti police station,” said Mohammmad Abdul Kalam, the victim’s father. On reaching Kulti police station, he said, the inspector-in-charge, Ashim Majumdar, offered him drinking water and tea and later informed him that his son had died. “The IC told me that my son had been picked up as a suspect in connection with a theft case. He scuffled with some inmates inside the lock-up at Barakar outpost and was later shifted to Kulti for security reasons, said the IC. He (Arman) fell sick this morning and after taking him to hospital, the doctors pronounced him dead,” said Kalam. Blaming the police for torturing Arman in the lock-up, an inconsolable Kalam asked: “My son was physically fit. How could he have died unless the police tortured him?” Sources said Arman had earlier been arrested by the police on charges of theft and was later released on bail. “Arman was earlier involved in theft cases and was out on bail. We picked him up along with two more suspects. They scuffled inside the lock-up. So, we shifted Arman to Kulti police station for his security,” said a police officer. Police commissioner Thakur suspended the in-charge of the Barakar outpost, Amarnath Das, and sub-inspector of Kulti police station, Prashanta Pal, on charges of “negligence”. “The youth was picked-up for interrogation last night in connection with several theft cases. He suddenly fell sick and died this morning. We have initially suspended the in-charge of the outpost and another sub inspector. A departmental inquiry is on and the situation is under control now,” said Thakur. The victim’s body will be handed over to the family on Wednesday after an autopsy at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Squash court at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club revamped||A squash court at Darjeeling Gymkhana Club set up in 1909 and defunct for more than 20 years has been revamped to the glory of its heyday, club authorities said on Tuesday. But this welcome development highlighted the slide in sporting infrastructure in the hills, which was once among the best in the region. In the late 1950s, Darjeeling boasted of 18 tennis courts, four squash courts, a nine-hole golf course, a mini racecourse and over a dozen badminton and table tennis facilities. Save for around five tennis courts, half-a-dozen badminton and table tennis courts and this squash court, other sporting facilities are closed. Darjeeling Gymkhana Club alone had four squash courts when it was established in 1909. “We could renovate and inaugurate one squash court today, which was defunct for more than 20 years,” said Bimal Jhawar, executive committee member of the club. The club kept the vintage quotient of the squash court intact during renovation, refraining from using fibre used in modern squash courts. Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, chairman of the club inaugurated the court. Pemba Tashi, vice-chairman of the club said that while producing champions was their dream, they hoped to help Darjeeling citizens lead a healthy life through sports at the least. However, the talk in the town was about the need for a sports complex in Darjeeling. “Children in Darjeeling do not have a proper playground. A sports complex is something both the administration and people’s representatives must give priority to,” said Sunil Shankar, father of an 11-year-old girl. Roshankant Ghisingh, a resident of Darjeeling who represented Delhi in the national table tennis tournament in 1989, underscored the need for a sports academy in town. “During our day, we could play table tennis at District Cultural Institute, Buddha Singh Sporting Club, Station Club, Hayden Hall, Nripendra hall and Gymkhana Club. After football, the most popular sport in the hills was table tennis,” said Ghisingh. “We need a sports academy here.” Ghisingh has set up a private sports complex in Siliguri, named Siliguri Gymkhana Club, whose Match Point Tennis Academy has three courts. Darjeeling old-timers recalled that in the past, Prakash Padukone — the first Indian to win the All England Badminton Championship — had visited Darjeeling to play at the Nripendra Narayan Bengali Hindu Public Hall. National football teams like East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and clubs from Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan used to regularly take part in hill tournaments. In the late 1970s, the Gymkhana Club had hosted junior nationals in table tennis. Many believe that the violent Gorkhaland agitation that started in 1986 and general apathy led to the death of sports culture in Darjeeling. The bungalow at the nine-hole golf course at Tiger Hill was burnt down during the 1986 agitation. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council later bulldozed the golf course to unsuccessfully set up a helipad. The last contest at the Lebong horse racecourse was held on October 31, 1984. The Brigade of Gurkhas Gold Cup, a major football tournament has become erratic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Yaas and Covid pose hurdle to schoolkid bank account details||An association of heads of higher secondary schools in Bengal has requested the state government to extend the deadline of uploading bank account details of over 8 lakh students of Class XII as many don’t have bank accounts that they need to avail the state government aid of Rs 10,000 to buy tabs or smartphones for online classes. The state had earlier asked school authorities to upload student bank account details by Wednesday. According to sources, the heads of nearly 6,000 high schools in Bengal could upload bank account details of 5,20,687 of a total of 8,14,687 students of Class XII till now. Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses (ASFHM), which has written to the state for an extension, has cited valid reasons apart from students not having bank accounts. “In many districts, students are facing a tough time to open accounts as many banks are not ready to open zero balance accounts and families of students can’t arrange Rs 1,000 to open bank accounts amid Covid-19 pandemic. In Yaas-hit districts, many students have lost identification documents as their homes collapsed,” said Chandan Maiti, the general secretary of ASFHM. “Also, furnishing bank account details of all students by Wednesday is a tall order with admissions to Class XII on till July 15.” Sources in Nabanna said as the aid for students is a pet project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, she would not like any snags to undermine it. “The state can increase the deadline by a couple of weeks to ensure students get tabs before schools start online classes, at least for Class X and XII students, which is the prime focus of the government,” said a senior government official. Sources said heads of schools in rural and remote areas in Yaas-hit South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore are facing a tougher time getting bank accounts of students made. In East Midnapore, where the number of Class XII students is around 53,000, bank account details are not available for around 23,000 students. In South 24 Parganas bank details are not available for around 46,000 out of 73,380 students. In West Midnapore, bank details are yet to be updated for around 18,597 out of 46,868 students.Damage to homes and shrunken income amid the pandemic are said to be reasons. “Many families have severely lost income amid the pandemic. These families are finding it difficult to arrange Rs 1,000 to open bank accounts. This particular problem should be taken care of by the government,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Two new civic bodies for Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts||The state urban development and municipal affairs department on Tuesday issued notifications to announce two new municipalities, one each in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. In Alipurduar, the new civic body in Falakata is the second municipality in the district. In neighbouring Jalpaiguri, Maynaguri is the new municipality, raising the total number of civic bodies in the district to four. In the notifications, a joint secretary of the department stated that the civic bodies would come into effect from Tuesday and be run by administrators for next six months. “The SDO of Alipurduar has been deputed as the administrator for Falakata municipality. For Maynaguri, the SDO of Jalpaiguri Sadar will function as the administrator,” said a government official. The administrators will take up the task of “shaping up the municipal administration” and ensure the “running of civic services”, the notifications have stated. In February this year, the state had marked the prospective areas to come under these new civic bodies. The Falakata municipality covers Falakata-I & II panchayats and parts of Parengerpar and Guabarnagar panchayats of Falakata block. The civic body in Maynaguri covers wards spread across Madhabdanga-I and Maynaguri panchayats and parts of Khagrabari-I and Domohoni-I panchayats of Maynaguri block. The decision has been welcomed by residents of both Falakata and Maynaguri, for whom this was a longstanding demand so as to get better civic facilities. “Municipality status will help thousands get full-fledged civic services, be it drinking water supply or conservancy services. Now that the civic bodies are formed, the panchayats under the ambit will eventually turn into municipal wards. In the coming days, panchayats in these areas will cease to exist,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||West Bengal||Two workers die while working inside septic tank in Jalpaiguri||Two workers died and two others fell ill while working inside a septic tank being built in Nathuapara on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Alim Mohammad, 31, and Ananta Roy, 24. Two others, Rahim Mohammad and Bipul Roy, both in their mid-30s, are under treatment at the superspecialty hospital in Jalpaiguri. Sources said Narayan Roy, a resident of Nathuapara, was making a septic tank at his home. A few days back, mortar was laid on the top of the tank. On Tuesday, Alim Mohammad got inside to take out the wooden planks put for support, but slumped senseless. Ananta got down to help him, but he also fainted. Rahim and Bipul also got in, but when they felt uncomfortable, they called for help and some bystanders helped them out. As the other two lay unconscious inside, residents informed the Jalpaiguri fire station. Firemen brought Alim and Ananta out, but doctors at the Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital pronounced them brought dead. “We suspect they have died of oxygen shortage in the septic tank (that was closed),” said an officer of Kotwali police station. House owner Narayan said the tank was under construction and hence without garbage, so there was no possibility of noxious fumes like ammonia. He added that the tank was 9 feet long and 7 feet deep. Doctors at the hospital said Rahim and Bipul were being treated. “We are waiting for post-mortem reports to know the cause of deaths of the other two workers,” said hospital superintendent Gayaram Naskar. The incident has shocked residents of the area. “We are perplexed at the deaths,” said resident Lutfar Rehman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
07-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tirath Singh Rawat resigns as Uttarakhand CM, right to food of stray dogs||Change of plans Sir — It was hardly surprising when the chief minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat, handed over his resignation to the governor, Baby Rani Maurya, within only four months of being appointed, reportedly citing the constitutional provision that requires him to get elected to the assembly within six months of assuming office, and the unlikelihood of the bypolls in the state being held in time on account of the pandemic (“Uttarakhand CM steps down after 4 months”, July 3). In the meantime, Uttarakhand gets Pushkar Singh Dhami as its new chief minister — its third in four months. Dhami, who is the youngest chief minister Uttarakhand has seen till date, expressed his gratitude to prime minister, Narendra Modi, the home minister, Amit Shah, and the Bharatiya Janata Party national president, J.P. Nadda, for giving him this opportunity. However, Rawat seems to be merely a pawn in the plans of the BJP leadership that wants to show that it stands for the Constitution by sacrificing Rawat instead of forcing the Election Commission to hold the bypolls. This might have been done to set a template to be used against Mamata Banerjee, who is also supposed to contest the bypolls to keep her position as chief minister of West Bengal within the next few months. It is likely that the Election Commission will hold up Rawat’s case as an example for not conducting bypolls in Bengal. This could force Banerjee to step down. But one should not forget that these two cases are different. Rawat’s mismanagement of the Kumbh Mela and the fake RT-PCR tests scandal during the event could cost him dearly, especially with the Uttarakhand legislative assembly election knocking at the door. On the other hand, Banerjee lost her seat but her party won by a massive mandate. Besides, there are no state elections in the near future, so there is no reason for the bypolls being delayed. Rawat’s case is a clear example of the myopic vision of the outgoing chief minister and the BJP high command. More so because even though he knew that he would have to be voted to the assembly in six months, neither he nor the party could chalk out an effective plan for this. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation may prove to be an alarm bell for Bengal’s chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. Ever since the result of the Bengal elections went against the saffron party, the BJP has been restless — the ruckus inside the assembly during the governor’s address is a recent example. There is a chance that the Election Commission decides to postpone the Bhawanipur bypolls to next year because of the pandemic. After all, nothing is impossible in politics. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The change of guard in Uttarakhand may have had the hidden agenda of rattling the leadership in Bengal, but it has also exposed fault lines in the saffron party. Whatever the pretext of Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation, it reflects poorly on the leader who was chosen by the BJP to govern the state. This would not inspire trust among the people in the new chief minister either. Besides, the rise of Pushkar Singh Dhami has disappointed many senior leaders in the party — the leadership reportedly had to spend an entire day trying to pacify discontented members, especially those who had switched from the Congress to the BJP. Clearly, then, the saffron party and its members are not devoid of the thirst for power, an image that Rawat’s seemingly selfless gesture tried to project. Priyam Gupta,Calcutta Take care Sir — Animals have often been politicized in India — the cow is a prime example. But little effort has been put into actually improving their lives. The Delhi High Court’s decision regarding the right to food of stray dogs is thus a move in the right direction. The court has now instructed the Animals Welfare Board of India to designate appropriate spots for feeding them. Across India, urban strays, in particular, have become dependent on human beings for sustenance. This makes it all the more important for people to care for these creatures. All states should make similar arrangements for stray animals. Purabi Sanyal,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Cannon fodder||A shadow often falls between enlightened law and the nature of its implementation. An instance of this worrying gap has come to the fore — ironically — on the 10th anniversary of a momentous legislation. Ten years ago, the Salwa Judum, an armed vigilante outfit raised and patronized by the State against its battle against Maoists in Chhattisgarh, had been banned by the Supreme Court, which stated that the deployment of tribal youth as special police officers was illegal. The apex court, in essence, was frowning upon the practice of raising militias whose members — cannon fodder to the powers that be — bore the brunt of the collateral damage in the battle between the State and the insurgents. The learned judges had also strongly argued in favour of rehabilitating and protecting members of the militia that was to be disbanded. It would be instructive to assess the State’s response towards this intervention after a decade. There are allegations that the SPOs have been rechristened as the District Reserve Guard, a constituency of poorly- trained and poorly-paid personnel, which has been known to commit excesses much like the Salwa Judum. Even more worrying is the absence of justice for the victims of the militia’s crimes. Depositions by survivors before judicial commissions or India’s premier investigative agency yielded very little corrective action against the perpetrators. The Supreme Court’s judgment assumes importance not only because of its patchy implementation. There is also the matter of the judgment exposing the hypocrisy of the State. It is fashionable to chastise ‘non-State actors’ in the modern security parlance. Usually, and not always without reason, non-State actors are, it is argued, rogue elements that retain the potential to disrupt peace and wreck lives. But this branding is not unproblematic. The rise of shrill nationalism in India has resulted in the conflation of critical opinion with that of non-State actors in a bid to delegitimize — criminalize — their views. Little wonder then that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is prone to spotting an ‘urban Naxal’ — a bona fide dissenter — in every corner of the country. This could well be a ruse to deflect attention from the deployment of militias, admittedly with a few tweaks to their form, in conflict zones. The violation of the letter and spirit of an important judgment on an extrajudicial agency — the Salwa Judum — must be an occasion to deepen the public engagement with the layered nature of its history and State complicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In custody||It was not an assassination but a slow death. Death in custody. When the priest, Stan Swamy, was arrested last October like certain poets, journalists, teachers and lawyers in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case, he was ailing and elderly, but active. He had fought lifelong for the rights of tribal people, against their land alienation and the imprisonment of young tribal men as Maoists when they protested. It is a bitter irony that, after a rapid worsening of his health, he should die in custody, accused of Maoist links. The State’s attitude was made clear when he had to move court to get a straw without which he could not drink water. Interim bail was refused him in May when he said he was too ill to live long, and he died before the medical bail application could be heard. His death highlights three things. The first is the habitual refusal to give bail under the advice of the prosecuting or investigative agencies in spite of the Supreme Court’s emphatic declaration that bail should be the rule and jail the exception, aside from specific circumstances. Stan Swamy was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that made bail difficult, but earlier, the Supreme Court had said that even in anti-terror and narcotics cases, an accused was entitled to bail if there was no immediate possibility of a trial. The denial of bail to Stan Swamy and the others arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case goes against Supreme Court rulings, while treating the accused as convicts overturns the principles of justice. There is also the question of humanity. The treatment meted out to those labelled ‘urban Naxals’, most of them senior and with medical conditions, displays a targeted lack of compassion. Stan Swamy’s co-prisoner, Varavara Rao, was released on six months’ bail after his family’s desperate efforts, but not till the senior citizen’s physical and mental health had deteriorated unrecognizably. Both he and Stan Swamy had Covid-19; hospital stays did not seem to help much. For neglect is a weapon too. And last, prolonged detention without bail helps the State punish anyone who dissents or has different priorities. Stan Swamy and his co-prisoners were all known as champions of the underprivileged. The State is responsible for Stan Swamy’s death. But the shame of it and the loss it signifies are the Indian people’s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||On a two-way street: Investment Treaty Arbitration||The State being held accountable by courts is a cherished feature of democracies. Even a submission to the jurisdiction of international courts is applauded on some occasions. But sovereign powers are not usually expected to be bound by decisions of tribunals comprising individuals sans institutional backing. And yet, the Investor-State Dispute Settlement does this very thing. Also referred to as the Investment Treaty Arbitration, this mechanism rooted in the Investment Treaties and Trade Agreements signed among sovereigns subjects the states to arbitration when they fail to provide the promised benefits to foreign investors. In the Indian context, we have had at least three recent examples of liability fixed upon the state as a result of ISDS — the Cairn arbitration award, the Vodafone arbitration award and the Devas arbitration award. What added to the worries of the embattled Indian economy are proceedings initiated by Devas Multimedia Pvt Ltd and Cairn Energy before US federal courts to seek the enforcement of awards against India to the tune of $135 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. It may seem arbitrary and a case of a foreign corporation holding hostage a sovereign power to amend and enforce its laws; more so when the country is flailing to fully provide for its own citizens. But there is some method in this madness. India is not the only country to face such proceedings. In 2012, an arbitral tribunal had directed Ecuador to pay $1.77 billion to Occidental for cancelling the latter’s contract. In 2014, an arbitration tribunal at The Hague rendered an award in favour of Yukos against Russia that was in excess of $50 billion. Similarly, Venezuela was ordered to pay $1.6 billion to Exxon to compensate it for nationalizing the country’s oil projects. That said, it is not always that these tribunals rule in favour of corporations. In fact, as per data available with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, out of 1,104 known cases of ISDS, 274 were ruled in favour of states against 212 rulings in favour of investors. In 2018, a tribunal ruled in favour of India and against the French investor, Louis Dreyfus Armateurs. Nevertheless, the ISDS has been criticized by not just states but also other stakeholders. The primary complaint against the ISDS is that it undermines the powers of the sovereign state. A foreign corporation can bring an arbitration claim against a state and then bind the latter to the award rendered by a private tribunal, all the while bypassing the judicial system in the country of investment. Moreover, it restricts the government from altering its regulatory policies. In cases such as Eli Lilly vs Canada, the legal basis of the decision taken by the government was challenged and eventually upheld by the courts of Canada. In 2009, a Swedish company, Vattenfall, brought an investor claim against Germany when the latter delayed granting permits for establishing a coal-fired power plant. The delay was on account of public opposition and reports of inter-ministerial consultation on climate change, pursuant to which the government intended to alter its laws. The state was faced with an investment arbitration claim of $1.9 billion that ultimately had to be settled. The ISDS is an imperfect system but all is not wrong with it. It is a two-way street that has the potential to unduly overburden a state but, more importantly, also provide an independent forum for foreign investors to seek redressal of their grievance. Not every country that imports investment has a democratic government or an impartial judiciary. In the absence of these, investors may find themselves in want of a forum to seek compensation for a genuine wrong done to them. For middle-income countries like India, which are investment importing as well as investment exporting, the ISDS can be a useful tool. It is particularly valuable for Indian investors in foreign countries. In recent years, the Government of India has opposed not only the mechanism but also some of the reforms proposed to improve the system. In 2016, India unilaterally terminated its bilateral investment treaties with over 50 countries. Admittedly, the new model BIT of 2016 retained the provision for resolving disputes through the ISDS but only as a last resort. Moreover, to regain regulatory autonomy of the state, many subject matters have now been excluded from the scope of the ISDS. In an attempt to explore alternatives, the Investment Cooperation and Facilitation Treaty signed with Brazil in 2020 strongly emphasizes a mechanism for dispute-prevention and a tiered dispute-resolution process. Prima facie, the mechanism appears to be arduous and one that could culminate into a diplomatic limbo. The new treaty texts may be a step in the right direction qua regulatory control of the sovereign but they border on protectionism. On the two-way street of BITs, these also subject Indian investors abroad to similar rigours. It may seem arbitrary that a corporation can hold a government liable for losses. But these are legal obligations that the state has exposed itself to willingly; and legal obligations to which Indian investors in foreign countries can hold foreign governments liable. Governments that have been stronger critics of the system have also complied with adverse awards to maintain bona fides. Even as governments around the world look for a better solution to the BITs, pending arbitrations and their final awards, such as in the case of Cairn, Vodafone and so on, would have to be duly honoured by the state. Future treaties may assert the regulatory authority of the state but a difficult dispute resolution process is bound to detract potential investments in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Welcome to the show||Remakes are never their own thing although sometimes they can affect at what they will never be; they are a pretence, often counterfeit, often plain farcical. The one purpose remakes may yet serve is to remind us of the original. June 24 occasioned such a reminder; Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Dilli ki doori, dil ki doori’ session with Kashmiri entities was a pyrrhic attempt at a remake whose use-before date has quickly expired. This is how the original played out. November 2, 1947, Lal Chowk, Srinagar. A lofty stage, a large congregation. The ink is still moist on the Instrument of Accession, Article 370 of the Constitution will take another two years to be written in (and another seventy to be struck out). Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah turns fondly to Jawaharlal Nehru, Kashmiri Musalmaan to Kashmiri Pandit, and sings out the vows in Amir Khusro’s verse: “Mun tu shudam/ Tu mun shudi;/ Man tan shudam/ Tu jaan shudi;/ Takas na goyad bod azeen/ Mun deegaram/ Tu deegaree.” (“I am You and You are me; I am your body, You are my soul; So none should hereafter say, I am someone and You someone else.”) What was to follow would knock the stuffing off that sublime song and render it a tattered feast for vultures. That is how we began, in poetry. This is where we are now, in the ringing absence of it and worse. Recall just some of what those convened around the prime minister’s table have publicly said of each other recently, recall the circumstances they have wreaked on each other, or have expressed the desire to wreak. All of what briefly came to transpire on June 24 is a remake; it’s all happened before, and happened time and again. Here’s a taste of the first souring. Sheikh Abdullah is irked that Gopalaswami Ayyangar, Nehru’s minister for Kashmir affairs, underlines the impermanence of Article 370. He writes to Nehru. “Shri Ayyangar stated that Article 370 was not a permanent feature of the Indian Constitution and ‘when the time was ripe’ the provision could be wiped off the Constitution... This clearly shows that even though assurances were given to us... such assurances came with a good deal of mental reservations.” No assurance to the contrary is forthcoming from Nehru. This is mid-1953. The Sheikh activates his agitations and is quick to get the National Conference to propose an “end to the uncertainty” — a call for plebiscite with the option of independence written in. Nehru responds with affront. He writes to the Sheikh: “You know that the question of Kashmir has had not only a logical appeal for me but also a strong emotional one. But I can suppress my emotion, if necessary, if logic demands that... Thus far I have proceeded on the basis of friendship and confidence in you and have been vain enough to expect the same from you... To me it has been a major surprise that a settlement arrived at between us should be bypassed or repudiated, regardless of the merits. That strikes at the root of all confidence... No treaty would be worth the paper it is written on, if it was to be repudiated soon after...” The relationship is fast funnelling down the vortex of suspicion. On the night of August 8, 1953, the Sheikh is dismissed from office and bundled into jail for conspiracy. He would remain behind bars until just a month before Nehru’s death in May 1964. It is during that time, during the long chaining of the “lion of Kashmir” that the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir gets drafted and adopted; the Sheikh had no role to play. But the show proceeded. The bonhomie of 1947 utterly unmade, remakes were in the making. Sheikh Abdullah would himself come to play a role in the first one. He would sign a power accord with Indira Gandhi in 1975 and become chief minister again. But this remake was to give way to another, and many yet would follow. In 1984, the Sheikh’s son and successor, Farooq Abdullah, is toppled in a palace coup effected under the auspices of Rajiv Gandhi, then general secretary of the ruling Congress. Two years later, Rajiv and Farooq would turn out as dual-lead of another remake; they would hold hands at a rally in Jammu and utter sweet things of each other that time and cynicism have now completely obliterated. Anyhow, Farooq is chief minister again. In the three-and-a-half decades since, this is how the lead cast of recurrent remakes has looked: Farooq Abdullah. A long and tumultuous interregnum presided over for the better part by Jagmohan. In 1996, Farooq Abdullah again. Then Mufti Mohammed Sayeed in the company of the Congress. Then the Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad in the company of Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. Then Omar Abdullah. Then Mufti Mohammed Sayeed again, this time in the company of the BJP. Then, upon his passing, Mehbooba Mufti in the company of the BJP. And then, poof! She may be written down in history as the last chief minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir as it once used to be. She remains too, with the Abdullahs and sundry others, part of the exclusive club labelled the Gupkar Gang by those she sat across on June 24. In that time, in those three-and-a-half decades of remaking and remaking redux, these few things too came to be. A murderous drift took hold of the Kashmir Valley and shook the foundations of state and society alike. The gun-blazoned “aazaadi” insurrection invited a jackbooted military crackdown, but the crossfire brought upon the Pandits a harsh, and yet unresolved, banishment. The hurricane barrelled into the Valley’s core and its far corners and deposited them in tattered tent shanties across the Banihal, India’s largest, and probably most intractable, internal displacement. Kashmir was turned into a ghastly theatre of discord, destruction, disruption and wanton death, such that other than the pitiless brochure cliché of paradise, there remained nothing paradisal about it. A people more battered and brutalized would be hard to find. The subcontinental collaboration towards the reduction of what it means to be a Kashmiri, in body and in soul, remains a work in progress. It is a project so engulfing that you may be excused if you omitted to remember that a war too was fought — another one — over Kashmir’s northern flank in the summer of 1999, the first military eyeball-to-eyeball between nuclear powers. What’s left of Kashmir to do a remake with? And where have Kashmiris figured in it, if ever? What was the gathering of June 24 on about? There were those there who’d travelled down from demands of secession or self-rule or, at the very least, autonomy. The Sheikh’s distrustful prophecy over Article 370 is now the truth. There is no state that “cornerstone” guarantee can be applied to for there is no state anymore. The demand that the state be restored, moth-eaten as it would be, and a throne be readied, however sawn and stunted, is just how farcical and fake the nature of this latest remake is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Murder or suicide? 35-year-old man found dead in BJP office||Mystery shrouds the death of a 35-year-old man whose body with a bullet injury was found inside BJP's Vegetable Mandi office at Sakchi on Thursday afternoon. The deceased, identified as Suraj Mishra, was found lying dead on the table in the party office with a pistol in his right hand. A police team from the Sakchi thana rushed to the spot followed by City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat for inspection. "Prima facie the gunshot death of the man appears to be suicidal, but we have started investigation to probe other angles too. The body is still lying at the spot. We have summoned a team of forensic science experts to carry out a scientific investigation of the case," said Jat to The Telegraph Online. The City SP, when queried, said when a police party led by Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar reached the spot he found another man was in deep slumber on the floor in the same room where Suraj was lying dead. Jat said the incident was known after shop-keepers from adjacent shops had rushed to the BJP's office after hearing the sound of gunshot at about 2 pm. According to the shop-keepers, the deceased would work as a "Line-taker" (in-charge) of the nearby Sitala Mandir auto-rickshaw stand and would often come to the BJP office for passing leisure time. Police are also trying to collect CCTV camera footage to find out what time the victim entered the party office and whether anyone had come out of the office soon after the incident. The police are also talking to the deceased's family members so as to know if there was any strong reason behind such drastic step by by the man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cricket stadium to get a makeover, add facilities||The Railway Stadium of Dhanbad, the centre of district and national level cricketing activities, situated at the heart of town, is set for a makeover as pitch repair work was launched on Wednesday. The work at the stadium, which has hosted Ranji Trophy matches in 2010-11 and 2011-12 and the Cooch Behar trophy during 2008, is likely to be completed within a fortnight. This apart, construction work of a sports hostel meant to accommodate visiting players in under-16 and under-19 teams is nearing completion. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, pitch curator of Railway stadium, Dhanbad Dulal Banerjee, said, “The soil consignment for renovating the pitch has arrived last week from Calcutta and the primary work began formally since today and it will take around a fortnight to complete the renovation work.” “The renovation of the pitch is generally required after five or six years and since the ground has been lying unused since some time due to the pandemic related constraints of sporting activities, we decided to conduct the renovation work now,” Banerjee. “The dressing room renovation of the stadium has already been completed and air conditioners etc have also been installed in the stadium” said Banerjee and added that rubber tile flooring has also been carried out in the dressing room to avoid any accident due to slip. Regarding the ongoing work of sports hostel development near the railway stadium he said that the hostel equipped with the state-of-art facilities and equipment is likely to be ready within a month. “Earlier, organisers of different interstate and under-16 and under-19 tournaments had to face difficulty in accommodating the visiting players from  other states and due to lack of hostels they had to be accommodated in different hotels but now they can be accommodated in the hostel itself,” said Banerjee and added that the hostel can accommodate two team members simultaneously. Confirming the development, Madhusudan T.V., Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, who is also the sports officer of Dhanbad Division, said, ``The sports hostel development work is likely to be completed within two months.” In 2012, some renovation of the existing boundary wall of the stadium besides some new development work in the stadium was carried out including the gymnasium and toilets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||How Jharkhand convinced vulnerable tribes to take the vaccine ||With awareness campaigns in local dialects, inclusion of influential villagers and religious leaders in busting myths around Covid-19 vaccination and wall paintings encouraging people to take the jab, the Jharkhand government has managed to overcome the widespread hesitancy against immunisation among members of Particularly Vulnerable Tribe Groups (PVTGs) in the state over the past one month, officials said on Wednesday. Even though the Co-Win platform did not provide any segregation for the PVTGs, the state government at its level ran extensive campaigns to vaccinate members of these groups, who live in the interiors and are mostly unaware of the happenings around the world. However, convincing the PVTGs to get vaccinated was not an easy task. Many members of these tribe groups were of the opinion that vaccination would lead to death and even minor side effects after the jabs triggered major panic among them, officials involved in the campaign said. In a bid to increase acceptance for vaccines among members of these groups, the health department roped in influential village personalities and religious leaders to bridge the communication gap. The religious leaders and other influential villagers took the jabs first in front of the villagers to prove that they were safe and then asked them to get vaccinated, officials said. “We launched a campaign to vaccinate PVTG members on priority basis about a month ago. After initial hiccups, we managed to put an end to the apprehensions of these tribe groups and the inclusion of influential personalities of the villages helped us a lot,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per the 2011 Census, there are nine PVTGs in Jharkhand – Asur, Birhor, Birjia, Hil Kharia, Korwas, Mal Pahariya, Parhaiya, Sauria Paharia and Savar. With a total population of 2,23,327, these tribe groups are spread across various districts of Jharkhand, mostly in Santhal Pargana, East Singhbhum and parts of Koderma. Several surveys have highlighted that several members of these tribe groups suffer from malnutrition, anaemia, illiteracy and lack of access to basic resources. Recalling an incident in Koderma, an official involved in the vaccination campaign said that some members of PVTGs ran into jungles and climbed atop trees to avoid vaccination when the campaign started earlier this year. “We all know how easily villagers can turn violent if they feel threatened. One of the toughest tasks for us was to keep them calm and explain the benefits of vaccination to them,” he said, requesting anonymity. One of the first vaccination campaigns for PVTGs was run in Gurabanda block of East Singhbhum, a left wing extremism-affected area with high poverty and illiteracy rate, about a month ago. There, vaccination teams had to have dialogues with the leaders of groups protesting against vaccination and convince them to end the protests. Eventually, pictures of such protestors getting vaccinated were put up on flexes and pasted on walls in the villages to encourage vaccination, officials said. The state is yet to compile data related to vaccination of PVTGs, but officials spearheading the campaign say that at least half of them have received the first dose of vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Kharsawan’s archery centre eyes revamp||Jharkhand’s reputed training centre located in Kharsawan, is all set for a revamp. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA), has sought help from its chief patron Arjun Munda to revamp the centre. Munda, a former Jharkhand chief minister, had laid the foundation stone of the archery cradle in his capacity as Jharkhand welfare minister in 2005. The district archery outfit has requested Munda, president of Jharkhand Archery Association, to help in setting up a multi-gym, a shade, separate toilets for trainees (boys and girls), sophisticated recurve and compound bows at the centre. The training centre that’s functional at Damadiri ground in Kharsawan, the erstwhile princely town about 40 km from Jamshedpur, is at a non-descript state and runs from a community centre. SKDAA secretary Sumanta Mohanty mentioned that the suggested facilities were for the trainees coming from the hinterland to get trained at the centre. “We have sought Mundaji’s help in sprucing up the facilities. We are optimistic that he would extend necessary help by arranging the required funds,” he added. Speaking over phone from Kharsawan, Mohanty said, “We are doing our best to help trainees make progress. But it is not possible without the required facilities. Archery will get a new direction in the district if the facilties were in place,” Mohanty said. He further added that Munda had earlier provided 10 sophisticated bows for the trainees. Union tribal affairs minister Munda, who also heads the Archery Association of India (AAI), is aware of the potential of archers from Seraikela-Kharsawan. and wants other district archery units in Jharkhand to promote the game (as well as archers) who can be guided in winning medals in national and international competitions. He is seriously working to promote archers in the rural backwaters across the country. Seraikela-Kharsawan district has won plaudits from Munda for promoting the game and producing international archers. At present Munda's wife Meera is the president of SKDAA. The likes of international archers Deepika Kumari, Paltan Hansda, Manjuda Soy, Mangal Ho have been trained at the Kharsawan cradle. Prior to the pandemic around 25 (15 boys and 10 girls) archers belonging to the 8-18 age group used to train here in the Indian round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows as well as recurve and compound divisions. Training is imparted by senior archers, including NIS (National Institute of Sports)-accredited coach Sumit Mishra. Experienced coaches Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary as well as their counterparts from government-run cradle in Dugni (near Seraikela) B. Srinivas Rao and Himanshu Shekhar Mohanty make periodical visit to guide the trainees. Mohanty said training at the cradle has been discontinued owing to the pandemic. “We would like to resume training once the Covid situation completely improves,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Annapurna Devi joins Modi ministry||BJP's Koderma MP Annapurna Devi was inducted in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers on Wednesday evening when the full list of new inductees was announced officially. Devi is among the 43 fresh faces who have been shortlisted for the oath-taking ceremony in the evening. A close aide of Devi, who is currently in Delhi along with her, said, “Maam had come to Delhi in the morning after being summoned suddenly. She is among the 43 who will take oath today. But till the time final ceremony is over, fingers crossed.” Two MPs from Jharkhand--Arjun Munda (Khunti) and Mukthar Abbas Naqvi (Rajya Sabha) _ are already Union ministers, handling tribal and minority affairs respectively. Devi, who is currently national vice-president of BJP, was a part of the Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal until the 2019 parliamentary elections. She was also state president of RJD in Jharkhand and was to contest from Koderma on a party ticket. However, she quit RJD and joined the BJP before the elections. The saffron camp pitched Devi from the Koderma seat to take on Babulal Marandi, who was then the chief of JVM-P, which now stands defunct after the latter’s merger with the BJP. The party’s gamble on Devi, a prominent Yadav face, worked as she trounced Marandi by a margin of over 4 lakh votes. After the death of her husband, Ramesh Prasad Yadav, a minister in the Rabri Devi cabinet, Devi took to politics in 1998. Since then, Devi has been a four-time MLA from Koderma. In the 2014 Assembly polls, she, however, lost to the BJP’s Neera Yadav .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Anganwadi centres closure ‘hits’ child rations||The closure of Anganwadi centres in Jharkhand for the past six months has deprived around two-thirds of children aged between six months and three and nearly half of those between three and six years of their take-home ration, according to a survey conducted in the last week of June. The sample survey was conducted by the state chapter of Right to Food Campaign in association with local civil society organisations and the report was released on Monday. On the reason behind conducting the survey, state convener of the campaign Asharfi Nand Prasad said: “We had been hearing that the take home ration, supposed to be distributed to children attached to Anganwadi centres of their respective areas, didn’t reach many families.” The survey covered 8,818 families attached to 2,037 Anganwadi centres spread across 159 blocks in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand, Prasad said, adding the emphasis was given on the families belonging to the deprived sections. The state government had decided that dry ration would be given to such children as their Anganwadi centres that would provide cooked meals remained closed during the pandemic. The survey found that 73 per cent of the families surveyed had children aged between six months and three years but only 32 per cent of them received dry ration during the six months from January to June. Despite assurances of delivery of ration at home, only eight per cent children received it at their homes while families of 78 per cent had to collect it from Anganwadi centres and 13 per cent from the home of Anganwadi sevikas (helpers). Though 53 per cent of beneficiary families got ration in January, their number reduced to seven per cent in May and nine per cent in June, the survey found. On the other hand, 55 per cent of families having children aged between three and six years got dry ration during the six months from January to June 2021, the survey found. Of these families, 75 per cent had to collect it from Anganwadi centres and 15 per cent from sevikas’ homes while 10 per cent of the beneficiaries got it delivered at their homes. Though 78 per cent of these children got the ration in January, the number dropped to 17 per cent in May, the survey report said. Asked about the reason behind drop in the number of beneficiaries, Prasad said: “Actually, the Anganwadi workers and self-help groups spend from their own pockets for supplying cooked food or ration and get the amount reimbursed later.” He added that shortage of funds may be the reason for the lack of take home ration. Prasad said they are planning to discuss the findings of the survey with the social welfare minister and secretary soon. The social welfare secretary was in a meeting and could not speak when approached for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists vow to ensure that Bagaicha continues to empower||Rights defenders in Jharkhand and Jesuits have vowed to ensure that Bagaicha, an institution founded by the late Father Stan Swamy in 2006, continues to empower social organisations and NGOs working against the displacement of marginalised people, human rights violations, illegal land acquisition and confinement of tribals by branding them as Maoists. Fr Stan, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case accusing rights activists of Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. “Bagaicha will continue to raise its voice for the oppressed and marginalised and fulfil the mission and vision of Fr Stan Swamy with the support of the Society of Jesuits,” said Fr A. Santhanam, a Tamil Nadu-based advocate and Jesuit whose petition with the National Human Rights Commission against medical negligence of the Taloja jail authorities in attending to Fr Stan prompted the NHRC to seek a report from the Maharashtra government last month. “Because of Fr Stan Swamy’s exceptional commitment to the most marginalised and vulnerable people, some of the news about atrocities and incidents of human rights violations in Jharkhand, a state otherwise largely ignored by the mainstream media, started seeing the light of day in the past two decades. His astounding documentation skills combined with his ability to network with other human rights groups ensured that there were several initiatives meant for the real development of a state like Jharkhand, and all these were done from Bagaicha,” Fr Santhanam added. In June 2001, Fr Stan had moved to Ranchi from Chaibasa and set up residence at Gharana Apartment, Purulia Road. It was here that he began contacting organisations in his effort to coordinate and galvanise the struggle against dispossession. The search for a piece of land for setting up Bagaicha, a social action centre, bore fruit when the Ranchi Jesuit Province agreed to gift an acre on the campus of the Agriculture Training Centre, Namkum. “Fr Stan had coined the name Bagaicha, which the Ho tribe uses to describe a place where all species of plants are found. Fr Stan built the institution as a meeting point and platform for all organisations working for human rights and espousing the cause of the oppressed to discuss and execute plans. It developed the leadership skills of such organisations,” said Fr Tony P.M, the in-charge of Bagaicha. The Ho tribe, among whom Fr Stan had worked extensively, is predominantly found in the Kolhan region of Jharkhand, encompassing the districts of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. A tribal women’s rights activist from Jharkhand, Aloka Kujur, said all organisations used to meet at Bagaicha. “We not only learnt social analysis from Bagaicha but Fr Swamy also helped many organisations with (knowledge on) constitutional provisions in their fight for justice for the oppressed and the tribals. The institution also helped organisations and individuals by empowering them with knowledge on various other areas and was a place of discussion and deliberation on myriad issues. We are determined to fulfil the dreams of Fr Swamy,” said Kujur, who had been associated with Fr Stan for the last two decades. There are three sections at Bagaicha — a dining hall and a programme hall, a 40-bed dormitory with double-decker beds and a residential building to accommodate Jesuit fathers and staff. It also has a huge stone slab resembling those built in tribal villages during the Pathalgadi movement for tribal rights. “The stone slab has the names of 50 tribal martyrs, including Tilka Majhi, Birsa Munda and Sido Kanhu. We will have Fr Stan Swamy’s name etched on the stone slab,” Fr Tony said. Bagaicha is one of the five social service centres of the Ranchi Jesuit Province, the others being the Xavier Institute of Social Sciences, Gram Uthan (Gumla), Agriculture Training Centre and Hoffmann Law Associates. Fr Joseph Xavier, director of the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, who is coordinating the funeral ceremony of Fr Stan, said he was cremated in Mumbai around 5.30pm after the funeral Eucharist at St Peter’s Church, Bandra. The ashes will be taken to Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The ashes will be kept at Bagaicha between July 8 and 11 and several events will be organised nationally in memory of the octogenarian Jesuit priest. Christian youths in capital Ranchi and other parts of Jharkhand staged a candle-light protest on Tuesday evening, holding the Centre and the National Investigation Agency responsible for Fr Stan’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
