08-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government decides not to conduct admission tests at colleges and universities||The Bengal government has barred state-aided colleges and universities from conducting admission tests, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Autonomous institutions like St Xavier’s College and colleges under the Ramakrishna Mission do not come under the bar, officials of the higher education department said. The Presidency admission tests were scheduled for August. The department will send an advisory to the universities soon regarding admission. It was decided on Wednesday that the universities in Bengal would open their portals enabling undergraduate aspirants to submit their application forms from August 2. Aspirants will not be charged any application fee because scores of families are encountering Covid-induced financial constraints. Education secretary Manish Jain informed vice-chancellors about the government’s stand on admission tests during a virtual meeting on Wednesday evening, which was presided over by education minister Bratya Basu. Some institutions had preferred admission tests this year because they did not want to rely entirely on marks in the absence of board exams. Presidency VC Anuradha Lohia said: “The (state JEE) board (which conducts the Presidency admission tests) had on June 22 confirmed through an emailed communication that they would conduct the admissions tests in August. I will hold discussions with the department to decide the next course of action.” Sources in the government said the education department announced its opposition to admission tests when Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das sought to know at the meeting whether the tests could be held to screen candidates. Jain is said to have told Das that tests could not be held this year because of the pandemic and the digital divide. That ruled out both on-campus and online exams. Lohia then said the state JEE board was scheduled to conduct the undergraduate admission test of Presidency on August 7 and 8. “Jain then said the board had been informed as far back as mid-June that it would not conduct any admission test for Presidency this year,” said a VC who attended the meeting. Board chairman Malayedu Saha was contacted in the middle of the meeting to clarify the situation. “The board chairman admitted on Wednesday that during a news conference on June 22 he had said in response to a question that Presidency’s admission tests would be held in August. When Jain sought to know how he could make such an announcement despite instructions from the department, he kept quiet,” said the VC, who did not want to be named. Repeated calls to Jain, Saha and the JU VC went unanswered. At JU, arts and science teachers had sought admission tests on the campus or over digital platforms because Class XII board exams had been scrapped. The Class XII students will be evaluated largely on the basis of their performance in the Class X board exams, Class XI exams and internal assessment or practical-project in Class XII. “In such a situation, it is advisable that the prospective students are screened through some form of admission tests,” said a JU teacher. JU till 2019 used to admit students solely on the basis of admissions test or by giving equal weightage to the admission test and plus-II board marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Petrol price breaches Rs 100 mark per litre across city, essential items become costlier||The price of petrol breached the Rs 100 mark per litre across city pumps on Wednesday. But it’s not fuel price alone that is burning a hole in the pockets of people. Over the past year and a half, the prices of several essential items have shot up to an extent that tens of thousands of households have their backs to the wall (see chart). From eggs to milk to pulses and edible oil, items that are part of everyday lives have become far costlier than they were just before the start of the pandemic. The price rise hits harder because the virus has robbed many of their income and stalled the income of many more. “I used to spend around Rs 2,500 per month on groceries before the pandemic. Now, the bill has shot up to around Rs 4,000. My consumption has not increased. We are still three people,” said Debasree Chatterjee, 32, a Tollygunge resident. Chatterjee lives with her husband and a seven-year-old daughter. Her husband works in the automobile sector and she runs a bakery from home. In February 2020, she bought eggs at Rs 4.50 apiece. Last Sunday, the price was Rs 7 apiece.  Half a litre of milk cost her Rs 22 in February 2020. The same thing comes at Rs 26 now. “Most of the items that are needed every day have become so much costlier. Our income has not gone up but the expenses have jumped manifold,” she said. Angshuman Boral, a 58-year-old Behala resident, has been finding it hard to manage the grocery expenses of his large family. He lives with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, two grandchildren, an unmarried sister and a 24X7 domestic help. “My monthly grocery bills have been crossing Rs 7,000 for several months now. Two years ago, it used to be between Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,000. Even rice and pulses have become so much costlier,” said Boral. The sole source of the family’s earnings is an electrical hardware store in Behala, which is managed by Boral and his son. Just before the pandemic, Boral used to buy regular Banskathi rice for Rs 40 a kilo. The same rice now costs him Rs 55 a kilo. “We have almost stopped having mutton and costly fish. But the way things are turning out to be, even daal-bhaat (rice and lentil) is proving to be challenging,” said Boral. Grocery store owners said their hands were tied because they were having to buy stuff from wholesalers and distributors at a much higher rate than before. Krishna Saha, who runs a grocery store in Garia, sells a litre of mustard oil at around Rs 200. He used to sell the same at Rs 140 a litre in February 2020. Back then, he used to buy a litre of mustard oil at Rs 120. Now, the distributor charges Rs 185. “The Rs 15 margin is not all mine. I have to take care of carry-bags, credit to some customers and, occasionally, the transportation cost from the distributors’ godown,” said Saha. Usually, he does not need to pay for transportation. But on occasions when he needs an urgent replenishment or during an emergency, like the lack of transport options during the strict Covid curbs, he has had to arrange for the transport. The buying pattern of people has also changed because of the surge in prices, said some grocers. “A customer who would take a crate of eggs at one go earlier is taking a dozen now. Another customer who used to buy two kilos of ghee a month has been buying one kilo now,” said Biswajit Saha, the owner of a grocery store on Hindusthan Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Weather: 50-km-wide cloud mass triggers heavy downpour in the city||An intense spell of thunderstorm hit the city on Wednesday afternoon, triggering heavy rain that flooded several areas. The downpour continued from 2pm to 4pm. Before it started raining, darkness descended on the city and around 2.30pm, it looked like evening. G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta, attributed the darkness to the density of the cloud mass. “The diameter of the cloud was around 50km and the thickness over 12km, at least a few kilometres thicker than a usual mass of cumulonimbus cloud,” he said. Parts of Calcutta received more than 100 mm of rainfall. Calcutta Municipal Corporation recorded 107 mm of rainfall at Jodhpur Park. The Met office recorded around 97mm of rain in Alipore, 91mm in Dum Dum and 72mm in Salt Lake. The Met office has predicted more rain in the next few days but the intensity of the showers is likely to be on the lower side. “A trough of low pressure extends from Uttar Pradesh to the northeast Bay of Bengal, passing over Calcutta. The trough and the significant moisture accumulated in the atmosphere over the past few days led to the formation of a large and dense cloud mass…. That cloud emptied itself in the afternoon,” said Das. The trough of low pressure is the monsoon trough — in Met parlance, it is not called monsoon trough till it covers the farthest corner of the Indian heartland in the west — that was over the foothills of the Himalayas till a few days ago, triggering heavy rain in the northern districts of Bengal. A nascent weather system over the Bay of Bengal that is expected to take the shape of a low-pressure area later this week has pulled the trough down, said a Met official. The same density was also responsible for the relentless lightning that accompanied the rain, he said. The lightning prompted many Calcuttans to unplug electronic appliances. The intensity of the thunderstorm disrupted connectivity for a brief spell at several houses across the city. “I did not have Wi-Fi connectivity for at least 40 minutes from 3.30pm,” said Sayantan Mitra, a Thakurpukur resident. Between June 16 night and June 17 morning, the city had received close to 150mm of rain which led to large-scale waterlogging.  But Wednesday’s showers had more sting. Raju Das, a driver, had taken an elderly couple to an eye clinic in Minto Park on Wednesday. He had parked the car behind the La Martiniere for Boys when the rain started. “I had fallen asleep inside the car. I woke up to the rumblings of thunder. Within 30 minutes, the road was waterlogged and water started entering the car. I drove away and found another spot. It was scary, driving in the torrential rain,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Many parts of Calcutta flooded as heavy rain lashes the city||Several parts of Calcutta went under water after heavy rain lashed the city on Wednesday afternoon. The distribution of the showers was skewed as south Calcutta received more rain than the central and northern parts of the city, the officials said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s drainage pumping stations at Jodhpur Park and Mominpore received 107mm and 100mm of rain between 3pm and 4pm. The stations at Kalighat, Ballygunge and Behala received 95mm, 80mm and 70mm of rain, respectively, during the period. In the afternoon, the northern end of the Dhakuria bridge was under knee-deep water, causing a number of vehicles to break down. A police officer said six cars had to be towed away after they malfunctioned while crossing the waterlogged stretch. A few metres away, at the Golpark crossing, around one foot of water accumulated on the road. In Park Circus, Suhrawardy Avenue was under waist-deep water in front of Lady Brabourne College. By late on Wednesday, water had receded to the shin level on many roads. Water inundated many homes in low-lying areas and also accumulated over reservoirs in a number of houses. “It is true that it rained heavily. But it did not rain intensely after 4pm. Yet the water did not recede by late on Wednesday,” said a Kasba resident. He complained that the civic body had desilted only the manholes on the main road but did not clear the muck from the gully pits. “The civic body’s main concern is to clear the main road so that traffic is not halted. So they did not bother to clean the drainage network inside neighbourhoods,” the resident said. Twigs and leaves were found floating in the water in large numbers, along with plastic. “The plastic bags clogged the mouth of many gully pits and delayed the draining out of the water from roads,” a Dhakuria resident said. Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the drainage department, said water had receded from most places by the evening. “The water level in the Hooghly was not very high when it rained on Wednesday. So we could keep the sluice gates open and this helped drain out water from many parts of the city fast. The pockets where roads were still waterlogged on Wednesday evening must be having some local blockage or other issues,” he said. Singh said 27 pumps were operational at the Chowbhaga pumping station, which drains out water from Jadavpur, Lake Gardens and Kasba. “Places like Mominpore and Jodhpur Park received more than 100mm of rain in one hour. Draining out such a high volume of water takes some time,” he said. Officials said they were expecting water to recede from almost all places by Thursday morning if it did not rain at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Test rate cap not for insured patients, clarifies Bengal regulatory body||The ceilings for the charges of various pathological and radiological tests, fixed by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, will be applicable to patients not covered by health insurance, the commission’s chairperson clarified on Wednesday. After the commission fixed the rates last Friday, hospital officials had said the capping should not apply to patients entitled to benefits under corporate medical insurance. The Telegraph reported on Tuesday that private hospitals in Calcutta had refused to follow the new rates, saying they would seek a clarification from the commission. “We would like to clarify that the price cap fixed by the commission for pathological and radiological tests would be applicable only in cases where patients’ families have to pay by cash. Those who are covered under corporate health insurance or have their own medical insurance will not get this benefit. All our advisories are aimed at protecting patients who pay by cash,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “There are many patients whose treatment cost is paid by the employers. Similarly, those who have a medical insurance policy get the benefit of cashless hospitalisation. In such cases hospitals charge according to the agreement with the insurance company or the employer.” Among pathological tests, the commission has ordered that the procalcitonin blood test cannot cost more than Rs 4,000. The limit for the D-dimer test is Rs 2,300. Among radiological tests, the rate for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan) has been capped at Rs 5,200. If a part of the treatment cost is not covered by the insurance company and has to be borne by a patient, the rate cap will be applicable to the payment made by the patient, the commission said. “This will only create confusion because insurance firms always pay the costs for radiological and pathological tests, thorough patients may not know it. They will think hospitals are deliberately not reducing the bill,” said Sudipta Mitra, the CEO of Peerless Hospital. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India had written to the commission on Tuesday seeking clarification on its order capping the pathological and radiological test rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Schools fight Covid with jab drives||Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy, in association with Medica Superspeciality Hospital, recently organised a vaccination camp on its Taratala campus. The eligible students, staff members and care givers were happy to return to the campus, even though just for a jab. Despite rain and lack of local transport, there was a huge turnout. More than 300 persons with disabilities and their family members received the first or second dose of the Covishield vaccine at the day-long programme. Sixty members of Mentaid, sponsored by the Calcutta Foundation, were also part of the drive. “Persons with cerebral palsy and multiple disabilities have compromised immunity and are at a far greater risk of getting infected by the virus. Many of our service users, who are above 18 years of age and have profound disabilities, are wheelchair users. Transporting them to a government hospital or urban health centre for vaccination and waiting in long queues was not a feasible option. Many are unable to express their anxieties and some of them will not wear a mask because of their intellectual disabilities. They are, therefore, extremely vulnerable in any public place. Given the issues, parents and guardians welcomed the IICP’s initiative,” said Sonali Nandi, the chief operations officer and director-technical services of the organisation. Indus Valley World School Over 240 people got their first or second dose of the Covishield vaccine at a five-day vaccination camp, organised by Indus Valley World School, in association with Narayan Memorial Hospital. The camp was also open to the common people. Several teachers and staff members were vaccinated at the camp. “I received my second dose at my school. It is essential for the entire teaching and non-teaching staff members to get their shots before the school reopens. We have organised two camps till date,” said principal Reshma Bhattacharya. MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School The state education department recently initiated a two-day vaccination camp on the premises of MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. The first and second doses of the Covishield vaccine were given to around 600 beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 45, which included both teaching and non-teaching members from different private schools of the city. The department had divided the city into five zones. Apart from MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, vaccination camps were also set up in several other schools of the city. On the first day, 199 individuals from 17 schools were vaccinated, while on the second day 388 individuals from 20 schools took part in the drive. “We are glad that the government selected our school to put up this drive. We expect to get more such opportunities from the department. And I hope that the government will soon announce such a drive for the students falling under the age group of 12 to 18, so that the middle and senior school students can get back to school,” said vice-principal Purnima Chatterji. Asian International School Asian International School recently conducted two vaccination drives – one in association with RN Tagore Hospital and the other in collaboration with Woodlands Hospital - for its staff members and their near ones. The school ferried around 120 staff members to RN Tagore Hospital for the shots during the first drive, while they organised the second one on their own premises for more than 150 participants including students above the age of 18, ex-students, parents, employees and their close dependents. “Asian International School is ensuring the safety circle of ‘Me, us and nation’ by organising the vaccination drives. In today’s times when vaccination centres are not readily available, our effort has allowed a safe and secure platform to the alumni, the parents of our school and the dependent members,  in combatting the pandemic,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College pays tribute to Father Stan Swamy||Jesuit priests, students, teachers, support staff and alumni gathered at St Xavier’s College to pay tribute to Father Stan Swamy, who passed away in a hospital in Mumbai on Monday waiting for bail at age 84. A prayer meeting was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association at the foot of the statue of St Francis Xavier on the Park Street campus on Wednesday. Floral tributes were offered to the Jesuit priest and a minute’s silence was observed in his memory. “Father Stan sacrificed his life in the true sense for his commitment for the poor, marginalised and tribals. Through his life he inspired many people by his commitment for justice and reconciliation,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College and the president of the alumni association. He said the best tribute to Father Stan would be to continue and strengthen his crusade for ensuring justice, eradicating poverty and establishing legitimate rights of all sections of society, especially the marginalised and the downtrodden. Father Savio said every individual in their own way, even if it was a “small way”, should work for peace and justice. Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, was present at the prayer meeting. “Father Stan was a true prophet who released the voice of the voiceless — the tribals. He did so not just in words but in action,” said Father Arulappan. The prayer meeting was limited to a small gathering and the authorities decided against holding a candlelight procession because of the pandemic Prayer meetings are taking place at the college and other places to pay tribute to Father Stan Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Special CMC vaccination camp for LGBTQIA+ people||One-hundred-and-seventy-seven members of the LGBTQ community were vaccinated at a special camp on Wednesday, organised by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the state women and child development and social welfare department. The one-day camp was held at Jadavpur’s Bidhanpally. The health department had identified transgenders and sex workers as priority groups for Covid vaccination. “LGBTQ persons face a lot of discrimination in society. They do not feel very comfortable getting vaccinated at a ward health clinic or in a hospital. But they always feel comfortable to get jabs in special camps,” said Amrita Sarkar, the assistant secretary of Samabhabona, an organisation of the LGBTQ community. Second dose The CMC has decided to administer only second doses from all its 190 jab centres on Friday and Saturday because of a shortage of vaccines. Each ward health clinic will get about 100 doses on Thursday. Both first and second doses will be administered on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||26-year-old woman gang raped by robbers in locked home||A woman who was alone at home, locked from outside as a routine practice as her parents were out on work, was allegedly gang raped, the family has complained to the police. Cash and valuables worth Rs 15 lakh were allegedly stolen from the house. The incident happened in the Port area between noon and 1pm on Tuesday. It was reported to the police on Wednesday. According to the complaint, a group of two or three unknown persons broke the lock on the main door of the apartment on the second floor of the four-storey building and barged in. They allegedly tied up the 26-year-old to the bed and gang raped her. A cupboard in the adjoining room was ransacked. The police said when the victim’s parents, who run a garments business not far from their house, returned home, they found the house ransacked and their daughter allegedly sexually abused and traumatised. After the matter was reported to the police, the victim was taken to SSKM Hospital for a medico-legal test. A forensic team inspected the spot. The detective department of Calcutta police has taken over the case. “We are trying to find out who all knew that the apartment used to be kept locked from outside,” said an officer. A case under IPC sections related to robbery, gang rape, trespassing and common intention has been registered. No one was arrested till late on Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Arrested Calcutta High Court lawyer’s BRICS claims||Sanatan Roy Chowdhury, a lawyer who had allegedly been posing as the state’s standing counsel and the CBI’s lawyer, told investigators that he had travelled to various countries pretending to be a representative of the Union home ministry, police said on Wednesday. A purported photograph has emerged showing Roy Chowdhury standing at a podium with “BRICS” written on it. BRICS is an international conference attended by the head of government of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. An officer said Roy Chowdhury, who is in police remand, had said that he was part of an entourage that participated in one of the BRICS conclaves. The police said they would write to the ministries of external affairs and home affairs seeking details of the members of the entourage who toured with the Prime Minister and represented India at the international conference. Roy Chowdhury was arrested on Monday. He, in connivance with others, had allegedly impersonated the state’s standing counsel and tried to sell a property at Mandeville Gardens to a promoter without the consent of the owner. The police said they had also found that Roy Chowdhury had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls from the Dum Dum constituency on behalf of the Lok Janshakti Party. A senior officer said they were trying to find out whether Roy Chowdhury was involved in more such cases of cheating and forgery. The police said they had come across at least one instance where Roy Chowdhury had masqueraded as an official in the chief minister’s office and called the officer in-charge of a police station to give instructions on a case. Realising that it was a fake call, the officers of the police station started a case against the person based on the phone number from where the call had come. Later, it was allegedly found that the call was made by Roy Chowdhury. He was also allegedly found in possession of a beacon-fitted vehicle that had multiple boards attached on it claiming that it belonged to the state’s standing counsel and the CBI’s counsel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Protected’ bird rescued from dad and son in North 24-Parganas||An Oriental Pied Hornbill was rescued from Barasat in North 24-Parganas. A team of officers from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) got in touch with a father-son duo who were allegedly trying to sell the bird and arrested them. The Oriental Pied Hornbill is native to several places across India, including the forests of Bihar, Odisha, Bengal as well as Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia. The bird is protected under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. Animals and birds listed under Schedule I enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a Schedule I animal faces at least seven years in jail, a forest department official said. The accused - Shyamal Adhikari, 43, and Subrata Adhikari, 22 - were produced in a court in Barasat and remanded in judicial custody. They have been charged under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. A conservationist working for an NGO said birds were smuggled in very small cages and in inhuman conditions. "Many birds don’t survive the long journeys they are forced to undertake in cramped cages", the conservationist said A WCCB officer said they had got in touch with the Adhikaris posing as buyers. A deal was struck and the men allegedly agreed to come with the bird near Lebutala in Haroa, in North 24-Parganas. “The men came on a motorcycle. One of them had the bird's cage on his lap," said the officer. While a couple of officers started talking to the Adhikaris, others swooped down on them from behind and nabbed them. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, said the men had been trying to sell the bird for the past few weeks. "A preliminary investigation has revealed that the bird had been smuggled in from Bangladesh," said Mitra. The website of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Malabar Pied Hornbill as "near threatened". The bird is listed under the IUCN's Red List. It has a small population that is decreasing rapidly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Business||LIC to have CEOs and MDs as govt does away with Chairman post||The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) will now have the post of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director instead of the Chairman position, with the government making changes to relevant rules ahead of the insurer's initial public offering this fiscal. The changes have been made by the Department of Financial Services under the finance ministry by amending Life Insurance Corporation of India (Employees) Pension (Amendment) Rules. Besides, some other rules under LIC Act, 1956, have been amended. "Chief Executive and Managing Director means the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director appointed by the Central Government under section 4 of the Act (LIC Act 1956)," according to a gazette notification issued on July 7. To facilitate the listing of the insurance behemoth, the government has already approved raising its authorised share capital to Rs 25,000 crore. Besides, the Department of Economic Affairs under the finance ministry recently amended the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules. Companies that have a market capitalisation of more than Rs 1 lakh crore at the time of listing can now sell just five per cent of their shares, with the latest amendment in rules, a move that will be beneficial for the government during the LIC initial public offer. Such entities will be required to increase its public shareholding to 10 per cent in two years and raise the same to at least 25 per cent within five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
08-07-2021||Business||Sensex plunges 486 points to close below 52,600||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 486 points on Thursday led by losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid a selloff in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 485.82 points or 0.92 per cent lower at 52,568.94, while the broader NSE Nifty dropped 151.75 points or 0.96 per cent to 15,727.90.  Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank and Dr Reddy's.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and NTPC were among the gainers.  "Domestic equities witnessed sharp correction amid weak global cues," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Hang Seng corrected by over 2.50 per cent as investors dumped Chinese tech giants led by mounting concerns about regulatory risk, he noted.  Asian stock markets fell after the Federal Reserve talked about possibly reducing US economic stimulus and Japanese officials prepared to declare a coronavirus state of emergency during the Olympics due to a surge in infections.  Bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo too ended with significant losses.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals.  Selling pressure was seen across all counters in Indian markets, while IT stocks broadly remained resilient ahead of TCS earnings later in the day. Metals and financials witnessed steeper correction, Modi said, adding that midcap and smallcap indices continued to outperform broader indices despite moderate profit-booking.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.93 per cent to USD 72.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
08-07-2021||Business||Cairn Energy secures French court order to seize 20 Indian govt properties in Paris||In a setback to India, Britain's Cairn Energy Plc has secured a French court order to seize some 20 government properties in Paris to recover a part of the USD 1.72 billion due from New Delhi following an arbitration panel overturning levy of retrospective taxes. The centrally located properties mostly comprise of flats, valued at more than EUR 20 million, were used by Indian government establishment in France, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said. The French court, Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris, on June 11 agreed to Cairn's application to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the Government of India in central Paris, they said adding the legal formalities for the same was completed on Wednesday evening. While Cairn is unlikely to evict the Indian officials residing in those properties, the government cannot sell them after the court order. Meanwhile, the Finance Ministry said it has not received any order from any French court and will take appropriate legal remedies after it gets an order. In its statement, Cairn further said that in absence of any resolution to its tax dispute, it "must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders." A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India, had in December last year unanimously overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. The government has not accepted the award and has filed a 'setting aside' petition in a court in the Netherlands - the seat of the arbitration. With its shareholders - who include the biggies of the global financial world - egging it to get the money back, Cairn has got the arbitration award registered in countries such as the US, UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, France and the Netherlands. It has since started seeking enforcement action. It has identified USD 70 billion of Indian assets overseas for the potential seizure to collect award, which now totals to USD 1.72 billion after including interest and penalty. Last month, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are 'alter egos' and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. Similar lawsuits are likely to be brought in other countries, primarily with high-value assets. Stating that the government of India has "not received any notice, order or communication" from any French court, the finance ministry said it is trying to ascertain the facts, and "whenever such an order is received, appropriate legal remedies will be taken, in consultation with its counsels, to protect the interests of India." "Government of India will vigorously defend its case in Set Aside proceedings at The Hague," it said. "It is also stated that the CEO and the representatives of Cairns have approached the Government of India for discussions to resolve the matter. Constructive discussions have been held and the Government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country's legal framework. Cairn also said it is looking at an amicable settlement. "Our strong preference remains an agreed, amicable settlement with the Government of India to draw this matter to a close, and to that end, we have submitted a detailed series of proposals to them since February this year," it said. However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn said it must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders. Sources said the French court order affects some 20 centrally located properties, belonging to the Indian Government, as part of a guarantee of the debt owed to Cairn. "This is the necessary preparatory step to taking ownership of the properties and ensures that the proceeds of any sales would be due to Cairn," one of the persons said. The move by Cairn is similar to a court in the British Virgin Islands ordering in December last year hotels in New York and Paris owned by Pakistan International Airlines to be used to settle a claim against Pakistan's government by a Canadian-Chilean copper company. The Scottish firm invested in the oil and gas sector in India in 1994 and a decade later it made a huge oil discovery in Rajasthan. In 2006 it listed its Indian assets on the BSE. Five years after that the government passed retroactive tax law and billed Cairn Rs 10,247 crore plus interest and penalty for the reorganisation tied to the flotation. The state then expropriated and liquidated Cairn's remaining shares in the Indian entity, seized dividends and withheld tax refunds to recover a part of the demand. Cairn challenged the move before an arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which in December awarded it USD 1.2 billion (over Rs 8,800 crore) plus costs and interest, which totals USD 1.725 million (Rs 12,600 crore) as of December 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||India's inflation likely increased to 7-month high in June, poll shows||India's retail inflation probably accelerated to a seven-month high in June on rising food and fuel prices, staying above the Reserve Bank of India's comfort zone for a second straight month, a Reuters poll showed. While many of India's states have eased restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus, supply-side disruptions remain and higher taxes on petroleum products continue to exert upward pressure on inflation. The July 5-7 poll of 37 economists showed retail inflation rose to 6.58% in June from a year ago. It was 6.30% in May. If realised, it would mean inflation above the central bank's target range of 2%-6% for a second month, putting pressure on the RBI to tame prices amid a faltering economic recovery. "We believe the biggest driver of June inflation would be elevated levels of fuel prices engendered by high domestic tax on petroleum products and its pass-through to transportation costs," said Kunal Kundu, India economist at Societe Generale. A recovery in global demand has driven a rally in commodity prices, including crude oil which contributed to record-high fuel prices in India. Fuel prices have risen over 30% from May of last year, driving prices up across the board. Analysts expect high fuel prices and rising input costs for companies to keep inflation elevated for some time. "I expect India's headline inflation to remain over 6% y/y for the next few months. Price pressures are coming mostly from the supply side, reflecting higher commodity prices and supply chain bottlenecks," said Tuuli McCully, head of Asia-Pacific economics at Scotiabank. "I expect the RBI to tolerate the higher inflation readings through 2021, as there are no signs of significant demand-driven inflation, and as domestic demand remains soft on the back of virus-related issues." The RBI is facing the difficult conundrum of balancing growth-inflation dynamics. While the RBI's focus remains on growth, minutes of the June meeting showed the Monetary Policy Committee would remain watchful on inflation. read more "Needless to say, the Reserve Bank of India is caught between a rock and hard place, as with higher inflation, monetary policy efforts to revive growth lose a degree of freedom," noted economists from ANZ. The wholesale price index (INWPI=ECI) is expected to remain high at 12.23% in June from at least a 15-year high of 12.94% year-on-year recorded in May. read more Industrial output (INIP=ECI) likely surged 32.0% in May, the poll showed. That jump was likely to have been led by the rise in India's infrastructure output (ININFR=ECI), which makes up about 40% of overall industrial production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a choppy note on Thursday amid a negative trend in Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 3.34 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 53,058.10 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.95 points or 0.06 per cent lower to 15,870.70. Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, M&M and HCL Tech. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, HUL, Sun Pharma and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 193.58 points or 0.37 per cent to close at its fresh lifetime high of 53,054.76, and Nifty rose 61.40 points or 0.39 per cent to its record 15,879.65. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 532.94 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring as of now. Notably, visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, profit-booking at higher levels is leading to bouts of correction in the market, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. US equities ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.01 per cent to USD 73.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Airbus India’s technical  advisory and procurement services liable to 18 per cent GST||Airbus India’s technical advisory and procurement services for its Francebased holding company are ‘intermediary services’ and liable to 18  per cent GST, the Authority for Advance Ruling has said. Airbus Group India had approached the Karnataka bench of the AAR, seeking a ruling on whether the services rendered by it to its holding company Airbus Invest SAS, France, would qualify as ‘export of service’ under GST law and hence be treated as a ‘zero rated supply’. The applicant — Airbus Group India Pvt Ltd — is a subsidiary of Airbus Invest SAS, France (holding company) and its ultimate holding company is Airbus, SE Netherlands. Airbus India was established as a regional entity for performing services that include procuring raw materials, assessing quality and risk evaluation, receiving a quotation from suppliers and sharing it with the holding company. “The services rendered by the applicant do not qualify as export of services ... and consequently are eligible for GST at the rate of 18 per cent...,” the AAR said. Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG & Associates, said: “This ruling would significantly impact the margins of Airbus India, which is estimated to be cut short by 18 per cent of the overall service revenue.” When Airbus was contacted on the ruling, they said “no comments”. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said:  “The coverage of intermediary services which do not qualify as export and are liable to GST has typically been an area of dispute between the taxpayers and revenue authorities. “Some taxpayers have also challenged the taxability of intermediary services in courts and a final judgment of the apex court would be keenly awaited by the industry.” Tax expert Bimal Jain said: “Such AAR rulings are going against the concept of GST ... services provided by Airbus India (applicant) to its holding company  Airbus, France should have been export of services... the stated issue is a matter of concern while determining what is ‘intermediary services’ and its place of supply in terms of section 13(8) of the IGST Act, which is just copied from the Service tax regime w.e.f October 1, 2014.”The government should amend this place of supply provisions as location of recipient, on basic concept of GST, being destination based consumption tax to avoid unwanted litigation.” He pointed out that the Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling had said overseas liaison offices should come under the GST net, which is contrary to the stand taken by its counterparts in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The case relates to the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry which has set up an office, DCCI UAE, in Mumbai. The entity claims to be a nonprofit organisation promoting the interests of Dubai businesses. Mohan said “historically IT companies are enjoying the benefit of refund of unclaimed service input against the export of these services. As per the advance ruling all these transactions between Indian entities and their overseas entities are subject to GST and Indian entity need to charge the GST on their invoice. GST charge would become an expense for the overseas entity and they are not eligible to claim the input in their respective countries against these taxes paid on output.” “In such a scenario either the Indian entity needs to take the hit of GST or their overseas counterpart needs to take the hit of GST. In any case this will impact the overall profitability of either company. Indian Businesses will become dearer and Philippines counterparts may use this opportunity to cater to the global demands,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Cabinet reshuffle unlikely to have any major impact on benchmark indices||The much-awaited cabinet reshuffle is unlikely to have any major impact on the benchmark indices on Thursday, market circles said. The oath-taking by 43 ministers, which was accompanied by the surprise resignation of a dozen ministers, came on a day both the Sensex and the Nifty ended at lifetime highs. Market mavens were keenly awaiting the announcement of the portfolios which was expected to come late on Wednesday evening. However, as no changes were expected at North Block, the view was that stocks are unlikely to react in any major way to the cabinet revamp. “As no changes are expected in the Big Four ministries of finance, defence, home and external affairs, stocks may not react to the reshuffle. We could have expected a major reaction in the markets had there been a change in the finance ministry. Overall, the revamp is mildly positive, but it won’t move the needle too much,” an analyst said. He said the markets will continue to be dictated by corporate earnings, the infection trend and the vaccination rollout. The first-quarter earnings season will begin on Thursday with Tata Consultancy Services declaring its results. The Sensex climbed 194 points to close above the 53000-mark for the first time. The 30-share index witnessed some volatility as it opened in the green at 52919.71 and hit a low of 52751.76. It  breached the 53000-mark towards the last few minutes of trade and closed with gains of 193.58 points at a fresh lifetime high of 53054.76. The broader NSE Nifty rose 61.40 points to its record peak of 15879.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||PNB asks housing finance arm to recast Carlyle deal||PNB Housing Finance on Wednesday said its promoter Punjab National Bank has asked it to consider restructuring the proposed Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion deal led by US-based Carlyle group. The housing financier also said it will await the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s (SAT) order on the issue before taking a final decision. PNB Housing Finance said it received a letter from PNB on July 4 and subsequent to that the board of the company met on July 5 and 6, 2021. “The PNB letter had conveyed a decision taken by the board of directors of PNB at their meeting held on July 3, 2021,” PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing. The state-owned lender took a legal opinion from a law firm and deliberated the matter during its board meeting, it said. The letter from the bank said: “The board of directors of the company should take cognizance of the directive issued by Sebi vide their letter dated June 18, 2021 and reconsider restructuring the contours of the deal/transaction of the capital raising in line with such a Sebi directive,” PNB Housing said in the filing. Under the deal announced on May 31, the US-based Carlyle, alongside other investors, is slated to infuse Rs 4,000 crore capital into PNB Housing through the issuance of preference shares and warrants. However, the deal has come under the scanner of the regulator. The company was directed to carry out the valuation process of shares according to the relevant legal provisions. PNB Housing had contended that it has followed Sebi norms in deciding the issue price at Rs 390 apiece. PNB Housing had filed an appeal before SAT against the letter issued by Sebi last month, requesting it not to go ahead with the proposal until due diligence was done. The matter is scheduled for hearing on Monday, July 12. Following PNB’s letter, the board of the housing finance firm, by a majority resolution passed on July 6, decided that since the issue relates to interpretation of law and is sub-judice, it will await SAT's order on the matter. The order was expected to come on July 5. However, the company sought the same to be heard next week. “As sought by the company, the Securities Appellate Tribunal, in its hearing on July 5, 2021, adjourned the case for Monday, July 12, 2021,” PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing on Tuesday. The PNB Housing Finance stock closed at Rs 686.25 apiece on the BSE on Wednesday, down 1.14 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power Limited to invest over Rs 1 lakh crore in Odisha over next 10 years||Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) will invest over Rs 1 lakh crore in Odisha over the next 10 years, its chairman Naveen Jindal said on Wednesday. The Odisha government on Tuesday approved five major industrial projects worth Rs 1,46,172 crore in metal and metal downstream sectors. These projects will almost double the steel production of Odisha to 58 million tonnes and create about 27,000 jobs. JSPL plans to expand its six-million-tonne steel plant at Angul to 25.2 million tonnes. “This expansion will make our Angul plant the largest single location steel plant capacity in the world,” Jindal tweeted. He added that in the next 10 years, JSPL will invest more than Rs 1 lakh crore and create huge employment opportunities in the state. Jindal was, however, silent on how the investment will be financed. The expansion proposals of Bhushan Power and Steel, Tata Steel and Rungta Mines were also approved by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Ashwini Vaishnaw to handle railways and communications and information technology||The Narendra Modi-government has parachuted former IAS and Wharton MBA Ashwini Vaishnaw to handle the prime portfolios of railways and communications and information technology as a cabinet minister. Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle has sent former diplomat Hardeep Puri to the petroleum ministry. Hardeep Puri has been put in charge of the petroleum ministry at a time crude prices have started to surge, amplifying concerns over auto fuel prices. New inductee Jyotiraditya Scindia has got the civil aviation portfolio and former Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal the ports, shipping and waterways portfolio. But it was Vaishnaw’s elevation that caught the attention. An MTech from IIT Kanpur, Vaishnaw held leadership roles across major global companies such as General Electric and Siemens. He was also the personal secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Vaishnaw was inducted into the BJP six days ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections on June 28, 2019. He takes charge of the crucial ministries at a time the communications and I-T ministry is grappling with the controversial social media rules, while it prepares for the money-spinning 5G auctions. Indian Railways plans to allow private players to run passenger trains on their tracks and the bidding process has been delayed because of the pandemic. Some issues raised by the private operators have led to further delays. While the data privacy legislation has been keenly awaited for long, the new IT rules had ruffled the feathers of the social media giants. The spate of cases filed across the country against micro blogging site Twitter have raised doubts about India being a suitable investment destination. Twitter has been in a tussle with the Indian government since last month over compliance with the country’s new intermediary guidelines. In the meantime, telecom industry players have been pressing the DoT to refer to Trai to suggest reserve prices for all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including 26 Ghz, 3.3-3.67 Ghz and 700 Mhz in the run up to the next auction. Telecom players have been peeved with the telecom ministry on the AGR issue following the Supreme Court verdict. They had expected the ministry to be considerate to their concerns. However, the ministry adopted a tough stance, which is resulting in a situation of duopoly in the sector, with Vodafone finding itself in a precarious situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Department of public enterprises brought under ministry of finance||The department of public enterprises (DPE) has been brought under the ministry of finance ahead of Wednesday’s mega cabinet reshuffle to enable North Block get a firmer grip on the government’s privatisation process. A new department called the department of public enterprises (or Lok Udyam Vibhag) has been created and parcelled out to the finance ministry. Earlier, the DPE was part of the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises. Many companies under the heavy industries ministry are sick and up for sale under the disinvestment programme of the government. As many as 44 PSUs, including Maruti Udyog and the ailing Scooters India, will be shifted to finance from the heavy industries ministry, which will now have oversight only on capital goods PSUs. PSUs from  Bengal — Andrew Yule, Braithwaite, Burn Standard, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Limited and Hooghly Dock and Port Engineers Limited — also figure in this list. According to experts, this move will help the government to speed up the privatisation of PSUs which have been in a slow lane because of several inter-ministerial consultations. The expansion of the finance ministry’s domain signals the growing importance of Nirmala Sitharaman. In the budget, finance minister Sitharaman had unveiled an ambitious privatisation road map that envisaged a “bare minimum” of PSUs in four strategic sectors and privatisation or closure of the rest. A government notification provided the details of the role of the department of public enterprises, which will now be under the control of the finance ministry. These include co-ordination of matters of general policies affecting all PSUs, evaluation and monitoring their performance, including the memorandum of understanding mechanism. It is the finance ministry which will now review the capital projects and expenditure of PSUs. The ministry will also now take up issues relating to the revival, restructuring and the closure of sick PSUs, including the rehabilitation of the employees and offering them VRS. Besides the DPE, the finance ministry has five existing departments: economic affairs, revenue, expenditure, investment & public asset management and financial services. It is believed that as one department of the finance ministry is dealing with PSUs, bringing the DPE under the ministry would make co-ordination easier. Earlier, the disinvestment ministry — created under the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government — was merged with the finance ministry and is now a department under it. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) was also abolished and administration of foreign investments was given to the finance ministry. Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. As part of the disinvestment strategy for the financial sector, the government has decided to go for a mega initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and a residual stake sale in IDBI Bank during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||India||Two Pak terrorists shot dead as Army foils infiltration bid in Rajouri; 2 soldiers martyred||The Army foiled a major infiltration bid on Thursday along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri as they eliminated two Pakistani terrorists, while lost two soldiers, including a Junior Commissioned Officer, in the fierce gun battle, officials said.  Based on information regarding infiltration and movement of terrorists in Dadal area in Sundarbani sector of Rajouri district, Army troops had launched extensive search operations, a defence spokesman said.  Subsequently, the information was corroborated on Thursday and a search-and-destroy patrol seeking proactive engagement with the terrorists spotted them in Dadal forest area, and challenged them, he said.  The terrorists opened fire and lobbed hand grenades, leading to a fierce encounter in which two terrorists from Pakistan were killed, the spokesman said.  In the operation, Naib Sub Sreejith M and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy received fatal injuries, he said.  Two AK-47 rifles and ammunition in heavy quantity have been recovered from the terrorists, the spokesman said, adding a detailed search of the area continues.  This is second infiltration bid foiled by troops in the last 24 hours along the Line of Control in Rajouri.  A Pakistani terrorist was gunned down as Army troops foiled an infiltration bid along the LoC in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Two soldiers were injured in the fire-fight with the terrorists who made an attempt to cross the LoC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
08-07-2021||India||No space for carelessness or complacency in India's fight against Covid-19: Narendra Modi||Expressing his concern over the sight of crowded places with people not following COVID-19 norms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that there should be no space for carelessness or complacency and that a single mistake would have far-reaching impact and may weaken the fight against the pandemic. Interacting with members of the Council of Ministers a day after he reshuffled and expanded it, he said India's fight against the pandemic is underway with full vigour with steady vaccination drive and high testing, while sounding a note of caution against any complacency.  "PM said that with the Covid infection numbers being fewer than what they were in the recent months, people may want to venture out. However, everyone must remember that the threat of COVID-19 is far from over. Many other nations are seeing surges in infections. The virus is also mutating," a source said.  He told ministers that the aim should not be to instill fear but to request people to keep taking all possible precautions so that the nation is able to move beyond this pandemic in the times to come.  He also asked ministers to reach office on time and channelise all their energy into their ministerial work, saying their focus should be on helping the most deprived people.  He said the new ministers can meet their predecessors and learn from their experience, sources said.  He told the new ministers that those no longer part of the government have made contributions and newcomers can learn from them, the sources said.  In a word of advice, he said it is the work that only matters and the ministers should not get trapped in the vicious circle of grabbing media attention.  He said ministers should avoid making unnecessary statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
08-07-2021||India||States and Union territories informed well in advance about number of vaccines to be sent to them: Health ministry||Amid Covid-19 vaccine shortage from various parts of the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has released a statement clarifying that all states and Union territories (UTs) are informed well in advance about the number of vaccines to be sent to them, reports hindustantimes.com. The statement was the second one in the past week, where the health ministry quashed media reports claiming there was 32 per cent less vaccination in the past one week against the previous one. “It is clarified that all states or UTs are being informed much in advance about the doses that will be available during the month of July 2021, including the supply to private hospitals. The states or UTs have been advised to plan their Covid-19 vaccination sessions based on the availability of the vaccines,” the statement read, as quoted by hindustantimes.com. The ministry also informed that after discussion with the vaccine manufacturers, it had already been conveyed to all states or UTs that they will receive “more than 12 crore doses” of Covid-19 vaccine in July. “Till today morning, over 2.19 crore doses have already been supplied to all states or UTs from July’s supply,” the statement added, reiterating that the health ministry is informing the states “adequately in advance” about the supply of vaccines being sent to them. According to the statement, states or UTs have also been asked to share their demand for vaccine doses with the Centre in case there is a need for more owing to increased coverage. The ministry’s statement on Wednesday comes a day after it struck down media reports claiming Covid-19 vaccine shortage led to the closure of some vaccination centres in Rajasthan. The Centre said Rajasthan had more than 1.69 lakh unutilised stock of vaccine jabs as of July 1, and under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state was given over 8.89 lakh doses of vaccine between July 1 and 6. “In addition, Rajasthan would receive an additional 3,951,000 doses during the remaining part of July 2021. Hence, in entire…July, Rajasthan will receive more than 5,090,000 vaccine doses,” the statement by the health ministry read. The Centre also clarified that Covid-19 vaccines being a biological product, its manufacturing process “takes time” and does not “translate into immediate supply”. Last week, owing to vaccine shortage in Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state vaccination centres suspended their vaccination drive in Mumbai. On June 29, 3,87,644 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the state, which dropped to 2,56,019 on June 30, and rose marginally to 2,72,714 on July 1. In Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, a government district hospital was flooded by beneficiaries, who flouted coronavirus norms, to get their jabs. Speaking to ANI, the chief medical superintendent said that the crowd was due to the hospital not getting enough vaccines for two days. On Thursday, in a veiled jibe at the appointment of Mansukh Mandaviya as the Union health minister amid cabinet reshuffle, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Does this mean no more vaccine shortage? #change” Notably, Dr Harsh Vardhan’s resignation came as shocking to many as he was widely applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his management of the ongoing coronavirus crisis in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
08-07-2021||India||Cabinet nod to APMCs availing finance from Rs 1 lakh crore agri-infra fund||APMC mandis will now be eligible to avail financial support from the Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to expand the regulated markets' capacity and provide better facilities to farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. Tomar also asserted that the decision to further strengthen the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) allays protesting farmers' fear that these mandis will scrapped with the implementation of three controversial agriculture laws. This modification in the central scheme was approved in the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Briefing media about the cabinet decision, Tomar said: "During the Budget (2021-22), we had told that APMCs will not end, rather they would be strengthened further. Keeping that in mind, the Cabinet today decided to allow APMC to utilise the Rs 1 lakh crore financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF)." Stating that there was apprehension that APMCs will be abolished, the minister reiterated that these regulated mandis will not end. "After implementation of the three farm laws, APMC will get funds from this agri-infra fund." For APMCs, interest subvention for a loan up to Rs 2 crore will be provided for each project of different infrastructure types like cold storage, sorting, grading and assaying units and silos within the same market yard, he added. APMC markets are set up to provide market linkages and create an ecosystem of post-harvest public infrastructure open to all farmers Not only APMCs, Tomar said the financial facility under this fund has been extended to state agencies, national and state federations, farmer producer organisations (FPOs) as well as federation of self-help groups (SHGs). So far, individuals, organisations, cooperatives, FPOs and agri-start ups and farmers organisations were eligible to avail subvention of 3 per cent per annum for loans up to Rs 2 crore, he added. Under the AIF, a medium to long-term debt financing facility is provided for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and financial support. Among other changes in the scheme, the minister said that currently interest subvention for a loan up to Rs 2 crore in one location is eligible under the scheme. "In case one eligible entity puts up projects in different locations, then all such projects will be now be eligible for interest subvention for loan up to Rs 2 crore," he said. However, for a private sector entity, there will be a limit of a maximum of 25 such projects. However, this limitation will not be applicable to state agencies, national and state federations of cooperatives, federations of FPOs and federation of SHGs, he said. Location will mean physical boundary of a village or town having a distinct LGD (Local Government Directory) code. Each of such projects should be in a location having a separate LGD code. The minister further said the period of financial facility has been extended from 4 to 6 years up to 2025-26. The overall period of the scheme has been extended from 10 to 13 years up to 2032-33. In a separate statement, the government said the power has been delegated to the Union Agriculture Minister to make necessary changes with regard to addition or deletion of beneficiaries in such a manner so that basic spirit of the scheme is not altered. The modifications in the scheme will help to achieve a multiplier effect in generating investments while ensuring that the benefits reach small and marginal farmers, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
08-07-2021||India||Covid: Cabinet approves Rs 23,123 crore for boosting health infra||The Union cabinet Thursday approved a Rs 23,123-crore package for improving health infrastructure to fight Covid-19 as part of which around 2.4 lakh medical beds and 20,000 ICU ones would be created with a special focus on paediatric care. Addressing a press conference here after the first meeting of the Union cabinet following its reshuffle on Wednesday, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the package will be implemented over the next nine months till March 2022. The meeting was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mandaviya said this is the second phase of the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package as the Central government had given Rs 15,000 crore earlier for setting up Covid-dedicated hospitals and health centres across the country. Under the new package, the Centre would provide Rs 15,000 crore and states Rs 8,123 crore, and the plan would be implemented jointly by them across all the 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. Around 2.4 lakh normal medical beds and 20,000 ICU beds would be created of which 20 percent would be specially earmarked for children, he said. The minister said storage facilities for oxygen and medicines would also be created at district level under the plan. An official statement said states and UTs would be supported to create paediatric units in all 736 districts and to establish Paediatric Centre of Excellence in each state and UT (either in medical colleges, state government hospitals or central hospitals such as AIIMS, INIs, etc) for providing tele-ICU services, mentoring and technical hand-holding to the district paediatric units. They would be supported to augment 20,000 ICU beds in public healthcare system out of which 20 per cent will be pediatric ICU beds, it said. The Phase-II of the package has central sector (CS) and centrally-sponsored schemes (CSS) components. The statement said that under the central sector components, support would be provided to central hospitals, All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, and other Institutions of National Importance under DoHFW for repurposing 6,688 beds for Covid-19 management. National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) would be strengthened by providing genome sequencing machines, besides sanctioning scientific control room, epidemic intelligence services (EIS) and other support, it said. Support would be provided for the implementation of Hospital Management Information System (HMIS) in all the district hospitals of the country (presently, it is implemented only in 310 DHs), the statement said. All district hospitals would implement HMIS through NIC-developed e-Hospital and CDAC developed E-Shushrutsoftwares. This will be the biggest impetus for implementation of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) at the DHs, the statement said. Support would also be provided for expanding the national architecture of eSanjeevani tele-consultation platform to provide upto 5 lakhs tele-consultations per day from the present 50,000, the statement said. Support would also be provided for IT interventions, including strengthening the Central War room at DoHFW, strengthening the Covid-19 Portal, the 1075 Covid help lines and Co-WIN platform, the statement said. Under the CSS components, efforts are aimed at strengthening district and sub-district capacity for an effective and rapid response to the pandemic. States and UTs would be helped to provide care closer to the community due to the ingress of COVID-19 in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, by creating pre-fabricated structures for adding additional beds at the existing CHCs, PHCs and SHCs (6-20 bedded units) and support would also be provided to establish bigger field hospitals (50-100 bedded units) depending on the needs at tier-II or tier-III cities and district HQs, the statement said. They would be given help to install 1,050 liquid medical oxygen storage tanks with medical gas pipeline system (MGPS) with an aim to support at least one such unit per district and augment the existing feet of ambulances, the statement said. As many as 8,800 ambulances will be added under the package, it said. Undergraduate and post graduate medical interns and final year MMBS, BSc and GNM nursing students would be engaged for effective Covid management, it added. In March 2020, when the country was faced with the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the PM announced a Central Sector Scheme of Rs. 15,000 crore as the 'India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package', the statement said. Since mid-February 2021, the country is experiencing a second wave with spread into rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
08-07-2021||India||Supreme Court says election process stands threatened by social media manipulation||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that election process, which is the very foundation of a democratic government, stand threatened by social media manipulation and digital platforms can be imminently uncontrollable at times and carry their own challenges. The apex court said that information explosion in digital age is capable of creating new challenges that are insidiously modulating the debate on issues where opinions can be vastly divided and successful functioning of a liberal democracy can only be ensured when citizens are able to make informed decisions. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said that power and potentiality of these intermediaries is vast, running across borders, and these are multinational corporations with large wealth and influence at their command. By the very reason of the platform they provide, their influence extends over populations across borders. Facebook is one such corporation, said the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. The top court made the observations in its 188-page judgement dismissing a plea filed by Facebook India Vice President and MD Ajit Mohan and others challenging the summons issued by the Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee for failing to appear before it as witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year. The technological age has produced digital platforms not like the railway platforms where trains were regulated on arrival and departure. These digital platforms can be imminently uncontrollable at times and carry their own challenges, it said. The bench noted that a testament to the wide-ranging services which Facebook offers is the fact that it has about 2.85 billion monthly active users as of March 2021 and this is over one-third of the total population of this planet. It said that Facebook is the most popular social media platform in India with about 270 million registered users. Such vast powers must necessarily come with responsibility. Entities like Facebook have to remain accountable to those who entrust them with such power. While Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free speech by providing a voice to the voiceless and a means to escape state censorship, we cannot lose sight of the fact that it has simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies, it said. Thus, while social media, on the one hand, is enhancing equal and open dialogue between citizens and policy makers; on the other hand, it has become a tool in the hands of various interest groups who have recognised its disruptive potential. This results in a paradoxical outcome where extremist views are peddled into the mainstream, thereby spreading misinformation, it said. The top court said that established independent democracies are seeing the effect of such ripples across the globe and are concerned. Election and voting processes, the very foundation of a democratic government, stand threatened by social media manipulation, it said. The bench said that effect on a stable society can be cataclysmic with citizens being 'polarized and parlayzed' by such 'debates', dividing the society vertically. Less informed individuals might have a tendency to not verify information sourced from friends, or to treat information received from populist leaders as the gospel truth. It said internationally, Facebook has had to recognise its role in failing to prevent division and incitement of offline violence in the context of the stated ethnic cleansing in Myanmar where a crescendo of misinformation and posts, somehow missed by Facebook employees, helped fuel the violence. The platform similarly apologised for its lack of serious response to evident signs of abuse of the platform in Sri Lanka, which again is stated to have stoked widespread violence in 2018 in the country and had to acknowledge its need to be regulated though the exact method is still unclear and a prerogative of law making authority, it said. The top court there have been endeavours by countries like Australia, the US, the UK and the EU for ways to regulate platforms such as Facebook in an efficient manner but their efforts are still at a nascent stage as studies are undertaken to understand the dynamism of the platform and its disruptive potential . The US has also seen heated debates arising from the 2016 Presidential elections with allegations of supposed interference by Russia allegedly facilitated by platforms like Facebook, the bench noted in its verdict. We have penned down a detailed introduction to appreciate the gravity of what was debated before us in the context of Facebook's hands off approach, who have urged that they cannot be compelled to participate in proceedings of sub-committees formed by the parliament or the legislative assemblies, the bench said. The bench said that Delhi Legislative Assembly and its committee have the power to compel attendance of members and outsiders on grounds of its privilege. While acknowledging the distribution of power, it said that though law and order and police do not fall under the legislative domain of Delhi Assembly, in the larger context the concept of peace and harmony goes much beyond that. It said in any case, the representative of the social media giant would have the right to not answer questions directly covered by these two fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Beijing's non observance on border issues 'disturbed' foundation of bilateral ties: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Thursday that there has been a lot of concern about the India-China relationship since last one year because Beijing has not observed agreements on the border issue which has "disturbed" the foundation of the bilateral relationship. "I would say for the last 40 years we had a very stable relation with China China emerged as the second largest trade partner.., Jaishankar said in response to a question on China-India relations at the Primakov Institute of World Economy & International Relations in Moscow. "But for the last one year, there has been a lot of concern about the relationship because China has not observed agreements that it had signed up to when it came to our border, said Jaishankar, who is here on a three-day visit. "After 45 years, we actually had a border incident with casualties. And peace and tranquility on the border, for any country, is the foundation of a relationship with a neighbour. So naturally the foundationship has got disturbed, so has the relationship, he added. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive high altitude sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach to this issue at the 11th round of military talks. On a question on the possibility of nuclear arms race between the two countries, Jaishankar dismissed it saying the evolution of the Chinese nuclear program has a much larger dynamic than India. "I don't believe there is a nuclear arms race between India and China. China became a nuclear power in 1964, India in 1998, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep police question Aisha again, seize her laptop||The Lakshadweep police probing the sedition case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana on Thursday interrogated her at her residence here and seized a laptop. Talking to reporters after her interrogation, Sultana alleged that a five-member police team from Lakshadweep carried out a search at her flat in Kakkanad near here and seized her brother's laptop and sought information about his bank accounts. However, the police was not immediately available for a comment. Sultana said police personnel visited her home without informing her. She alleged that she was being troubled by the police in the name of investigation into the case. Sultana, who was interrogated by the police in Kavaratti last month, said the police visited the flat when she was engaged in the dubbing work of her upcoming movie in a studio here. Earlier, the police had seized her mobile phone when she was summoned to Kavaratti to join the investigation. Sultana was granted bail by the Kerala High Court in connection with the sedition case. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Adityanath’s fight is with UP’s widows, orphans in the upcoming Assembly polls: Owaisi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's "fight" in the Assembly elections next year is with widows and orphans, said AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday attacking the state government over the deaths during the second coronavirus wave. Owaisi said during the second wave of Covid, lakhs of people died "due to the UP government" as bodies of the poor were seen floating in the Ganga and dogs found dragging these on the river banks. People were not getting oxygen and beds in hospitals, he said addressing party workers while inaugurating its office in Bahraich city. "Yogi's fight in the coming elections will be with the women made widows and children left orphan by his government," he said, adding that mothers and sisters of UP have expectations from Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of smaller parties. The Hyderabad MP also called upon opposition parties to join the Morcha, saying, "We are entering the electoral fray with the resolve not to allow Yogi to become the chief minister again in the 2022 elections." Those (opposition parties) who are afraid of us today should not forget that we did not contest the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, yet they could not defeat Narendra Modi, he said. Owaisi further said they are going to contest the Assembly elections with a bigger motive. We are fighting for our share in power and not to become mere vote bank. Now, we will send our representatives to the Legislative Assembly with our votes. We have also proved this by winning five Vidhan Sabha seats in Bihar, he said in an apparent reference to the Muslim community. Owaisi said all political groups understand that there is no voice of the oppressed and minorities. The drama of those who make us happy by feeding dates during iftars, organise mushairas and qawwali will now come to an end. We are not circus clowns. Instead of becoming a clown who dances at the behest of the ring master, we will now become the ringmaster and make them dance to our directions, he said. Owaisi said the Uttar Pradesh government has so far administered coronavirus vaccine to only three per cent of the state population and called upon the people who attended the programme to get themselves vaccinated. The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest on 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Elgaar case: HC questions Maharashtra about judge's jurisdiction||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to produce documents or records to show that sessions judge K.D. Vadane, who took cognisance of a chargesheet filed by  Pune police against lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj and some of her co-accused in the Elgaar-Parishad-Maoist links case, had the jurisdiction to do so. A bench of Justice S.S. Shinde and Justice N.J. Jamadar gave the direction after noting that the records produced by the high court registry "matched" with the claim made by Bharadwaj that Judge Vadane was not a designated special judge. The bench was referring to the claim made by Bharadwaj through her counsel, senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, in her plea filed in the HC seeking default bail. Earlier this week, Chaudhry had told HC that Judge Vadane was an additional sessions judge, but he had "pretended" to be a "special judge" and remanded Bharadwaj and eight others to Pune police's custody in 2018. Judge Vadane had also taken cognisance of the chargesheet filed by the police in the case even though he had no jurisdiction to do so, Chaudhry had said. He had placed replies that Bharadwaj had received from the high court and the Maharashtra government authorities showing that Judge Vadane had never been designated as a special judge. At the time, the HC had said it wished to confirm the same with the records of the high court registry. On Thursday, the bench said the registry "record matches with what is submitted in the petition." Chaudhry then said that since Bharadwaj and others had been charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), only a designated special court could have taken cognisance of their case. He said in cases of scheduled offences, such as those under the UAPA, a sessions judge has the power to take cognisance only if there exist specific instructions from the "Principal District Judge (PDJ)." At this, the bench asked the Maharashtra government's chief public prosecutor, Aruna Pai, to show if there existed such an order. "Show us any document through which PDJ gave powers to Vadane to hear the matter," the bench said. The bench said there were documents to show that while the Pune police took the case and the chargesheet before Judge Vadane, designated special judges were officiating in special courts in Pune at the time. Pai sought time and said she will provide an answer to the court after taking instructions from relevant authorities. "There is no explanation coming from the government. The IO (investigative officer) should have explained why he didn't go to a special judge," Chaudhry maintained. The court also asked Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the National Investigating Agency (NIA), to respond to the claims made by Chaudhry. The Elgar Parishad case of 2017-2018, which was earlier handled by the Pune police, was later handed over to the NIA and its trial was shifted to Mumbai. Bharadwaj was arrested in August 2018 and placed under house arrest. She was taken into physical custody by the Pune police in September 2018. The NIA took over the investigation in January 2020. On Thursday, ASG Singh told the HC that he did not agree with Chaudhry's submission that only a special judge could have taken cognisance of the case. He said offences under UAPA were serious and hence, the focus must be on their early disposal. "The purpose for this Act (UAPA) is to punish the offender. There has to be expeditious and early disposal of cases. Nothing is above national security," Singh said. "Special judges are not different from sessions judges. It is a sessions judge, who is appointed as a special judge. So, he is not, not competent to handle such cases," he said. The HC adjourned further hearing on the plea to July 15. Bharadwaj has said in her plea that since Judge Vadane had no jurisdiction over the case, he couldn't have remanded her and her co-accused to the Pune police's custody, taken cognisance of the chargesheet, and denied them bail. The HC has tagged similar pleas filed by Bharadwaj's co-accused Arun Ferreira, Anand Teltumbde and Sudhir Dhawale, through advocate R Sathyanarayan, raising objections to Judge Vadane's jurisdiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||India rejects Pak’s ‘RAW behind Lahore attack’ claim||India on Thursday strongly trashed Pakistan's allegations that Indian spy agency RAW orchestrated last month's bomb blast in Lahore. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said it is not new for Pakistan to engage in "baseless propaganda" against India. He said Pakistan should focus on setting its own house in order and take credible and verifiable action against terrorism emanating from its soil. The international community is well aware of Pakistan's credentials when it comes to terrorism, he said. On Sunday, Pakistan's National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf alleged that India was behind the blast outside the house of Hafiz Saeed in Lahore. Saeed is the 2008 Mumbai terror attack mastermind and chief of the banned Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD). Three persons were killed and 24 others injured in the blast. When the blast had taken place, CCTV footage had showed a masked suspect parking the car at the corner of a street near the residence of the JuD chief around 10:40 am on Wednesday. He got out of the car and then disappeared, the official said, adding that the blast occurred around 11:10 am. Reportedly, the suspect had carried out the blast with a timed device. Footage later showed that the driver was picked up from a petrol pump nearby by an accomplice in a car and they drove off, the official had said. Following which, three unidentified terrorists have been named in the FIR in the case. The blast had sparked rumours that Saeed was present in the house. Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist whom the US has placed a USD 10 million bounty on, has been convicted for 36 years imprisonment in five terror financing cases. His punishment is running concurrently. Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Maha cyber cell: Beware of fake websites offering loans||Maharashtra Cyber on Thursday warned citizens not to fall prey to fraudsters who are duping people using fake websites of well-known financial institutions and banks, and offering them loans. During the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown period, the department had found that anti-social elements were creating fake websites, luring people with the promise of loans and later duping them, a Maharashtra Cyber official said. One such gang had asked people to fill up forms or contact them, and after gaining their confidence, fraudsters asked victims to deposit some processing fees to clear loans, and later duped them, the official said. Since many such cases came to light, the department has issued an advisory asking people to verify logos and other details of financial institutions if they are applying for loans online, he said. People have also been asked to visit the nearest branches of banks before applying for loans to get proper information for their safety, and contact the local police immediately if they fall victim to cyber frauds, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||India’s peak power demand crosses 200GW mark||Power demand in the country touched an all-time high and crossed the 200 GW mark on Wednesday amid many states witnessing high temperatures due to delayed monsoon, and easing of coronavirus-related restrictions. According to the latest power ministry data, peak power demand or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW on Wednesday. On Tuesday, power demand was at a record high of 197.07 GW. Experts opined that high temperatures in many states due to delayed monsoon and easing of restrictions that were in place to curb coronavirus infections have led to a surge in power demand these days. Last month, peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day witnessed a growth of over 16 per cent at 191.51 GW (recorded on June 30) compared to 164.98 GW recorded in June 2020. The peak power demand was 182.45 GW in June 2019. As per the ministry's data, peak power demand had touched an all-time high of 192.16 GW on July 5, 2021. Then, the figure had surpassed the peak power demand of 191.51 GW recorded on June 30. "Today, All India peak demand met touched the all-time highest level of 197060 MW at 11:43 hrs. Looking forward to the demand touching 200000 MW in the near future," Power Minister R K Singh had said in a tweet on Tuesday. In January, Singh had tweeted that the power demand and supply surged to a new high of 1,88,452 MW at 9:42 am on January 28. "The rate at which we are going, we shall cross 2,00,000 MW very soon".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Centre: Over 1.83 Cr unutilised doses available with states, pvt hospitals||More than 1.83 crore balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and private hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Over 37.93 crore (37,93,56,790) vaccine doses have been provided to the states and Union territories so far and a further 23,80,000 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 36,09,69,128 doses (according to data available at 8 am on Thursday), the ministry said. "More than 1.83 crore (1,83,87,662) balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and private hospitals to be administered," it added. The Centre is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to the states for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states by providing them Covid vaccines for free. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid vaccination drive, the Centre will procure and supply (for free) 75 per cent of the vaccines produced by the manufacturers in the country to the states, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||With a breathtaking sense of style, Naimi Shah wins heart on social media||Today's talent recognition includes the identification and promotion of young talents within a community. It is necessary to support such talents to make our countries future more bright, as they are a generation of people who can take our country forward. Possessing multiple talents, Naimi Shah name has been listed among young bloggers, influencers and content creators. Social Media has opened a wide platform for young people to showcase their talent and that’s exactly what Naimi has done by creating varied content for her audiences. Being a travel enthusiast, she entered the world of social media with travel blogging. Through her lens, she tried to show the world the unexplored parts. Apart from travelling, Naimi Shah has mastered the art of influencing in the fashion and lifestyle worlds, providing her followers with the finest of what they want in fashion and lifestyle with her frequent updates and content.  For being at the forefront of serving people with the appropriate insights and fresh updates from Bollywood, she is known as ‘thatbollywoodgurl.' She is also known for her creative talents and has thrived on social media as a sought-after social media influencer as the Creative Head of a prominent Bollywood page. Hailing from Vadodara, Gujarat, Naimi decided to be a part of the social media space and create her own niche by becoming an influencer and blogger. Talking about her experience, Naimi Shah said, “I saw how others made it huge by optimizing these mediums and saw the great potential in myself to do the same and achieve milestones.” Due to her dedication today she has gained over 46.2 k followers on Instagram and has created a path of success for herself in the coming times. She has been very constant in creating content for her audience, even during the pandemic she made a point to deliver a quality of work. With her constant hard work, she has reached the heights of the social media world. Seeing her efforts, we wish her luck to achieve great success in life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
08-07-2021||India||Meet Young Philanthropist Jitendra Kumar ||Social media and other online communication have revolutionized the lives of young Indians that reflect on their lifestyle and more youth are getting engaged in social welfare activities. There are so many youngsters who are highly active on social media platforms like Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, etc. The combination of these two fields acts wonderfully and that is proved by a young philanthropist Jitendra Kumar, who belongs to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. He has a zealous and hard-working background and his sense of propriety guides him in all his acts. He lives in Delhi with his wife, Anjali. Jitendra has been fascinated with the difference between the lives of haves and have-nots and has now dedicated his life to rectifying that distance. He has support from a national party which helped him create strong political connections and build a robust network that allows him to do a lot of things for public welfare in the area. Take a look at his website, thejitendrakumar, to get a unique insight into the life of this young social worker. The website is full of inspirational quotes like “Believe in Karma” and “In a world of worriers, be the warrior.” His Instagram handle, imjitendrakumar, shows photographs of his family, friends, associates and of a number of activities that he is involved in. One of those is his association with a number of social causes, right from feeding the hungry to helping the destitute. Personally, Jitendra is focused on his fitness too, for which he maintains a strict fitness schedule and follows healthy eating practice. It is his dream to open his own brand of fitness programs and he is working towards it. Recently, he was also awarded for his social work in the region. Speaking about the award, he said, “This award has pushed me further on the road to doing things for the greater good.” Jitendra has created a name for himself in the fields of social service and entertainment. That has made him one of the leading social media influencers of his age. You can get in touch with this youth icon on his social media profiles and learn more about his activism. Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/imjitendrakumar92.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Twitter India chief seeks quashing of UP cops notice asking him to appear in person||Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari on Thursday sought the quashing of a notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh police seeking his physical presence in connection with a case registered for uploading and circulating a "communal sensitive" video on the platform. Appearing on behalf of Maheshwari before the single bench of Justice G Narendar in the Karnataka High Court, his counsel C V Nagesh contended that the notice under Section 41 -A of the CrPC was issued "without jurisdiction, without the sanction of law." He claimed that the first notice was issued on June 17 under Section 160 of the CrPC. The legal obligation under Section 160 of the CrPC is based upon a person who resides at a place which is located within the territorial jurisdiction of the police station where the crime is registered, the counsel argued. After the notice under Section 160 was issued, Maheshwari told the investigators that he did not know anything about the issue, Nagesh said. He added that even if Maheshwari appeared before them in person, the reply would be the same. "The IO (investigating officer) was not satisfied because there was a hidden agenda. Then what he (IO) did is, he invoked the powers under Section 41-A of the CrPC, which is not right", he alleged. "Law does not empower him (the IO) to do so. It is an act which has been done without the sanction of law," the counsel argued. The Twitter MD resides in Bengaluru, and his office is located in the city, Nagesh pointed out. Maheshwari had earlier indicated that he was prepared to cooperate with the investigation through video conference. The case has been posted for further hearing on Friday. The Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh) police issued the notice under Section 41-A of the CrPC on June 21 asking him to report at the Loni Border police station at 10.30 AM on June 24. Maheshwari then approached the Karnataka High Court as he lives in Bengaluru in Karnataka. On June 24, the High Court, in an interim order, restrained the Ghaziabad police from initiating any coercive action against him. Justice Narendar had also maintained that if the police wanted to examine him, they could do so through virtual mode. The Ghaziabad Police on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd. (Twitter India), news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which an elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, alleges he was thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June five. According to police, the video was shared to cause communal unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||U'khand HC rejects govt contention that live streaming of rituals not allowed by scriptures||The Uttarakhand High Court has refused to accept the state government's contention that live streaming of the rituals at Char Dham is not permitted by the scriptures. Refusing to buy the argument, the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said if the Devasthanam Board decides not to permit live streaming of the rituals on this ground, it will have to quote a line from the scripture in support of the argument. The government made the submission in an affidavit filed by Advocate General S N Babulkar on Wednesday. The chief justice said he has also read the shastras and nowhere does a line like this appear. However, the high court refused to pass any order regarding the Char Dham Yatra as the matter is pending in the Supreme Court. The court's observation came on the advocate general's submission that the earlier order of the court has been complied with and the Char Dham Yatra has been stayed. He also submitted that a proposal has been sent to the Char Dham Board for the live telecast of the puja but due to the change of chief minister of the state a meeting of the board, which is headed by him, could not take place. The government also reiterated that people are opposed to live streaming as it is not allowed by the scriptures. "On the one hand, you are saying that it will be decided while on the other you say that it is not acceptable as per scripture. I have also read the scriptures, tell me in which verse is this ban imposed?" the chief justice asked. Citing an example from the epic Mahabharata, the chief justice said if Sanjay could give an account of the war to Dhritarashtra through live broadcast, why can't the state government live stream rituals at Char Dham.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Halted by Covid, 24 patients from Myanmar throng Delhi for treatment||A group of 24 patients with serious ailments and awaiting organ transplant and specialised medical treatment for over six months due to the coronavirus pandemic have been brought from Myanmar to Delhi for treatment at a leading private facility here, hospital authorities said on Thursday. Their grave health condition ranges from chronic liver or kidney disease to hepatitis B virus infection, doctors said. “They were flown to Delhi on July 2 in a special chartered flight after the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions were eased for international travel,” a spokesperson of Apollo hospital here said. Many patients from abroad visit the city from time to time for medical advice and treatment but the second wave of the Covid had put a halt on their travel, prolonging their suffering. The spokesperson said the 24 patients from Myanmar are currently kept in a 12-day quarantine, after which their condition will be assessed for transplant procedures, some may not need it and would require just specialised medical care. “The patients were suffering from chronic liver, kidney and cardio-vascular diseases and had been waiting for organ transplant and specialised medical treatment for over six months. “Fortunately with ease in international travel and immense support by embassies of the countries we have been able to get them to India to our centre for medical assistance,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals. Doctors at the hospital in south Delhi said these patients have been in "grave health condition" and any further delay in medical intervention "could have been fatal". One of the patients is a 48-year-old man who had been suffering from chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV), this is progressive and irreversible condition that causes the tissues to scar. The man had been waiting for treatment for over six months and hence his condition had progressed into induced liver cancer," said Dr Neerav Goyal, senior consultant, liver transplant, at the hospital. His condition was initially managed in Myanmar with chemo embolisation and last week he was brought to Delhi in a specialised charter flight, along with 23 other such patients for organ transplant, he added. Delhi had been hit hard with the second wave of the pandemic and the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals here added to the woes of the people. The coronavirus pandemic situation has improved a bit in the last few weeks. Non-Covid patients, especially those suffering from cancer or chronic ailments, and pregnant women had to go through a great deal of hardship in the April-June period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Tech and R&D instituions to play major role in India's 'Techade', says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with directors of centrally-funded technical institutions and stressed on the need to adapt higher and technical education to the changing environment and emerging challenges. According to the Prime Minister's Office, Modi noted that technological and R&D institutions will play a major role in the upcoming decade, which, he added, is also being called as "India's Techade". Interacting with over 100 heads of institutions via video-conferencing, Modi highlighted the need to focus on developing futuristic solutions in the fields of education, healthcare, agriculture, defense, and cyber technologies. He also lauded the research and development work done by these institutions towards meeting the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and appreciated the efforts of young innovators towards providing quick technological solutions. In a tweet, Modi later said, "Had an enriching interaction with Directors of leading IITs and @iiscbangalore during which we exchanged thoughts on a wide range of subjects including making India a hub for R&D, innovation and popularising science among the youth." Emphasising the need to adapt to changing environment and emerging challenges, Modi said this requires the institutions to reinvent and reevaluate themselves, develop alternative and innovative models in accordance with the present and future needs of the country and society. He stressed that the country's higher educational and technical institutions need to prepare the youth for continuous disruptions and changes, keeping in mind the fourth industrial revolution, the PMO said. He underlined the need to progress towards education models that are flexible, seamless, and are able to provide learning opportunities according to the requirements of the learners. He said that access, affordability, equity, and quality should be the core values of such education models. Appreciating the improvement in the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) in higher education in the past few years, Modi said digitalization of higher education can play a big role in increasing GER, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education. He also highlighted the need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages. "Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan" (Self-reliant India campaign) will form the basis of dreams and aspirations of India in the coming 25 years when it celebrates 100 years of Independence, he said. Newly appointed Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the Ministers of State for Education were present during the interaction. During the interaction, Prof Govindan Rangarajan of IISc Bangalore, Prof Subhasis Chaudhuri of IIT Bombay, Prof. Bhaskar Ramamurthi of IIT Madras, and Prof Abhay Karandikar of IIT Kanpur gave presentations to the prime minister and highlighted various ongoing projects, academic work, and new research being done in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||New Education Minister hails NEP in first meet after reshuffle||India's education system has taken a giant leap with the introduction of the new National Education Policy (NEP), newly appointed Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. Pradhan was given the education portfolio in a reshuffle-cum-expansion of the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Subhas Sekhar and Annapurna Devi were appointed as Ministers of State for Education. In his first meeting as Education Minister, Pradhan said, "The Indian education system has taken a giant leap with the introduction of NEP, towards fostering an environment for creating a future-ready India. The policy has not only been welcomed in India but also foreign countries." "We are committed to making students and the youth the primary stakeholders in propelling India towards an equitable knowledge society," he said. The meeting presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was attended by heads of centrally funded technical institutions, including IITs and IISc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: SC dismisses FB India VP Ajit Mohan's plea against summons by Delhi panel||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed the plea filed by Facebook India Vice President and MD Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued by Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee for failing to appear before it as witness in a matter relating to the north-east Delhi riots last year. A bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy termed Mohan's plea as pre-mature and said nothing has happened against him before Delhi Assembly's panel. The verdict came on plea filed by Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc who contended that the committee lacks power to summon or hold petitioners in breach of its privileges for failing to appear and it was exceeding its Constitutional limits. They have challenged last year's September 10 and 18 notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan's presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots and Facebook's role in spread of the alleged hate speeches. According to an NDTV report, the apex court while passing the verdict underlined that te Delhi Assembly committee has the “right to seek information on any matter related to peace and harmony without encroaching (the) domain of the central laws.” During the hearing it also NDTV mentioned that the court observed, “Social media platforms have the power and potential to influence people across the border. Debates on these platforms, like Facebook, have the potential to polarise the society and less informed individuals may not verify the information and take it as gospel of truth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Laws of India supreme, everyone who lives here must abide by it: Ashwini Vaishnaw ||All those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country, newly sworn-in Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Thursday. Vaishnav was talking to reporters after meeting BJP general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh at the party office here. On a question that Twitter was not adhering to IT rules, he said whosoever lives and works in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. Twitter, in loggerheads with the Indian government for a slew of issues over months, told the Delhi High Court on Thursday that it needs eight weeks' time to appoint a new grievance officer in compliance with the recently-enacted IT rules of the country. According to an NDTV report, the social media giant also informed the court that it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer, who is a resident of India, two days ago and will submit its first compliance report by July 11. The microblogging platform said it has appointed interim chief compliance officer (CCO) with effect from July 6 and a communication has also been addressed to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY). US-based company Twitter has been in the eye of a storm over its alleged failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, which mandates, among other requirements, the appointment of three key personnel -- chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer by social media platforms with over 50 lakh users. All the three personnel have to be residents in India. While the rules came into effect on May 26, Twitter is yet to adhere to the social media guidelines, despite repeated reminders from the government. Vaishnaw's statement echoes his predecessor Ravi Shankhar Prasad who had made similar comments days before quitting his post. He had sparred several times with Twitter on this issue, frequently criticising the company for non-compliance and failure to follow laws in India, and also got his account blocked on Twitter for over an hour. "You operate in India, you make money in India... but if you take the position 'I will only be governed by laws of America'...This is plainly not acceptable," Prasad had said earlier. Vaishnaw, the MP from Odisha, on Wednesday took oath as the Cabinet Minister and was given the charge of Railways along with the Information and Technology Ministry. He said was thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving him the responsibility. He said his focus will be on improving the life of the last man standing in the queue. In past, Vaishnav, while speaking in the Rajya Sabha, had raised the issue of cyber bullying of Karnataka-based Rashmi Samant's resignation from the position of Oxford Student Union President in the United Kingdom and described it as a serious case of racism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||Farmers protest fuel price hike, demand rates to be halved||Farmers agitating against the new agriculture laws on Thursday came together to raise their voices against the recent price hike of petrol, diesel and cooking oil, demanding that the rates be halved with immediate effect. Called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the two-hour-long protest from 10 am to 12 noon, saw farmers in different parts of the country gather on the sides of national and state highways along with their vehicles, in an attempt to draw the government's attention towards their plight following the fuel price hike. Today, farmers protested for two hours against the high fuel prices. We want them to be halved immediately. Protesters brought their motorcycles, cars, tractors and other vehicles and held sit-in protests, said farmer leader Lakhbir Singh. He added that the demonstrations were held peacefully. While petrol on Wednesday crossed Rs 100/litre in Delhi and several other cities, diesel is currently priced at Rs 89.59/litre. Another farmer leader Avtar Singh Mehma said protests were held not just at the Delhi borders where the farmers' protest against the three farm laws is underway, but across several state and national highways in the country. However, it was ensured that the protests did not block traffic on these roads. Protesters brought their motorcycles, cars, tractors and other vehicles and sat on roadsides. Housewives also came out in large numbers to participate in the agitation with empty gas cylinders, Mehma said. While it was too soon to zero in on the number of protesters, demonstrations were held at thousands of places in the country, he said. Mehma said his native district of Ferozabad in Punjab saw protests at 25 different places. The government is made by the people, so it is important that it listens to them. The government should take charge of the fuel prices in its own hands instead of leaving it to the corporations, he said. As part of the agitation on Thursday, farmers also observed horn baja diwas' during which they honked their vehicles for five minutes to draw the attention of the government, which, according to them, has not been listening to them despite their continued agitation for over seven months. A call was made to all farmers across the country to come out with their tractors and vehicles on main roads and highways across the country and blow horns so that the government takes note of the protest, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. Farmers have been protesting in huge numbers at Delhi's borders since November 2020, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws which, they fear, will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of the corporates. The government, however, has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India||ABP Education Fair 2021: College admission decoded||Career advice and interaction with representatives of top institutes from the comfort of your home — ABP Education Admission Fair 2021, powered by anandabazar.com and telegraphindia.com, promises all this and more. The virtual fair will be held between July 15 and August 14, 2021. The pandemic has redefined the learning processes across the education industry. Online classes and a shift in the usual assessment methods have established their roles in the post-pandemic scenario. However, the thought of knowing, exploring and opting for career opportunities after 12th soon became worrisome with the stay-at-home orders rolling in-and-out frequently. To make this career journey as seamless as possible, ABP Education is all set to host a virtual Admission Fair, powered by anandabazar.com and telegraphindia.com, to help students passing out of high school find their best fit college for higher education. Objective ABP Education Admission Fair 2021 is aimed at simplifying the entire process of college admission, starting from shortlisting academic institutes to interacting with college representatives and finally booking a seat at one’s institute of choice. To register for ABP Education Admission Fair 2021, please visit bit.ly/AdmFairPreviewTT1 Stay safe, stay home ABP Education Admission Fair 2021 will be a completely virtual event and participants can access all that’s on offer from the safety of their homes. All they need is computer, tab or cellphone and a steady internet connection. One India, one fair The ABP Education Admission Fair 2021 will bring several esteemed institutes from across India in one place. Students and guardians can make the most of this one-stop-destination to compare courses and make a choice. One-on-one interaction with institute representatives The virtual fair will enable students to interact with college representatives from the safety of their homes. The mode of communication will be phone calls, WhatsApp messages or text messages. Download resources from a pool of valuable career information Participants will be able to download brochures and forms of their chosen institute for future reference. Get core-industry tips from keynote speakers Students can learn more about their career choices from industry experts. Several webinars, covering a range of exciting topics related to futuristic careers, are lined up. Get guidance from career counsellors Free career counselling sessions are also on offer to help students make the right career choice. Who should attend ABP Education Admission Fair 2021? The outgoing batch of Class XII students can make the most of ABP Education Admission Fair 2021. Parents and guardians, educators and school counsellors, too, can attend the virtual event. Please visit bit.ly/AdmFairPreviewTT1 to register for ABP Education ‘Admission Fair’ 2021 Got a query? Write to ABP Education at info@abped.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
08-07-2021||India|| Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at health minister Mansukh Mandaviya as he assumes charge||Soon after the new health minister Mansukh Mandavia assumed charge, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked whether it will change anything and there will be no vaccine shortage. "Does this mean no more vaccine shortage," he asked on Twitter, using the hashtag "#Change". The Congress has been criticising the government's vaccination policy, alleging that it is moving at a slow pace and needs to be accelerated. The BJP, however, hit back at Gandhi with its spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia alleging that the former Congress chief is "irresponsible" and is criticising for the sake of doing so. "We would, however, welcome his constructive criticism," Bhatia said. The Congress has earlier said that the dropping of former Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is an admission of the government's failure in handling of the pandemic. Earlier Congress leader P Chidambaram said the first task of the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandavia is to remove vaccine shortage as some states are facing acute shortages. He said vaccinations have been suspended at several centres in Tamil Nadu as vaccines have run out of supply. "Once again, vaccination has been suspended at several centres in Tamil Nadu because they have run out of vaccines. "The first task of the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will be to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to all States," Chidambaram tweeted. "No more games to enter the Guinness Book of Records please. Just focus on the supply of vaccines to all the States," he also said. Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat's Saurashtra region, replaces Dr Harsh Vardhan, who was dropped from the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. His portfolio assumes utmost significance as the country is in battling a coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Twitter seeks 8 weeks to appoint grievance officer||The Delhi High Court on Thursday granted two weeks' to Twitter Inc to file an affidavit, notarised in the United States, on compliance with the new Information Technology (IT) Rules in New Delhi and made it clear that it was not extending any protection to the micro-blogging platform. The high court said the Central government was free to take action against Twitter Inc in case of any breach of the new IT Rules. "It is made clear that since this court has not passed any interim order, this court has granted time to Respondent No 2 (Twitter Inc) to file affidavit, no protection is granted. It is open to Centre to take action against the Respondent 2 in case of any breach of the Rules," a bench of Justice Rekha Palli said while listing the matter for further hearing on July 28. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court that it was not seeking any protection either. The consequence (of non-compliance) is that the protection to intermediaries falls off. I'm not seeking any protection , he said. The high court also directed that affidavits on compliance with the rules be also filed by the officers appointed by Twitter under the new IT Rules. "Twitter prays for two weeks' time for filing notarised affidavit of competent official of respondent nos 2 (Twitter Inc). Two weeks time is granted. Scanned copies to be filed by Tuesday, July 13," the high court said after Poovayya submitted that he would get notarised affidavit from the U.S and the same would require some time. The high court on July 6 had directed Twitter to inform it by July 8 as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer (RGO) in compliance with the new IT Rules. Poovayya told the court that pursuant to the direction, a note was filed, clarifying the status of appointment of the interim chief compliance officer (CCO), interim RGO as well as a nodal contact person on interim basis. While an interim CCO has already been appointed on July 6, an interim RGO and interim nodal contact officer will be appointed by July 11 and within two weeks, respectively, Poovayya told the court and said that Twitter was actively recruiting for a permanent position. He said that usage of interim would not lessen the responsibilities imposed on these officers to ensure compliance with the new IT Rules. The high court, however, said, "Tomorrow you may take benefit of 'interim'. This (your stand) is neither in the letter (to the Centre) nor on an affidavit." Poovayya explained that since Twitter was in the process of setting up a liaison office in India, it could not appoint permanent employees. "Interim does not take away the responsibility of the officer under the rules. A permanent employee without a liaison office would have tax issues etc. There is no difference in obligation," he told the bench. Poovayya added that presently, the contact address of Twitter Inc was that of a legal counsel in Bengaluru and that he was unable to put a date as to when the liaison office would be established in India. "It is admittedly not done in three months. COVID and a lot of other precipitative things happened. By the end of this week, we will file a compliance report," he explained. The senior advocate clarified that compliance was without prejudice to Twitter's right to challenge the new IT Rules. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for Centre, objected to the absence of any affidavit and affirmation from Twitter. With regards to Twitter's stand that it would endeavour in good faith to comply with the rules and appointment of officers was via a third party contractor, the law officer said that he sought accountability from the micro blogging website. "This is not diplomatic parlance. We want accountability, full accountability of great servitude. It can't be left in half-way house via third party," Sharma said. Poovayya explained that the word endeavour was used to avoid being in contempt of court in case of non-compliance, to which the court responded, "You are already in contempt. Now you are trying to salvage the situation." The court nonetheless added that it would take Twitter has the bonafide intent to comply with the rules. The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter has failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The affidavit had said that Twitter has failed to comply with the IT Rules, 2021 as on July 1 for the following reasons -- chief compliance officer has not been appointed; the positions of RGO and nodal contact person are vacant, and the physical contact address, which was shown to be there on May 29, is not available again on Twitter website. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented through Senior Advocate G Tushar Rao and advocate Akash Bajpai, said in his plea that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Ministers take charge of offices day after being inducted to cabinet||Several newly appointed ministers, including health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Ashwini Vaishnaw (Railways and IT minister), and Anurag Thakur (Information and Broadcasting minister and Kiren Rijiju, (Law Minister), on Thursday, took charge of their new posts a day after they were inducted into the Union cabinet. Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat's Saurashtra region, replaces Dr Harsh Vardhan, who was dropped from the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. His portfolio assumes utmost significance as the country is in battling a coronavirus pandemic. Mandaviya will also lead the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. "Mansukh Mandaviya takes charge as Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare at Nirman Bhawan today (Thursday)," the Health Ministry said. Mandaviya was on Wednesday elevated to Cabinet rank from minister of state (MoS). He was holding the independent charge of the Shipping Ministry and was MoS for the Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry. Bureaucrat-entrepreneur-turned-politician Ashwini Vaishnaw took charge as the country's new railway minister. A former IAS officer of the 1994-batch, Vaishnaw has handled important responsibilities for over 15 years and was particularly known for his contribution to the public-private partnership (PPP) framework in infrastructure, something that will help him in the rail sector. He has also held leadership roles across major global companies such as General Electric and Siemens. Vaishnaw has done his MBA from the Wharton School, Pennsylvania University, and M.Tech from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur. He will also hold two other important portfolios of Communications and Electronics and Information Technology. "Excellent work has been done in the Railways over the past 67 years. I am here to take the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi forward," Vaishnaw said while he took the charge. Anurag Thakur similarly took charge as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting. Speaking to reporters after assuming charge, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a great job in reaching out to people in the last seven years through this ministry, and that he would like to take the legacy forward. Thakur said he would like to reach out to people through the ministry. "I will make every possible effort to carry out the responsibility bestowed upon me by the prime minister," he said. Kiren Rijiju on the other hand took charge as the new minister of Law and Justice. A prominent face from the northeast in the Modi government, Rijiju was on Wednesday elevated as a Cabinet minister in a major reshuffle and expansion of the Union Council of Ministers. Rijiju takes over the key ministry from Ravi Shankar Prasad, who has resigned from the government. The Law Ministry is responsible to defend the government in various courts through its law officers and help ministries draft bills and key documents. It also plays a role in transfer, posting and elevation of Supreme Court and high court judges. The Cabinet overhaul that came ahead of key Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh next year saw 36 new faces on Wednesday. Among them, eight are lawyers, four are doctors, two are former IAS officers and four MBA degree holders, besides several engineers, making it an eclectic mix of professionals in what is seen as an attempt by the prime minister to give a boost to the governance quotient ahead of a string of assembly elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Besides 15 Cabinet ministers, 28 Ministers of State, comprising new faces and those elevated, were sworn in at a ceremony held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office and secrecy to the 43 ministers including the seven elevated to the Cabinet with all COVID protocol in place. Hours before the ceremony, 11 ministers resigned while another minister Thaawarchand Gehlot quit on Monday after being made the Governor of Karnataka. The resignations of all the 12 ministers were accepted by President Kovind. The total strength of the Council of Ministers now stands at 78, including the Prime Minister. The prime minister can have up to 81 members in his Union Council(15 per cent of the Lok Sabha strength).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Congress leaders condole demise of Virbhadra Singh||Congress leaders on Thursday paid rich tributes and fondly remembered veteran party leader and former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh who passed away early today in Shimla. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described Singh as a stalwart, and said his commitment to serve the people was exemplary till the end. "Shri Virbhadra Singh ji was a stalwart in the true sense. His commitment to serving the people and to the Congress party remained exemplary till the very end. My condolences to his family and friends. We will miss him," Gandhi said on Twitter. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also remembered Virbhadra Singh and expressed their condolences to his family. "Deeply saddened to hear of the passing away of former Himachal CM Raja Virbhadra Singh Ji. An able administrator and a gentleman who was loved by the people, he was not just an elder brother but also a mentor to many to us. May God grant his soul eternal peace," Amarinder Singh said on Twitter. "Deeply saddened by the demise of former CM of Himachal Pradesh and senior Congress leader Sh. Virbhadra Singh ji. His contribution to the party & in serving people would always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family members...may they remain strong. May his soul RIP," Gehlot tweeted. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra termed his death as an irreparable loss. "Possessing the political stature as the giant mountains, Virbhadra Singh took Himachal Pradesh to new heights. We all have suffered an irreparable loss due ro his death. May God grant him a place in his feet. My humble tributes," Vadra said. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said he was saddened by the loss. "I am heartbroken on hearing the news of the death of my friend, six-time chief minister and former union minister Virbhadra Singh. I shared a personal relationship with Virbhadra ji, who was a good human being and was very affectionate. My heartfelt condolences to his family and supporters. Glowing tributes," Hooda said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader and former union minister Anand Sharma said he was deeply saddened by the news of Singh's demise. "The indefatigable fighter has lost the brave battle for life. Himachal has lost its leader who, in his illustrious career spanning nearly six decades made a rich and lasting contribution to the development of Himachal" Sharma said. He said the Congress has lost a veteran and popular leader who provided inspiring leadership to generations of party workers. "Fondly recalling the memories of working with him since my student days that I will always cherish. His death leaves a deep void.He will be always remembered with love and gratitude " Sharma added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passes away||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh died in Shimla in the wee hours of Thursday after a prolonged illness. He was 87. The veteran leader breathed his last at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here at 3.40 am, senior medical superintendent Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) Dr. Janak Raj said. He suffered from heart attack on Monday and was critical. He was in the critical care unit of IGMC. Virbhadra was put on ventilator under the supervision of the doctors of the cardiology department on Wednesday after he had breathing problem, he added. The nine-time MLA and five-time MP, Singh served as Himachal Pradesh's chief minister for six times. Virbhadra was tested positive for COVID-19 on June 11 for the second time in two months. He had earlier tested positive for the disease on April 12. Earlier, he was admitted to a hospital in Chandigarh after he tested positive for coronavirus on April 12. Singh had returned home in Holly Lodge here on April 30 from the Chandigarh hospital after getting cured of the first infection. However, he was admitted to IGMC within hours after reaching home, as he complained of cardiac and breathing problems. He was under treatment in the hospital ever since then. Singh's wife Pratibha Singh and the couple's son Vikramaditya Singh are also politicians. Pratibha is former MP, while Vikramaditya is MLA from Shimla rural. They had celebrated Singh's 87th birthday at their residence at Holly Lodge in a simple manner by cutting a cake in the presence of their supporters on June 23. At that time, Virbhadra was convalescing at the IGMC. The veteran Congress leader remained chief minister of the state for six times- from April 8, 1983 to March 5, 1990, December 3, 1993 to March 23, 1998 and from March 6, 2003 to December 29, 2007 and for the sixth time from December 25, 2012 to December 26, 2017. Singh also remained the leader of Opposition from March 1998 to March 2003. The veteran Congress leader also served as union deputy minister, Tourism and Civil Aviation, minister of state for industries, union minister of steel and Union Minister of micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME). He was re-elected to the 13th Vidhan Sabha in December 2017 from Arki Assembly Constituency in Solan district. Earlier, he was elected to the state legislative assembly in October 1983 (by-election); re-elected in 1985 from Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency, in 1990, 1993, 1998, 2003 & 2007 from Rohru assembly constituency and in 2012 from Shimla rural assembly constituency. He was also elected to third Lok Sabha in 1962; re-elected to 4th Lok Sabha in 1967 from Mahasu Constituency, 5th Lok Sabha in 1971 , 7th Lok Sabha in 1980 and 15th Lok Sabha (5th term) in May 2009 from Mandi Lok- Sabha Constituency. The veteran leader was BA (Hons.), MA; educated at Bishop Cotton School, Shimla and St. Stephen's College, Delhi. Son of Late Raja Sir Padam Singh of Bushahr state, he was born on June 23, 1934 at Sarahan. He also served as Himachal Pradesh Congress president in 1977, 1979, 1980 and from 26th August, 2012 to December 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||India records 45,892 Covid-19 cases in a single day as numbers rise again||India recorded a single-day rise of 45,892 new Covid-19 cases, taking its infection tally to 3,07,09,557, while the count of active cases increased slightly to 4,60,704 after being on a consistent downward trend for nearly 55 days, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,028 with 817 new fatalities being reported. The number of active cases comprises 1.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.18 per cent, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. An increase of 784 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. Also, 18,93,800 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 42,52,25,897, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 17 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.37 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,98,43,825, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 36.48 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 817 new fatalities include 326 from Maharashtra, 148 from Kerala and 75 from Karnataka. A total of 4,05,028 deaths have been reported so far in the country. This includes 1,23,857 from Maharashtra, 35,601 from Karnataka, 33,196 from Tamil Nadu, 25,005 from Delhi, 22,666 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,850 from Bengal and 16,141 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Cabinet: 12 ministers dropped, 36 new recruited, 7 promoted||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expanded and shuffled his ministry, dropping 12 incumbents, recruiting 36 new members and promoting 7 ministers of state in what appeared an attempt to refurbish the image of a government scarred by Covid and economic mismanagement. The replacement of a host of senior ministers with fresh inductees is being seen as an exercise to safeguard Modi’s reputation as a leader who means business and create a distraction from the problems besetting the people. Government managers went to town hailing the “youngest council of ministers ever, largest representation of women, backwards, Dalits, tribals and highly educated people”. However, it was the exits of heavyweights such as Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Ramesh Pokhriyal and Santosh Gangwar that created the bigger flutter, appearing to reflect a government acknowledgment of failure on key fronts such as health, education, labour, IT and information and broadcasting. While health minister Harsh Vardhan’s sacking caused some surprise despite the mismanagement of the Covid second wave, the departures of Prasad (law, IT) and Javadekar (I&B, environment) caused the greatest stir. Prasad, an MP from Patna who was part of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government and Modi’s first ministry too, had been spearheading the government’s run-ins with Twitter over the new IT laws. He and Javadekar had both functioned as chief spokespersons for not just the government but also the party. It’s being speculated that they have been punished for failing to protect the government’s image, particularly before the international media where it has been battered over its handling of Covid and its record on human rights and democracy. Many saw in the sackings a search for fall guys given Modi himself takes most of the crucial decisions. The Modi government now has 77 ministers, up from 53 and just 4 short of the permissible upper limit of 81. The strength of the council of ministers cannot exceed 15 per cent of the strength of the Lok Sabha. Such a bloated ministry belies Modi’s promise of “minimum government, maximum governance”. Apart from polishing the Prime Minister’s image, the choice of the new faces —  the overwhelming majority of them first-time ministers — seemed dictated by the five state elections due next year. Among the prominent new arrivals are Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal and Bhupender Yadav. Jyotiraditya has been rewarded for defecting and helping the BJP bring down the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. Sonowal has been compensated for the loss of the Assam chief minister’s chair, which he had obediently handed over to Amit Shah favourite Himanta Biswa Sarma. Yadav, a BJP general secretary, is also known to be a Shah confidant. Bhagwat Karad, a medical doctor, has been inducted from Maharashtra and Rajya Sabha MP Ashwini Vaishnaw, an IIT graduate and MTech, from Odisha. Seven of the new faces are from Uttar Pradesh, where polls are due by March. Among them is Anupriya Patel, chief of BJP ally Apna Dal which has an OBC Kurmi vote base. Patel has been made a minister of state. Six BJP lawmakers from the heartland state --- three Dalits, two OBCs and one Brahmin – have been sworn in. The BJP is looking to win over the backwards and Dalits in Uttar Pradesh apart from relying on its core upper caste base. Darshana Ben Jardosh, a first-time woman minister, has been inducted from Gujarat, the home state of Modi and Shah, and two junior ministers from the state have been elevated to cabinet rank. Gujarat votes at the end of 2022 but reports say the state BJP is wracked by infighting. Four have been inducted from Maharashtra, where the BJP is desperate to pull down the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government. Among them is former chief minister Narayan Rane, who had started out with the Shiv Sena, shifted to the Congress and eventually embraced the BJP. From Bihar, JDU member R.C.P. Singh, who is close to chief minister Nitish Kumar, has been sworn in. He is the lone minister from an ally that had sought four berths. Pashupati Paras, the LJP member who led the coup against his nephew Chirag Paswan – Nitish’s bête noire -- has been included.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Ministerial resignations mark lead-up to Union cabinet shuffle||A spate of ministerial resignations from Wednesday afternoon marked the lead-up to the evening’s Union cabinet shuffle, the mayhem enlivened by Babul Supriyo who candidly admitted being “asked to resign” before quickly amending the disclosure. Several key ministers were among the 12 who were dropped, their departures suggesting a government admission of failure in areas such as health and education, both severely impacted by the Covid crisis. Among the cabinet ministers to resign — the government strove to cloak the open secret that they had been “pushed” — was health minister Harsh Vardhan, who helmed the Covid response that has brought worldwide scorn on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Also gone were heavyweights Ravi Shankar Prasad, who held the crucial law and IT ministries and led the government charge against Twitter, and Prakash Javadekar whose information and broadcasting portfolio made him the government’s official spokesperson. Javadekar also held charge of the environment, forests and climate change ministry. The rolling of heads seemed to reflect a hunt for scapegoats in a heavily centralised administration where a Prime Minister who took all the decisions desperately needed an image boost. The cat was let out of the bag when Babul, junior environment minister and Asansol MP, wrote initially in a Facebook post: “Yes, I have been asked to resign & I have!!” Unsurprisingly, he had to recant shortly afterwards, removing the earlier post and issuing a clarification: “Yes, I have resigned from the council of ministers (As I had framed it earlier, ‘Asked to resign’ may not be the right way to put it).” Babul said he felt sad but was happy for the new faces from Bengal entering the government. Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri, junior minister for women and child development, too stepped down. Babul and Debasree made way for fellow Bengal MPs Shantanu Thakur, the Matua community leader, and Nisith Pramanik, reflecting a consistent pattern of the replacements (not portfolios)being picked from the same state or region. Harsh Vardhan, 66, has been replaced with fellow Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi, 54. Lekhi will be minister of state in the external affairs and culture ministries. Government and BJP sources said the ministers who quit had been dropped following an extensive review by Modi. They said these ministers received calls from the leadership saying the Prime Minister wanted them to put in their papers. The first two resignations to become public were those of education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and labour minister Santosh Gangwar. Another cabinet minister to step down was Sadananda Gowda (chemicals and fertilisers), who is from Karnataka. Pokhriyal cited poor health while the 72-year-old Gangwar said he would reveal the reason for his exit in a couple of days. On Tuesday, the 73-year-old Thaawar Chand Gehlot had been eased out as social justice minister and appointed governor of Karnataka. Sources in the BJP said Modi wanted his cabinet “young and dynamic”. The resignations by Prasad and Javadekar became known only when the President’s office issued a media release ahead of the swearing-in of the new faces and promoted junior ministers. “The President, as advised by the Prime Minister, has accepted the resignations of the following members of the council of ministers, with immediate effect,” the release said, listing 12 names including that of Gehlot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Dilip Kumar passes away at 98 in Mumbai||He was a man of many records. But when Dilip Kumar slipped away on Wednesday, July 7, 2021, in Mumbai, he also held an unbeaten record as the celebrity who died the maximum number of times. No Indian actor passed on as many times as Dilip Kumar did. Ever since he turned 90 in 2012, frequent reports of his “sad demise” would spread so far and wide, and with such authenticity, that when he quietly passed away at age 98, every news outlet heard it with disbelief at first and then double-checked it before putting it out as confirmed information. Another phenomenon exclusive to Dilip Kumar was that every time he “died”, the grief was tangible, intense and widespread like repeated bouts of catharsis. This was no mean achievement when his last successful commercial outing was 30 years ago in Subhash Ghai’s Saudagar (1991) and several generations had grown up without being hit by the Dilip Kumar charisma. But the reverence for a legend in his own lifetime stayed until his last breath. Till the end, just a photograph of Dilip Kumar in his formal suit — or in a homely kurta, hair combed neatly, his mind in a world of its own — put out by wife Saira on Twitter would prompt thousands of reactions from a legion of fans. Dilip Kumar was born to create headlines long after he’d wrapped up his last box-office hit. He did it when he turned director, officially for the first time in 1992. Little snippets and inside stories about Kalinga, the thespian’s heavy-budget directorial debut, would regularly blaze the print medium until it was officially shelved. There were differences between the creative mind and the budgetary head (producer Sudhakar Bokade) that were irreconcilable. It was one of the most disappointing ironies of the actor’s career that after he’d spent a good portion of his life directing his films like a backseat driver, the one time he stepped forward to officially helm a film, it never saw the light of day. Ganga Jumna, a dacoit-crime blockbuster in 1961, was one of the first films where it was whispered that although Nitin Bose was the official director, the actor’s contribution had gone beyond being its official producer and screenplay writer. That whisper persisted right till 1976 when I myself met veteran director Asit Sen outside the set of Bairaag (1976) while filming was going on inside, with the hero calling the shots. Dilip Kumar couldn’t sign off his acting career with a flourish as Qila, his last release in 1998, was a failure and Afsar, co-starring Ajay Devgn, didn’t progress beyond an announcement in 2001. Somewhat like Don Bradman who got out for a duck in his last match. But none of these latter-day setbacks mattered to the man known as “the thespian” whose illustrious innings stretched from the ’40s to the ’90s, spanning six glorious decades and witnessing vital changes in the film industry. Born Mohammed Yusuf Khan in Peshawar on December 11, 1922, he had to morph into the more acceptable Dilip Kumar in keeping with the trend of the ’40s, ’50s and ’60s, a name change suggested by his first producer, Devika Rani of Bombay Talkies (Jwar Bhata, 1944). Unimaginable in times when a Khan trinity rules the box office, but it had to be a Dilip Kumar-Dev Anand-Raj Kapoor at the top in the ’40s and ’50s. Dilip Kumar also reigned at a time when actors didn’t do stage shows or work in commercials, principles that he adhered to in his endeavour not to overexpose himself. It contrasted with his senior Bombay Talkies colleague, Ashok Kumar, who merrily traipsed along with the times as he went up on stage many a time to recite his rap number “Rail gaadi chuk chuk chuk chuk” or did a paan masala ad with Shammi Kapoor. The effortless Ashok Kumar even had a thing or two to say about Dilip Kumar’s renowned method acting. Dadamoni, as Ashok Kumar was called, once told me about the time Dilip Kumar ran around the studio several times and came back panting to give a shot where he had to look exhausted. “I asked Yusuf, how will you prepare for a death scene?” Ashok Kumar had chuckled. But Dilip Kumar’s method acting worked for him. Famous for his natural acting and the pauses in his dialogues, he also held a record for the number of Dilip Kumar spin-offs he spawned. Practically every second famous name, from Rajendra Kumar and Manoj Kumar to Amitabh Bachchan, Naseeruddin Shah and Shah Rukh Khan (who Dilip Kumar often said was like a son), has acknowledged at some time or the other that they were inspired and influenced by the legendary actor’s school of acting. The list naturally included the young man Dilip Kumar had handpicked to play the hero in Kalinga. One of the fallouts of the Kalinga fiasco was that while it didn’t tar the veteran’s aura, it stymied the career of those who were looking at it as a glorious launch pad. It is believed that Amitoje Mann (now a popular filmmaker in Punjabi and close to today’s farmers’ protests), who was chosen by Dilip Kumar and cast opposite Meenakshi Seshadri in Kalinga, had to turn down offers as substantial as Yash Chopra’s Darr to concentrate on his debut film. Mann’s dreams of stardom died with the shelving of Kalinga but the many years spent as the thespian’s protégé translated into lessons learnt from the living textbook of acting. Mann recalled a scene in Kalinga where Dilip Kumar had to break down on the death of a beloved one. The actor kept postponing its shoot for one reason or the other until he was fully prepped for it. When he finally did it, it was so perfect in its intensity that the youngsters who were hanging on to every word he uttered rushed to the Nagra (sound equipment popular then) to repeatedly hear how he’d delivered his lines. After wrapping up the day’s shoot, Dilip Kumar told Mann that there were many ways to bring a tear to the eye, including glycerine. “Lekin lagna chahiye ki chot lagi hai (The shot should look as though the heart has been pierced),” he explained. He also revealed that before shooting, he had remembered his older sister Aapa who had been like a mother to him. He recalled her death and thus the grief he portrayed had poured forth from deep inside his heart. “Unko yaad karke, bhavuk hoke, phir shot diya” — he remembered his sister, stirred the emotions within him, and then gave his shot. It was a shot only those present were privy to as the audience never got to see it. Even as late as Kalinga, Dilip Kumar’s childlike happiness at having done a powerful day’s work was evident in the car ride back home. It was Dilip Kumar demonstrating his own maxim, “Shauq kabhi nahin haarna (Never let the passion for your art diminish). Otherwise it will be pack-up for you.” It was the passion and the delight he took in his work that saw him through six decades as he got his breakthrough box-office acceptance with Andaaz, co-starring Raj Kapoor and Nargis, in 1949 and sailed through the ’50s with his biggest hits Devdas (1955), Naya Daur (1957) and Madhumati (1958), topping it up with the spectacular Mughal-e-Azam (1960). Gratified with his success and the cinema he was associated with, Dilip Kumar had no twinge of regret turning down even David Lean and his Lawrence of Arabia (1962). The role that gave Omar Sharif his foothold in Hollywood. The one phase where he saw repeated failure came towards the end of his innings as hero with debacles like Dastaan (1972), Sagina (1974) and Bairaag (1976). But he came up trumps again after moving to the pivotal senior slot with many a hit like Kranti (1981), Vidhaata (1982), Karma (1986) and Saudagar (1991). With his mixed bag of roles, the Tragedy King label was restrictive and didn’t quite sum him up. In fact, going by his many dalliances off-screen, the King of Romance would’ve been a more fitting title for him. While he was linked with co-star Kamini Kaushal way back in 1948 (film, Shaheed), it was his dramatic evidence in court against Madhubala, the heroine he was secretly dating, in a case that filmmaker B.R. Chopra had filed against the actress that ended his relationship with his Mughal-e-Azam co-star. Those were colourful times indeed and Dilip Kumar was its centrepiece. After the exit of Madhubala from his life, it was a long stint in Madras that saw him courting Waheeda Rehman quite unabashedly while they filmed Ram Aur Shyam (1967). But when Saira Banu’s mother Naseem Banu, aghast that her daughter was seriously involved with married Hindu Rajendra Kumar, turned to Dilip Kumar for help, he found himself at the altar with Saira as his bride while Waheeda was left high and dry. In 1966, he was 44 years old, his bride was 22. But he wasn’t done with his romances. Thirteen years into the marriage and after Saira and he lost an infant baby (a son who died at birth), he hit the headlines again with a secret marriage to Asma, an attractive Hyderabadi, a married woman with three children. He did the unthinkable in many ways. After vehemently denying the marriage to Asma by swearing on the Quran before Saira, he was caught out when the nikahnama was published in a tabloid. Maharashtra governor Sadiq Ali had appointed Dilip Kumar the sheriff of Bombay in 1980. But the new sheriff was so caught up in the throes of his new passion that soon the paeans of love that he penned for Asma on the mayor’s stationery livened up the front page all over again. Saira ultimately “won” back her husband when Dilip Kumar divorced Asma and she was never heard of again. What was it that earned Dilip Kumar unparalleled respect and admiration despite his dalliances and many misdemeanours? Anil Kapoor once told me, “His achievements far outweigh everything else.” That perhaps explains it as Dilip Kumar was the only actor to be decorated by both India and Pakistan. He was given Pakistan’s highest civilian award, the Nishan-e-Imtiaz, in 1998 and was awarded the Padma Vibhushan by India in 2015. He was also a Rajya Sabha MP, a staunch Congressman till the end. A foodie who relished his kebabs and vada paavs, Dilip Kumar told me at the outdoor shooting of Saudagar that when it came to food, he had “no class, I eat everything”. Erudite with deep knowledge of a variety of subjects including philosophy, theology and poetry, he also knew the intricacies of several sports and played badminton and football. When he was still up and about, he was famous for his late evening walk at Joggers Park in Bandra, togged up in trademark white pants and shirt, sometimes even after closing hours when it would be opened specially for him. The actor also spoke more than a dozen languages. Apart from English, Hindi, Urdu, Pashtu and Gujarati, he spoke Marathi like a native. He shared that with his friend Mukri, the pint-sized comedian who sang the taan in between Dilip Kumar’s Madhuban mein Radhika in Kohinoor (1960). The two actors bantered in Marathi all their lives and when Dilip Kumar heard that Mukri was seriously ailing with gangrene in a Juhu hospital, he made arrangements for him to be shifted in an ambulance to the better-equipped Lilavati Hospital in Bandra, assuring his family that the bill shouldn’t concern them. Daughter Naseem Mukri recalled that while her father was in surgery and she had forgotten to eat all day, a thoughtful Dilip Kumar had personally escorted her to the hospital canteen, sat with her and made her eat. Dilip Kumar was in Delhi when Mukri passed. But he had left his hotline number with Naseem, comforting her that in his absence Saira would be available. When the hospital wanted Rs 1.5 lakh to be paid before releasing Mukri’s body, one call to Saira and Dilip Kumar’s man was there with the cash in 10 minutes. These were gracious acts that Dilip Kumar did quietly, requesting his beneficiaries not to talk about it in public. He got his Twitter account on his 89th birthday in 2011, a handle that has been largely managed by Saira. The Substance and the Shadow, his autobiography, was released in 2014, by which time Dilip Kumar was fast slipping into a world of fading memory and oblivion. With builders pulling down the iconic bungalow on the curve of Bandra’s most glamorous lane, and with its famous inmate now six feet below the ground in a cemetery in Juhu, 34B Pali Hill too has gone forever. RIP, the last of the great thespians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Nitish accepts BJP's one-berth deal rejected in 2019||The BJP appeared to have shown Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar his place while unveiling its new-look cabinet at the Centre, forcing him to accept the one-berth deal the JDU leader had rejected in 2019. Rajya Sabha member R.C.P. Singh was the only leader from Nitish’s Janata Dal United to be included in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ministry despite senior JDU leaders driving a hard bargain for what sources had claimed were four ministries. Singh, the JDU national president, has been given the steel portfolio. The JDU has this time thought it better to join the Union government in the changed political circumstances in which it is a junior partner with 44 MLAs in Bihar while the BJP with 74 MLAs is in an assertive position in the state for the first time. Although Nitish had stated on Tuesday that cabinet expansion and the number of ministers to be included from an ally were the “prerogatives of the Prime Minister”, the outcome seems to have shaken the JDU at a time it was hoping that the Bengal debacle would have a sobering effect on the BJP. It has also fuelled speculation on why Nitish accepted such a deal when he could have easily kept his party away from participating in the central government, remaining steadfast on the demand for “proportional representation” that he had raised after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP, with a comfortable majority in the Lok Sabha, had offered just one cabinet berth to the JDU as part of the symbolic representation the national party had granted to its allies. Nitish had rebuffed the offer. His party had won 16 of the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar while the BJP had clinched 17. “Our intention is that the NDA government runs strongly both at the Centre and in the state,” Singh said on Wednesday, asked about the compulsion to accept a deal previously rejected by the JDU. A senior JDU leader said the meek acceptance of what seemed to be a “BJP-imposed” cabinet expansion had dealt a blow to Nitish and his image. “The acceptance of the formula that he had declined two years ago shows that Nitish has bowed down to the BJP in the changed political circumstances. Whether true or not, this also sends out the message that he has accepted the predicament that he has to save his own position and that he is at the mercy of his ally,” the leader said on the condition of anonymity. Political observers asserted that Nitish opting to make Singh available for inclusion in the Union ministry also showed that he would play backward caste politics to the hilt with special focus on the Kurmi and Kushwaha castes. Nitish and Singh hail from the Kurmi caste. The observers said this might dent Nitish’s image of a politician who took all castes and communities along. Some in the JDU rued that Munger MP and close Nitish aide Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, who belongs to the upper Bhumihar caste, was not given an opportunity to become a central minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
08-07-2021||India||Delays, opacity marked Ramesh Pokhriyal's tenure: Academics||Delays, opacity and a U-turn on a policy decision marked the 25-month tenure of Ramesh Pokhriyal, who resigned as Union education minister on Wednesday, academics said. Among the examples they cited were the chronic delays in the appointment of IIT directors and central university vice-chancellors and, consequently, the ad-hoc running of institutions by acting heads, as well as the lack of transparency around selection processes and their cancellations. For instance, the education ministry had on November 26, 2019, advertised the posts of directors for the IITs in Bhubaneswar, Patna and Ropar. The selection processes for all three were carried out simultaneously. On July 14 last year, a panel headed by Pokhriyal held online interviews of the shortlisted candidates. Six months had passed since the interview when IIT Ropar got its new director in January. The other two are still waiting — almost a year on — amid a haze on the fate and progress of the appointment process. “Such delays never happened before at premier institutions like the IITs. The absence of a regular director affects the recruitment of faculty, planning of academic activities amid the pandemic, and development activities,” an IIT Bhubaneswar teacher said. Normally, issuing the appointment letter should not take more than two weeks after the interview, with the education ministry forwarding the names and the President — the Visitor of central universities and the IITs — clearing them promptly. While Pokhriyal must carry the can for the delays, government sources have blamed the Prime Minister’s Office, saying it takes all the decisions. If the selection process fails to find a suitable candidate, the entire exercise has to start again. However, after a Pokhriyal-led committee interviewed would-be directors for the IITs in Mandi and Indore on December 26, 2019, the ministry cancelled the processes only in November 2020. The 11-month delay remains unexplained. Delays in appointments have hamstrung the central universities too. As many as 20 of them are now headed by vice-chancellors-in-charge, among them eminent institutions like Delhi University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Hyderabad University and Banaras Hindu University. Two senior IIT teachers said the opacity around the appointments of academic heads for the IITs and central universities was discouraging academics of repute and experience from applying. “The performance of an academic institution depends on who is leading it. But well-qualified academics with good personal conduct and leadership skills are not taking an interest because of the opacity of the appointment process,” a senior IIT functionary said. In 2017, the education ministry (then HRD ministry) under Pokhriyal’s predecessor had asked the National Institute of Open Schooling to design an 18-month, distance-learning Diploma in Elementary Education course. The idea was to help the nearly 13 lakh schoolteachers who lacked a degree or diploma in teaching, which the Right to Education Act had made mandatory. But in 2019, the National Council for Teacher Education issued an order, with approval from Pokhriyal’s ministry, saying serving teachers who had earned their diploma through the 18-month course were ineligible from applying for new jobs. Last year, the order was withdrawn under court directions. After the National Education Policy was published in July last year, Pokhriyal’s ministry took 11 months to ask the NCERT to collaborate with its state counterparts and develop National Curriculum Frameworks, the key documents for the preparation of syllabuses and textbooks. “The new textbooks cannot come before the 2024-25 academic session, by when the next government would be in place,” an NCERT official said. In January this year, an email was sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the delays in appointments after interviews, and its reactions to the charges of opacity. The email remains unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya becomes new health minister||Home minister Amit Shah has been given additional charge of the new cooperation ministry, created to strengthen the cooperative sector, while fellow Gujarati Mansukh Mandaviya has got the health ministry. Mandaviya, known to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah, will also handle chemicals and fertilisers. The chemicals ministry is responsible for drug and vaccine manufacturing. Dharmendra Pradhan has been made the new education minister and given additional charge of the skill development ministry. He used to handle the petroleum and steel ministry. Jyotiraditya Scindia, the high-profile defector from the Congress, is the new civil aviation minister, a portfolio his father Madhavrao Scindia once held. Anurag Singh Thakur, a former BCCI president known for chanting the inflammatory “goli maro salon ko (shoot the traitors)” slogan during the Delhi election campaign last year, has been given the key ministries of sports & youth affairs and information & broadcasting. As I&B minister, he will be the official spokesperson for the government. Thakur was a junior finance minister but has been promoted to cabinet rank. Ashwini Vaishnaw, a former IAS officer and technocrat, is the new minister for railways and information technology. The railways portfolio was held by Piyush Goyal, who now has charge of the textile ministry in addition to commerce and consumer affairs. Former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is the minister for ports, shipping and waterways besides ayush. Kiren Rijiju is the new law and justice minister, replacing the sacked Ravi Shankar Prasad. Giriraj Singh, a minister known for his communal remarks, has been given the rural development portfolio. Bhupender Yadav, another key entrant, has charge of environment, forests and climate change along with labour, taking over from Prakash Javadekar and Santosh Gangwar, respectively. The two Bihar allies in the cabinet — the JDU’s R.C.P. Singh and the LJP’s Pashupati Paras — have got relatively low-profile ministries, steel and food processing, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||'Fault in engine, bogies changed', Congress quips about Cabinet rejig||The Congress said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his big three — home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and defence minister Rajnath Singh — wouldn’t have survived had performance been the criterion for Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle. “The fault is in the engine but bogies are being changed,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, referring to the dropping of several ministers. Many senior Congress leaders who have decades of ministerial experience insisted that Modi’s lack of wisdom and “autocratic” style of functioning were at the root of the “disastrous performance” of the government. They said the much-hyped reshuffle was a case of wrong diagnosis followed by wrong medication. Alleging that the exercise was merely an attempt to accommodate defectors and redistribute the spoils of power, Surjewala said: “If performance and governance were the criteria, then the first person to be sacked should be the Prime Minister himself. “He has brought governance and the entire country to a standstill. Progress, peace and harmony have been thrown into the dustbin. The Prime Minister would be remembered as an autocrat who decimated India’s economy, who ensured India was pushed into an abyss of unemployment. Modi undermined India’s potential to become a superpower.” The Congress spokesperson continued: “If performance was the criteria, then defence minister Rajnath Singh, under whose watch China has occupied Indian territory and is refusing to vacate it, should be sacked. “Home minister Amit Shah should be sacked as Naxalism and terrorism are continuing unabated and repression of human rights has become the norm. Custodial death of activists has become the practice. Mob lynching is the new mantra. “Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman should be sacked for destroying the economy. Manmohan Singh had left the GDP growing at almost 8 per cent and now it is minus 8 per cent. She only created unemployment, inflation and deficit. She has no comprehension of the word finance.” The Congress also pointed to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been indifferent to the farmers’ movement in which over 500 peasants have died, and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, accusing him of looting the public at a time the prices of petroleum products had shot through the roof. The Congress wasn’t that acerbic about health minister Harsh Vardhan, who was among those who resigned, saying the devastation perpetrated by the pandemic was the result of the lack of vision of the Prime Minister and the home minister. Veteran leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Poor Harsh Vardhan, a good man has been made a scapegoat for the monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “The resignation of the Union health minister and the MoS (minister of state) health is a candid confession that the Modi government has utterly failed in managing the pandemic. There is a lesson for ministers in these resignations. “If things go right the credit will go to the Prime Minister, if things go wrong the minister will be the fall guy. That is the price a minister pays for implicit obedience and unquestioning subservience.” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Ministers should understand that posts and positions come and go. They should never stoop so low as Harsh Vardhan did by writing a nasty letter to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to please Modi. They should understand that bouquets are reserved for Modi and the brickbats will fall on them. The new ministers must not describe day as night in sycophancy and should rather tell the truth before the Prime Minister.” She argued that the much-hyped reshuffle would draw people’s interest only if it helps the government lift the economy, ensure more vaccines, make women safer and generate jobs. While turncoat Jyotiraditya Scindia’s cabinet inclusion was dismissed in one sentence as “adjustment of defectors”, former Congress leader Narayan Rane’s induction generated much curiosity in the party. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “Rane becoming a central minister under Modi is such a relief. It has immense political significance. Rane is Shiv Sena’s pet aversion; this signals the BJP’s readiness to needle the Sena in Mumbai, which Uddhav Thackeray will never digest. Those who had imagined a Sena-BJP patch-up should learn to read messages correctly.” The Congress, which launched a weeklong nationwide protest against the savage hike in petroleum prices, also contested the efficacy of the BJP’s plan to bolster its prospects in election-bound states by inducting leaders from those places. “Performance matters more than symbolism. If Modi thinks promoting a Hardeep Puri will salvage the situation in Punjab, they are naive. People will not forget the shocking misgovernance in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat only because lots of ministers from these states took oath,” a Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan pays political price for India’s Covid botch-ups||Harsh Vardhan, the Union health minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet, has paid what some health experts said was the political price for India’s botched responses to the Covid-19 pandemic. Vardhan, an ear-nose-throat surgeon turned politician who resigned hours ahead of the cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday, could have at most only partially influenced those responses but stoutly defended them, exposing himself to criticism, the experts said. In early March, amid a steady rise in daily new Covid-19 cases, Vardhan had said India was in the “endgame” of the pandemic, only eight weeks before the counts spiked 18-fold to reach over 414,000 daily new infections on May 7. In early April, at a time several states were running short of Covid-19 vaccines and many potential recipients were turned away from inoculation centres, Vardhan had claimed that “allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless”, and had attacked states for complaining about scarcity. Sections of experts and analysts on Wednesday said Vardhan would have likely had a limited role in planning details of India’s responses to Covid-19 — whether the harsh lockdown after a four-hour notice last year, poor preparations for the second wave, or the vaccination policy. “Poor Dr Harsh Vardhan. A good man has been made a scapegoat for monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else,” Congress leader and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted. The Congress had in April this year described as “vile and pedestrian” a letter Vardhan had written in response to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s suggestions to improve the nation’s Covid-19 responses and scale up the vaccination campaign. “He just did what he was told to do,” Ramesh told The Telegraph on Wednesday. The Centre had in early 2020 established multiple “task forces” and “empowered groups” made up of medical and public health experts and senior administrators to guide the government on its responses to the pandemic and the vaccination policy. “It is obvious Vardhan alone can’t be held responsible, but as the country’s health minister he claimed the end of the pandemic just as the second wave was starting and he also denied vaccine shortages even though the shortages were evident in many states,” said Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi. While some analysts view Vardhan’s resignation as a “whitewashing” exercise that will render him a scapegoat, others believe that he played a willing role. A senior doctor guiding the country’s Covid-19 response said: “There is an old quote that says — no one can humiliate you without your consent.” Vardhan had last year claimed credit for initiating screening on international travellers in January 2020, days ahead of the World Health Organisation’s declaration of a public health emergency and had also asserted that India had “done its best” to fight Covid-19. But public health experts say the country’s poor preparedness and planning was evident from the many deaths of patients who could not get beds, oxygen, or appropriate medical care around the peak of the second wave in April and May this year. Vardhan had also drawn criticism in February from the Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors. The IMA had accused Vardhan of breaching ethics by appearing at an event where Patanjali Ayurved promoter Ramdev had claimed a herbal cocktail called Coronil was “the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Odisha MP takes oath as cabinet minister in the Modi govt||Rajya Sabha MP Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took oath as a cabinet minister in the Narendra Modi government on Wednesday, is believed to be reaping rich rewards for his good equations with the top BJP and BJD leadership. On June 21, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had called up Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, requesting him to lend his support for the election of Ashwini Vaishnaw, former private secretary to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, to the Rajya Sabha from Odisha on a BJP ticket. The BJP did not have the requisite numbers in the state Assembly to get the 1994 batch IAS officer from the Odisha cadre elected to the Upper House on its own strength. On the other hand, the Naveen Patnaik-led Biju Janata Dal (BJD) had the strength to get at least three leaders from Odisha to the Rajya Sabha. Following the Prime Minister’s request, the BJD had agreed to support Vaishnaw and ensured his victory. Announcing his support for Vaishnaw, the chief minister had said: “He belongs to the Odisha cadre and has served the state well.” That was Naveen’s way of justifying his party’s support to a BJP candidate at the cost of his own party. Earlier, Naveen had promised to send former Lok Sabha member Prasanna Kumar Patsani, who had been denied a BJD ticket for the Bhubaneswar Lok Sabha seat to accommodate former Mumbai police commissioner Arup Patnaik, to the Rajya Sabha. However, Patnaik was defeated by BJP candidate and former IAS officer (1994 batch) Aparajita Sarangi. “That very day, everyone had a feeling that Vaishnaw will be inducted into the Modi ministry sooner or later. He belongs to Rajasthan and is well-connected with the BJP leadership since his days as private secretary to Vajpayee. We are happy today after Modiji inducted him in the ministry,” a senior BJP leader said on Monday. Speculation was rife that the fear of a CBI probe into the mining scam had forced Naveen to keep the central BJP leadership in good humour. Though the Justice M.B. Shah commission in 2014 had recommended a CBI probe into the alleged mining scam, the NDA government had not favoured it. However, the government could have changed its mind any time. After being nominated to the Rajya Sabha, Vaishnaw maintained a low profile even in Odisha and never attacked the Naveen government like his other party colleagues, including Bhubaneswar MP Sarangi, who was a strong contender for a central ministerial berth. Vaishnaw has, therefore, been rewarded for his good relations with top BJP and BJD leadership and his down-to-earth nature. On the other hand, the BJP has rewarded Mayurbhanj MP Bishweswar Tudu for his organisational skills. It was Tudu who checked the ruling BJD’s ingress into the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district. “We had won six seats out of seven Assembly seats in Mayurbhanj. The zilla parishad belongs to the BJP. Besides, he has strong connections with the RSS. He had worked in its Adivasi Kalyana unit for tribal development,” said a BJP leader. “Besides, Draupadi Murmu who belongs to Mayurbhanj was replaced by Ramesh Bais as governor of Jharkhand. Modiji did not want to ignore the district, which has given BJP the maximum number of MLAs in Odisha. Being a tribal also proved to be an asset for Tudu. But Jual Oram, former Union minister and MP from Sundergarh, who is also a big tribal leader, has failed to make a comeback. Modiji has expanded his ministry taking several factors, including the performance of ministers, into account. Perhaps that is why Pratap Sarangi has been shown the door,” said a BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi meets Bihar leaders, legislators and parliamentarians||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi devoted the day to Bihar, meeting at least 35 leaders, legislators and parliamentarians from the state at his residence in New Delhi on Wednesday, amid speculation about an imminent change of guard. Though several senior leaders maintained that the meeting was to chalk out the future strategy of the Congress in Bihar, the move indicated that the top leadership is likely to crack the whip after the party’s dismal performance in the Assembly polls in October–November last year. The Congress had contested 70 Assembly seats out of 243 in the state as part of the Grand Alliance but won just 19. Its partner Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had attributed the Congress’s poor performance as the main reason behind the alliance failing to form a government in Bihar. Sources said Rahul’s step was also an effort to keep the Bihar flock united amid allegations and suspicions that chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and partner BJP were making attempts to engineer a split in the Congress legislature party. Those who met Rahul included state party chief Madan Mohan Jha, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar, former Kerala governor Nikhil Kumar, former cricketer Kirti Azad, who had quit the BJP to join the Congress ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, and former MP Ranjeet Ranjan, wife of Jan Adhikar Party leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. “The meeting was to discuss how to strengthen the party and its organisation in Bihar. He (Rahul) wanted to know the opinion of the senior leaders from the state on this issue,” Meira told reporters. Meira skirted the issue of any change in the state leadership, but did not deny that it was discussed at the meeting. “I will not be able to say anything about any change,” she said. Jha told The Telegraph that Rahul had convened the meeting “to meet the MLAs and MLCs he had not met till now. They had been asking him for an appointment. A few former state presidents of the party were also present”. The 19 MLAs, four MLCs and two MPs were also among the Bihar leaders who met Rahul. They had a one-on-one meeting with him at which he enquired about the condition of the party and sought their suggestions. “Rahulji asked me who should be made the president of the state unit and sought my preference of the community he should hail from. I gave my suggestions. There is an opinion that the term of the state party president should be for a maximum of three years,” one of the legislators told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity. Another legislator said that apprehensions about a split in the party engineered by the JDU or the BJP were also discussed. The daylong meeting in Delhi was a fallout of the tours by AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das across different parts of Bihar over the last few months. He had faced protests from party workers against alleged stagnancy and poor leadership in the state, as well as growing dissatisfaction and disillusionment among them. Sources said that Rahul was trying to cobble together a leadership that would represent Bihar-specific caste equations and women in a better manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Month-long prayers and condolence meetings for Stan Swamy||A month-long series of prayer and condolence meetings will be held in memory of Father Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old undertrial in a terrorism case who died in judicial custody in Mumbai on Monday, after his ashes reach Ranchi on Thursday. A public meeting is expected on Thursday in Bagaicha, a workspace for activists on the outskirts of the Jharkhand capital where the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist lived. Jerome Cutinha, Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province that Fr Stan was part of, told The Telegraph that the large community of Stan’s friends would be given the space to grieve through events to be held over the next one month. “For a month, there would be prayer and condolence meetings that people have voluntarily come forward to organise. These are not specific to any religion, and vigils are already being held in several places,” he said. Condolence meetings have been held in several towns in Jharkhand and other parts of the country, such as Mangalore (Karnataka) which has a large Catholic population. “Villagers around Bagaicha have said they would be coming to pay their respects tomorrow (Thursday), probably around 11am. We are told that many political leaders would also come to pay their respects,” Cutinha said. “Fr Stan’s ashes may be taken to some of these meetings as well as his hometown (Tiruchirapalli) in Tamil Nadu. Nothing is finalised but there is a proposal for a memorial. According to tribal customs, a large stone may be placed over his ashes, (to be) interred at Bagaicha. The ashes may also be buried in our cemetery in Jamshedpur.” More than 24,000 people had on Tuesday viewed online Fr Stan’s funeral mass, during which Cutinha described him as a “martyr”. The Jesuits condemned the ill-treatment the ailing activist faced in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, where he had been held since last October on what they dubbed “fabricated charges”. While the Jesuits have not formally requested Pope Francis, who too was a Jesuit, for Fr Stan to be given the “decree of martyrdom” — an accelerated path to sainthood in the Catholic Church — they are determined to promote his legacy. Stanislaus D’Souza, president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia, told this newspaper: “Choice has been the defining factor in the life of Stan. He chose Jesus and the poor and completely identified himself with them. Of course, when one makes a choice — and especially a choice for the poor — one is harassed, humiliated and hounded. And that is what exactly happened. “He was charged with crimes which he had never dreamt of. He was imprisoned and, finally, his death was hastened by the rough and brutal treatment he received while in the custody of the State.” He added: “As for the ‘martyr’, we are certainly happy that we are able to produce a great witness to Christian faith and life. He is an example for us to emulate and to make our lives and works more effective.... It is time for us to pray for holy boldness to recommit ourselves to the mission of Jesus: reconciliation and justice. “We know that there are some individual attempts to garner support to make him a ‘martyr’. However, the priority of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) now is to mourn the death of our dear brother and explore possibilities to continue his legacy to work among the poor, especially the indigenous people and Dalits, and their rights.” Fr Stan, whose given name was Stanislaus Lourduswamy, was among 16 people arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, an investigation into alleged Maoist links to an Ambedkarite event on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste clashes the following day that claimed one life. The case expanded into a purge of “urban Naxals”, a term coined by Right-wing commentators to describe academics, lawyers, litterateurs and activists like Fr Stan who are accused of clandestinely working for the banned CPI (Maoist). The case was transferred from Maharashtra police to the National Investigation Agency soon after the BJP lost power in the western state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks details of RTI panel vacancies||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted four weeks to the Centre and states to come out with details of vacancies of information commissioners amid complaints that governments across the country are seeking to dilute the transparency law by the keeping the posts vacant. The bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari asked additional solicitor-general Madhavi Divan appearing for the Centre to place on record the updated status report on vacancies in the Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions (SIC). The court was hearing a joint PIL filed by RTI activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Col Lokesh Batra and Amrita Johri complaining about the large-scale vacancies resulting in a massive backlog of cases. Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Prashant Bhushan accused the Centre of conducting the appointment process in an opaque manner so that even the leader of the Opposition, who is part of the selection committee headed by the Prime Minister, is not given any details on the criteria for short-listing the names. Bhushan said the vacancies were not confined to the CIC alone but also affected the State Information Commissions of Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka and Bengal. Bhushan submitted that despite repeated observations and directions from the apex court against filling up the posts with bureaucrats, the Union government had not made the selection process transparent till date. “They have not placed either the names of the candidates or the selection criteria on record. More than 300 people applied, but they short-listed only seven persons without specifying the criteria for short-listing the names,” he said. According to Bhushan, the Centre was keen on keeping the posts either vacant or filling them up with “party supporters”, thereby destroying the very purpose of the transparency law. The bench had initially granted six weeks to the Centre and states to file their affidavits, but modified the order to four weeks on Bhushan’s insistence. The three activists had in October last year sought an urgent direction to the Centre to fill up the six vacancies in the CIC on account of which over 36,000 complaints/appeals under the Right to Information Act were pending adjudication. It was alleged that the Centre was not taking the necessary steps to fill up the vacancies to frustrate the laudable objective of the RTI Act. It was submitted that out of the sanctioned 11 posts in the CIC, which includes the chief commissioner, only five posts have been filled up. The overall vacancies are pending for the past two years. “Six posts, including that of Chief Commissioner, is vacant as on 15.10.2020: With the retirement of the chief on 26.8.2020 and another commissioner demitting office in the end of September, 2020, currently six posts, including that of the chief are lying vacant and the pendency of appeals/complaints has risen to over 36,600,” the application stated. According to the petitioners, the apex court’s December 16, 2019, order for filling up all the vacancies had not been complied with. “It is further submitted that it appears the UOI (Union of India) is resorting to issuing fresh advertisements instead of filling up all the advertised vacant posts in a bid to cause undue delay in the appointments thereby frustrating people’s right to information,” the application said. It also alleged that the Union government’s affidavit dated April 24, 2020, had falsely claimed that the December 16, 2019, directive of the apex court to fill up all the vacant posts within three months had been complied with. “Even though the respondent UOI failed to comply with the directions dated 16.12.2019 of this Hon’ble Court to complete the appointment process in respect of Information Commissioners in CIC within a period of three months, vide affidavit dated 24.4.2020, the UOI has claimed that ‘the process of appointment in response of Information Commissioners in Central Information Commission has been completed within three months as directed by this Hon’ble Court in its Order dated 16.12.2019.’ “It is submitted that this assertion is patently false and misleading as the respondent was to fill all the vacancies which were advertised on 12.12.2019 and not merely appoint one information commissioner and a Chief. The affidavit notes that 250 applications were received pursuant to the advertisement for 4 posts of information commissioners. However, no reason is given as to why only one vacant post was filled, instead of filling all 4. As of 24.4.2020, the number of vacancies in the CIC persisted at 4,” the application stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister indicates differences with Centre on economic views, aims at boosting demand||Noting that the West Bengal government has differences with the Centre on issues related to revival of the economy, state industry minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday said the TMC dispensation is looking to boost demand and increase the purchasing power of people for overall development.  Participating in the Budget discussion in the assembly, he said the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre is pushing for supply stimulation, while the state is in favour of demand creation, which will lead to the welfare of people.  "If there is demand, then there will be supply. This is what the Keynesian theory advocates. What we are saying is to increase the purchasing power of people which will lead to overall development and creation of a welfare state," Chatterjee said.  Renowned economist John Maynard Keynes argued that demand deficiency and persistent unemployment can be tackled if the government undertakes various investment programmes, thereby raising demand and public expenditure.  Chatterjee on Wednesday presented the Budget for the financial year 2021-2022 in the assembly as state Finance Minister Amit Mitra was unwell.  The minister said the debt-GDP ratio of the state stood at 40.65 per cent in 2010-11, which came down to 34.57 per cent in 2019-20.  "Is this not progress," he asked.  Chatterjee also criticised the Centre for its disinvestment policy and for not paying the state government's dues in time.  "The Centre should pay the dues to the state...the 'Make in India' campaign of the central government has turned into 'sale of India' with many PSUs being put on the block," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Adhir: Mamata not the ‘only anti-Modi face’ ||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury feels TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is an "incidental beneficiary" of the highly polarised West Bengal assembly elections and not the “only anti-Modi face" capable of taking on the BJP in the next Lok Sabha polls. Chowdhury also defends his frequent criticism of the TMC supremo, calling it the right decision for the benefit of his party. Talking about the prospects of a broader anti-BJP coalition ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2024, the leader of the Congress party in the House, insists no opposition front can succeed without Congress' participation. "The elections in West Bengal this time were highly polarised on communal and regional identity. The people of the state who did not want the BJP en masse voted in favour of the TMC. The communal rhetoric and the threat and intimidation politics of the BJP leadership only helped Mamata Banerjee. "Without taking away the credit for the fight she put up, I would say she is an incidental beneficiary in these elections," Chowdhury told PTI in an interview. Acknowledging that the TMC's victory was "magnificent", the Congress veteran, however, said many regional opposition leaders had helmed their parties to triumph over the BJP. "It's true that she has put up a fight against the BJP and its election machinery. It's a magnificent victory, no doubt about it. But at the same time, she is not the only regional leader who has defeated the BJP. "Arvind Kejriwal, Lalu Prasad Yadav, M K Stalin, Pinarayi Vijayan, too, have done the same. So, saying that she is the only (credible opposition) face (who could take on the BJP's might) would be an injustice to others," he said. The West Bengal Congress chief rejected suggestions by a section of his partymen that he was more vocal against Banerjee than the BJP. "I have been vocal against both the TMC and the BJP. Yes, I had to attack the TMC when I saw they were destroying my Bengal unit by poaching our representatives. Whatever I have done, I have done for my party. I don't have any personal animosity with Mamata Banerjee," he said. He chose not to respond to a question as to why the top Congress leadership desisted from attacking Banerjee and largely stayed away from the election campaign. Chowdhury, However, said if the Congress party forges an alliance with the TMC in future, the state unit will "lower its tempo" against Banerjee. Responding to a query about some opposition parties intending to ally against the BJP, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) member asserted, "No opposition alliance will succeed without the presence of Congress in it." "The political landscape of our country is such that no opposition alliance against the BJP can succeed without the Congress. The Congress is still the biggest opposition party in the country with a pan-India presence," he said. On his party's rout in the assembly polls in West Bengal, where it drew a blank, Chowdhury said the elections were completely polarised along communal and regional lines but hoped that the Congress, which ruled the state for more than two decades since independence, will revive soon. Chowdhury noted that the Sitalkuchi incident in Coochbehar, where firing by central forces led to the killing of four Muslims during the polling, polarised minority voters. "The Sitalkuchi incident led to further polarisation as voters in Malda, Murshidabad (considered Congress strongholds) also voted for the TMC," he said. The Congress had fought the assembly polls in alliance with the CPI(M) and Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. Except for ISF, which bagged one seat, the CPI(M) led Left Front and the Congress failed to open their account for the for the first time in assembly polls. When asked whether the Congress will form alliance with with CPI(M) and the ISF in future, too, Chowdhury categorically said, "No relations with ISF". "We never had any relations with the ISF. It was CPI (M) which shared their seats with them. The ISF had pitched candidates against us in many seats. We will have no relation with the ISF in the future, too," he said. Replying to a question about the recent media reports that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will likely replace him as the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Chowdhury said he is not aware of any such move. "I am not aware of any such development. I am a loyal soldier of the party. Whatever duty it assigns me, I would do my best. If Rahul Gandhi replaces me as the leader of our party in Lok Sabha, I would be the happiest person," he said. Lauding Rahul Gandhi's leadership qualities, Chowdhury said the BJP deliberately tries to discredit him as it is "afraid of him". "Every time there is a failure, everybody starts questioning Rahul Gandhi. The fact is that these failures are a collective responsibility. The Congress party has been on the decline since the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. So why single out Rahulji?" he said. Speaking about Congress leaders leaving the party, with former President Pranab Mukherjee's son Abhijit being the latest addition, Chowdhury wondered whether their deserting or joining a party would make any difference. "Everybody is free to make their own decisions. But Abhijit Mukherjee leaving the party won't have any impact. He was chief of the state's campaign committee during the polls. You can't show me a single statement from him criticising the BJP or the TMC during the elections," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Decision to elevate Barla as Union Minister proves BJP supports bifurcation of Bengal, says TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday alleged that the elevation of Alipurduar MP John Barla as Union minister proves that the BJP supports the bifurcation of West Bengal, a charge denied by the saffron party. Barla, one of the key architects of the BJP's making of inroads in north Bengal, had recently demanded a separate Union territory by carving out the region from the state. He was inducted into the cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs. "The decision to elevate John Barla as Union minister proves that the BJP supports his statement regarding the division of West Bengal. The saffron should come out clean on it. "He (Barla) is a divisive personality...for last two years, I haven't seen him being able to speak properly in the Parliament, what sort of minister he will make is anybody's guess," TMC leader Sougata Roy said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh dubbed the TMC's allegations as baseless and said the party doesn't support the bifurcation of the state. "We don't support any division of West Bengal. The party leadership and our prime minister felt that John Barla would make a good minister and can work for the people, so he has been inducted (into the cabinet)," he said. While speaking to a Bengali news channel in the morning after taking charge, Barla declined to comment on his previous statement seeking bifurcation of the state. "I don't want to comment on it. Now, I would like to work for the benefit of the masses. I will work towards the fulfilment of the demands of the people of north Bengal, nobody can suppress the demands of the masses," he said. Barla alleged that the people of West Bengal are not getting benefits of central schemes and as Union minister, he would strive to ensure that people get these benefits. "We want peace to return to West Bengal. The central schemes should be implemented," he said. Apart from Barla, three other MPs from West Bengal -- one from north Bengal (Nisith Pramanik) and two from south Bengal (Subhas Sarkar and Shantanu Thakur) -- have been inducted into the Union cabinet. Pramanik has been made MoS Home, and Sarkar and Thakur have been made MoS Education, and MoS Ports and Shipping respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal budget 2021-22: State aims to ratchet up demand in real estate||The Mamata Banerjee government has announced a 2 per cent stamp duty rebate for registration of property deeds and a 10 per cent reduction in circle rates in an effort to ratchet up demand in Bengal’s real estate. The tax break was the most attractive element in the Rs 3.08 lakh crore state budget for 2021-22 that industries minister Partha Chatterjee read out in the Assembly on Wednesday on behalf of finance minister Amit Mitra. A home buyer can save as much as 30-35 per cent on stamp duty payment and registration fees as a result of the tax rebate. The benefit of the stamp duty cut and the reduction in the circle rates — the minimum value at which a property in a particular neighbourhood can be bought or sold — will be available if the property registration process is completed by October 30. A property valued up to Rs 1 crore attracts 6 per cent stamp duty in urban areas and 5 per cent in panchayat areas. Properties valued over Rs 1 crore draw an additional 1 per cent stamp duty in both urban and rural areas at present. Following the budget proposals, stamp duty will come down to 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively, for properties up to Rs 1 crore, and 5 per cent and 4 per cent for properties above that ceiling. The reduction in the circle rates by 10 per cent will also greatly benefit buyers of property. In many places, the circle rate is said to be way above the market value and acts as a deal breaker in closing transactions for high-value properties since it also carries income tax implications. As an illustrative example, a property with a market value of Rs 50 lakh can save up Rs 120,000 on account of the reduction in the stamp duty and circle rate and another Rs 5,550 because of the fall in registration fees, translating into a gain of 35 per cent on these heads for the buyer, according to a calculation done by NK Realtors. “We all are aware that due to the Covid 19 pandemic our state along with the country as a whole is reeling under economic recession. This has resulted in curtailing the purchasing power of the people. The real estate sector has also been greatly affected due to this crisis. In this critical situation, the state government is allowing relief to the registrant public by reducing the rate of stamp duty for registration of deeds affecting sale, lease of land/house/flat etc,” the government said in the budget speech. Real estate mandarins were ecstatic over the move and said it would bring property buyers back and help fill the state government’s coffers. “While the transaction cost will come down for the buyer, it will also help developers to clear inventory, which in turn would mean better cash flows. The revenue generation for the government will also be accelerated, as witnessed in Maharashtra. It is a win-win for all,” Harsh V. Patodia, the national president of Credai, said in the evening. Maharashtra — which has two of the country’s top real estate markets in Mumbai and Pune — had cut stamp duty from 5 per cent to 2 per cent from September 1, 2020, to December 31 and to 3 per cent between January 1 and March 31 to boost demand. As a result, the registration rate in Mumbai soared by 112 per cent in September 2020 from the previous month and the momentum continued till March. Mumbai recorded nearly as many property registrations in 2020 (65,272 units) as in 2019. In the first three months of this year, it had crossed the half-way mark of 2020, a Knight Frank report shows. The government also earned 50 per cent more revenue from property registrations. Bengal had earned Rs 6,200 crore on account of stamp duty and registration fees in 2020-21 and it is projected to earn Rs 7,245 crore in this financial year. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group, said the announcement would encourage the real estate segment to launch new projects and infuse fresh investment into the sector. The reduction in the circle rate, which is notified by the government, will also soften the potential income tax incidence on property sales. Both buyer and seller are liable to pay tax at the applicable rate on deemed income if the circle value is more than 10 per cent of the transaction value. “Many large transactions, which have been stuck due to adverse tax implications arising from the difference between the circle rate and the transaction rate, may get concluded now,” said Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Properties. Given that over 200 industries and a huge workforce is linked to the real estate sector, buoyancy will have a major trickle-down effect, said Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal budget 2021-22: Focus on direct transfer of cash||The Mamata Banerjee government assigned outlays to fulfil the promise of universal basic income (UBI) for the marginalised and the needy in the state budget for 2021-22 that industries minister Partha Chatterjee placed, filling in for ailing finance minister Amit Mitra, in the Assembly on Wednesday. It was clear from the 18-page statement of intent, which Chatterjee read out in less than 30 minutes, that the theme of the budget was Mamata’s plan for transferring cash directly to as many people as possible. “Since the time of demonetisation, people have not been able to spend…. So, our effort is to hand out cash to them so that they can spend, which will result in creation of demand, trigger economic activity and result in growth,” Mamata told The Telegraph, explaining the broad direction of the budget. The attempt at unlocking demand was evident in the proposals made in the form of reduction in stamp duty and circle rate, which come into effect during transaction of land, houses or flats. Mamata’s desire to enable people to loosen their purse strings was captured in the details. The budget documents revealed how the government has increased outlays to some departments to ensure the objective of UBI, which means paying citizens an unconditional monthly sum. For instance, the women and child development and social welfare department, the outlay of which has been pegged at Rs 16,045 crore, has been earmarked more than 2.7 times the sum in the last budget. The objective is to offer a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households directly to the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families in the state. Similarly, outlays have been significantly raised for departments like agriculture and school education to ensure payment of Rs 10,000 each to over 62 lakh farmers every year and transfer of Rs 10,000 each to over 10 lakh students in Classes XI and XII so that they can buy tabs to continue studies online. Mamata said the cash transfer was not limited to these sets of people. “There are a whole host of other direct cash transfer schemes like pensions for widows, artists and other categories, monthly doles for farmers and others…. No other state has had such a wide range of direct transfer schemes,” the chief minister said. The apparent political reason behind the focus of the budget can be easily gauged as the Assembly election results had proved beyond doubt that women, beneficiaries of various pension schemes like SC/ST, senior citizen and widow stipend, had helped the ruling party in ensuring a rout of the BJP in the bitterly contested battle for Bengal. The subtle trigger behind the proposals seems to be Mamata’s attempt at sending out a message that her government — unlike the Narendra Modi-led Centre — is following a welfare approach by addressing the immediate concerns of the deprived sections of the society during the pandemic. Several prominent economists had advocated the need for direct cash transfer in the time of the pandemic to insulate migrant workers, farmers and other weaker sections of the society from the impact of the slowdown of the economy. “Unlike them, we are trying to create demand and help poor people…. We believe in economic policies with a human face. The Union government owes us more than Rs 60,000 crore, but still they are not releasing the funds. But that has not stopped us from delivering on our promise,” said Mamata, who accused the Modi government of making the lives of common people difficult by allowing fuel prices to spiral. Trinamul insiders expressed the hope that the Bengal budget’s broad welfare direction — with high allocations for other departments like school education and health and family welfare — would help her steal a march on the Modi regime. The fact that the Union government’s policy has had little impact on reshaping the Indian economy while Bengal surged ahead was mentioned in the budget document. “While growth of GDP of India dipped to negative 7.7 per cent in 2020-21, Bengal’s GDP clocked 1.2 per cent growth,” read the budget speech. The Bengal government’s claims about its better economic performance in comparison to the Centre came under attack from the BJP whose position was articulated by party MLA Ashok Lahiri, an economist and former chief economic adviser to the Union government. “Different states calculate their respective GSDPs in different methods. These aren’t comparable. This is why the National Statistical Office calculates comparative data on this. The state finance minister has claimed that from 2010-11 to 2019-20, there has been a 2.94 times increase in our GSDP. This is untrue. It has increased by 2.40 times only. He has also claimed that during 2019-20, the GSDP growth rate of Bengal has been more than the GDP growth rate of India. This is true. However what he didn’t say is that for a long period from 2012-13 to 2018-19, every year the rate of GSDP growth in Bengal has been lower than the national GDP growth rate. Thus, we must conclude that Bengal is lagging behind,” he said. Although this is not the first time that Bengal’s macroeconomic data has come under attack, both Mamata and finance minister Mitra — who joined a post-budget news conference virtually — stressed that the state’s economy has been on a steady growth path and would achieve an even higher trajectory because of the budget’s proposals aimed at demand creation. The idea of a demand-driven recovery also seems to be the basis of the revenue-side budget arithmetic that has projected a 26 per cent increase in the state’s tax revenue without levying any new taxes. The government is also confident that its emphasis on job creation — the budget document claimed that over 1.5 crore jobs would be created in the next five years — would further fuel the economic growth in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||New Air Officer Commanding at Kalaikunda Air Force Station ||Air Cmde Ran Singh took over as the Air Officer Commanding of Kalaikunda Air Force Station on Monday. Air Cmde Tarun Chaudhry handed over the charge to him. Air Cmde Chaudhry addressed the personnel of the Indian Air Force at the station and complimented them for maintaining the operational tempo amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said Air Cmde Singh had been commissioned in the flying branch of the IAF in December 1992. He has an experience of around 3,250 flying hours as the pilot. An alumnus of Defence Services Staff College and College of Air Warfare, Air Cmde Singh had previously commanded a frontline fighter squadron and an operational surveillance unit. Before Kalaikunda, he had been serving at the IAF headquarters in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Elephant kills woman with hearing impairment in Bankura||A wild elephant, which had got separated from its herd, killed a 48-year-old hearing impaired woman in Bankura’s Beliatore early on Wednesday. Sources said Urmila Ghosh, a resident of Dihipara in Beliatore’s Ramharipur, had gone to relieve herself near the adjacent forest when the tusker picked her up by its trunk from behind and gored her to death with its tusks. “Urmila was hearing impaired and remained unaware that an elephant was approaching her from behind. The elephant picked her up by its trunk when she was standing near a pond,” said a relative. Family members said Urmila stayed with her younger sister, who is also hearing impaired and unmarried, and brother, a marginal farmer owning less than an acre of land. Urmila’s niece, Namita Ghosh, said they started to search for her aunt when Urmila did not return home even after an hour. When they began searching for her, a villager informed them about the presence of an elephant near the pond adjacent to the forest. “We rushed towards the pond and found her lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to the local hospital where doctors declared her dead,” said Namita. After the incident, senior forest officers, along with representatives of local panchayats, went to the house of the deceased and handed over a cheque for Rs 3.75 lakh to the nearest kin of Urmila. “According to the direction of the state government and the chief minister, we tried to deliver the compensation within 24 hours. We have given Rs 3.75 lakh on the spot and rest would be given very soon,” said Kalyan Rai, the Bankura North divisional forest officer. He said the death was the first such incident in this year. The nearest kin of persons killed by elephants or tigers get a compensation of Rs 5 lakh. “We have taken several measures to avoid human-elephant conflicts by digging up trenches and building fencings. This has helped bring down incident of deaths by elephants. We will also increase vigil in the forest to avoid such incidents,” said Rai, the DFO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 982 cases and 16 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported the 17th day on the trot of a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, which fell by 620 to 16,655, as the state reported 1,586 recoveries, 982 new infections and 16 deaths. In a key parameter of case growth or percentage of growth of cases in the past week compared to the week before, Bengal is 22nd on the list of states with case growth falling by 53.8 per cent. Bengal has maintained a case growth of -40 to -60 for weeks. Daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 on Wednesday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.71 per cent while the national rate is 97.15. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before again falling by nearly 28 per cent in these 17 days. Worst-hit Calcutta and North 24-Parganas checked the day’s new cases to 85 and 94. Wednesday was the 10th straight day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections and North Dinajpur, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. West Midnapore, like Tuesday, was the only district on Wednesday with a three-digit figure. Of the 16 deaths, two were reported from Calcutta and four from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday and four others just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.31 per cent. Bengal now has a total of over 15.08 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.73 lakh recoveries and 17,850 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers hold ‘save BJP’ protest in Malda||An unprecedented protest was witnessed in Malda town on Wednesday as around 100 BJP workers demonstrated at a prominent crossing of the town under the banner of BJP Banchao Committee (Save BJP Committee), accusing some party leaders of corruption and autocratic behaviour towards party workers in the grassroots. The demonstration, which continued for nearly an hour, had workers raising their voices against those leaders who, they claimed, were running the party in consultation with turncoats from Trinamul. “The party is way different from what it was in 2019. A former district BJP president, who led the party to unprecedented success in 2019, was suspended for two years, re-inducted for merely two months before the elections and again expelled. This is unacceptable,” said Shib Shankar Poddar, a former district president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha. Another party worker who shouted slogans against leaders, said they hardly had any other option but to launch protests to “save the party” in Malda. “Those who struggled for years for the interest of the party have either been cornered or suspended or expelled by few district BJP leaders who have no contact with the masses. We hardly have any other option but to protest and draw attention of the BJP state leadership,” he said. Protesters, who called themselves “BJP veterans” also trained guns at Khagen Murmu, the BJP MP of Malda north. Murmu, a former CPM leader who defected to the saffron camp in 2019, ahead of the parliamentary elections. “The BJP MP, who is a turncoat CPM leader, did nothing after winning the election. He has only installed some streetlights. The work benefited some of his aides as they got commission of those projects,” Poddar said. Embarrassed by the public display of discontent, district BJP leaders apparently ignored the agitation. “Ours is a disciplined party. A section of unruly workers, against whom actions were taken for multiple undisciplined activities, are trying to tarnish the image of party leaders. They are out of the mainstream of the party. Such demonstrations will have no effect on party workers or supporters,” said the district BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Saumitra Khan fury at ‘leader going to Delhi’||Cracks in the Bengal BJP deepened on a day four leaders from the state got berths in the Narendra Modi cabinet, with the BJP’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan accusing party MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, without naming him, of “misdirecting” central leaders for his own power. “Sadly this leader is going to Delhi and misdirecting our central leaders and trying to draw all the attention...I will urge the leader of the Opposition to look into the mirror. None of our sacrifices are less than his. I’ve won polls several times as have you…This way, Bengal BJP will not go forward,” Khan said in a Facebook live session. “He came to the party a month before polls and brought 128 other members…All thieves and thugs.” Adhikari had joined the BJP in December 2020, four months before polls. Khan announced he was resigning as the chief of the party’s youth wing in Bengal, sources close to him saying the denial of a cabinet berth rankled. But in the evening, he wrote on Facebook that he was withdrawing his resignation, as asked by B.L. Santosh, BJP's national general-secretary (organisation). Asked, Khan told this paper both Santosh and Union home minister Amit Shah asked him to continue. “…I see no future for Bengal BJP...”Khan said and added “our honourable president (Dilip Ghosh) doesn’t understand half the things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee fined Rs 5 lakh for maligning judiciary ||Justice Kaushik Chanda of Calcutta High Court on Wednesday withdrew on “personal ground” from hearing Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging her defeat in the Nandigram Assembly segment, but imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on her for maligning the judiciary by questioning the judge’s partiality. Justice Chanda said the fine would have to be handed over to the state Bar council for treatment of lawyers and their family members affected by Covid-19. The Trinamul Congress has decided to challenge the fine before the Supreme Court. The case has been sent to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for reassignment to another judge of the court. In her election petition, the chief minister had alleged malpractices in the counting at Nandigram, where Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari had defeated her by 1,965 votes. The petitioner claimed that the Election Commission of India official who was in charge of the counting at Nandigram had initially declared her as the winner on May 2, but the result was reversed in Adhikari’s favour later the same day. Trinamul’s demand for a recount was turned down by the returning officer. Mamata went to the high court challenging the election process 44 days after the announcement of the results. When the case was sent to Justice Chanda, the chief minister’s lawyer, Sanjay Basu, said he had links with the BJP before he became a judge and wrote to the secretary to the acting Chief Justice, seeking reassignment. Basu mentioned in his letter “reasonable apprehension” over the “likelihood of bias” and said Justice Chanda was an “active member of the BJP”. But Justice Chanda demanded that lawyers appearing for Mamata satisfy him on what ground she had challenged his political identity. After five days of hearing, Justice Chanda reserved the verdict. In the verdict delivered on Wednesday, Justice Chanda expressed views in support of his decision of imposing the fine on Mamata and gave an argument on his own behalf. Mamata’s counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi had raised three main reasons for seeking reassignment of the case. First, the judge was a BJP activist and had shared the dais with senior party leaders while practising as a lawyer. Second, when Justice Chanda’s name was sent to the chief minister for her opinion before appointing him as a permanent judge of the court, Mamata did not give her approval because he was a BJP follower and had been appointed additional solicitor-general by the BJP-led Centre. Finally, the judge has good connections with some senior BJP leaders, Singhvi had said. In his judgment, Justice Chanda countered Mamata’s arguments. Each and every person is a follower of any of the parties and that does not mean he will favour his party when dealing with a case as a judge. A judge never thinks about his earlier life of political affinities while disposing of a case. So, the impartiality of a judge cannot be challenged, the judge said. Justice Chanda has added that sending names to state heads before appointing an additional judge as a permanent judge is merely a protocol. Appointments do not depend on their opinion. But by bringing the issue in public, the chief minister violated privacy norms. Justice Chanda also said a judge was a human being and might have connections with others. But that did not mean he would help the people in a case, he said. Before holding that the petitioner had “tarnished” the image of the judiciary and imposed the fine on her, Justice Chanda said the judiciary was like a temple, where judges were to provide justice to genuine persons. A senior Trinamul MP said the party had decided to move the Supreme Court challenging the fine and its accompanying charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Budget 2021-22: Road tax waiver brings little cheer||The Bengal government in its budget on Wednesday announced a road tax waiver for transport vehicles till December, but the proposal failed to cheer the sector with transport operators saying it will make little difference to their business reeling under the pressure of rising fuel cost and reduced traffic volume amid the pandemic. While delivering the state budget speech for the year, Partha Chatterjee, who stood in for Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, said the state government had earlier allowed one-time exemption of road tax from January to June. “Considering the post-lockdown economic hardship in the transport sector, our government has proposed to extend the one-time exemption of motor vehicle tax and additional tax from July 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021,” Chatterjee said. Private bus and minibus operators this paper spoke to said road tax, normally to be paid every three months, comprised a small part of their overall cost at a little over Rs 3,000 or so for six months. About 60 per cent of total operational cost, however, was directly related to fuel cost, which has been steadily rising. “Just see, price of diesel jumped from Rs 77.44 a litre on January 1 to Rs 92.50 on Wednesday. That’s a difference of over Rs 15 a litre over six months,” said an operator. Vehicles owners said the road tax every three months is Rs 1,516 for buses and Rs 1,100 for minibuses. Even if waiver for penalty for not renewing fitness certificates, driving license and road permits were clubbed together in keeping with the Bengal government's earlier directive till June 30 it would do little to offset their losses, they said. Most of the 5,000-plus private buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas have been off roads since July 1 when the state government relaxed its ban on movement of transport vehicles, allowing 50 per cent capacity. The government is sending out feelers to operators to resume operations but most  want a fare hike. Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association said they were compelled to hike fare rates. “The state government had to eventually do away with its control over ticket price in theatre halls. It has no control over rates fixed by auto-rickshaws. Why only for buses and minibuses?” he asked. “We will stick to our new bus fare schedule of Rs 10, Rs 15 and Rs 20 depending on stages. Since passengers haven’t been complaining (at hiked fares) there will be more buses on the roads from Thursday.” On Wednesday, some bus and minibus owners also said the government would do better if it lent Rs 2 lakh to each bus owner in Bengal. It would help them clear insurance dues and cover the cost of maintenance before making vehicles road-worthy, they said. “Club all the waivers and divide it by 365 days. Is it equal to the cost of fuel required to run buses now? The fares have to be revised and there can be no two ways about it," said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. "If the government has to offer relief, it would do good by offering Rs 2 lakh to each bus owner so that vehicles become road-worthy."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Eye on 2024, four MPs from Bengal in Modi’s cabinet||Four BJP MPs from Bengal — two each from south Bengal and north Bengal districts — were inducted in the Narendra Modi cabinet as junior ministers on Wednesday apparently with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, possibly after the Assembly poll debacle. Alipurduar’s John Barla (minority affairs), Cooch Behar’s Nisith Pramanik (home affairs, youth affairs and sports), Bongaon’s Shantanu Thakur (ports, shipping and waterways) and Bankura’s Subhas Sarkar (education) are the chosen ones. Two junior ministers — Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chowdhury — had to resign from their positions to make way for the new entrants. The move clearly indicates the BJP’s bid to strengthen its support base in areas where the party performed well in the 2021 Assembly polls. Sources also said the BJP’s move to include four MPs from the state to the cabinet makes it clear that it is banking heavily on Bengal for the 2024 polls. “The top brass of the party has made it clear to the state unit that it would heavily depend on Bengal (in 2024) as the party may lose some seats in Punjab and Haryana where farmers’ movements have weakened the party’s position. The party expects at least 15 seats from Bengal,” said a senior leader. “In Alipurduar, the BJP bagged all five seats in the district. Barla was rewarded for his performance. Similarly, Pramanik was inducted in the cabinet as the party won seven out of nine seats in Cooch Behar. The party felt that inclusion of the MPs in the cabinet would strengthen the party ahead of 2024 polls,” said a BJP insider. “Thakur belongs to the Matua community, which holds the key to electoral success in at least two Lok Sabha seats — Bongaon in North 24-Parganas and Ranaghat in Nadia. Similarly, the BJP has put up a relatively better show in Bankura compared to other south Bengal districts and that’s why Subhas Sarkar has been inducted in the cabinet,” said a BJP leader. Though Thakur’s induction is seen as a ploy to placate the Matuas who are restless about implementation of the citizenship matrix, a leader of the All India Matua Mahasangh said: “Our demand is clear. We want the CAA. It doesn’t matter if our MP is a minister.” Barla’s selection raised brows within the BJP as he recently pushed for Union territory or separate statehood status for north Bengal, even as state BJP leaders asserted it was not the party’s demand. At least three MPs — Locket Chatterjee, Saumitra Khan and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh — had ministerial aspirations sources said. A Trinamul leader said junior leaders would “hardly leave any impact”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||West Bengal||Dilip sa’ab’s romantic connect with the hills||Darjeeling had almost played Cupid in the fabled marriage of Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu that withstood the test of time and raised the bar for film couples. Pratap Chand Agarwal, now 86 and the couple’s family friend from Kurseong, told this paper hours after the legendary thespian bowed out from the stage of life at age 98, a hitherto unknown fact of one of the most talked-about marriages in Bollywood. Agarwal, a producer of the award-winning children’s film Safed Haathi that had Shatrughan Sinha in the cast, said that he had arranged the shooting of Jhuk Gaya Aasman that had Rajendra Kumar and Saira Banu in the lead roles, in Darjeeling in the mid-60s. “When the shooting was at its fag end, Saira Banu told me one evening that she would introduce me to Dilip Kumar and we went to his hotel room at Mount Everest Hotel,” said Agarwal. Dilip Kumar, born Mohammed Yusuf Khan, was not a part of the Jhuk Gaya Aasman cast. “Yusuf bhai had come on his own to meet Saira Banu and had taken a separate room in the same hotel where the directors and actors of Jhuk Gaya Aasman were staying. Following a brief interaction, Yusuf bhai told me, ‘I am getting married to Saira Banu’. He seemed to have come to Darjeeling just to finalise the marriage,” Agarwal said. From Darjeeling, the couplethen  left for Bhutan, recalled Agarwal. The two tied the knot on October 11, 1966. Dilip Kumar was 44 and Saira Banu 22. Many chinwags had commented on the age difference. But it would prove to be one of the most enduring marriages in the Indian film industry. After their marriage, the couple did visit Darjeeling hills twice in the late 1960s to shoot for the famous Bengali film Sagina Mahato that released in 1970. “I used to meet them almost everyday. I arranged their stay at the bungalow of (parliamentarian) Ila Pal Chowdhury at Gayabari in Kurseong. The shooting took place mostly in Tindharia, at the railway workshop and the DHR rail loop,” said Agarwal. Agarwal organised a party with prominent citizens of Kurseong at the electricity department Dak Bungalow during the shoot. In the early 1970s, the couple again returned to Kurseong for a remake of the film into Hindi named Sagina, which went on to release in 1974. On one occasion, they came to Agarwal’s house at Rajbari in Kurseong for lunch, he recalled. For all his stardom, Dilip Kumar, Agarwal recalled, was an extremely down-to-earth man with a big heart. “In 1977 I went to Bombay and fell ill. I called him at around 5.30 am in the morning and he immediately sent two of his attendants to get me admitted at Nanavati hospital,” recalled Agarwal. “By 7.30am he was personally present at the hospital. He visited me on all three days of my hospitalisation.” Agarwal, who is also a former chairman of Kurseong municipality said that Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu had done their bit to raise funds for the SD Dey Sanatorium in Kurseong. “In 1975, the duo attended a charity event organised by the Sagina Mahato team at the Light House Cinema Hall in Calcutta and we raised Rs 74,000. A Tibetan painting I had taken from Darjeeling fetched Rs 10,000 at the event,” said Agarwal. Dilip Kumar had donated Rs 2,000 to Anjuman-E-Islamia, a Darjeeling mosque, recalled Akhtar Ali, a retired government employee, ow 80, who had also seen the couple in their heyday. Agarwal said that he last visited Dilip Kumar in Mumbai in 1992. The thespian was already not in the best of health, he recalled. “I’d first seen Dilip Kumar in person when he had come to shoot for the film Naya Daur at Kurseong in 1957.  I was a young man then. Today, in my twilight, I heard the news of his demise. I am sad but I will cherish my time with  the legend who was for me simply Yusuf bhai,” said the octogenarian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
08-07-2021||North East||Assam Christian Forum pledge to continue Father Stan’s ‘mission’||Father Stan Swamy is no more but his mission for “peace, justice and reconciliation” will continue. This was the message that emanated from the memorial service organised by the Assam Christian Forum and the North East Regional Catholic Bishops’ Conference at the Peace Centre here on Tuesday afternoon. His demise was widely mourned in the Northeast which has a significant Christian population, about 18 per cent of the over 4.5 crore population, having contributed significantly to the education and health sectors. Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya are Christian-dominated states. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest and the “voice of the marginalised” died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while in judicial custody. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in 2020 in connection with the 2017 Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case. Speaker after speaker, amid paying glowing tributes to Fr Stan’s life-long mission of serving the marginalised and oppressed, the gathering vowed to take forward his legacy. They also wondered why the ailing Fr Stan was denied bail and the “strange ways” of the State and judiciary. Paresh Malakar, educationist and general secretary, Axom Nagarik Samaj, in his tribute, said Fr Stan’s death was a “most tragic” thing, a “sad” commentary on the State and the judiciary. “Till his death Stan Swamy steadfastly stood for the truth and rights for the marginalised people. Now it is up to us how we carry forward his legacy. To uphold his spirits and legacy we should unitedly work for true justice, democracy and peace,” Malakar said. The Archbishop of Guwahati, John Moolachira, who is also the president of the North East Regional Catholic Bishops’ Conference, led the memorial service. The Assam Christian Forum and the United Christian Forum of North East India told The Telegraph that he was “falsely” implicated, imprisoned and made to suffer” because of his mission and work among the Adivasis, Dalits and other marginalised communities, as he believed, that the poor must have life and life to the full, with honour and dignity, as enshrined in the Constitution. Allen Brooks, one of the organisers of the memorial service and spokesperson for both the forums, said community members have “pledged” to recommit themselves to take forward Fr Stan’s legacy and to “work” for peace, justice and reconciliation because “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”. Father G.P. Amalraj, deputy secretary, North East India Regional Bishops’ Council, said they “failed to understand” why an 84-year-old social worker, greatly weakened by multiple ailments could “not” get bail for a case in which he claimed “absolute” innocence. “Aside from the pain it has caused to the poor tribal people on whose behalf he laboured, it has shaken the confidence of society in our justice system and tarnished the image of the country at the international level.… May his innocence be established and may more and more young people come forward to dedicate their lives on behalf of the poor,” Fr Amalraj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
08-07-2021||North East||Assam govt to use only hand-woven gamosa and traditional food items during official events||The Assam government will be using only hand-woven gamosa and traditional food items during official functions and events from Thursday in an effort to support and promote locally available products. The decision was taken at the weekly cabinet meeting on Wednesday which also decided to play the state anthem — O Mur Apunar Dex (O my motherland) — at the beginning of all government programmes and the national anthem Jana Gana Mana at the end. The meeting also decided to give a one-year service extension to best-performing non-gazetted employees. “The move will help our weavers and self-help groups involved in the manufacture of gamosas and traditional delicacies such as laroo and pitha. These will be served in government functions and meetings across the state from tomorrow (Thursday),” cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika said. The move will come as a huge relief to those producing and trading gamosas and traditional delicacies because sales have been hit by the restrictions imposed to check the spread of the Covid-19. Gamosa is not only a traditional rectangular cotton cloth with red borders and floral motifs but also a symbol of Assam’s culture and identity. It is used to greet/felicitate/honour guests or invitees or as a towel, decor gift or as part of an attire during religious functions or festivities. The demand for gamosas is high during Bihu festivities but of late it has also emerged as a symbol of protest especially during the anti-CAA protests. There are over 4,000 primary weaver cooperative societies in Assam, producing handloom fabrics, including gamosas which earned the geographical indication (GI) tag in 2019. Last year, Assam had tied up with e-commerce firm Flipkart to promote its artefacts and handloom products. Traditional delicacies such as laroo, pitha, chira and curd are in demand during Bihu but of late these have been available throughout the year, supplied by local self-help groups and sold by grocery shops and restaurants. “These delicacies have a market. This move of the government will help those involved in producing these delicacies, especially in these Covid times. It is an extension of the central government’s slogan of vocal for local,” a self-help group member said. The other cabinet decisions included: ⚫ Deshbhakta Tarun Ram Phukan’s death anniversary on July 28 will be observed as Desh Bhakti Divas. Information and public relations department will organise various activities in the districts and sub-divisions to mark the occasion. ⚫ Death anniversary of Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi on August 5 will be observed as Karmachari Divas. Five non-gazetted employees at the district level and 10 at the state level will be awarded on Karmachari Divas based on their performances. They will get a year’s service extension. ⚫ TET certificates will have lifetime validity. These candidates will also be allowed to write their TET examination for betterment. Upper age limit will, however, apply during recruitment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
08-07-2021||North East||Himanta directs police to file chargesheets in all pending cases ||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has directed the officers-in-charge of all police stations in the state to file chargesheets in all pending rape, murder, drug trafficking and arms cases within six months for speedy trial. Addressing the first conference of OCs here on Monday as part of the government’s efforts to redefine policing standards in the state, the chief minister highlighted the failings of the present policing system to ensure justice and assured all help from his end to help improve the situation to win the trust of the people and curb crime rate. Directing the OCs to strictly deal with crime against women, Sarma said it was important to properly file the chargesheet at the earliest to ensure justice to victims. This will help send the right message to all offenders and would-be offenders before they indulge in any anti-social activities, he said. “The CID will be engaged to train OCs in preparing chargesheets and capable public prosecutors will be hired for ensuring justice delivery and conviction. Engage the computer literate from your team to file a chargesheet. Strengthening law and order for the safety and security of every citizen is at the core of our governance,” Sarma said, adding that all steps must be taken to stop cow smuggling. Apart from filing the chargesheet in heinous cases like rape, murder, drug peddling, women trafficking and molestation, Sarma also directed the OCs to deliver post-mortem reports to the kin of the victims within 15 days. “Police verification reports for jobs and passports should be issued within seven days except in doubtful cases. Death reports too should be issued within 24 hours in road accident cases for hassle-free insurance claims. Such steps will help build trust among the people who will become your sources and help you effectively discharge your duty. Your duty is to deliver the best possible service to the people,” Sarma said. He also took the opportunity to tell the deputy inspectors-general and superintendents of police to help the OCs perform their duty efficiently. “DIGs should ensure post-mortem report collection as soon as possible. Also, steps have to be taken to send samples for testing to forensic labs outside the state for minimising delay as the only forensic lab in Guwahati is not sufficient,” Sarma said. Sarma said he will hold a review meeting of the OCs every six months so they can be prepared with their progress report, adding that zero-tolerance should be shown towards criminals. “There is criticism of policemen shooting accused/criminals who tried to flee or harm others in the recent past. Law allows to shoot them in the leg. If this is the pattern, let it remain so to send the right message,” he said. Though the chief minister’s step was welcomed, some pointed out that Sarma should also look into the deployment of orderlies at the residence of senior police officials. “These orderlies are also policemen. How many have to be deployed and for how long, the chief minister should look into it,” a source said. Sarma also announced a series of measures to help the OCs discharge their duties effectively that included: ⚫ All police stations would receive Rs 2.5 lakh annually as a contingency fund apart from other allocations. ⚫ Source fund to all OCs to gather intelligence. This fund will help pay informers/sources. ⚫ All OCs will be provided with a vehicle for their police station or motorcycles in difficult and inaccessible areas within three months. ⚫ Three computers would be provided to all police stations for streamlining the filing of FIRs and other paperwork. ⚫ Residential quarters to be built within all police station premises. ⚫ One generator would be provided to each police station. ⚫ Health check-ups for personnel in police stations every 15 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
08-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Home away||Just statements may sometimes touch the surface of a problem. Responding to a public interest litigation asking that the government provide three meals, drinking water, free shelters, free public bathrooms and toilets, soaps and sanitary napkins to the homeless in Mumbai, the Bombay High Court reportedly said that providing homeless people, beggars and pavement dwellers with free shelters will only increase their numbers unless they ‘work for the country’; there are government schemes for that. The state cannot give them everything. The court felt that the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation were doing everything within their capacity to supply the homeless with water, food and sanitary napkins. These authorities were, however, asked by the court to ensure that homeless people could use public toilets for free. Last month, the high court had asked the BMC for information regarding the building of shelter homes in every ward. The report of work in progress was apparently satisfactory. The high court pointed out that the petitioner had not found out who the homeless in the city were. That would have been useful, because pavement-dwellers are not a homogeneous mass. There are seasonal and informal sector workers among them, who do not earn enough for an urban home, yet have no source of livelihood in their villages. Some have lost their homes and livelihood to river erosion or the loss of common land to private or government schemes and cannot sustain themselves on relief or compensation, even if they received it. The Bombay High Court’s reference to work under government schemes was rather puzzling; besides, many pavement dwellers do work. There should be close scrutiny of beggars, especially children and women, because they are often forced to beg by criminal groups which engage in abduction, trafficking and drug-related transactions. Homeless families may have sick or aged members who need care. All this is true of most Indian cities. The homeless represent governmental failure at many levels. The Supreme Court insisted on night shelters, which are still not sufficient in most states. The Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission has an excellent scheme for shelters, but the numbers of urban homeless indicate that the scheme has not quite flowered yet. But protection is especially urgent during the pandemic, whether they are working for the country or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
08-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Stan Swamy's death, Sha’Carri Richardson's disqualification from the Olympics||Matter of shame Sir — The demise of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, Stan Swamy, who was suffering from multiple ailments and was on ventilator support in a hospital in Mumbai, is a matter of shame for the Indian State and its agencies which hounded him for months and had failed to provide the minimum human consideration owed to him as an ailing, elderly man (“In custody”, July 7). He was arrested in connection with the Elgaar Parishad violence and booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that made bail difficult. Swamy suffered from Parkinson’s disease and was unable to even hold a glass in his hand. He had several other ailments and contracted Covid-19 while in custody. It would need an impossible stretch of imagination to believe that Swamy, who had served the poor and the helpless for decades and had no record of any crime in his life, would work for the violent overthrow of the Indian State. It is incomprehensible how Swamy’s plea for bail, considering his ill-health, could be rejected so many times. His health deteriorated in jail and he simply did not get proper treatment there. The death of Swamy is an institutional failure. His painful demise is a blot upon the nation and bears witness to the heartlessness of the administration. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It was heartbreaking to read about the demise of Stan Swamy in prison owing to the lack of proper medical care. Swamy had tirelessly worked for the rights of tribal people before he was arrested on dubious charges under an anti-terror law. As an activist, he had questioned the non-implementation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulated the setting up of a tribes advisory council made up solely of people from the adivasi community for their protection, well-being and development in the state. Swamy, implicated in the Bhima-Koregaon violence, was the oldest person accused of terrorism in India. The National Investigation Agency had accused him of channelling funds to Maoist groups through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee that was co-convened by him and Sudha Bharadwaj, who is also languishing in jail for similar charges. It is a matter of shame that Swamy, critically ill while imprisoned, was refused bail repeatedly. In his last days in prison, Swamy had reportedly expressed that he did not wish to live for long if his situation were to remain unchanged. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in late May and finally passed away at a private hospital in Mumbai on July 5. His death is a testament to the determination of the Bharatiya Janata Party to wipe away all traces of dissent in New India. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — It is clear that the NIA is struggling to find evidence against those charged under the UAPA in relation to the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Thus, there is no doubt that Stan Swamy would have eventually been acquitted by the courts. Unfortunately, he breathed his last in a Mumbai hospital away from his loved ones. His imprisonment had broken his body but not his soul. In a letter to a Jesuit colleague from Taloja Central Jail he wrote that even ‘a caged bird can still sing’. The Indian government is sending a strong signal to the activists fighting for the rights of tribal people and other disenfranchised communities — if they continue to defy the government, they will meet a similar fate. As citizens of a democracy we must ask ourselves if we have now become a police State. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Although the United Nations body on human rights has expressed its shock and regret over the death the Stan Swamy, it is too little, too late. While the international body had repeatedly raised the question of the octogenarian’s arrest, it was unable to do anything. The UN must introspect on its failures. Abir Ganguly,Calcutta  Too harsh Sir — The disqualification of the American sprinter, Sha’Carri Richardson, from the Olympics after she tested positive for cannabis has raised questions regarding the fairness of the decision. Marijuana is prohibited under the rules of the Olympics, but it is not a performance-enhancing drug. Richardson, who reportedly took the drug as a way of coping after the death of her mother, has since apologized. But many have argued that the policing of the usage of marijuana is firmly rooted in racism. It is perhaps time for the Olympic Committee to reconsider some of its archaic rules. Konkona Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
08-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The predators||Predation does not obey frontiers. Perhaps that is the principal inference that needs to be drawn from the list compiled by Reporters Sans Frontieres that has brought together, according to the international media watchdog, the “Predators of Press Freedom”. In what is another dubious achievement, the Indian prime minister has found himself among heads of state and governments that are arguably nibbling away — with relish — at the edifice of an independent media. Keeping Narendra Modi company are North Korea’s Kim Jong-un, Iran’s Ali Khamenei, Syria’s Bashar al-Assad, Myanmar’s army general, Min Aung Hlaing, Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, among others. None of these statesmen can claim to have an envious record when it comes to upholding the cause of a free and fierce media. Significantly, the RSF has unveiled the modus operandi of this transgression in the Indian context. Flooding the media ecosystem with false narratives, unleashing a targeted witch-hunt against journalists and activists courageous enough to speak truth to power, the creation of patronizing — complicit — relationships to force owners of media outlets to toe the government’s line, introducing problematic legislations that seek to clip the media’s wings in the name of reform, sustained attacks on the credibility of the media as an institution — Mr Modi, the RSF argues, has a formidable and diverse arsenal at his disposal that has been employed to throttle the fourth estate. The Centre’s response to adverse views is well-known. It is likely to dismiss the allegations, project the criticism as yet another international attempt to tarnish New India, and sing paeans about its commitment to the free press — the Union home minister had vouched for the government’s fidelity to press freedom on National Press Day last year. But data exist that make it difficult to deflect attention from these charges. India’s decline on registers of the autonomy of the media — the 2021 World Press Freedom Index is one example — has been precipitous under Mr Modi’s watch. Worryingly, India is not bucking the international trend in this context. The dawn of the Age of Post-Truth, which has corresponded with the emergence of electoral autocracies, is synonymous with orchestrated attempts to stifle sentinels of truth; the media, ideally, should rank among these. The calamity, then, is not institutional; neither is it limited to specific nation states. What the RSF’s “gallery of grim portraits” reveals is a civilizational crisis the outcome of which remains unknown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
08-07-2021||Opinion||Reimagining embankments||The Sunderbans delta and Bengal’s coastal districts are facing a disaster, once again. Flooding induced by the cyclone, Yaas, facilitated by numerous breaches in the embankments, has severely affected lives and livelihoods in these areas. The delta and the coastal stretch may have survived Aila, Bulbul and Amphan in the past. But Yaas assumed a different significance, lashing the state as it dealt with a health hazard. The adverse effects have already attracted policy attention at the highest level. In this context, there is need for an objective assessment of embankments through the lens of disaster risk-reduction. If one has to build resilience in these perennially risk-prone areas, there must be a paradigmatic shift in embankment management coupled with other vulnerability-reducing interventions. Embankments are among the oldest flood-control measures in flood-prone countries. Findings from international research projects show that embankments are usually the most favoured among flood-risk management options and often create a dependency, which, in turn, results in their continued adherence. India has had a long tryst with embankments. During the colonial period, the need to bring more land under agriculture required reclaiming land and its protection from seasonal flooding. This encouraged the construction of embankments. Over time, there was increasing scepticism among colonial engineers regarding the impact of embankments on the riparian system. However, the post-colonial State continued to promote embankments. Embankments, much like dams and canals, signify the triumph of man over nature. While dams and canals drew their legitimacy from their contribution to food security, embankments were conceived of to protect the fertile floodplains from the vagaries of flooding. In the delta, the embankments became the very basis for human settlement by facilitating the protection of land from the intrusion of saline water. According to the report of the working group on water resources management for the Eleventh Five Year Plan, there are close to 34,000 kilometres of embankment in India that protect some 18.22 million hectares of land. Around 75 per cent of these embankments are located in Assam, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal, with Bengal alone having around 30 per cent of these structures. Between 1953-2010, the total financial damage caused by floods amounted to Rs 18 billion. The expenses incurred on flood-control measures have continued to rise. Much of this money is spent on the construction of new embankments, repairing of existing embankments, and other bank-strengthening activities. Yet, reports of embankment breaches and collapse are quite common. Embankments, like canals, are resource-intensive, bear a strong footprint of the State, and are potential sites for rent-seeking. A lot has been written with respect to canal management. Unfortunately, embankments only receive attention after a disaster. Embankments, as witnessed in the riparian tracts of north Bihar, often become sites for diverse disaster risk. In disaster parlance, the risk is a product of hazard and vulnerability. The hazard itself is one of the risk drivers. Embankments fragment habitations. Some habitations continue to remain on the riverside of the embankment while other — supposedly protected — habitations lie on the countryside of the embankment. There could also be habitation right on top of the embankment. The biophysical vulnerability varies across these habitations. But the people residing in them also command varying degrees of assets. These assets — the very means of production — are drivers of social vulnerability that result in a fragile kind of life and livelihood, which collapse during a calamity. Embankments actually escalate disaster risks by giving a false sense of protection in these vulnerable areas. Embankments as sites for disaster risk are also an outcome of moral hazards. Sometimes, people living on the riverside habitations breach the embankment to reduce their risk of flooding. Influential people in the countryside also breach the embankment in order to direct saline water to their fisheries (bheries). In order to build resilience in flood-prone areas, there is a need to reimagine embankments. Resilience building in such spaces would require capacity-building of the community so that people can anticipate, absorb, adapt, mitigate and transfer the disaster risk. This would require interventions that aim to minimize the occurrence of natural calamities and weaken the factors that create vulnerabilities. There is a need for an interdisciplinary and a participatory understanding of the efficacy of embankments on life and livelihoods of riparian populations as well as for the exploration of a novel State-community partnership in the management of embankments. Examining the feasibility of elevated hazard-proof housing, creating safe water and sanitation facilities, a basket of stable livelihood options and risk insurance should be integral to the policy of reimagining embankments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
08-07-2021||Opinion||A western disturbance||Last Friday, after their commander paid a final courtesy call on the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, the combat troops of the United States of America evacuated their main operational base in Bagram on the outskirts of Kabul. Within a day, British troops and forces from other countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization stationed in different provinces began their own journey out of Afghanistan. As the British defence secretary told the House of Commons on July 5, the American withdrawal had left Britain in a “very difficult position to continue” the mission in Afghanistan that began after the terror attacks on US cities on September 11, 2001. The fallout of the departure of foreign forces that had been stationed in Afghanistan for the past 20 years was immediate. Jubilant over having worsted yet another superpower, the Taliban forces overcame the feeble resistance of the demoralized Afghan National Army. Already in control of more than half of rural Afghanistan, the Taliban are in the process of acquiring control of the regional capitals. There are suggestions that, barring a dramatic turnaround, Kabul may fall to the Taliban in the next six months. In the gloomy assessment of the former president, Hamid Karzai: “Look at the scene. We are in shambles. The country is in conflict. There is immense suffering… Those who came here 20 years ago in the name of fighting extremism and terrorism not only failed to end it but, under their watch, extremism has flourished. That is what I call failure.” As a last-ditch attempt to prevent Afghanistan reverting to the medievalism practised under the rule of Mullah Omar, the authorities have tacitly sanctioned the re-establishment of tribal militias to supplement the ANA, which has been adversely affected by desertions and a string of military failures. However, having disbanded as a military force for at least a decade, the non-Pashtun constituents of the erstwhile Northern Alliance may find that they may have left it too late. It will require the emergence of another charismatic Ahmad Shah Massoud plus a great deal of military resources for the Taliban offensive to be checked in at least half of Afghanistan. As of now, the Taliban are leaving nothing to chance and, indeed, concentrating their military advance on the non-Pashtun areas, thereby pre-empting the resistance. The disarray in the opposition to the Taliban within Afghanistan mirrors the erosion of the global resolve. Apart from India, which held out till the last but without the capacity to do much to bolster the anti-Taliban opposition within the country — New Delhi still lacks any meaningful connect with the Taliban — all the countries of the West, plus Russia and China, have opened their lines of communication with the Taliban, hoping desperately that this version of the Taliban is not going to be a carbon copy of the one forged by Mullah Omar. As of now, there is slim evidence that the Taliban, they are poised to reclaim the lost Emirate, has changed course. The final report of the Afghanistan Study Group released in February 2021 to outline the US’s possible ‘New Approach’ to the Afghan mess after the withdrawal was a case of American policymakers trying to put a gloss on a clear defeat. It took comfort in the assessment — born out of the US-Taliban agreement in Doha — that the “Taliban are not an international terrorist organisation, and there is no evidence that they have any intention to attack the US.” At the same time, it seemed to agree with the report of the Taliban sanctions the monitoring team presented to the Security Council in May 2020 that “Relations between the Taliban, especially the Haqqani network and Al Qaeda remain close, based on friendship, a history of shared struggle, ideological sympathy and intermarriage.” The Study Group report concluded that “This persistent linkage explains, in part, why the Taliban resisted the US demand that they renounce and severe their ties with Al-Qaeda, and instead committed only to ensuring that Al-Qaeda is no longer a threat to the interests of the United States and its allies in areas controlled by the Taliban.” The faith in a ‘reformed’ Taliban that has shed its earlier medievalism and jihadi impulses has occasionally been used to justify the US exit from Afghanistan. The Study Group imagined that the Taliban has “softened” its approach: “While still demanding the removal of the current government and the establishment of a new constitution, the group often refers to an ‘Islamic foundation’ for the state that does not involve a Taliban monopoly of power. This Islamic foundation may countenance greater flexibility on education, health, women’s rights and human rights than was the case in the 1990s, but it would likely entail some restrictions on these rights.” It is noteworthy that the belief in a humane “Islamic foundation” hasn’t found reflection in the organization of life in areas where the Taliban have re-acquired control — at least this is what Western media accounts suggest. Going by the Study Group report and Jo Biden’s evasive non-answer to a pointed question on the withdrawal from Bagram, one conclusion is inescapable: the withdrawal from Afghanistan is a clear admission of defeat. The grim consequences of a renewed civil war in Afghanistan and the possible establishment of an extremist regime committed to theological precepts of unending wars to establish the faith are known and acknowledged by those who committed themselves to the regime change project in 2001. That the determination to do something about it has been replaced by tacit acceptance — as long as it doesn’t affect Europe and the US — is likely to bolster the belief in Islamist circles that the West is morally degenerate and politically vulnerable. Whether this will enhance the internal security of Europe and the US or make it more vulnerable is an issue worth considering. Interestingly, the two big gainers from the departure of the US and Nato forces from Afghanistan are likely to be China and Pakistan. There are reports to suggest that China is anxious to cut a deal with the Taliban, with Pakistan playing a key role. The terms of this understanding would involve the Taliban stopping all material assistance to Muslims in Xinjiang in return for big Chinese investments — through Pakistan — in the mineral industries and infrastructure of Afghanistan, an engagement that would also fill existing gaps in Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative. There are serious implications of recent developments in Afghanistan on India’s national security. First, despite occasional strains in relationship, Pakistan will enjoy a privileged status in Taliban-held Afghanistan. Second, the role that China seeks to play in the economy of Talibanized Afghanistan is certain to enhance Islamabad’s clout in Kabul. Third, in the absence of a common border, there are obvious limitations to India’s capacity to intervene effectively in Afghanistan unless Iran and Tajikistan are on board. During the previous Taliban regime, India offered military and financial assistance to the Northern Alliance and kept alive the resistance movement. Despite the Alliance’s present state of unpreparedness, this strategy will have to be revived. However, on this occasion, it must involve greater coordination with the US and European countries whose willingness to assist anti-Taliban forces is likely to involve a measure of detachment. Finally, India’s capacity to play a role in Baluchistan, the Pashtun belt on both sides of the Durand Line and among the Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras in Afghanistan will necessitate higher levels of information and local expertise. The expertise and commitment that were once the hallmarks of the Indian Political Service is worth replicating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel foundation plans acclimatisation trip for Everest-bound climber||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has planned an acclimatisation trip for Asmita Dorjee who has been selected for next year's Mount Everest expedition. The 37-year-old Jamshedpur-based climber will trek an 18,000-ft plus peak in Garhwal Himalayas in December to tune herself up for the arduous 29,029 ft challenge ahead. Asmita had been making preparations for the Everest expedition at Kaflon, the base camp of the premier adventure outfit, near Uttar Kashi in Uttarakhand. She has come back to her home in the steel city a couple of days back. Sources in the know revealed that selection of the 18,000 ft-plus peak would be made in August-September. "We will be planning our year-long programme, including the summer and winter outdoor leadership programme and Asmita's acclimatisation trip for the Everest expedition in August-September. The Covid-related situation has now improved and we can chalk our list of programmes," one of the sources said on condition of anonymity. The Everest-bound Asmita had been climbing mountains, running and stretching exercises at a height of 4,500 ft above sea level during her preparations in Kaflon. Legendary climber Bachendri Pal had been giving her confidence boosting talks as part of preparations. Asmita, daughter of Sherpa Ang Dorjee who was part of Pal’s Everest expedition in 1984, trained alone at Kaflon by climbing nearby mountains with a load of 20 kg, running and a bit of stretching exercises. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, confirmed the acclimatisation schedule for Asmita. "She needs to acclimatise for the Everest expedition. We have planned a trip to Garhwal Himalayas where she will trek an 18,000 ft-plus peak," he added. According to Gupta, an Everester, an experienced climber from the TSAF stable, would accompany Asmita for the acclimatisation trip. "She (Asmita) would not be preparing under the guidance of Bachendri Pal who will be leading the five month long Fit@50 Plus Women's Trans Himalayan Expedition starting October," he informed. Asmita, a senior instructor at the TSAF, has been part of  summer and winter outdoor expeditions  in the Garhwal Himalayas. She was also one of the members of an all women team comprising employees of Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) which went for an expedition to Kedarkantha (12,500 ft) in Gahwal Himalayan range of Uttarakhand in early March last year. She was also a part of an expedition to Leh-Ladakh organised by TSAF in 2018. So far, 11 TSAF candidates have climbed Mount Everest. They include Bachendri Pal, Premlata Agarwal, Rajender Singh Pal, Binita Soren, Meghlal Mahto, Susen Mahto, amputee Arunima Sinha, Hemant Gupta, Sandeep Tolia, Swarnalata Dalai and Poonam Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents protest rising pollution levels||A group of over two dozen residents of Jharia on Thursday launched a series of agitations, titled Yuddh-pradushan ke viruddh (war against pollution) to protest against the dangerous levels of pollution and lack of insensitivity of the mining company BCCL and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation officials. The group of social activists, environmentalists, former councilors, teachers and school students began the agitation at around 11 am by congregating near the Katras More, one of most polluted traffic squares of the town, and marching upto the BCCL Bastacola area headquarters, Vikash Bhavan. The agitators who were holding brooms and dustpans in their hands also cleaned the thick layer of coal dust and mud deposited on the road side as a  mark of protest against the lack of apathy of authorities towards the pollution taking a toll on the health of common people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Murari Sharma, an octogenarian activist of Jharia who led the march being the senior most among all the protesters, said, “Rampant mining being carried out by coal company BCCL and its private contractors in gross disregard of laid norms, transport of coal in overloaded trucks and lorries are chocking the breath of common residents as people are becoming victim of, allergic rhinitis, asthma, bronchitis, tuberculosis etc.” “The gross disregard towards the norms can be assumed from the fact that large mountains of earth, soil, sand and dust dug out from the ground for coal excavation have been deposited very near to the main road in Jharia endangering the life of lakhs of people passing through the road,” said Sharma who is also the acting president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, a frontal organisation of local residents of Jharia. Environmentalist Akhlaque Ahmad who is also a resident of adjoining locality near Katras More said, “We are continuously raising the issue of pollution with the BCCL authorities for several years and during our talks with the local management of General Manager of Bastacola, Soumen Chatterjee, promises of a whole host of measures were made, including proper washing of the wheels of coal transporting vehicles before coming out of mining areas in order to clear the coal dust layers deposited in wheels.” “Not only this, but the BCCL authorities also promised coal transport in covered vehicles only besides regular water sprinkling on adjoining roads, but all these promises proved hollow as nothing materialised on ground till date,” said Ahmad. Anup Sao, former councilor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia who also participated in the protest on Thursday blamed the civic body, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “None of the steps required for mitigating pollution including the regular operation of dust sweeping machines for cleaning roads, laying of paver blocks on road side and green walling of colonies by carrying out plantation as promised under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) have been implemented by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation leading to the aggravating of pollution situation,” he said and added that they will continue their agitation till the authorities come out of their slumber.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Another Union minister from state won't help us: JMM ||The ruling JMM said it sees no benefit accruing to Jharkhand after Annapurna Devi's induction into the Union council of ministers since the two other MPs from Jharkhand had done precious little for their home state. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, JMM’s spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “While BJP may be elated with the fresh induction, we don’t see anything good for the state. It is because, BJP won 12 out of 14 LS seats in the 2019 elections of which two were already in the ministry. None of the MPs till date took any initiatives to assist state government in terms of coordinating or pressuring the central government to provide our dues, be it pending GST, paucity of funds or other assistances. In that context, even don’t expect anything now either.” Bhattacharjee was referring to Khunti MP Arjun Munda, who is Union minister of tribal affairs, and Tanya Sabha  MP Mukthar Abbas Naqvi,  tasked with the minority affairs department. The JMM spokesperson also found fault with the the BJP's claims about the overhauled ministry.  “While the BJP is publicising it as the youngest-ever cabinet with  many professional/qualified persons, we see it in a different context. BJP’s actual workers and grassroots leaders will never get their due recognition. The reshuffle is yet  another testimony to that,"  he said. He  said, “Annapurna Devi was a borrowed player, who joined the BJP with the  one-point agenda of getting a poll  ticket from Koderma. Similarly, BJP, which made Babulal Marandi its leader of the legislature party, is again an outsider. He joined the party to save his political career after JVM-P’s performance in last assembly elections. The current BJP state president, Deepak Prakash, who is a Rajya Sabha MP,  is also from other party. So is Arjun Mundaji, Sanjay Seth (Ranchi MP) and the like. Where is the place in the party for those who toiled hard for decades to serve the party?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand delves into vaccine stocks of districts to combat shortage in Ranchi||The Jharkhand government directed three districts to part with at least 6,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from their share to Ranchi in a bid to manage the vaccine crisis in the state capital, which according to the Co-Win portal, had only 13 operational sites on Thursday. As per data available on the Co-Win platform, only 449 of the 3,377 vaccination sites were operational on Thursday in Jharkhand. Although the state was yet to release the final data of vaccine doses administered on the day, at least 19,066 residents were inoculated  by 5pm. The data on the Co-Win dashboard, however, was subject to change as updates were sent from different districts till midnight, officials said. Using the power of vaccine redistribution vested upon the state government by the Centre, Ranchi called for stocks from Dumka, Palamau and Sahebganj. Dumka was asked to provide 1,000 Covishield and the same number of Covaxin doses  from its share, a letter from the health department stated. Palamau was directed to provide 750 doses each of Covishield and Covaxin to the state capital, while Sahebganj was asked to give away 1,500 doses of Covishield to Ranchi from its share. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that the state capital was facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and most of the session sites for vaccination here remained non-operational on Thursday. “We have not received the vaccines from Dumka, Palamau and Sahibganj yet. And there is no update on fresh supplies arriving from New Delhi as of now,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the spare vaccines from other districts could only be used for temporary management of the situation and the district would require fresh supplies from the Centre at the earliest. Naman Priyesh Lakra, officer on special duty for Covid-19 vaccination, said that the state was expecting delivery of 1 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday and at least 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield on July 15. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand had 47,210 vaccine doses in stock on Thursday evening. The state has so far received 75,54,340 vaccine doses and used 75,16,008 of them. At least 9,987 doses were wasted, as per government data. This is the second time that Jharkhand is facing  a crisis of vaccines this month. Earlier, on July 1, the state had to cut down on vaccination across 24 districts due to vaccine shortage. On July 2, Jharkhand received around 6 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre. From July 3 to July 6, the state vaccinated at least 1 lakh beneficiaries every day, as per government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three rebels lay down arms in Hazaribagh ||In a first in the district, three rebels of the Communist party of India(Maoist)including two women on Thursday surrendered themselves at Hazaribagh district collectorate. One of the extremists, Usha Kisku, was carrying a reward of Rs 1lakh for capture. Officials termed this a big moment claiming that regular police operations had weakened the outfits in the district and such surrenders had put an end to rebel activities. The three extremists were Usha Kisku, Mamta Santhali also known as Sarita Santhali, residents of Harli Tola in Ango under Ango police station of the district and Nageshwar Ganjhu of Dudhmatia village under Simaria police station. Nageshwar is a native of Hesabar village of Barkagaon block in Hazaribagh district. 19-year-old Mamta has been active in the outfit since 2015. She was wanted in half a dozen cases lodged in Chatra and Hazaribagh. Usha Santhali , 27, joined the child wing of the outfit in 2009. She had lost her mother early and her father was an alcoholic. Maoists took her in promising a better life. She admitted her involvement in around a dozen cases of violence which was the reason why the state government had announced a reward of Rs.1 lakh. She is accused in cases lodged in Hazaribagh and Chatra. Nageshwar, 38, was involved in setting fire to six trucks in Kusumba of Katkamdag. He set ablaze machines involved in construction of Ghaghra Dam. Sources said superintendent of police Karthik S. had convinced the trio to surrender, promising better life and benefits under the surrender policy of the state government. Deputy Commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand, CRPF and Cobra battalion officials welcomed the trio extremists by giving them bouquets. Usha was given a cheque of Rs 1lakh by Karthik. Officials even released a video titled ‘Wapas aao life banao’ to motivate extremists to surrender. According to sources, a total of 22 extremists were in touch with the district police chief while only three surrendered on Thursday. “In the next few days, we are hoping for more such surrenders,” added officials. Karthik termed the surrender as a big achievement, urging others to surrender and join the mainstream. “If not, get ready for tough action,” he warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Showers across Jharkhand signal monsoon revival||The southeast monsoon has revived, resulting in moderate to heavy rain at several places across Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. Pakuria in Pakur district recorded the heaviest rainfall of 82mm followed by Jamshedpur and Lohardaga which since Wednesday evening recorded rainfall of around 60mm. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Bokaro witnessed around 50mm rain while Chaibasa and Chakradharpur in neighbouring West Singhbhum district recorded around 40mm rain. Rajmahal in Sahebganj district and several places in Dumka and Giridih districts recorded over 30mm rain. Met statistics revealed that as many as 15 observatories in different parts of the state recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20mm during the last 24 hours. Four persons died in th state due to lightning strikes on Wednesday evening. The four casualties included two farmers from Godda district and one death each from Deoghar and Pakur district. Weathermen at Ranchi Met Centre said the southwest monsoon revived after remaining in a weak phase for more than week. In its forecast, the Ranchi Met Centre predicted light to moderate thunderstorm activity and heavy rain at isolated places of north-west, southern and central Jharkhand during the next three days. A low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central and adjoining the northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11. This would trigger widespread rain in Jharkhand. Thursday's satellite pictures indicated a trough at mean sea level from northwest Uttar Pradesh to northeast Bay of Bengal across southwest Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal. A weather bulletin issued by Ranchi Met Centre showed a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh at 0.9 km above mean sea level extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of Odisha and  West Bengal  extending upto 4.5km above mean sea level. A north to south trough was also stretched from Jharkhand to north coastal Andhra Pradesh across coastal areas of Odisha and West Bengal to 3.1 Km above mean sea level. During this monsoon, Jharkhand has so far received rainfall of 329 mm against a normal of 276 mm, a surplus of 19 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine shortage leads to chaos at lone coal town centre||A shortage of vaccine doses and the resultant huge rush at the lone operational vaccination centre of the district, the Red Cross society building, caused a huge ruckus which ultimately led to the suspension of operations till further orders. Social distancing norms were flouted at the vaccination centre since the early morning while the beneficiaries and Red Cross society members charged each other for the state of affairs. Aggrieved over the suspension of the vaccination process, some residents sat on Dharna at the centre for some time accusing members of the Red Cross society of gross mismanagement. The chaos began at the centre early in the morning at around 5 am when prospective beneficiaries started reaching much ahead of the scheduled vaccination at 10 am. The situation however aggravated since around 8 am as a tussle broke out between a group who booked their slots through an online process and another standing in a long queue for onsite vaccination, for early vaccination. Notably, as per conventional practice in the district, priority is given to those beneficiaries coming through online slot booking while half of the allotted vaccine is reserved for beneficiaries for onsite vaccination process. As more than 500 people arrived at the centre despite only 180 allotted doses of Covaxin, the situation turned murkier at around 9.30 am with verbal exchanges between the two groups compelling police intervention at the centre to control the situation. Though the members of the Red Cross society brought a large number of chairs to put things in order and announced that vaccination will begin only after everyone takes their respective seats, the continuous arrival of more beneficiaries compelled the authorities to finally suspend the vaccination till further orders. One of the aggrieved people who arrived at the centre and had to return without getting vaccinated said, “I came here at the centre for a second dose of Covaxin after taking leave from office, but was surprised to witness the huge rush at centre and final suspension of vaccination process.” “On one hand Prime Minister, Chief Minister, Health Minister are regularly appealing people to get vaccinated early to ensure the safety of oneself, their family members, community and society at large but on the  other hand the common people are not getting vaccines despite standing in long queues for several hours,” said the beneficiary. Dr Vikash Rana, District reproductive and child health officer (DRCHO) who is also the nodal officer of Covid vaccination said, “We have shortage of vaccination due to which only one centre was operational but huge rush at centre and lack of patience among prospective beneficiaries leading to messy situation compelled us to suspend the vaccination process.” “We are expecting sufficient doses in a day or two after which all centers will be reopened with allotment of sufficient doses,” said Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Vaccination loses momentum as state awaits fresh supplies from Centre  ||The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 lost momentum in Jharkhand on Wednesday owing to a shortage of doses. After vaccinating over 1 lakh beneficiaries daily since the arrival of fresh stock of 6 lakh doses on July 2, the state on Wednesday managed to vaccinate only about 60,000 residents, government data revealed. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to 38,687 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to 19,756 beneficiaries. More than 35,000 beneficiaries inoculated on the day were younger than 45 years. The state had 1,27,570 doses of vaccines in stock after session sites downed their shutters on Wednesday, good to last only one more day, a report from the health department highlighted. However, officials said that fresh supplies may soon reach Jharkhand. At least nine of 24 Jharkhand districts – West Singhbhum, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dhanbad and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 98 Covid recoveries against 75 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 in the state down to 532 on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. However, East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in terms of casualties and caseload, witnessed a spike in the active caseload for the second day in a row as 21 people were found infected by Coronavirus there and 15 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, at least 64 people were battling the viral infection in the district by the end of Wednesday. None of the remaining 23 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid cases so far, reported only five cases against 13 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload here down to 72. The Covid toll remained 5,118 as the state did not report fresh casualties on Wednesday, but the Covid mortality rate in the state remained 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, government data highlighted. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 44,510 residents and around 0.16 per cent of them were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.46 state residents have been infected by novel coronavirus and 98.36 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate of Covid-19 reached 4123.74 days on Wednesday against the national average of 721.86 days, government data highlighted. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.02 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.10 per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
