09-07-2021||Calcutta||The bus route conundrum||It's a cruel paradox. Some routes have buses galore but they are going empty while others have too few buses, and passengers are travelling packed like sardines, flouting every social distancing protocol in the book. Since July 1, the state has lifted restrictions on public transport but a mismatch has ensued and no one is satisfied. Government buses are plying but many private ones are reluctant unless their fares are hiked. Some auto drivers rue lack of passengers while some passengers accuse the drivers of quoting exorbitant fares. Seeking passengers Karunamoyee was beyond recognition on Monday morning. Time was when pedestrians would spill on to the roads during rush hour and the streets would be clogged bumper-to-bumper with buses, cars, autos, rickshaws… But on Monday at 8.45am, the only heavy vehicle at Karunamoyee was a garbage truck. After a long wait, AC 9, a government bus, came from Sector V and waited for passengers while the conductor cried out “Jadavpur, Jadavpur!” several times. There were hardly any takers. In fact, there were hardly any commuters waiting in the first place. “The government has asked us not to let in passengers beyond 50 per cent capacity but we are getting way less than that anyway,” said the conductor. The private AS3 buses have been leaving from New Town bus terminus to Garia ferrying all of five, or even two, passengers. “We are plying just four of our 30 buses,”  said Subrata Naskar, a member of the consortium that runs the fleet. “After last year’s lockdown, people had thronged the streets out of boredom but the second wave has changed their attitude. Previously many labourers would come to work at construction sites in New Town but now even those haven’t reopened.” Most stakeholders felt their fortunes would revive once the local trains started. No space for toehold A diametrically opposite picture, on Monday, was Ultadanga and the Haldiram stoppage at the VIP Road junction of New Town. Buses to Sealdah, Dalhousie and Howrah were few —  no more than one bus in an hour — and they were packed to the rafters. No social distancing was being maintained and no matter how many masks passengers wore, they had no option but to stick to each other with hardly space to breathe. Ila Das, who travels to Dalhousie everyday, was stuck at Ultadanga for almost an hour. “There are no buses. I saw five or six go by on the Bypass route but nothing towards the office para in the city. I have been taking a shuttle for the last couple of weeks but they charge Rs 100. They’re sucking us dry,” she said. Priyajeet Chakraborty, conductor of an electric bus on the Shapoorji-Howrah AC 12 route said they were struggling to maintain distancing. “It's most crowded between Topsia and Dalhousie and we do not stop if the bus is half-full already. If we do stop to let someone off, others force their way in,” he said. Soumen Kauri, driver of an S4 bus from Karunamoyee to Behala, said this was because there were not enough private buses on the street. “We can’t push people out if they have already entered. And how do they get home if there are no buses?” he asks. Mismatched Then again there was a section of commuters that struggled to find a bus — crowded or otherwise. Phoolbagan resident Monalisa Bera said she was petrified of not getting a ride home from her Unitech office in the evening. “There are no buses or autos there at that hour. Last week I had to plead with an auto driver who was ferrying a ‘reserve’ passenger to Tata Medial Center to take me along else I would have been stranded. And how many days can I ask my boss to let me go home early?” she said, waiting at Karunamoyee for a bus to take her to work in the first place. Arunava Pal Choudhury of EC Block no longer has a direct bus route to take him to his Wipro office. “I now have to break journey by auto costing me Rs 80 one way. App cabs are even more expensive. How can we afford such a lifestyle when we have had 30 to 40 per cent salary cuts in the pandemic?” he asks. Empty autos Autos on routes like Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan, Ultadanga-Karunamoyee and Karunamoyee-New Town had few takers on Monday. “I’ve been waiting for 40 minutes with a single passenger seated in my auto. I need three people before I can leave,” said Samares Pyne, a driver on the Karunamoyee-SAI Complex route. “Sector V is as good as dead. None of their employees come to work anymore. We are now dependant on the government office employees around Karunamoyee.” The drivers said they were getting crushed under the ever-rising prices of LPG but that they weren’t raising prices as passengers would protest. “As it is, no one will take autos once private buses return to the streets,” said Raju Porey, a driver on the Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route. Bapi Mondal, on the Karunamoyee-New Town route, said that while they would previously make Rs 500 to 600 a day, they were now struggling to make Rs 300. Fleecing autos “Autos that used to charge Rs 10 before the pandemic and Rs 20 before the second wave are now demanding Rs 50 to ply from Ultadanga to Basiakhi,” lamented a college-goer who lives in the complex. “A ride to CRPF Island — two stops away — would cost Rs 7 or 8 previously and now it costs Rs 15. Autos are fleecing us.” Autos from the Haldiram crossing were charging more than the regular fare and with —  not three but — five passengers aboard! Traffic sergeants turned a blind eye to it all. The usual routes of these autos was to City Centre 2, Eco Park or Hidco Crossing but now they were plying up to Axis Mall, Sector V and even College More as per the passengers' wish, charging Rs 50 to 100 per head. Rising fuel prices The petrol pump opposite City Centre said not a single bus had come to refuel with them since the restrictions lifted. “Government buses have their own fuel stations but we used to cater to private ones. They are all missing now,” said Tapas Mondal, a staff member. “We are the only station in the Salt Lake that provides LPG for autos but again, only 40 per cent of them have returned to the streets, by our estimates.” The soaring prices of diesel is one of multiple reasons why private buses wanted a fare revision before hitting the streets. “Owning a bus is like owning an elephant these days,” says Sourav Sadhukan who owns two buses, including one on the 215A route (Sector V to Howrah) that is not plying yet. “Our bus’s insurances have expired, batteries have died and the seven tyres are spoilt by sitting immobile during the lockdown. To top it all, the bank is calling up every day asking me to pay the next EMI. Even after a fare revision, I will have to shell out tens of thousands of rupees to make the bus road fit.” Bus owners have since agreed amongst themselves to roll out services based on mutually agreed fares to cover their costs. “We, 215A owners, have decided, for instance, to raise the minimum fare from Rs 7 to 10. If fuel prices rise again we shall have to raise the rates again,” says Sadhukan. At present, the 80 buses on the 215A route are lying at the terminus in Sector V. Owners believe they shall start plying from next week, depending on the condition of individual buses. Other ways Till then, the void is being filled in by miscellaneous modes. Md. Wahi started using his van as a shuttle from Karunamoyee to Exide from Monday. “Previously I used to charge Rs 30 for the seven passengers but now it’s Rs 50 for five. But commuters are so few that I’ll leave even if three or four people land up,” he said. Drivers of electricity-run totos do not have to worry about fuel prices but they said they had to replace all four batteries every six months at a cost of some Rs 25,000. “Besides, even if we are on full charge, there are no passengers to ferry,” said Amol Ghosh, who was waiting outside the vaccination centre behind Pride Hotel, in wait for commuters. Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Gyms open doors but in crisis mode||After weeks of lockdown, gyms have started opening up. Enquiries are being made, new membership plans offered but gym rats as well as gym owners have worries at the back of their minds. Earlier this week, two teenagers - Mayur Singh and Arihant Chatterjee — were visiting Anytime Fitness in DD Block to check out the facilities. “We are final-year students of DPS Newtown and till the pandemic, were heavily into basketball, football, cricket and swimming. With hardly any option for outdoor sports now, we are considering joining a gym,” said Mayur, a resident of Sanjeeva Town. But they confessed that their parents were a tad worried about taking an annual membership in case another lockdown gets declared. Fee worry Naved Ali, who runs the EC Bock gym Endorfins, confesses that this is a worry dogging members. “So we are promising them extensions in membership in case more lockdowns get declared,” says Ali. It also helps that their three-storey building is not rented. Since they do not have to pay rent through locked down months, members need not worry about them shutting down. In a township where several gyms have had to close down in recent months, the FitNet Muscle Den chain has taken over another one in CF Block in April. “Our research shows that many people have been searching for gyms in this area and so we took the plunge,” says general manager Prasenjit Sinha. They even offered a 50 per cent discount on a yearly membership days before opening up. “Now we have a 30 per cent discount offer on but have to be careful about the number of people we take in as we cannot allow over-crowding in Covid times either.” Covid protocol Anytime Fitness has an elaborate sanitisation programme in place. “We are fumigating the air, mopping the floor with chemicals, have installed a ‘coronaguard’ machine. When the gym is empty we are switching on UV lights,” says assistant manager, Raja Nandy. Both supposedly disable or kill the virus, he claimed. Endorfins has chosen to keep its spa, jacuzzi, steam bath and even yoga section shut so as to avoid gatherings. BD Gym, that is run by the ward atop BD Market, is encouraging members to wear gloves while using equipment. “We had about 90 members before the lockdown and in the first six days of opening, half of them have rejoined. Most of our members go for monthly payment instead of long-term ones. Our ward coordinator Ratna Bhaumik came down in the initial days to brief staff and members about Covid protocols,” said ward assistant Subhasish Ghosh. Timing trouble The USP of Anytime Fitness, before the pandemic, was that it was open 24 hours a day. Sector V employees with odd work hours are known to have hit the gym even at 2am. “Now the government mandates us to operate only from 6 to 10am and 4 to 8pm,” says Nandy. “The timings are certainly not long enough. Homemakers, for instance, would prefer coming around noon but now we have to shut then,” says Ali of Endorfins. It doesn’t help that many gyms are shut on Sundays. Shutters down Some of the biggest names in the gymming business have closed down during the pandemic. One in GD Block has a padlocked gate and the driveway is strewn with withered leaves. Another one on a DD Block highrise is locked too, with the equipment visible through glass doors. A BE Block building that would house another renowned gym has even removed its nameplate outside. “I shut The Fitlab last year itself. How long could I go on paying rent without any returns,” asks Arunava Nandy, himself a nutritionist and wellness consultant now serving clients online. “I lost Rs 8-9 lakh. I had invested heavily in the interiors of the gym and the expensive equipment had to be done away with in a distress sale.” Arunava does not see a revival in the industry till Covid is completely wiped out. “Before that, I could restart the business but what if there’s another indefinite lockdown?” asks the HA Block resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Remembering former MLA Sultan Singh||Former Trinamul Congress MLA and retired IPS officer Sultan Singh died at a private hospital on the EM Bypass on Sunday. The resident of FE Block was 76 and is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. According to family sources, he had fully recovered from cancer but had a bout of pneumonia last week. He was hospitalised on Friday after a drop in his oxygen level, though his Covid-19 test report came negative. He passed away after a cardiac arrest. Singh was known as a daring police officer and had served in several key posts — as deputy commissioner, headquarters, and south as well as joint commissioner, Calcutta Police. He later became superintendent of police, Murshidabad. But he is best-known as superintendent of police, Howrah, a job for which he was hand-picked. He is credited with breaking a criminal racket in Golabari police station area during his tenure in the district. He joined active politics after his retirement from the police force in 2004 on invitation from Pranab Mukherjee and unsuccessfully contested the 2004 Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket. He later shifted allegiance to the TMC and was elected in the 2011 Assembly elections from Bally. According to family sources, he dissociated himself from politics from 2015 and did not want to contest the 2016 Assembly election. He was made the chairman of the Howrah Improvement Trust thereafter. He attended office regularly till even a month back, after which his health deteriorated. He was a keen golfer and was a good athlete. “He used to run so fast that his colleagues nicknamed him Ghoda Singh. He was very popular in Howrah. Someone who visited us from Bally pointed out that he shared his birthday with Swami Vivekananda, on January 12. Even in death, the date coincides with the death anniversary of the monk,” a family member said. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted in condolence, minister and local MLA Sujit Bose dropped by on Sunday. On Monday, the governor and his wife also visited the bereaved family. Did you know Sultan Singh? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||CJ Block gets place to meet & meditate||The women of CJ Block have been gifted a meditation centre that is as swanky inside as it is serene outside. Named Gautam Buddha Meditation Centre, the single-storied structure was inaugurated in their park, opposite the community hall, on July 4. “Women of CJ Block had been requesting me for this hall for years and I’m happy to finally hand it over to them,” said Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of the corporation, who funded the project from her councillor’s fund while in office. Chakraborty named the centre after the Buddha since he is synonymous with meditation and drew attention to the fact that it was being inaugurated on the death anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. “The monk had died in his meditation,” she said. Also present was Aditi Munshi, the singer who earlier this year won the Rajarhat Gopalpur assembly constituency seat. “Elderly men are still going out to markets during the pandemic but most elderly women are stuck indoors. This is affecting their well-being. By coming to this centre for yoga and meditation, they can look after their physical and mental health,” said Munshi, before singing a couple of devotional songs. Aesthetic and functional The meditation centre is a sight to behold. The facade bears a painting of the Buddha, deep in meditation, seated on a floating lotus with a Himalayan backdrop of coniferous trees and snow. A fibre statue of the enlightened one has also been placed next to the entrance. Another wall of the building bears a painting of the Buddha seated in a waterfall but his look, is unusual. He is shown with long hair and an end of his ochre robe is blowing gracefully in the wind. “The centre has come up on what used to be a pile of garbage. We cleared it out and built the hall as well as a kids’ corner with play equipment next to it,” said Ankit Prahladka of the BB Block-based Manturam Infrastructure that did the construction and finishing. Work on the 2,000sq ft centre had begun last year before the pandemic. Besides a large hall, the centre has a toilet and changing room. “The walls are made of bricks but the top is of fibre tin, to keep costs at a minimum,” said Prahladka. To prevent over-heating during summer they have made a false ceiling too. Besides, the hall is air conditioned. When a banyan tree was coming in the way of the construction, the builders worked around it without felling it. “The building isn’t a perfect square because of this, but it was important to save the tree,” Prahladka said. Planning ahead The happiest are the women of the block who will now get to use the facility. “It’s way more beautiful than we had imagined,” smiled Swapna Saha, a member of CJ Block’s ladies club. Her neighbours Amita Dave and Shanti Agarwal were trying to plan the activities they could now hold here. “The first floor of our community centre would hold yoga classes till before the pandemic but I stopped years ago due to pain in my legs,” said Mohua Majumdar, a senior citizen. “I’m excited to rejoin the classes once they are held on the ground floor here.” Secretary of CJ Block Welfare Association, Rajkumar Ghosh, was happy for the ladies. “While we have a community centre, ventilation is a major problem on the ground floor, he explained. “For adequate air circulation, we have to roll up the shutters of the front gate. How can privacy be maintained thereafter? As for the first floor, the steps are nine inches high and elderly women cannot trek upstairs for yoga class,” he said. The centre would be for the exclusive use of women, although the block ladies said they would consider it if women from other blocks wanted to join them. They were, however, particular about allowing entry only to those who have had both doses of their Covid vaccines. Ghosh said the hall would not be used commercially, the way their ground is rented out for wedding receptions and the like. Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Footbridge frame on Bypass||Commuters crossing the Chingrihata area would have noticed the steel skeleton of a bridge installed overhead. Once ready by the end of the year, this foot over bridge will connect Chingrihata to the Chaulpatty Road, Beleghata, over the EM Bypass. The structure was erected on July 4 after traffic was shut for the night. The work is being carried out by engineers of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). According to a senior CMDA official, the project cost is around Rs 7 crore. On the Salt Lake side, it will connect near the Jal Vayu Vihar housing complex in Salt Lake. The official said there will be escalators as well as stairs to help pedestrians cross over EM Bypass easily. “We decided to install escalators as pedestrians often avoid foot over bridges as they do not want to climb stairs,” said the official. The decision to build the bridge was taken after a bus mowed down two cycle-borne college-goers who were crossing the road near the Chingrihata crossing in 2018. Following the incident, residents of Sukantanagar, where they boys hailed from, and adjoining areas torched five buses and fought a pitched battle with cops using stones and bricks. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said the crossing is one of the busiest ones on the 29km EM Bypass that poses a series of complex problems. “As it is, this area has heavy traffic load throughout the day and night. Moreover, a lot of people who stay in Sukantanagar and Shantinagar, where fresh water supply still poses a problem, cross over to Beleghata to fetch water on foot and bicycles. Most of them don’t adhere to traffic signals,” said the officer. On Wednesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake spotted several men and women crossing the EM Bypass even as cars and bikes whizzed past. A traffic policeman on duty at the intersection said that despite creating bicycle lanes and a designated crossover point near the base of the Salt Lake-bound end of the Chingrihata flyover, few adhered to the norms and people cross the road wherever they please. As of now, the prefabricated landing point and steel steps have been erected on the bank of the Eastern Drainage Canal at the start of the Chaulpatty Road while a similar set up has been completed on the canal-bank in front of the Jal Vayu Vihar. Workers were seen welding together another steel structure. “We will join this structure at the landing base,” a site supervisor said. According to another CMDA engineer, they are using prefabricated steel structures and joints as they last longer than conventional concrete ones. “These are weather-proof and have a life expectancy of more than 50 years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Parlours booked or shut down||It’s been about a week that beauty parlours reopened and most of them are already booked for weeks to come. “There’s a huge rush for treatments, especially repair jobs,” chuckles Jolly Chanda of FE Block’s Satin Rose Salon and Spa. “There are couples who tried to chop one another’s hair and messed up and teenage boys coming in, furious at how their mothers ruined their hair. Many had summoned beauticians from an app to cover their greys and it went awry. These women now have stylish blonde shades at the bottom of their tresses but the top looks like it was coloured with cheap sachet black dye. Clients are now coming in the morning and leaving in the evening after head-to-toe makeovers.” Blame it on wfh Green Trends, in BE Block, is being frequented by more men than women. "Since men wear their hair short, they need a trim every month or it goes wild. But women, in the work-from-home mode, can just tie their hair and put off colouring, straightening, waxing and threading for later,” observes cluster manager, Sourav Bardhan. Azone, a ladies parlour in IA Block, has the same complaint. “The most common treatment now is shaping the eyebrows,” says Asha Rana from behind the counter. “Women are shying away from all other treatments saying they don’t need to keep up appearances as they have no where to go. Even if they go, the face is covered by masks. Frankly, I don't blame them. Faced with job losses and salary cuts, will people eat or dress up?” Safety protocol Not only is Satin Rose ensuring that their clients are vaccinated, but they have also ferried their staff to different health centres to get them vaccinated before opening up. “It would have been awkward if a client challenged if my beautician was inoculated when she wasn't…I wanted none of that and paid for everyone's jabs well in time,” said Jolly. Priscilla Corner, on behalf of the June Tomkyns salons, explains an elaborate protocol they maintain at the entrance itself. “We are asking the client’s Covid history, present condition, offering them disposable footwear, giving masks…. For treatments like facials, when the client has to remove her mask, we, the staff members, are wearing face shields,” says Priscilla. Also, they are taking clients only by appointment. It is because of the pandemic, in fact, that June Tomkyns closed down, or rather, shifted their parlour from The Stadel to a second unit at Silver Arcade on the EM Bypass. “Silver Springs is a stone’s throw away from Salt Lake and our clients have no qualms driving down. With two units under the same roof we have greater control to ensure Covid protocols,” says Priscilla. Business down Salons like AD Block’s The Princess Diary salon have closed down. “The last 18 months have come down heavily on the beauty industry and people have got used to doing things themselves at home,” says proprietor Indrani Saha. “The eyebrow-plucker gadget, for instance, became popular in the markets during the pandemic. People are working from home, there are hardly any get-togethers and so women are spending their days in nighties. Salt Lake clients typically weren’t very young and the 50-plus are hardly stepping out of home now.” Feel good June Tomkyns is booked for weeks ahead and Priscilla says it’s a revelation that despite masks and hair nets, very many people still care about looking good. “I guess they want to look good not to show off to others but to feel good about themselves,” she smiles. Jolly agrees. “The other day a client was complaining that her NRI son saw her on video call and said she was looking weird after a beautician booked through an app had ruined her hair. Despite the death and despair around, the lady wanted to look good. And that’s important for their mental well-being. People want to be well groomed so they can look at the mirror and smile.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdowns: Idle and unpaid, bus driver found dead in Dhakuria||A bus driver in his late 50s was found dead inside his bus in Dhakuria on Thursday morning amid a suspicion of suicide at a time lockdowns and dwindling passengers have devastated the public transport industry. Like many private buses in Calcutta, the bus that Ranjit Das drove had been off the roads since May — first because of pandemic restrictions and later because it didn’t offer viable business to the owner any more. This apparently left the unmarried Ranjit unable to meet the living expenses of his extended family, his employer said. Ranjit had been idle and unpaid since May when the Bengal government stopped public transport to deal with a surge in Covid infections. He didn’t earn anything even after the restrictions were withdrawn from July 1. Most bus owners have decided not to resume service, arguing the government’s restriction of passenger occupancy to 50 per cent of capacity and a simultaneous refusal to hike fares had made the business unprofitable. A few bus owners have hiked fares without government approval. Like hundreds of other private bus drivers, Ranjit struggled to send money to his family — his elder brother, sister-in-law and nephew — at Rajpur, South 24-Parganas. He would spend his nights inside the bus that he once used to drive on the Dhakuria-Howrah route, his employer Somnath Dutta said. Ranjit had been the family’s sole breadwinner since his elder brother lost his job during the pandemic. A private bus driver for over 12 years, Ranjit had six months ago taken up employment with Dutta, driving one of his three buses. “On Wednesday, he asked for Rs 500 and I gave it to him. He used to call me bhaipo (nephew),” Dutta said. “I had arranged for him to have his lunch every day at a local roadside eatery. But possibly he had pressing demands back home.” Ranjit’s colleagues spotted him lying inside the bus near Dhakuria bridge and informed Dutta. The police later took the body away for a post-mortem. “This appears a suicide. The post-mortem report will specify the cause of death,” an officer at Lake police station said. Several bus drivers said that like Ranjit, they had not been at the wheel for a long time, either. “Our employers are unsure (when they might resume plying buses). Will the government allow a fare hike? Will passengers agree to pay enhanced fares?” Alok Mondal said. Private bus drivers like Ranjit have no fixed salaries, their income being a proportion of the day’s sales. “Several bus owners had tried to pay small amounts to the drivers and conductors but most have stopped doing so now. The owners haven’t got the money to pay for anything, not even their EMIs,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Oxygen gifted to sub-divisional hospital on BC Roy’s birthday||Four oxygen concentrators were handed over to the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital on Doctors Day by the Rotary Club of Aarohee Calcutta. “Most oxygen concentrators in the market can produce only five to six litres of oxygen per minute. These are more expensive ones with a flow rate of up to 10 litres per minute, which can otherwise be achieved only through high flow nasal canula,” said hospital superintendent Partha Pratim Guha. The hospital treats post-Covid complications in patients discharged by the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute. “We take them in if they have complications after they test negative for Covid. Often they need high flow oxygen. So these concentrators are really going to be of use in their treatment,” he added. The machines were handed over by president Swapan Basu and project co-ordinator Subrata Munshi of the New Town-based club. “Ours is a new club, chartered only in February. This year we have been advised by Rotary International to work for Covid relief. We have donated another nine concentrators to a Khardah hospital,” said Basu. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose recalled his own Covid experience. “I was the first among the ministers to catch Covid. I was in the ICU (intensive care unit) for nine days. I saw how doctors and nurses were fighting to get us fit. Still some of my colleagues did not make it, like Tamonash Ghosh, who was next to my bed in the ICU.” Referring to the oxygen crisis during the second wave, he lauded the work done by NGOs. Sub-divisional officer Biswajit Panda and inspector in charge of Bidhannagar north police station Somdeb Banerjee were also present at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Call to arms for third wave on Doctors Day||On Doctors’ Day, instead of celebration, there was a renewed pledge to fight and a call to arms ahead of the third wave of Covid-19. “We have to be ready for the third wave. We are working with NGOs in the districts on a platform that we have named Bengal Covid Care Initiative. We are planning to build 100 Covid care facilities comprising a minimum of 10 to 30 beds with oxygen support,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of New Town Forum & News, a residents’ group that had organised a programme at the Eco Park Food Court. There was also a pat on the back in the form of a felicitation for the 35 doctors present, who are all linked to New Town. “All of us, doctors, usually enjoy ourselves on this day but there can be no celebration this time, given the nightmare that we are passing through.” The words of Somnath Chatterjee, director of Suraksha Diagnostics, set the tone of the programme. He lauded the doctors for continuing with their responsibilities as well as making time for the medical camps that the forum held. Chatterjee pointed out that the medical fraternity knew little about Covid-19 during the first wave. “We fought better in the second wave. These 14 months were a trial by fire for the doctors, nurses and phlebotomists. The work pressure was tremendous. Whatever little spare time I had, I simply prayed,” he said. Sanjay Kapoor, deputy director, Tata Medical Center, described Covid as a once-in-a-lifetime challenge. “The nine weeks of the second wave did more harm than nine months of the first wave. The virus will not go away. We have to learn to live with Covid. Last time, we let our guard down too soon. We have to work hard to ensure everyone is vaccinated. Vaccines are not reaching the rural areas or the slums fast enough,” he said, praising the “good work” that has been done in New Town where “every citizen came forward”. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen pointed out that if average life expectancy had increased from 45 years during Independence to 85 years now, the credit should go to the medical fraternity. “Right from birth, we are indebted to doctors even in non-Covid times.” He also praised New Town residents for volunteering at blood donation camps or for cooking meals for Covid patients. “We could provide free meals for Covid-affected senior citizens of New Town without spending any government money, so many had come forward with donations,” he said. Lauding private facilities for working shoulder to shoulder with government medical units in the vaccination drive, he stressed on the need to achieve universal vaccination by December. He admitted that some hesitancy had crept into people’s minds about private vaccine camps after the Debanjan Deb scam. “That’s why the pressure is more on us (NKDA vaccination sites) now,” he said, announcing the commencement of drive-in vaccination at Eco Park gate no. 1 to add to the two other existing centres. Senior consultant paediatrician Soumitra Dutta said the pandemic had shifted the focus of doctors from a search for livelihood to a search for life. Indicating his willingness to serve at odd hours, he said: “Ami modhyoratreo bneche thaki.” Most of the doctors present are already walking the talk, finding time beyond their working hours to serve society. Bratati Bera and Sreetama Sanyal had offered free teleconsultation. Ankita Haldar, a paediatrician, had attended medical camps. “If your child develops conjunctivitis, rash or fever, please consult a doctor,” she said, amid apprehensions of the third wave affecting children. Urologist Tridibes Mandal drives to backward regions, like Minakhan in Basirhat, to provide medical treatment. Public health specialist Pragnajyoti Mukherjee not only provided teleconsultation and attended camps for the underprivileged, but also carried food for his patients. Dental surgeon Priyadarshi Vaibhav teaches biology to underprivileged children who are tutored by NTFN’s education wing. Paediatrician Achintya Sanyal urged for enforcing strict containment to check the spread of infectionto avert the third wave. Internal medicine specialist Rakhi S.D. Sharma expressed anguish that doctors and nurses were becoming fatigued physically and mentally. “It takes me four hours to see 15 patients on a round. Junior doctors, working as senior residents, are bearing an even heavier load, working 14 hours a day. “They are becoming careless. Many are not wearing full PPE (personal protective equipment) even in surroundings where high aerosol is being generated like near patients on high-flow nasal oxygen therapy or ventilator. I see them taking masks off and chatting outside the ICU. If we, doctors, do not maintain Covid protocol, how can we ask others to?” If doctors had offered tuberoses, procured from New Town’s own flower bed at the Biswa Bangla Gate, in memory of their martyred colleagues at the start of the evening, the programme ended on a lighter note, with Sharma’s husband Goutam Dutta Sharma singing Dhitang dhitang bole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town teen bags Diana Award 2021 for social work||Seventeen-year-old Arushi Pant is proof that you’re never too young for social work. The resident of New Town’s Rosedale Garden started Children’s Armour two years ago that, among other achievements, raised over Rs 1 lakh for Covid charity last year and helped raise another Rs 7 lakh worth in cash and kind for cyclone relief. She is also one of the recipients of the Diana Award 2021, declared last week. Established in memory of Princess Diana and conferred by a UK charity to those in the 9-25 year age group for humanitarian efforts. the award was relaunched in 2007 by Gordon Brown, then the UK Prime Minister, and has the support of the House of Windsor. “My parents have always given back to society and these values have been instilled in me since childhood. I want to do my bit too,” says the teenager who worked with the NGO Association for Social Health and Advancement (Asha) in Class VIII and got inspired. “I worked with them on a child protection project and realised I was connecting with them better as I was the same age as them. So I started my own group.” She runs Children’s Armour (CA) with the help of about 40 volunteers, all school students. “I posted about the group on social media and students from other schools started applying. I was strict about the selection and for the core committee chose 10 out of the 50 who had applied. The teams were then divided into graphics, content and outreach, who look to collaborate with others for projects,” she says. Besides volunteers from reputed institutes of Calcutta, they even have a girl from Bangladesh chipping in. A residential student of Pathways World School Aravalli, Gurgaon, Arushi wants to pursue a double major in music and economics. She has been learning western music since she was five and used her talent to raise funds last year. CA had organised online concerts with performances by herself, other musicians, poets and stand-up comedians from across the globe. The week-long shows raised Rs 1.4 lakh, that was donated to the chief minister’s Covid relief fund. The young girl works on youths’ mental health issues and tries to raise awareness among them about topics like trafficking, abuse and child marriage. She’s also adept at meeting business head honchos and seeking corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. “We have recently got Rs 6 lakh that is being used to set up centres across the state to counsel students and their parents to stop school drop-outs,” says Arushi, whose group is now affiliated with Asha. Another project she is highly kicked about is on menstrual health. “A company had given us 200 sanitary pads a few months ago and I was part of the team that went to Ultadanga to distribute them among adolescents,” she recalls. Initially it was awkward. Men in the area were giving them looks and the girls themselves, were taking the pads, hiding them in their dupattas and fleeing the scene. “While they wanted the pads they were too embarrassed about it,” says Arushi. The girl then stopped the distribution, held up some pads in her hand and showed the girls there was no shame in it. “Eventually the girls took their pads out of hiding, even if they weren’t ready to flaunt them. It will take more to change their attitude but such interactions are the way to do it. And it helps if they are spoken to by someone their own age.” How the twelfth grader manages so much alongside schoolwork is anyone’s guess. “Time-management and prioritising are important. I set schedules and stick by them,” says the girl who never procrastinates. “Besides, we always find time for things we like.” Do you have a message for Arushi Pant? Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Management fest goes online||It is not just classes that have gone online in this pandemic season. So have college fests. Techno Main Salt Lake, the Sector V campus of Techno India, is holding its techno-management festival Edge 21 on July 10, 11 and 12 virtually, rather than on its main campus. "Most colleges have not managed to hold a fest since the start of the pandemic. But for a year and half, students are sitting at home. We need to inspire them to innovate,” said Swayam Das, a third year student residing at Falguni Abasan who is in the organising committee. Edge 21, organised by the college’s science and technology club Geekonix, will have 33 events spread across 11 categories. Despite the pandemic, the prize money pool is a robust Rs 4.5 lakh, to be distributed in cash and kind. To encourage online participation, organisers have announced cash awards for the top five in certain events and prizes in kind to the top eight in some others. This is the second time that the fest is being held online. A core group of 11 fourth year students is calling the shots. “We need to increase our reach. Commercial viability of an online event is much less in the sponsors' eyes. We are not getting the usual title sponsors,” said Sayan Roy of BD Block, who is heading the sponsorship committee. Even then, things are better than last July when the fest went online for the first time. “The publicity campaign has to be run virtually but people then were still struggling with video conferences. But now everyone is used to the idea. No sponsor asked me to meet in person,” Sayan added. Another stream of revenue generation is registration fee for participants, ranging from Rs 65 to Rs 30. “Ours is a non-profit initiative. All earnings are ploughed back to the event itself and our social work,” added fest co-convenor Anubhav Talukdar. Workshops on coding, robotics and gaming are held free of registration cost for freshers about two-three months before the fest. “Newcomers have a lot of enthusiasm but not much knowledge. We teach them things that are not part of their syllabus -- coding, programming, web design, software development, cryptography... It helps them get jobs later. We learnt from our seniors too,” said Anubhav, who has returned to his Guwahati home from where he is attending classes online and managing his fest organisational responsibilities. The last batch that spent seven months on campus before lockdown and are now in the second year learnt to make autonomous robots. “The knowledge passed down by seniors is very handy. In last year's fest, we had to make a robot to help people in the pandemic. I made a Social Distance Keeper,” recalled Swayam, who is now part of the robotics division of Geekonix that is organising the robotics contests. “We will hold it over Webex.” Robotics is a key area of interest in the Techno India fest with handsome prize money. “We need to ensure that the designs given to replicate in the contests are doable at home. Also for events like Robot Race and Robot Soccer, participants have to prepare the obstacle course at home using what they have at hand,” said Swayam. Another popular event requires civil engineering skills to design a bridge with popsicle sticks. “The winner is the best design which can take the maximum load. In Edge 19, I had seen designs that could take 40-50kg load. Getting ice cream sticks at home is possible. Participants will design the bridge on Zoom in our virtual presence,” says Swayam. The organisers are trying to leverage the virtual status of the fest to increase reach. “We are trying to go international. Last year, our photography contest got entries from France,” says Anubhav. Bhoomi frontman Soumitra Ray, Olympian shooter Joydeep Karmakar and wildlife photographer Rathika Ramasamy will be the guest speakers this year at Edge Talks, on July 10 at 7pm, July 11 at 6pm and July 12 at 7pm respectively. “One can log in free to our Facebook page to listen to them,” says Swayam. Stand-up comedian Harsh Gujral will perform on July 10 at 8pm. The students of Techno Main Salt Lake do social work under Edge Deeds. “We organise a walk to create awareness about social issues. We spend a day at an orphanage or an old age home, have lunch with the inmates and gift books, food packets, crayons etc. We have even installed a sanitary napkin vending machine in our college,” said Anyesha Halder, who is heading the fest’s member acquisition team. The walk could not take place this year amid the pandemic. “But we did sanitise our college campus and the orphanage Nabatara, where we also distributed masks and sanitisers,” said the IA Block girl. Edge 21 will be inaugurated on its Facebook page on Friday at 4pm. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||MWM Cafe relaunched as Kolkata Streetfood||While pavements of New Town are still largely encroachment-free, this also means there is no phuchkawala or chaatwala parked at every street corner, leave alone a hot tawa sizzling with paratha being pasted over egg yolk for the quintessential kathi roll. The lack of streetfood on the streets has been addressed by an eatery right on the Major Arterial Road. And in case you missed it all these months, it has now been rechristened Kolkata Streetfood. A cosy eatery on the grounds of the Mother’s Wax Museum complex was opened on February 2 with the name MWM Cafe. "But the spirit was missing in the name. So we are rebranding it, including streetfood in the name to highlight the character of the food being served," said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen at the relaunch of the café. The place also has a dedicated entry now with its own signage that catches the eye from the road. The revamped eatery, Sen said, will be what Misti Hub across the road is to connoisseurs of sweets. "Just as you get all varieties of sweets under one roof at Misti Hub, we are bringing the entire range of streetfood here," he added. Thus there are all kinds of rolls, priced Rs 42 to Rs 84, there are streetfood items with roots in other states but relished in the city, like Litti Chokha of Bihar (priced Rs 126) of Momos of Sikkim (Rs 84, vegetarian, or Rs 105, non-vegetarian). Moong Dal Chilla, a north Indian favourite (priced Rs 105) is highly recommended. "We have retained popular items from the earlier menu like Chicken Stew, Mughlai Paratha, Momo and Dahi Vada," said Snehasis Sinha, additional general manager, tourism, Hidco. Chaats and kebabs will be on offer as well. The streetfood character of the menu is evident in the beverage section too, with Nimbu Shikanji and Masala Cola (both Rs 53) making an appearance beside Masala Tea, Lassi and canned soft drinks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal school service commission uploads teachers’ interview list ||The state school service commission on Thursday uploaded on its website a list of candidates who have qualified for interview for the job of teacher at upper primary schools and those who have not, with marks against the name of each. The list was uploaded a day before the high court hears a case to decide the fate of a recruitment process for teachers from Classes VI to VIII. The court had on July 2 asked the commission to come up with a comprehensive list so that those whose names did not feature among the interviewees could be explained why they fell short. Justice Abhijit Ganguly had last week extended an interim stay on recruitment of teachers till July 9 after observing that “apparently… there are irregularities” in drawing up the list. If the court lifts the stay, the commission will come up with another list following the completion of interviews and start recruitment. Hours after the commission came up with the list at noon, a section of candidates assembled in front of the commission’s office in Salt Lake and complained that the new list, too, lacked transparency. The commission has also uploaded a list of the candidates who have been rejected for interviews because they failed to upload documents like the training certificate and academic qualifications by the deadline. Also published is a list of candidates who had written TET in 2016 but did not have any training to function as teacher. An official of the commission said: “We have uploaded details of all the 1,32,000 candidates who had written the test, based on four categories, for the sake of transparency.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Kin blame three Calcutta hospitals for pregnant woman’s death ||The family of a 32-year-old pregnant woman, who died after three city hospitals allegedly did not admit her citing various reasons, has lodged a complaint against them with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. They blamed the hospitals for her death. The commission heard the matter on Thursday but reserved its judgment for a later date. The woman, a doctor herself, developed complications on April 24. She contacted her gynaecologist who advised her to go to a private hospital. The family had reached this hospital around 7.45pm. “The hospital’s officials said they could admit the woman but added that the hospital was filled with Covid patients. This scared the family and they took the woman to another hospital,” said Asim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. The hospital, where the woman’s gynaecologist is attached as a consultant, too refused admission, Banerjee said. The hospital told the commission that the patient “required better infrastructure”. The family then took the woman to another private hospital. This hospital, too, did not begin any treatment for 30 minutes while the patient’s condition kept deteriorating, the family stated in their complaint. “It was then that the family members started to do a Facebook live to highlight their plight. This stirred the hospital’s officials and the emergency doctor took the woman inside. The family said they had reached the hospital around 12.30am. The woman passed away a little after 1am,” Banerjee added. Banerjee said the woman had not booked place for delivery at any hospital. The woman was in the 35th week of her pregnancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Former cop arrested for involvement in ‘fake job racket’||A former Calcutta police constable was among four persons arrested on Wednesday for allegedly promising six youths jobs as home guard against a payment of Rs 35 lakh. One of the four accused, Masud Rana, had allegedly impersonated a deputy superintendent of police of Bengal police to lure the youths. “Another accused, Rabi Murmu, is a former constable of the Calcutta police,” said an officer. Murmu was dismissed in 2012 when he was allegedly caught in connection with a similar job racket. As a part of their racket, the accused men had provided purported appointment letters to the youths, given them khaki berets and belts. They assured them that their joining date was July 8. The six youths, who are from West Midnapore, were brought to Calcutta and stayed in a hotel in Chandni Chowk area for the past few days. “Initially the racketeers were paying for the hotel fare and the food bill. But they had switched off their phones in the last 48 hours arising suspicion among the youths,” said an investigator. The police arrested Rana, Murmu and two of their associates — Subhro Nag Roy, from Gaighata in North 24-Parganas and Paritosh Burman, from Pingla in West Midnapore. The four were booked under sections of cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy. The police said cash Rs 1.85 lakh, incriminating documents like fake identity cards as the DSP in name of Rana, purportedly forged appointment letters for the post of home guards in Bengal police and khaki berets and belts were seized from their possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Twelve held for posing as Amazon workers in Calcutta||A dozen men who were allegedly running a call centre fraudulently posing as representatives of global e-commerce giant Amazon from an office along EM Bypass have been arrested. Police said people would receive a call and hear an automated voice talk about various “offers” available on Amazon. If a person showed interest, the call would be transferred to a “representative of Amazon” who would share a few steps to make the online payment for the purchase. “These youths would introduce themselves as Allen, Peter or Duke and convince the customer to download a software on his or her phone to make the payment. The racketeers would then gain access to the customer’s device by asking them to share a code generated on the device,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Officers of the detective department conducted a raid on a third-floor flat of a building on Chowbhaga Road in Tiljala, off EM Bypass, early on Wednesday and arrested the 12. A CPU, three hard disks, two Wi-Fi routers, an attendance register and some documents were seized. The accused, aged between 20 and 43, are from Tiljala, Topsia, Phoolbagan and Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Lake Town Road and Jessore Road crossing cave-in triggers snarls||A section of the road that leads to Jessore Road from Bangur Avenue caved in at the crossing of Lake Town Road and Jessore Road on Thursday afternoon, a day after the city was lashed with heavy rain. Buses, cars, two-wheelers and autorickshaws crawled as police erected guardrails around the caved-in portion. The section that caved in measured more than six feet in width and was at least three feet deep. “We immediately alerted South Dum Dum Municipality and asked them to send a team for repairs,” an officer of the commissionerate said. A team of labourers and an earthmover arrived at the spot around 12.30pm and started repairs. The labourers first laid a layer of bricks on the caved-in portion, after which the earthmover placed some soil to level it out. “We have done temporary repairs. We will do patchwork repairs at night and we might have to shut down the road for it,” said an official of South Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Demonetisation and lockdown snatch jobs, man soldiers on at 51||A man lost his first job in 2017, amid the slump triggered by the demonetisation. The Covid-19 lockdown robbed him of his second job, a contractual one. At 51, the man started another rigorous job. But now, the soaring fuel prices have crippled his income. He has been working as a delivery executive with an online food aggregator since April, when the price of petrol was around Rs 90 a litre. He rides around 80km every day, the bulk of it between eateries and delivery points in central Calcutta. He lives in Kamarhati, around 13km from Esplanade. The delivery executive earns around Rs 600 every day in commissions and incentives. But a third of the income is spent on petrol every day. He owns a scooter that offers a mileage of around 40km per litre. The price of petrol breached the Rs-100 mark across pumps in Calcutta on Wednesday. The executive has been trying to trim his daily expenses to the extent possible. But he is out on the road from noon to close to midnight and eating outside costs him around Rs 50 every day, which means he is left with around Rs 350 daily. If he works 25 days a month, his earning is Rs 8,750 every month. “At my age, it is not easy to be on the road for such a long time. But I have no other option. Zindagi patri se chhoot gayi hai (My life has got derailed),” he said. He lives in a rented house with his wife and a 15-year-old daughter. His monthly rent and EMI for the two-wheeler — he bought a scooter for his new job — add up to Rs 5,500 per month. The rising prices of groceries and other essential commodities have only aggravated his crisis. He has been forced to discontinue his daughters’ tuitions. The family has rice or roti and one curry for both lunch and dinner, most days of the month. “For the past three years, I have not been able to buy new clothes for my daughter on Id. Earlier, we used to go for movies and eat out at least once a month. I was planning to buy a small flat. Those things seem like a distant dream now,” he said. The delivery executive started working in a leather unit in Howrah in 2006 and rose through the ranks swiftly. When he joined work, his salary was Rs 3,200. When he was laid off, he earned Rs 18,200 a month. At the time of his exit in August 2017, he was given a one-time sum of Rs 1,20,000, which saw the family through the next couple of years, during which he kept looking for jobs. Just around Puja in 2019, he found work as a freelancer. “I had shifts at several units till March 2020,” he said. After the contractor’s cut, he earned Rs 300 every day. But he had no fixed salary and no work meant no pay. By the time the first lockdown started in March 2020, he was jobless again. He joined the food aggregator in April this year. The rise in the price of petrol has come as a lethal blow. He is constantly looking for new orders on his phone. But the surge in the number of delivery executives means he gets limited orders each day, despite being out on the road for a long time. “It is still better when I am riding to pick up or deliver food. Every time I sit idle in between, all sorts of anxiety creep into my head. I keep thinking of the past,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 183 points to close at  52,386||The BSE benchmark Sensex tumbled 183 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and TCS.  The 30-share index ended 182.75 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,386.19. The broader NSE Nifty dropped 38.10 points or 0.24 per cent to close at 15,689.80.  Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by TCS, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel and NTPC were among the gainers.  Domestic equities traded on a weak note mainly led by continued profit-booking in financials, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  However, metals, pharma and realty indices shined, while IT index remained soft after TCS missed earnings estimates, he said, adding that buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks as improved earnings prospect attracted investors' interest.  "While visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, recent uptick in daily caseload and increasing positive rate could be a near term risk as we saw Japan imposing fresh restrictions in Tokyo, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Hong Kong was positive.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.08 per cent to USD 74.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
09-07-2021||Business||Second wave starting to recede, economy performing better: Finance Ministry ||The Finance Ministry on Friday said the economy has started showing signs of revival from the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the back of targeted fiscal relief, monetary policy and a rapid vaccination drive. The broad-based economic relief package, extended to mitigate the second wave, amounted to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. RBI continues with its efforts to calm the nerves of the market and revive sectors with both backward and forward linkages and multiplier effects on growth, the ministry said in its monthly economic review. To stimulate the economy and ease the financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman last month announced eight economic measures amounting to Rs 6.29 lakh crore to provide relief to individuals as well as businesses in the country. Apart from eight relief measures announced in health and other worst affected sectors, Sitharaman announced a stimulus package for the tourism industry, which included five lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charge, once the government resumes issuance. The total financial implication of the scheme will be Rs 100 crore. Resilient tax collections of the central government in the first two months of FY 2020-21 and sustained momentum in capital expenditure, particularly in the road and rail sector, the report said, augurs well for continued economic recovery driven by capital expenditures. The report further added that the recently announced economic relief package was expected to further oil the wheels of the Capex cycle via implementation of the PLI scheme and streamlining of processes for PPP Projects and Asset Monetisation. Consumption sentiment is expected to pick up with further enhancement of employment support under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ANBRY), targeted support to the urban poor through the credit guarantee scheme for on-lending by micro-finance institutions and wider Bharat-Net digitisation coverage, the economic review for June said. Free food-grain and enhanced fertiliser subsidies under the package along with continued MGNREGA implementation, on the other hand, would serve as a cushion for rural demand in the coming quarters, it said. "Maintaining a rapid pace on vaccination and quickly bridging health care infrastructure gaps across both urban and rural areas would emerge as the most sustainable stimulus for durable recovery of the Indian economy," the report added. Going forward, it said, further expansion of vaccination and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour will be a critical safeguard against the emergence of a possible third wave. On high food prices, the report said, healthy monsoon coverage, gradually rising Kharif sowing and unlocking of states is expected to ease food, and thereby headline inflation. However, it said, risks due to global demand-led recovery in commodity prices and input cost pressures remain. About global economic growth, it said this has continued its upward trajectory in June 2021. Falling Covid-19 infections and accelerating vaccinations consolidated US recovery and renewed growth prospects in the Euro Area, it said, adding global trade remained buoyant with an uptick in global commercial flight and port activity, which portends well for Indian exports. However, it said, the resurgence of delta variant infections, firming inflationary pressures, unequal access to vaccination and burgeoning debt levels continue to lend substantial uncertainty to the global economic outlook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
09-07-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. After dropping 340 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 282.08 points or 0.054 per cent lower at 52,286.86 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty dropped 77.75 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,650.15. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, TCS, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Titan were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 485.82 points or 0.92 per cent lower at 52,568.94, while Nifty dropped 151.75 points or 0.96 per cent to 15,727.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 554.92 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look soft due to weak global cues as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. While visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, the recent uptick in daily caseload and increasing positive rate could be a near term risk as we saw Japan imposed fresh restrictions in Tokyo yesterday, he stated. US stocks retreated in overnight trade as the weak tone across global equities on worries about a possible slowdown in recovery due to persistent supply bottlenecks and the spread of the delta variant weighed on sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.04 per cent to USD 74.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Zomato Limited seeks post-issue valuation of Rs 64,365 crore||Zomato Limited is seeking a post-issue valuation of Rs 64,365 crore on a fully diluted basis at the upper end of its public issue price band of Rs 72-76 a piece announced on Thursday. The maiden offer from the online food ordering and delivery platform comprises a fresh issue of Rs 9,000 crore and an offer for sale of Rs 375 crore from existing investor — Info Edge. The public issue opens on July 14 and closes on July 16. Following the public issue, Zomato estimates Rs 15,000 crore will be available with the company which could then be utilised to strengthen its current business and test the waters with new businesses such as grocery delivery and nutraceuticals. According to the disclosed financial results in the prospectus, Zomato posted a total income of Rs 2,118.24 crore for the year ended March  2021. This is lower than Rs 2,742.73 crore a year ago with the first wave of Covid lockdown affecting operations. The losses, however, narrowed to Rs 816.42 crore during 2020-21 compared with Rs 2,385.60 crore in the previous fiscal. “The losses in the business are currently low and, hence, we can continue to invest in the business that we build, both in what we do today and the newer areas which we might explore going forward as well,” Zomato CFO Akshant Goyal said while announcing the company’s IPO. He added that the company expects a revival in the topline with business on a recovery path after the initial impact of Covid pandemic last year and apprehensions around transmission of the virus. “If we take the impact of the first one or two quarters out, business is going well now...and that will reflect in our results going forward,” Goyal said. Earlier this month, Zomato had approached the Competition Commission of India to acquire a 9.3 per cent stake in online grocery start-up Grofers. The estimated investment is around $100 million. “Online grocery in India is nascent now but is growing rapidly. We are experimenting in that space. Once we have full conviction in the business model that works for India in the online grocery context, we will expand in this space,” said Goyal. He added that the investment will give exposure to Zomato in the segment and help build its strategies around it. Kotak Mahindra Capital, Morgan Stanley India and Credit Suisse India are the global coordinators and book running lead managers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||RBI asks banks and financial institutions to use alternative reference rate instead of Libor||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday asked banks and financial institutions to use any widely accepted alternative reference rate (AAR) instead of Libor (London Interbank Offered Rates)  in new financial contracts. In March, the UK’s  Financial Conduct Authority, UK, had announced that all Libor settings would either cease to be provided by any administrator or would no longer be representative. After December, Libor cannot be provided with the pound sterling, euro, swiss franc and Japanese yen settings. In dollar settings, the deadline was June 30, 2023. The RBI has now asked banks and financial institutions to ‘‘cease entering into new financial contracts that reference Libor as a benchmark and instead use any widely accepted alternative reference rate  by December 31, 2021’’. The financial institutions, it suggested, should incorporate robust fallback clauses in all contracts that reference Libor. The RBI has also advised the financial institutions to cease using the Mumbai Interbank Forward Outright Rate (Mifor), a benchmark which references Libor latest by December 31, 2021. In August 2020, the RBI had asked banks to frame a board-approved plan, outlining an assessment of exposures linked to Libor and steps to be taken to address risks arising from the cessation of Libor, including preparation for the adoption of an alternative reference rate. The longer deadline in the dollar settings till June 30, 2023, was meant to ensure the fulfillment of older contracts.Banks and financial institutions should incorporate robust fallback clauses, preferably well before the respective cessation dates, in all financial contracts that reference Libor, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Amazon says 3 lakh sellers joined them in India since January 2020||Global e-commerce major Amazon on Thursday said around 3 lakh sellers have joined the platform in India since January 2020. The platform also saw local shops and offline retailers coming on board as the pandemic pushed them to explore alternative channels. More than 50,000 offline stores have joined the platform. The e-commerce platform has over 7 lakh sellers in the country, according to its 2020 Amazon SMB Impact Report, India. Manish Tiwari, vice-president, Amazon India, said the platform has already achieved $3 billion cumulative exports from India. There is a target to enable exports worth $10 billion from India by 2025. “It took us the first three years to enable the first billion dollars of export. The second billion came in 18 months and the third billion just took 12 months,” he said while announcing the Amazon Digital Kendra in Gujarat on Thursday. Amazon Digital Kendra is a physical resource centre that will provide small and medium enterprises access to third-party services, ranging from training on benefits of e-commerce, cataloguing to shipping, logistics and GST and taxation support. Amazon on  Thursday announced that its annual prime day sale will be held on July 26-27 during which there will be launches from top brands and small and medium businesses. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it will hear on July 20 the Amazon plea against the Delhi high court verdict which stayed the directive by its single-judge and paved the way for the multi-billion dollar deal to amalgamate Future Retail Ltd with Reliance Retail. A bench of Justices R. F. Nariman, K. M. Joseph and B. R. Gavai was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, that a Singapore tribunal will begin hearing on the issue from July 12 and requested that the proceedings on the appeals be adjourned for a week. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanian, appearing for Amazon, said he had no problem if the hearing on the appeals was adjourned by a week, as they will be busy next week before the tribunal. The bench then posted the matter for further hearing on July 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Central Board of Direct Taxes notifies Rule 8AC regarding computation of short-term capital gains||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has notified Rule 8AC regarding computation of short-term capital gains where companies have claimed depreciation on goodwill from April 2020 till now. The budget this year has said depreciation and, hence, relief cannot be claimed on goodwill from this fiscal. Relief claimed for the last fiscal will be taxed. The CBDT has notified the Income tax Amendment (19th Amendment) Rules, 2021 which seeks to amend Income-tax Rules,1962 Rule 8AC in respect of computation of short term capital gains and written down value under Section 50 where depreciation on goodwill has been obtained. The notification said capital gains for the purposes of goodwill shall be the excess of the written down value of the block of assets at the beginning of the relevant year and the actual cost of any asset (goodwill). Such excess shall be deemed to be the capital gains arising from the transfer of short-term capital assets. Further, where the goodwill is the only asset in the block of asset for which depreciation was obtained by the assessee in the assessment year beginning on the 1st day of April, 2020, and the block of asset ceases to exist on account of transfer, there will not be any capital gains or loss on account of the block of asset having ceased to exist. Lastly, capital gains on transfer of goodwill shall be computed in accordance with the normal provisions of the income tax law, it said. Aravind Srivatsan, Partner & Tax Leader, Nangia Andersen LLP, said, “India Inc has witnessed a record number of M&A deals and emergence of Indian unicorns with intangibles fetching substantial value. Transactions done in the past five years in sectors such as pharma, lifesciences, startups lining for IPO would have to closely evaluated. Companies where the goodwill has not been substantially depreciated by April’ 2020, need to immediately quantify their tax impact.” “The impact for such corporate houses is that now short term capital gain taxes need to be computed and be paid before filing of return of income for FY 202021. Further corporate houses who have not opted for the lower tax rate regime should also closely evaluate the financial impact of this rule change,” Srivatsan said. “Companies shall, therefore, have to reassess their tax liabilities for the assessment year 202122 by ignoring depreciation on goodwill... in case such depreciated cost of goodwill formed a substantial part of the block of assets to the extent that it exceeded the written down value of the residual block of assets itself, they may also be subject to short term capital gains tax on such excess,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner at J Sagar Associates, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds net inflows plunge 40% over preceding month||Equity mutual funds witnessed net inflows for the fourth straight month in June but they plunged 40 per cent over the preceding month to Rs 5,988.17 crore as investors resorted to profit booking on the back of the recent stock market rally. Equity mutual funds had witnessed a net inflow of Rs 10,083 crore in May, the highest infusion in 14 months. “Consistent equity inflows indicate positive sentiment among investors as the economy is opening up and vaccination drives are going reasonably well. However, the decline on a month-on-month basis could be attributed to profit booking  as well as pressure on household savings during recent lockdowns,” said Mohit Nigam, head, PMS-Hem Securities. Investors continued to invest in pure equity schemes, resulting in positive net sales of almost Rs 6,000 crore. However, this is slightly lower than last month because of higher redemptions. “The trend surely is in favour of the Indian equities by domestic investors,” said Akhil Chaturvedi, associate director, head of sales & distribution at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business|| Delhi HC tells Centre to take action against Twitter Inc for any breach of new IT Rules||The Delhi high court on Thursday told the Centre it was free to take action against Twitter Inc in case of any breach of the new IT Rules and that no interim protection was granted even as the new IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. Locked in a standoff with the central government over the new information technology (IT) rules, Twitter Inc, meanwhile, informed the high court that it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer, who is a resident of India, and said it will make an “endeavour” to fill the regular position within eight weeks according to the rules. The court granted two weeks time to the microblogging platform to file an affidavit, notarised in the United States, in compliance with the new rules. “It is made clear that since this court has not passed any interim order, this court has granted time to Respondent No 2 (Twitter Inc) to file an affidavit, no protection is granted. It is open to Centre to take action against Respondent 2 in the case of any breach of the rules”, a bench of justice Rekha Palli said while listing the matter for further hearing on July 28. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court it was not seeking any protection either. “The consequence (of non-compliance) is that the protection to intermediaries falls off. I’m not seeking any protection,” he said. Vaishnaw while responding to a question by reporters on the issue of Twitter not adhering to the IT rules said whosoever lives and works in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. The US-based company has been in the eye of a storm over its alleged failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, which mandates, among other requirements, the appointment of three key personnel — chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer — by social media platforms with over 50 lakh users. All the three personnel have to be residents in India. While the rules came into effect on May 26, Twitter is yet to adhere to the social media guidelines, despite repeated reminders from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services reports 3.9% increase in revenue and net profit of Rs 9,008 crore||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) reported a 3.9 per cent increase in revenue in the period ended June 30, on a trailing quarter basis, and a net profit of Rs 9,008 crore but both numbers fell far short of the Street’s estimates despite a strong performance by all verticals in its core markets. ‘‘We did not anticipate the viciousness of the Covid second wave in India,’’ Rajesh Gopinathan, managing director and chief executive officer at TCS, said in a post-earnings videoconference. ‘‘We lost Rs 350 crore in revenue due to the impact of Covid during the quarter. We have seen some stabilisation and recovery by the end of June. If the Covid situation continues to improve in India, there is no doubt we will bounce back in Q2,’’ he said. Net profits for the quarter ended June 2021 came in at Rs 9,008 crore against Rs 7,008 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the company to report net profits in the range of Rs 9,200-9,500 crore. The revenue in dollar terms stood at $6,154 million. In rupee terms, TCS reported a revenue of Rs 45,411 crore against Rs 38,322 crore in the year-ago period. Gopinathan said the company was confident of achieving double-digit revenue growth during this fiscal. The lifesciences and healthcare vertical led the show showing a sequential rise of 7.3 per cent and a year-on-year growth of 25.4 per cent. In terms of geographies, growth was led by North America at almost 16 per cent, followed by the UK at 16.3 per cent over the year-ago period, even as continental Europe saw a rise of 19.7 per cent. In India, the company reported a 14 per cent fall in revenue in sequential terms. Margins at TCS also softened because of the salary hikes in April. The operating margins came down to 25.5 per cent from 26.8 per cent in the preceding three months. TCS also reported its highest ever quarterly net headcount addition of 20,409, taking its workforce to 509,058. Another positive highlight was the strong TCV (total contract value) of $8.1 billion during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||India||BJP's Pragya Thakur 'too ill' to appear in court, seen dancing at wedding||Two recent viral videos of BJP MP Pragya Thakur – one her slam dunk on a basketball court and another of her dancing at a wedding she helped organise – have drawn comments from the Congress on her who has begged off court appearances in the Malegaon blasts case citing ill health, reports ndtv.com. The latest video is from a twin wedding - held at the MP's Bhopal residence - of young women from very poor families. Pragya Thakur, 51, is seen shaking a leg at the celebration and asking people to join in. The brides told reporters that they were "very happy" and felt blessed, reports ndtv.com. One of the brides father, who is a daily-wage worker, said he was grateful to the Bhopal MP as he didn't have the means to organise his daughter's wedding. "I feel like I have been given a second life. I am very poor. I did not have enough to marry my daughters. But Pragya Thakur helped us. I pray to mother goddess for her long life. I am very happy and grateful," he told reporters. As reported by ndtv.com, the dancing video provoked sarcasm from Congress leader Narendra Saluja. "Whenever we see the Bhopal MP, sister Pragya Thakur, play basketball and walking without support or dancing happily like this, it makes us happy...?" - tweeted Mr Saluja, who is a Congress spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh. On July 1, Mr Saluja had shared a video of Pragya Thakur shooting a basket and had written: "We had only just seen Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur in a wheelchair but today, we feel very happy to see her trying her hand at basketball at the Bhopal stadium...So far we knew she couldn't walk or even stand properly because of an injury...? May god always keep her healthy..." Pragya Thakur is an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blasts and is out on bail. She was in jail for nine years before she was granted bail in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Heat wave conditions relent in North India, monsoon in sight||Northwest India witnessed a dip in temperatures on Friday after almost a week of heat wave conditions but high humidity led to discomfort as the monsoon continued to play truant in the region. The India Meteorological Department, however, said conditions are favourable for the arrival of monsoon rains in Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan within a day. Places in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand started receiving light to moderate rain from Friday itself, it said. Humid conditions prevailed in Delhi as it recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius. The city has experienced four 'heat wave days' this month -- on July 1 with a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, July 2 at a high of 41.3 degrees Celsius, July 7 when the mercury soared to 42.6 degrees Celsius and on July 8 with the maximum reaching 41.8 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the relative humidity in the national capital oscillated between 89 per cent and 49 per cent. In neighbouring Gurgaon, the maximum temperature was recorded at 39.7 degrees Celsius while Noida in Uttar Pradesh registered a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius. Hot weather conditions persisted in Punjab and Haryana on Friday even as a few places received rainfall. Narnaul in Haryana recorded its maximum at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above the normal. Among other places in the state, Hisar recorded a high of 41.1 degrees Celsius while Karnal, which received 32 mm of rainfall, registered its maximum temperature of 34.8 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperatures in Punjab's Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 36.7, 35.7 and 35.6 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana and Patiala witnessed rainfall of 0.6 mm and 7.9 mm. Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states received light rains in the morning and registered a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Monsoon winds have started setting in some parts of Rajasthan, with Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner and Churu districts of Bikaner division witnessing rain and dust storm on Friday. The weather department has forecast good rainfall in the coming days in various parts of the state. Most places in the state will receive rainfall on Saturday when the monsoon is likely to become active in parts of Kota, Jaipur Udaipur, Bharatpur, Ajmer divisions. Ahead of the arrival of rains, most places in the state reeled under heat and high humidity. Sriganganagar recorded its maximum temperature at 42.6 degrees Celsius, Bikaner at 42.3 degrees Celsius, and Churu at 42.6 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rain and thundershower occurred at a few places in Uttar Pradesh even as some isolated parts of the state experienced heat wave conditions. Agra recorded the highest maximum temperature in the state at 42.3 degrees Celsius while the day temperatures fell in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly and Jhansi divisions. Rainfall also occurred in isolated places of Uttarakhand as the maximum temperatures remained above normal both in the plains and the hills. State capital Dehradun registered the highest maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius. Even though the monsoon has eluded northwest India so far, it has been vigorous over Tamil Nadu and other parts of south India. Rainfall occurred at most places in Kerala, Lakshadweep area, coastal Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry, and at isolated parts of Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh. According to the IMD, a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring widespread rainfall in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha in the next five days. Due to further strengthening of southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and likely formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity is very likely along the west coast and adjoining Peninsular India, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Jaishankar holds 'productive' talks on nuclear, space and defence cooperation with Russian counterpart||India's "time-tested and trust-based" relationship remains very strong and continues to grow, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday as he held "productive" talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov to step up bilateral cooperation on space, nuclear, energy and defence sectors.  Jaishankar, who is here on a three-day visit, also discussed global and regional issues like the situation in Afghanistan, Iran and Syria.  He said the two leaders "made good progress" as part of preparations for the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin later this year.  "I would say the talks were as always very warm, comfortable, comprehensive and productive," Jaishankar said.  He said his talks with Lavrov showed that "despite the fact that so many things are changing in our world both before and as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our time-tested and trust-based relationship is very much not just in place but remains very strong, continues to grow."  Jaishanakar expressed appreciation for the support India got from Russia during the second wave of the Covid pandemic this year.  India, he said, has always seen its relationship with Russia as a contribution to global peace, security and stability.  "I think what makes our working together so natural and comfortable is our belief in a multipolar global order. We consider that to be a reflection of a very natural and inevitable process of evolution of inter-state relations in the 21st century," he added.  He said his bilateral talks with Lavrov focused on reviewing the progress in different dimensions of their broad-ranging cooperation.  "We have actually made very good progress even though for the last one year a lot of this has been through virtual contacts and I can assure you that when the Annual Bilateral Summit takes place this year, the development, the progress in our cooperation will be very much on display before all of you.  "A new dimension that has been added to our relationship of course is the agreement to hold the 2+2 Dialogue of Foreign and Defence Ministers. We felt that we should do that sometime as per mutual convenience this year. Otherwise, I can say we are very satisfied with the all-round development of our relations," he said.  A lot of our cooperation is focused on the nuclear, space, energy and defence sectors, he said.  "The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant project is on track and you heard Foreign Minister Lavrov tell you that the concrete first pour for Unit 5 has taken place. Space again has both practical and I would say symbolic importance for our relationship," Jaishankar said.  Russia has been India's "original and strongest partner" on the space sector, he said.  "The energy cooperation between us has grown very significantly in the last few years reflected both in new potential investments and long term commitments which we have agreed to in the field of oil and gas," Jaishankar said.  "Our defence military-technical cooperation but I would say even industrial collaboration today has been strengthened by Russian interest in the 'Make in India' programme, which is very visible."  They also discussed greater inter-regional cooperation particularly with the Russian Far East region.  "We spoke about how we could take that forward, there are some agreements which have to be signed, I think we have made some progress there. We discussed connectivity, especially the North-South Corridor... the Chennai-Vladivostok Eastern Maritime Corridor as well.  He shared with Lavrov India's plan and ideas when the country will hold the Presidency of the Security Council in August.  "We obviously value Russian participation and cooperation. ...We've worked very cooperatively and positively, so the strength of our strategic partnership is expressed today when it comes to deliberations in the UN," he said.  The two leaders also discussed their cooperation in BRICS and the RIC.  India is currently the chair of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) and also of the RIC (Russia, India and China).  "We have common membership of G-20, of ASEAN led forums, SCO and CICA. We have an SCO Foreign ministers' meeting coming up very soon," he said.  They also discussed the situation in Afghanistan where Taliban militants have seized dozens of districts in recent weeks and are now thought to control about a third of the country, ahead of the complete withdrawal of US and Western troops from the war-torn country.  "The situation in Afghanistan occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security. We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan," Jaishankar said.  "It is important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we've seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan," he added.  They also discussed the situation in Syria, the Iran issue and Libya.  "We have both long standing interests in the region. We believe that peace and stability in such a sensitive region is very very important for global interest," he said.  Jaishanakr also shared his viewpoint on the Indo-Pacific, a region which has seen aggressive behaviour from China.  "We of course because of our larger geopolitical compatibility with Russia, we see a more active Russian presence and participation in the region as something very very important," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
09-07-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope: Delhi HC||Favouring the introduction of Uniform Civil Code (UCC), the Delhi High Court has said the Indian youth need not be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws in relation to marriage and divorce. The modern Indian society was gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating and thus UCC ought not to remain a mere hope , Justice Prathiba M Singh stated in an order dated July 7. The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce," the order said. While referring to several decisions of the Supreme court on the need for UCC, including the historical Shah Bano case of 1985, the high court said: "The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope. In the Shah Bano case, the apex court had said that a common civil code would help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to laws having conflicting ideologies. It had also observed that the State was charged with the duty of securing UCC for the citizens of the country. The high court observed that the need for UCC was reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court, however, it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date . It directed that a copy of the order be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate. The court was dealing as to whether the marriage between the parties who belonged to the Meena community were excluded from the ambit of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (HMA). When the husband sought divorce, the wife contended that HMA did not apply to them as Meena community was a notified Scheduled Tribe in Rajasthan. The court rejected the wife's stand and said that cases like the present one highlight the need for such a Code - 'common to all', which would enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession etc. It recorded that since inception of the litigation, both parties have pleaded that their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rites and ceremonies and they follow Hindu customs. The same, the court noted, as reflected in several documents including the marriage invitation and complaint filed under domestic violence act. The court said that although there was no definition of Hindu, the Supreme Court has held that if members of Tribes are Hinduised, HMA would be applicable to them. Codified statutes and laws provide for various protections to parties against any unregulated practices from being adopted. In this day and age, relegating parties to customary Courts when they themselves admit that they are following Hindu customs and traditions would be antithetical to the purpose behind enacting a statute like the HMA, 1955, the court opined. The court also stated that there nothing was placed before it to show that the Meena community Tribe has a specialised Court with proper procedures to deal with these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||UP block panchayat chief polls: 349 candidates declared elected unopposed||As many as 349 candidates for the block panchayat chief polls in Uttar Pradesh were declared elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers. Now, the elections will be held for 476 posts on Saturday. In a statement, State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said 1,778 nomination papers were received for 825 posts of the block panchayat chief, of which 68 were cancelled and 187 withdrawn. As a result, now 1,710 candidates will go into the elections on Saturday, he said. Kumar said the polling will be held from 11 am to 3 pm and the counting will take place after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court dismisses Chirag Paswan's plea challenging decision to recognise Paras as leader of LJP in Lok Sabha||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by leader of one of the factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Chirag Pawan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it was without merits. It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker, the high court said. I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed, Justice Rekha Palli said. The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request was made by his counsel. The petition sought setting aside speaker's June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as leader of Jan Lokshakti Party in the Lok Sabha. Paras, who was administered the oath of office as Union cabinet minister on July 7, has spent the larger part of his career under the shadow of his late brother Ram Vilas Paswan. During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard. Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and also approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, he said. However, the speaker has not corrected the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, the counsel argued. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar for the speaker's office vehemently opposed the petition saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court. They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with. The apex court said it was inclined to agree with the submissions of the counsel for the Centre and the Speaker's office. The judge said, Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call, I will then pass an order by making some observations. Chirag's counsel submitted he was not here to settle the inter-party dispute and the chief whip cannot claim that he should be declared as leader of the party in the House. The high court, however, made it clear that it was not going to entertain the petition and said should the court interfere in all this. Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and also tweeted in Hindi saying that he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker's initial decision recognising party's expelled Member of Parliament Pashupati Paras Jee as the leader of the party in the House. The plea said the review of the decision is pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court. It sought direction to that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House. Change of leader in Lok Sabha is prerogative of particular party and in the present case, Article 26 of the Constitution of the petitioner no. 2 (party) provide that central parliamentary board will decide who would be leader, chief whip, etc. in the house or in assembly, the plea said. It added, the entire action of respondent no. 1 is contrary to rules of lok Sabha, procedure, practice, provision of constitution of petitioner no. 2, and oppose to principle of natural justice. Paras, who previously headed Lok Janshakti Party's Bihar unit and is currently the national president of its breakaway faction, began his innings in 1978 as a Janata Party MLA from Alauli in his native Khagaria district, a seat formerly represented by the late Ram Vilas Paswan. A cornered Chirag, who has challenged his uncle's political coup before the Election Commission, seemed to have sensed the writing on the wall when at a press conference in Patna on Tuesday he declared he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to induct Paras on the LJP quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Bombay High Court assigns first task to Jyotiraditya Scindia||The Bombay High Court said on Friday that the Union government must come up with a uniform policy to name airports across the country and the new civil aviation minister should give top priority to this task. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL, said the new civil aviation minister (Jyotiraditya Scindia) must consider formulation of such a policy as his "first task." The bench said it could not allow instances such as the one from last month in Navi Mumbai, when around 25,000 people organised a rally in defiance of COVID-19 protocols to demand that the upcoming airport in the satellite city be named after a local leader who fought for the rights of Project Affected People. On June 24, thousands of people from local agri and fishing communities along with some politicians staged a protest to press for their demand to name the international airport in Navi Mumbai after late activist and parliamentarian D B Patil. Earlier last month, the Maharashtra government and state-run town planning agency CIDCO had announced to name the greenfield airport after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray. The HC noted that a draft policy had been formulated in 2016 to name airports after cities and not individuals. However, the current status of such policy was not known, it said. "We would like to know the present position of draft policy? Over this issue of naming (of airports), we took the state government to task last month as there was a gathering violating COVID-19 protocols with nearly 25000 people. Why should we allow this?" the HC said to the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh. "If there is a new policy still in the draft stage, get it done now. You have a new set of ministers now. Let this be the work of the new aviation ministry. It should be the first task of the new aviation minister," it said. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Filji Frederick seeking directions to the Centre to frame a uniform policy for naming and renaming of airports. The petitioner sought directions to the Centre to not act upon proposals sent by state governments for naming airports, including the one coming up at Navi Mumbai, until a policy is framed. The HC directed ASG Singh to take instructions on the issue and posted the PIL for further hearing on July 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Lambda variant not found in India yet, says Centre||No case of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been found in India so far, the government said on Friday. Responding to a question at a press briefing, joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) is closely monitoring the variant. "Lambda was the seventh variant of interest identified by the WHO (World Health Organisation) on June 14 and it has been detected in 25 countries," he said. "In our country, no cases have been reported and INSACOG is monitoring it and we are watchful. In Peru, 80 per cent infections were from this variant. It has also been found in South American countries and also in the UK and European countries, and any public health impact will be monitored," Agarwal said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the Lambda variant is a variant of interest so its total significance is still being explored. "As far as we know it has not entered our country, we have not detected this variant in our country. Our surveillance system INSACOG is very effective and it will detect it if it happens to enter our country because when you do sequencing, all this will be picked up. So we should watch for that," he said. Paul said the Lambda strain is a variant of interest which means its public health significance is being watched but it has not been proven for excessive transmissibility, for impact on excess severity or any other public health issues like those related to vaccines. "We should be watchful for these variants because the virus is under pressure and when it goes under pressure then it tends to pick up characteristics that tend to help it in survival but as of now we should be watching such variants for their presence in our country but as of now we have no evidence that this has been detected in any part of our country," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Central team rushed to Kerala to monitor Zika virus situation||A six-member central team of experts has been dispatched to Kerala to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in management of cases, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The southern state has so far reported 14 cases of Zika virus. It has been put on alert. At a press conference here, joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said, "There are some Zika cases which have been reported from Kerala. To monitor the situation and to support the state government, a six-member team comprising public health experts, vector-borne disease experts and clinicians from AIIMS has already been issued instructions to reach there and support the state government in terms of management of Zika there." A 24-year-old pregnant woman was the first to have been diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease on Thursday. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) confirmed 13 more cases on Friday, according to the state government. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue and they include fever, rashes and joint pain. Kerala Health Minister Veena George has said that an action plan has been drawn up to control the spread of Zika.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Modi government mitigated importance of ED & CBI, says Congress||The Narendra Modi government and the BJP have reduced the importance of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged on Friday. He also hit out at the Centre saying that although it has newly created a separate Co-operation Ministry, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who has been given its additional charge, does not know anything about the co-operation movement. Addressing a press conference here, Patole said, "ED and CBI are the country's topmost investigative agencies, but the Modi government and the BJP have turned them inconsequential. Nobody bothers about them now. Their importance has been reduced by the central government. He said that TMC leader Mukul Roy, who was also under the ED's scanner, was termed as clean after he joined the BJP, while those who are in other parties were called as corrupt. Roy, who had joined the BJP a few years back, returned to the Trinamool Congress recently. Patole also targeted the Centre over various issues, including fuel price rise and unemployment. "We (Congress) have launched a statewide agitation against the price rise and the destructive agenda of the Modi government. The agitations will go on till July 17, he said. Speaking on the pending election of Maharashtra Assembly Speaker, he said, Conducting the monsoon session was important, but considering the pandemic situation it was also important to keep it short. Hence it was not possible to conduct the election in a short period. He, however, said that the election for the speaker's post will be held during a special session of the legislature soon. "The Maharashtra government has decided to introduce three bills in the assembly related to agriculture, co-operation, and food and civil supplies. We are also seeking inputs from the stakeholder like farmers. Once we get those inputs, we will have to have a special session and we can hold the speaker's election at that time," he added. The monsoon session of the state legislature was held for two days earlier this week. Before the expansion and reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, the Modi government created a separate ministry for co-operation. Talking about it, Patole alleged, The central government is ready to sell the country now. They have announced to privatize most of the public sector units. I cannot comment on what the Ministry of Co-operation will do. But the person who is heading it (Amit Shah) knows nothing about the co-operation movement. It can be a move to destroy the co-operation sector or they may have some other aim. Only time will tell what they are have in mind."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Maharashtra, Kerala reported more than half of India's cases last week, says Centre||Maharashtra and Kerala recorded more than half of the Covid-19 cases registered in India last week, the Centre said on Friday as it stressed that the pandemic is far from over and there is no room for complacency. In a press conference, a senior official said, "The country is still dealing with the second wave and we need to introspect if we can afford misplaced belief that Covid-19 is over." The government said visuals from tourist spots and the way people are mingling without following Covid protocols is "a serious cause of concern" and that such negligence will increase the risk of virus spread. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal referred to recent spikes in cases in some countries, including Russia and the UK, to caution people against lowering their guard. He pitched for strictly following Covid-19 protocols such as wearing of mask and maintaining of physical distancing. He said more than half of the Covid-19 cases reported in India last week were from two states -- Maharashtra (21 per cent) and Kerala (32 per cent) -- and stressed on following containment measures. The official said 80 per cent of the new Covid cases in India are reported from 90 districts in 15 states and union territories, which indicates the need for focussed attention in these areas. He also said 66 districts across 17 states and UTs reported Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending July 8. India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said Covid-19 in pregnant women can increase certain risks like pre-term delivery, that is why it is important for them to take the vaccine. The government also said that no cases with the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 had been found in India so far. Responding to a question at a press briefing, joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was closely monitoring the variant. Paul said the Lambda variant was a variant of interest,  so its total significance was still being explored. "As far as we know it has not entered our country, we have not detected this variant in our country. Our surveillance system INSACOG is very effective and it will detect it if it happens to enter our country because when you do sequencing, all this will be picked up. So we should watch for that," he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Former Mumbai top cop summoned by ED in money laundering case||The ED is soon expected to question and record the statement of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in a money laundering case linked to his allegation of a Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket in the state police establishment that led to the resignation of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Friday. They said 59-year-old Singh has been issued summons to appear before the investigating officer of the case in Mumbai and the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has sought some time to depose apparently owing to a health issue. The summons has been issued to Singh sometime ago as part of the investigation into the case involving him and Deshmukh, they said. Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is currently the director general of Maharashtra Police home guards unit. He was removed as the Mumbai Commissioner of Police (CP) after multiple investigations were launched into an instance of security scare that was reported from near the Mumbai house of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani in the capital city of Maharashtra. The investigation in the alleged bribery case gathered pace after the ED late last month raided the premises of Deshmukh, 72, and his aides in Nagpur and Mumbai and later arrested two of his staffers. The former home minister was also summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) thrice but he skipped the dates. Deshmukh, some days ago, moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action by the ED in this money laundering case. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. The ED has questioned Waze in this case twice at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai and it is expected that it may grill him again on Saturday after it obtained a court permission to record his statement for three days. Waze is in jail after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a case related to parking of an explosives laden SUV near the residence of Ambani and the murder case of businessman Mansukh Hiran. He had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the former home minister Deshmukh wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked to "collect Rs 3 lakh per month" from each of these businesses in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Ratha Jatra celebrations begin in Puri sans devotees||The celebrations for Lord Jagannath's annual Ratha Jatra began in Puri on Friday with the 'Naba Jauban Darshan' of the sibling deities, during which they are worshipped in their youthful appearances after spending 14 days in 'Anasara Ghara' or quarantine. As the celebrations began, the state government announced the imposition of curfew in Puri town from July 11. The curfew will be imposed at 8 pm on July 11, a day before the Ratha Jatra, and continue till 8 am on July 13, as per a notification issued by the Special Relief Commissioner's office. This year, Ratha Jatra will be held on July 12. All the entry points to Puri town will be sealed, officials said, adding that the restrictions are being imposed to keep devotees at bay in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The restrictions may be further extended in the town, said Sub-Collector Bhabataran Sahoo. The weekend shutdown, imposed in 10 coastal districts with high test positivity rates till July 16, will be eased for Puri town, as per the notification. "Now, in view of imposition of curfew in Puri town from 8 PM of 11.07.2021 to 8 PM of 13.07.2021 by the district administration for Ratha Jatra and in the interest of the general public, the said shutdown order is partially modified exempting Puri town from the shutdown on 10.01.2021 (Saturday)," it said. The Trinity -- Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra -- during the 'Naba Jouban Darshan' reappeared after spending 14 days in the 'Aasara Ghara'. However, devotees missed the rituals as no one was allowed entry into the shrine due to the pandemic. The state government has appealed to the people not to visit Puri during the festival, and instead watch the live broadcast of the Ratha Jatra on TV. Usually, around 10 lakh people gather in Puri during Ratha Jatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
09-07-2021||India||Two cases of Kappa variant of coronavirus detected in Uttar Pradesh||Two cases of Kappa variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Uttar Pradesh, according to an official statement issued on Friday. Genome sequencing of 109 samples was done at King George's medical college here in the past few days. The Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 was found in 107 samples, while the Kappa variant was found in two samples, the statement issued after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's routine review meeting said. "Both the variants are not new for the state. The facility of genome sequencing is being increased in the state," it added. At present, the daily positivity rate in the state is 0.04 per cent. When asked about the Kappa variant, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said earlier also cases of this variant were found in the state. "There is nothing to worry about. This is a variant of coronavirus and its treatment is possible," he said. When asked in which districts this variant was found, Prasad did not divulge details and said it would create fear among people. Meanwhile, India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Kejriwal announces 'Graded Response Action Plan' to tackle third Covid wave in Delhi||A 'Graded Response Action Plan' to deal with a possible third wave of the coronavirus was passed in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. A Delhi government panel on managing the possible third wave of Covid has devised a colour-coded mechanism which prescribes a graded response, including the closure of most economic activities at the highest 'Red' level alert. "The 'Graded Response Action Plan' was passed in the DDMA meeting today. No doubts will remain about when the lockdown will be imposed or when it will open. In the meeting, there was also discussion about the Delta plus variant. We have to stop this variant from spreading in Delhi, for which the government is taking all necessary steps," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The colour codes based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts. The graded response will involve restricting economic activities as per the level of alert linked with the severity of the pandemic. Shops and establishments of essential goods and services will be allowed to open during all the four levels of alerts. "After detailed deliberations and presentations made by the health department and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it was decided to notify the Graded Response Action Plan that will objectively and transparently ensure an institutional and automatic response with regards to enforcement measures, lockdowns and unlock based on criteria such as test positivity rate and quantum of cases, an expert present at the meeting said. Concerns arising out of new variants such as Delta Plus and LAMBDA were discussed at length and measures like vaccination, genome sequencing, testing, tracking and surveillance were suggested as the most effective steps to mitigate their spread, experts said. People travelling in large numbers to tourist destinations and violating COVID-19-related guidelines were also flagged as an area of concern, they said. The meeting also stressed on having 12,000 ICU beds, sufficient oxygen, drugs and ambulances etc to deal with another surge in cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Centre's IT Rules transfer and OTT platform petitions on July 16||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Centre's plea seeking transfer of petitions challenging the validity of new IT Rules from different high courts to the apex court would be heard on July 16 along with a pending matter related to regulation of over-the-top (OTT) platforms. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the Centre's plea with a pending special leave petition (SLP) in which the apex court had in March this year stayed proceedings before several high courts on petitions related to regulation of OTT platforms. We will tag it (Centre's plea) with the SLP, the bench said, adding, the matter would be listed before an appropriate bench on July 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, urged the bench to stay the proceedings pending in different high courts on pleas challenging the validity of the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. We are not saying anything. We are simply tagging it with the other matter, the bench said. One of the advocates, appearing in the matter, told the bench that the pending SLP is prior to the new Rules. According to the new IT Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressable officers and assist in investigations. The new Rules also seek to regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries. The Centre has moved the apex court seeking transfer of pleas challenging the validity of new IT Rules from different high courts to the top court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. Several petitions challenging the new IT Rules are pending adjudication in different high courts, including the high courts of Delhi and Madras. The top court had earlier issued notice on a separate transfer petition filed by the Centre seeking to club all petitions filed in various high courts on the issue of regulating OTT platforms. Several pleas challenging the validity of new IT Rules are pending adjudication in the Delhi High Court which had sought response from the Centre on these petitions. Some of the pleas pending before the Delhi High Court have sought striking down of specific part of the IT Rules on the ground that it allegedly violates Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution creating a chilling effect on media freedom, Article 14 of the Constitution by creating an unreasonable classification and by setting up a parallel adjudicatory mechanism to be overseen by the officials of executive and is ultra vires the IT Act. The Madras High Court had on June 23 issued notice to the Centre seeking its response on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the new IT rules. In March this year, the Kerala High Court had sought the Centre's response on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of new IT Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Modi reviews progress of oxygen augmentation, availability across country||More than 1,500 PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants are coming up across the country, the government said on Friday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of augmentation and availability of the life-saving gas. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO), in a statement, said Modi asked officials to ensure that these plants are made functional at the earliest and also told them to work closely with state governments in this regard. These upcoming oxygen plants include those being built with the contribution from the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and PSUs, it said. PSA oxygen plants contributed by the PM CARES fund are coming up in all states and districts of the country, and Modi was told that they will support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds once functional, the PMO said. "PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants. He also directed officials to ensure that each district has trained personnel available," it said. The prime minister was informed by officials that a training module prepared by experts is in place, and they are targeting training of around 8,000 people across the country. Modi also asked them to deploy advanced technology like IoT to track the performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at the local and national level. He was informed by officials that a pilot exercise is being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants, the PMO said. Officials also informed the prime minister that they are in regular touch with officers from state governments regarding fast-tracking the oxygen plants, it said. With many places complaining of oxygen shortage in hospitals during the peak of the second COVID-19 wave in April-May, the Union government has been taking measures in coordination with states to boost the production and supply of the life-saving gas. Modi has been holding a number of meetings in this regard amid apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Kerala HC backs news channels in plea challenging IT Rules||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Centre not to take any coercive action against the members of News Broadcasters Association (NBA), which represents several news channels, over non-compliance of the new IT rules. Justice P B Suresh Kumar also issued notice to the Centre and sought its stand on the plea by NBA which has contended that the new IT Rules give government authorities "excessive powers" to "unreasonably and impermissibly restrict" the freedom of speech and expression of the media. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for the NBA, said that under the new IT rules, a Joint Secretary would be heading the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge. Under the rules, media companies or their associations have to form self-regulatory bodies which would be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Courts or an eminent person. According to a report by livelaw.com, submitted that the high court had passed a similar order in LiveLaw Media's case restraining the Centre from taking any coercive action based on IT Rules. "In light of the interim order in WPC No 6272/2021 (Live Law Media Private Limited Vs Union of India), the respondents shall not to take any coercive action against the petitioners for non-compliance of the provisions contained in the Rules,"  a bench of Justice PB Suresh Kumar said, accepting Singh's argument. Thursday said it has filed a plea in the Kerala High Court challenging the new IT rules on the ground that they give government authorities "excessive powers" to "unreasonably and impermissibly restrict" the freedom of speech and expression of the media. In a statement, the NBA said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are ultra vires to the Information Technology Act, 2000 apart from being violative of Article 14 (equality before law) and 19(1)(g) (right to freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution. It said the challenge is to Part III (Code of Ethics and Procedure and Safeguards in relation to Digital Media) of the IT rules as they create an "oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate content of digital news media". "The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a 'chilling effect' on the content of the media. The writ (petition) also states that the executive by creating such a structure, has made inroads into judicial power and vested itself with powers reserved exclusively for the judiciary and such exercise of power is without jurisdiction," the statement said. It said the petition has also challenged the new rules as the IT Act does not contain any provision for dealing with "content" of any programme and therefore, the rules are ultra vires the parent Act. "The rules violate Article 14 as there is neither any parity nor any valid exercise of classification in the rules as intermediaries' have been equated with 'digital news media'," it said, adding that the appendix of the rules - "Code of Ethics" makes the Programme Code applicable to the digital news media. The Programme Code contains vague, imprecise and ambiguous terms in relation to "content" such as "good taste", "snobbish attitude" and therefore, is not in consonance with the judgement of the Supreme Court. Several digital news media platforms have already challenged the 2021 IT rules in various high courts and even the Centre has approached the Supreme Court seeking to transfer all such pleas to itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Putting privacy policy on hold, WhatsApp tells Delhi HC||WhatsApp LLC told the Delhi High Court on Friday that till the data protection bill comes into force, it will not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy as it has been put on hold and will implement it "if Parliament allows it". WhatsApp clarified before bench of Chief justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that it would not limit the functionality for users who are not opting for new privacy policy in the meantime. Appearing for the instant messaging platform, Senior Advocate Harish Salve said, "We voluntarily agreed to put it (the policy) on hold... We will not compel people to accept." Salve said that WhatsApp would nonetheless continue to display the update to its users. In response to Salve's submission, the court observed that even though the implementation had been put on hold, the policy still continued to exist. "You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come," the court said. Salve reiterated that the approach would be maintained till the data protection bill becomes the law. "Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament's law comes in. If Parliament allows it, I will have it. If it doesn't, bad luck... I've taken it off till the Parliament makes a law. Either we fit in or we don't," Salve said. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of individual's data by the government and private companies. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Bill has been given extension till the monsoon session to submit its report. The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against the single-judge order refusing to stop the competition regulator CCI's order directing a probe into WhatsApp's new privacy policy. Last month, an application was moved by WhatsApp for interim stay on the probe. Salve argued that since the genesis of the probe -the privacy policy - has been stalled for now, the inquiry into the same by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) had become academic. "Objectionable part was 'take it or leave it'. For present, 'take it or leave it' is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. Everybody is using," he said. He also urged the court to grant WhatsApp time till the end of July to respond to the questionnaire sent by CCI to it in relation to the inquiry. Salve informed the court that on June 4, WhatsApp received a letter from CCI, seeking information directly in relation to the issue of privacy which is being looked into by the Supreme Court and the high court. "Please see the questions -- month-wise number of downloads, number of active users, number of users left... number of users who opted out...80-90% is directly what your lordship is hearing," he said Salve added that even the central government communication sent to it in May, asking it to withdraw the policy, established that the privacy policy was already a subject matter of hearing before the Supreme court and the high court. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, submitted that the CCI was jumping the gun by initiating a probe into the privacy policy when a challenge to the same was pending before two higher courts. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for CCI, said that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications would continue to persist. He added that the matter before CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken. "It is not as if by filing reply anything detrimental will happen," Lekhi said. Advocate Gurkaran Singh submitted before the court that his client Tapasi Kohli sought to intervene in the appeals on account of being the informant before CCI. The court proceeded to adjourn the matter till July 30 after it recorded that CCI's affidavit was not on record. The single judge on April 22 said that he saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. He opined that though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". In the petition challenging WhatsApp's privacy policy, Central government earlier told the court that social messaging platform was trying to force its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the data protection bill becomes the law and is obtaining "trick consent". It urged the high court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy and terms of service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Vijayan requests PM to waive tax on imported life-saving drug for child||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday urged the Centre to waive GST and customs duty on a life-saving drug to be imported from the US for the treatment of a child suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a rare disease, in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he detailed the plight of 18-month-old Muhammed, a native of Kannur district, who is undergoing treatment for the disease. Noting that the medicine for SMA is 'prohibitively expensive' and 'unaffordable' for the child's family, Vijayan said it costs a whopping Rs 18 crore and is proposed to be imported from the US. The CM, in the letter, also pointed out that the central government had recently waived tax in a similar case of a five month old child, who is suffering from SMA in Mumbai. "I request you to give directions to the Union Finance Ministry to take steps not to levy Customs duty and integrated Goods and Services Tax (GST) in this case involving the import of the life saving drug zolgensma," he said. The Chief Minister's plea to the Centre came days after funds for purchasing the drug had been raised in Kerala through online crowdfunding for Muhammed. Son of P K Rafeeq and Mariyumma, the child requires a dose of Zolgensma, which is considered as one of the most expensive drug in the world. The treatment committee had on Monday informed the public that over Rs 18 crore reached the bank accounts opened for the donations and asked the people not to deposit any more. The campaign was taken over by social media resulting in raising the amount within seven days from across the world. Incidentally, 15-year-old Afra, the elder sister of Mohammed, was also affected with the same disease. The medicine would have to be procured from abroad and the treatment committee had petitioned the state government to initiate the process for procurement. Medical experts suggest that the child will have to be administered the dose of the medicine before he reaches the age of two, family sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||All adults to be inoculated by year-end, says expert panel head||National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration head NK Arora on Thursday said India's entire adult population will be vaccinated against Covid by December, expressing confidence that the government will be able to meet its target. This, he said, is based on the boost in vaccine supply expected over the coming months given the states also have to uphold their end by increasing the number of vaccine administration centres. "There has been a gradual increase in the availability of vaccines," Arora told NDTV.com in an interview. He opined that setting up of vaccine centres will be as big a challenge as the acquisition of vaccines - one that will be will be part of the states' responsibility. The aim is to have 75 to 100 thousand immunisation centres across the country in the government sector but states are currently running short and need to step up as the supply increases, he said. Explaining the graph, he said, "In June and July, there has been an increase. The country got 5.6 crore doses a month till May, now it is getting 10 to 12 crore doses and next month it should be nearing 16 to 18 crores. From September, we should be having 30 crore plus doses". Over the last three days, the country recorded a spike in the number of Covid cases after a lull of 56 days. The spike has been recorded in an increasing number of states and Union Territories have been recording a spike. As of July 8, eight to 11 states and Union Territories registered a rise. On the other hand, there has been a drop in vaccination rates, increasing the number of daily average required to meet the December target. Over the last 7 days, there has been an average shortfall of 4.7 million jabs, pushing up the required vaccination rate needed to stop a third wave to 8.7 million jabs a day. Last month, Randeep Guleria, chief of Delhi's All-India Institute of Medical Sciences and a member of the Centre's Covid Task Force, said a third wave of Covid is "inevitable" and it may hit in another six to eight weeks. Concern about a third wave has increased over the last week, with images of huge crowds in Himachal Pradesh as a heat wave gripped north India. Referring to the crowds at a meeting this evening with his new council of ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it should instil a sense of fear in us, sources have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Condition of Kalyan Singh improving, says hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is "better" and showing "consistent improvement", the hospital said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels. "The condition of Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in ICU of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), is better. He is hemodynamically stable. He is showing consistent improvement and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement. "He is communicative and is being treated by senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology," it added. Earlier, the former chief minister was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to the grandson of Singh to enquire about his health, and said countless people across the country are praying for his speedy recovery. On Thursday, BJP president J P Nadda had visited the hospital and enquired about Singh's health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||Modi to chair oxygen review meeting on Friday amid third wave fears||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level meeting on Friday to review the augmentation and availability of medical oxygen across the country, government sources said. With many places complaining of oxygen shortage in hospitals during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in April-May, the Union government has been taking measures in coordination with states to boost its production and supply. Modi has been holding a number of meetings in this regard amid apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic. In his last such session in June, the prime minister expressed satisfaction at the vaccination speed in the country and said it is important to carry this momentum forward and also underlined a need to involve NGOs and other organisations in efforts to expand the drive. Modi also directed officials to work with states to ensure that the pace of testing does not go down as testing remains a very important weapon to track and contain rising infections in any region Modi underlined the need to involve NGOs and other organisations in the vaccination drive, with officials stating that they are in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
09-07-2021||India||India logs over 43k new Covid-19 cases, 911 deaths||India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.49 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.19 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 1,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,90,708 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,70,16,605, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 18 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.36 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,98,88,284, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 36.89 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Kerala reports first case of Zika virus, sample sent to Pune||In the first case of Zika virus in Kerala, a 24-year-old pregnant woman has been diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease, state Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. There are 13 other suspected cases of the virus from Thiruvananthapuram, the minister told PTI, adding the government was awaiting confirmation from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) at Pune. Of the 19 samples sent from Thiruvananthapuram, 13 health workers, including doctors, are suspected to be positive for Zika, the minister said. The woman, hailing from Parassalain Thiruvananthapuram district, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, delivered her baby onJuly7. She had been admitted to the hospital on June 28 with fever, headache and red marks on her body. The tests conducted at the hospital confirmed that she was positive following which her samples were sent to NIV, Pune. The condition of the woman was satisfactory. Though she does not have any travel history outside the state, her house is on the Tamil Nadu border. A week ago,her mother had also shown similar symptoms, a government release added. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue including fever, skin rashes and joint pain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy died due to ‘cruel and unusual institutional mistreatment’||The Bar Association of India, which has attorney-general K.K. Venugopal as member and honorary chairman, has attributed Father Stan Swamy’s death in custody to “cruel and unusual institutional mistreatment”. In a statement issued through general secretary Anindita Pujari, the association said on Thursday the death of the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist had “brought disrepute to the Indian legal system and is a failure of the administration of justice”. Fr Stan, 84 and severely ill with Parkinson’s disease, was arrested under the anti-terror law UAPA and died after nine months while waiting for bail. “Despite his advanced age and deteriorating medical condition… he was repeatedly, and most unusually, denied interim bail and bail on merits. He passed away while his appeal for bail on medical grounds was being heard by the High Court of Bombay,” the statement said. “It is a failure of the rule of law and a profound institutional failure where an 84-year-old sick person is held in such a long pre-trial detention, particularly during a global pandemic.” The association said there was a compelling need to ensure adherence to the rule of law, and not just rule by law. “A legal system lacking in compassion and a humane approach towards pre-trial detention, including sensitivity to the advanced age and health conditions of those incarcerated, falls short of the high values that the Constitution of India articulates, most particularly liberty and the right to life,” the statement said. “The Bar Association of India calls upon all institutional actors to uphold the rule of law by discharging their duties with regard to the human condition of (detainees) so that this dark episode is never repeated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||US state department notes Fr Stan Swamy’s custodial death; brings up democracy||The Office of International Religious Freedom of the US state department on Wednesday took note of the death of Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy in custody and urged all governments to respect the vital role of human rights activists in healthy democracies. The Office of IRF, which promotes religious freedom as a core objective of US foreign policy, is the latest among voices from across the globe to express concern over the death of Fr Stan, the 84-year-old tribal rights activist who died in judicial custody on Monday awaiting bail. In a tweet, the Office of IRF said: “We are saddened by the death of Father Stan Swamy, a Jesuit priest & tribal rights activist, who died in Indian custody under charges of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. We call on all governments to respect the vital role of human rights activists in healthy democracies.” Asked for a response to the latest comment from a western capital on Fr Stan’s incarceration and death despite an explanatory statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Tuesday, official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi recalled Tuesday’s note and said he had nothing further to add. In that statement, India had claimed that due process had been followed in Fr Stan’s case and that the country remained committed to protect the human rights of all its citizens. The Office of IRF tweet was posted an hour after the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) — an independent, bipartisan, federal government commission created by law to monitor religious freedom abroad — urged the US government to hold the Indian government accountable and “raise religious freedom concerns in the bilateral relationship”. In its statement, the USCIRF condemned in the “strongest terms the deliberate neglect and targeting by the Indian government that led to the death” of Fr Stan, who was arrested in October last year. “Father Stan Swamy’s death is a stark reminder of the egregious and ongoing persecution of India’s religious minority communities. USCIRF consistently spoke out when Father Swamy was arrested and denied bail, especially considering the rapid deterioration of his health as he suffered from Parkinson’s disease and contracted Covid-19 while in prison, and was not given any support from prison officials. We urge the United States to hold the Indian government accountable and to raise religious freedom concerns in the US-India bilateral relationship,” the USCIRF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Human genome segments linked to Covid severity identified||A global research study has identified 13 segments in the human genome that appear to increase or decrease the risk of Covid-19 susceptibility and severity, while scientists in India keen to do similar work are still awaiting approvals and data. The study led by researchers in Finland and the US and involving data from over 46,000 patients in 19 countries has identified four genome segments that influence a person’s susceptibility to develop Covid-19 and nine others that influence disease severity. Since the start of the pandemic in early 2020, doctors and researchers have tried to understand why some people develop severe disease while others have mild symptoms or remain symptom-free. All available data suggest that only 10 to 15 per cent of patients develop moderate to severe disease. Doctors already know that certain chronic health disorders such as high blood pressure or diabetes as well as old age are among factors that increase the risk of severe disease. But scientists have suspected for long that human genetic variations might also influence how people respond to Covid-19. In the new study, Andrea Ganna, a researcher at the Institute of Molecular Medicine, Finland, and nearly 3,000 collaborators analysed 46 studies on patients drawn from different human populations to look for genetic underpinnings of SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease severity. “The human genome significantly contributes to an individual’s response to SARS-CoV-2,” Ganna said. “We see very clear genetic signals with plausible candidate genes. Some signals appear specific to Covid-19 and are not known to be shared with other infectious diseases. Their study, published in the research journal Nature on Thursday, has identified more than 40 potential candidate genes found within those 13 segments that they say could provide a biological explanation for either susceptibility or severity. Some of these genomic segments or genes are already known to be associated with autoimmune or inflammatory diseases, the scientists said. A gene variant called FOXP4, for instance, that appears to enhance the risk of severe disease by 17 to 36 per cent is already known to be linked to the risk of other lung diseases. Another variant called TYK2 found to increase Covid-19 severity risk by 29 to 59 per cent is known to reduce the risk of some autoimmune diseases. The study is a “major milestone in our understanding of the role of human genetics in susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2”, Samira Asgari, a genetics researcher at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital at Harvard Medical School, and co-author Lionel Pousaz wrote in a commentary in the same issue of Nature. Senior scientists in India who were not associated with the study said the findings were impressive but expressed concern that researchers who had proposed a similar host genome study effort in India to a scientific funding agency were still awaiting a response. A research group in India had sent a proposal to the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, earlier this April seeking funding to initiate a similar study to explore the connections between human genome and Covid-19 severity. The group had collected samples from 600 patients with different levels of Covid-19 severity to start the analysis. The group learnt last month that the proposal had not been evaluated yet for a decision on funding. Many scientists in India have been concerned about what they believe is the inadequate utilisation of and lack of access to Covid-19 data even though the country has recorded over 30 million Covid-19 cases and over 400,000 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||New ministers rush to take charge amid media blitz ||The new ministers and those promoted to cabinet rank rushed to take charge of their ministries on Thursday morning amid a media blitz, trying to project a picture of intent. Those sacked from the ministry sulked silently. All the 36 new and seven promoted ministers had been directed to assume charge on Thursday itself and attend a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening, sources said. The idea was to portray a hardworking government that meant business, and try to erase from public memory the early summer images of Modi and his ministers addressing large election rallies as a Covid surge overwhelmed hospitals and crematoria, the sources added. Wednesday’s shuffle that inducted 36 new faces and bloated the ministry’s strength from 53 to 77 has largely been seen as an exercise to burnish Modi’s image and find scapegoats to sack amid domestic and global criticism of his handling of Covid and the economy. As the 43 ministers sworn in on Wednesday began their new assignments in the morning, TV screens and social media echoed with the day’s catchphrases: “commitment and dedication”, “hard work”, “meeting expectations”.... “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our party chief J.P. Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. I will carry out the responsibility given by them with hard work and determination. The effort will be to meet their expectations,” Jyotiraditya Scindia, the new civil aviation minister, told the media. Jyotiraditya, who had defected from the Congress last year, had earlier in the day emphasised his new loyalties by visiting the BJP headquarters and paying his respects to party stalwarts Deendayal Upadhyay and Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Sources said the Prime Minister’s Office had instructed the newly sworn-in ministers not to leave Delhi till Independence Day or conduct any celebrations. Old hand Dharmendra Pradhan, shifted from petroleum to the important education portfolio, joined Modi’s online interaction with IIT directors. The party tom-tommed this as “getting to work without wasting time”. Pradhan got his three new junior ministers to join him, following what the sources said was a directive from the Prime Minister’s Office. A meeting of the new cabinet was followed by Modi’s virtual interaction with the entire council of ministers. Many of the 12 ministers dropped in shock-and-awe style on Wednesday maintained a sullen silence. As the bustling party corridors wondered why seven cabinet ministers had been sacked at one go, the conversations tended to centre on Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar. Junior BJP politicians confessed to being “shocked” at the removal of the two heavyweights who functioned as spokespersons for party and government and frequently visited the party headquarters to address the media. Prasad had been one of the very few articulate and experienced ministers left in the BJP after the passing of Arun Jaitley, and many thought him indispensable. Prasad’s Twitter handle reflected a sense of hurt on Thursday, introducing him as a Lok Sabha MP from Patna Sahib and then adding “BJP worker”. The former law and IT minister has posted not one tweet since Tuesday evening, when he had lauded Modi’s move to form a new cooperation ministry as a “historic decision”. Javadekar’s last tweet had been to express condolences over Dilip Kumar’s death on Wednesday morning, hours before the ministerial heads had begun rolling. Prasad and Javadekar, former I&B and environment minister, were not known for their reticence on Twitter. A BJP insider dismissed the idea of performance having been the criteria behind the sackings, strengthening the impression that the shuffle was more about messaging than substance. “The two of them (Prasad and Javadekar) were sacked to send out the message that no minister, however big, should think they are indispensable,” the source said. He added that the current ministers were meant to keep in mind the treatment handed out to the duo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||French court freezes Indian assets worth over $24 million in Paris ||A French court froze 20 residential properties worth over 20 million euros ($24 million) belonging to the Indian government in Paris while upholding a petition filed by Cairn Energy seeking to force the Narendra Modi government to fork out a $1.7-billion international arbitration award. The order issued by the Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris is deeply embarrassing for the Modi government, which has refused to pay the sum after losing a tax dispute with Cairn Energy that dates back to 2014. Cairn said the order was a necessary first step to take ownership of the properties and ensure that the proceeds from any sale would go to the Edinburgh-based oil producer. The company has already filed similar lawsuits in the US, the UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius and the Netherlands in an attempt to grab the Indian government assets and realise its arbitration dues. France is the first country where it has been successful in pressing its claims. The Modi government continued to prevaricate by sending out confusing signals on what it intended to do in response to the latest adverse court verdict. It said it would wait for a copy of the French court’s order and then decide how best to pursue legal remedies while keeping the door “open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework”. “Constructive discussions have been held and the government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework,” the finance ministry said in a statement after reports of Cairn Energy’s latest victory in the protracted legal dispute came in. In December last year, the arbitration tribunal in The Hague had awarded $1.2 billion plus costs and interest totalling roughly $1.73 billion. The arbitration tribunal had also overturned the Indian government’s demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes that was issued in 2014 and was related to the Cairn group’s reorganisation of its Indian operations in 2006. Cairn India sold a 58.5 per cent stake in its Indian operations to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group in December 2011 for $8.67 billion while retaining a 10 per cent rump stake. The government subsequently attached Cairn Energy’s residual stake in the business while vigorously pursuing the tax dispute, which it eventually lost. Back in March, the government challenged the international arbitration award before the court of appeals in The Hague. The French court order enhances the bargaining position of Cairn Energy which has been trying to work out a settlement with the Indian government. In an email response to a question from The Telegraph, a spokesman for Cairn Energy said: “Our strong preference remains an agreed, amicable settlement with the Government of India to draw this matter to a close, and to that end we have submitted a detailed series of proposals to them since February this year. However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn Energy must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders.” Cairn Energy has offered to forgo the interest and cost, totalling over $500 million, and invest that sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by Indian government if the principal dues of $1.2 billion are paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds summons to Facebook over Delhi riots||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the summons that Delhi Assembly’s privileges committee had issued to Facebook vice-president Ajit Mohan last year over allegations that the company’s inaction against hate content had worsened the February 2020 riots in Delhi. The bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy chastised Facebook for arguing that an “intermediary” like it was neither liable for adverse posts nor amenable to the privileges committee’s jurisdiction, asserting the social media platform’s role was “not as innocuous”. It rejected the contention of Facebook and the Union government that since law and order in Delhi and information technology were central subjects, the Delhi Assembly lacked jurisdiction to examine issues relating to the riots. Both the privileges committee and the state government are within their rights to look into the causes of the violence and recommend remedial measures, Justice Kaul, who wrote the 188-page judgment, said. He, however, frowned on privileges committee chair Raghav Chadha’s act of addressing the media after issuing the summons and saying that Facebook could be made a co-accused in the communal riots case. “Ultimately, it is the state government and the state Assembly which has to deal with the ground reality even in the dual power structure in Delhi. If we may say so, it is only the factum of Delhi being the capital and the sensitivities arising therefrom in respect of public order or police which has possibly persuaded these powers to be retained by the central government,” the apex court said. “We cannot say that informed deliberation inter alia on the best measures through which online mass hate and violence in their geographical jurisdiction can be addressed would not be within the committee’s area of competence as it would undermine the very purpose of a vital democratic polity.” The February violence, which followed an Assembly election that the BJP lost after running a provocative campaign, had left 53 people dead. Media reports had said that hateful comments on Facebook by Right-wing Hindus that the social media platform had failed to clamp down on had aggravated the riots. The apex court judgment described governance in Delhi as a “collaborative effort between the Centre and the state” and said the House panel was not “transgressing into any fields reserved for the Union government”. “The complexity of communal tensions and their wide-ranging ramifications is a matter affecting citizens of Delhi and it cannot be said that the government of NCT of Delhi cannot look into the causal factors in order to formulate appropriate remedial measures,” it said. “Appropriate recommendations made by the state government in this regard could be of significance in the collaborative effort between the Centre and the State to deal with governance issues.” “We are of the view that because of the pervasive impact of the riots, the (privileges) committee could legitimately attend to such grievances encompassing varied elements of public life. Thus, it would be entitled to receive information and deliberate on the same to examine their bearing on peace and harmony without transgressing into any fields reserved for the Union government in the Seventh Schedule.”The judgment noted that the committee’s summons had been “fuelled by an article published in The Wall Street Journal on 14.8.2020”, titled “Facebook’s Hate-Speech Rules Collide with Indian Politics”, which alleged lapses on the part of Facebook India in addressing hate content and a broad pattern of favouritism towards the ruling party and Hindu hardliners. The Committee on Peace and Harmony (privileges committee) then issued a notice to Mohan, vice-president and managing director of Facebook India Online Services Private Limited, asking him to appear before it on September 2, 2020. The notice said the committee would seek Facebook India’s views on “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”. Facebook challenged the summons on the ground of jurisdiction. “This case is a preventive endeavour by the petitioner (Facebook) to preclude the respondents from even considering the aspect of privilege by seeking this court’s intervention at a pre-threshold stage, only on the premise of the absence of legislative power,” the apex court said. The apex court rejected Facebook’s contention, presented through senior advocate Harish Salve, that the company should not be dragged into a political fight between the central and Delhi governments. “We are, however, not impressed with the argument of Mr Salve that the petitioners cannot be drawn into what is perceived to be a political divide,” Justice Kaul said. “Facebook is a platform where such political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands of the issue as this is their very business. As noticed earlier, their role is not as innocuous as they are seeking to contend.” Chadha’s role The bench disapproved of the conduct of committee chair Chadha, who had claimed the material placed before the panel had resulted in a “preliminary conclusion” and “prima facie it seems that Facebook has colluded with vested interests during Delhi riots”. Chadha had said: “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused and investigated as a co-accused in Delhi riots investigation and a supplementary chargesheet should be filed in the trial court.” The apex court said: “The aforesaid statements and conclusions are completely outside the remit of the committee and should not have been made. That it may give rise to apprehension in the minds of the petitioners can also not be doubted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Vast powers must come with responsibility: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday castigated Facebook for arguing it was a mere “intermediary platform” and couldn’t be hauled up for content that manipulated the political discourse. “Facebook is the most popular social media platform in India with about 270 million registered users. Such vast powers must necessarily come with responsibility,” the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said. “Entities like Facebook have to remain accountable.... While Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free speech by providing a voice to the voiceless and a means to escape state censorship... it has simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies.” Justice Kaul, who authored the judgment, noted how social media “has become a tool in the hands of various interest groups who have recognised its disruptive potential”. “This results in a paradoxical outcome where extremist views are peddled into the mainstream, thereby spreading misinformation.... This has given rise to significant debates about the increasing concentration of power in platforms like Facebook, more so as they are said to employ business models that are privacy-intrusive and attention soliciting,” the judgment said. “The effect on a stable society can be cataclysmic with citizens being ‘polarised and paralysed’ by such ‘debates’.... Less informed individuals might have a tendency to not verify information sourced from friends, or to treat information received from populist leaders as the gospel truth.” Targeting users The apex court rejected Facebook’s argument that it is merely a platform posting third-party information and has no role in generating, controlling or modulating that information. “The endeavour to hide behind such simplistic models have been found to be unacceptable by the UK Parliament.... It is too late in the day for companies like Facebook to deny that they use algorithms (which are sequences of instructions) with some human intervention to personalise content and news to target users. The algorithms select the content based on several factors including social connections, location, and past online activity of the user,” the bench said. “These algorithms are often far from objective with biases capable of getting replicated and reinforced. The role played by Facebook is, thus, more active and not as innocuous as is often presented....” Global role Justice Kaul said that internationally, Facebook had had to recognise its failure to prevent incitement in the context of the ethnic cleansing in Myanmar, where its employees somehow missed the spate of misinformation that helped fuel the violence. “The platform similarly apologised for its lack of serious response to evident signs of abuse of the platform in Sri Lanka and had to acknowledge its need to be regulated, though the exact method is still unclear and a prerogative of lawmaking authority,” he said. “There have been endeavours in light of the aforesaid by countries like Australia, US, the UK, and the EU for ways to regulate platforms such as Facebook in an efficient manner but their efforts are still at a nascent stage. “The US has also seen heated debates arising from the 2016 presidential elections with allegations of supposed interference by Russia allegedly facilitated by platforms like Facebook.” The bench said Facebook had acknowledged that it had removed 22.5 million instances of hate speech in the second quarter of 2020 alone, showing it exercised substantial control over content. “To that extent, a parallel may be drawn with editorial responsibility cast on other mass circulation media,” it said. Double standard The apex court cited how, in the US, “Facebook projected itself in the category of a publisher, giving them protection under the ambit of the First Amendment of its control over the material which are disseminated in their platform”. “This identity has allowed it to justify moderation and removal of content. Conspicuously, in India, however, it has chosen to identify itself purely as a social media platform despite its similar functions and services in the two countries,” it said. “Thus, dependent on the nature of controversy, Facebook... seeks to modify its stand depending upon its suitability and convenience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passes away at 87||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh died here early on Thursday after a prolonged illness. He was 87. The veteran leader breathed his last at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here at 3.40am, its senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said. Virbhadra had suffered a heart attack on Monday and was in the critical care unit of IGMC. He had been put on ventilator on Wednesday. A nine-time MLA and five-time MP, Virbhadra served as Himachal Pradesh’s chief minister for six times. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 11 for the second time in two months. Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha and their son Vikramaditya Singh are also politicians. Pratibha is former MP while Vikramaditya is an MLA from Shimla Rural.Virbhadra was also  the leader of Opposition from March 1998 to March 2003. The veteran Congress leader had served as Union deputy minister, tourism and civil aviation, minister of state for industries, Union minister for steel and Union minister for micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME). He also served as Himachal Pradesh Congress president. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said: “Popular for his affable and grounded nature, he remained close to people and brought about far-reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
09-07-2021||India||Violence erupts between BJP-SP workers during filing of blockhead nominations in Uttar Pradesh||Large-scale violence was reported during the filing of nominations for political chiefs of blocks in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday with the Samajwadi Party alleging that BJP goons had kidnapped and assaulted many of its candidates and supporters. The Samajwadi Party had earlier this year won the elections to the block development councils, part of the panchayati raj system, by bagging 50 per cent of the seats. The BJP had won 30 per cent of the seats. These elected council members will now elect the block pramukhs, for which nominations are being filed. There are 822 blocks in Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party alleged that the BJP was trying to vitiate the atmosphere by resorting to violence after tasting defeat. Naresh Uttam Patel, the state Samajwadi chief, said: “Violence took place in Kannauj, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Gorakhpur, Siddharthnagar and many other places. BJP goons kidnapped our candidates, thrashed them, snatched their nomination papers and even opened fire in the presence of police to terrorise our party workers and contestants.” Mata Prasad Pandey, who had been Vidhan Sabha Speaker during Samajwadi rule, said: “BJP goons snatched from me the nomination paper of my party’s candidate in Siddharthnagar. Many of our workers have suffered injuries in Gorakhpur, Unnao, Sambhal, Gonda, Bulandshahr and Mainpuri.” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that democracy was being “ripped off” in the state. Sharing a video of the violence on Twitter, Priyanka wrote in Hindi: “PM sahab and CM sahab should also congratulate on how their workers in UP indulged in stone-pelting and firing, looted nomination papers, beat up journalists and misbehaved with women. By blind-folding the law-and-order system, democracy is being ripped off.” Ajay Kumar Lallu, the Uttar Pradesh Congress president, said: “The BJP’s nakedness was seen today by the entire state. We have received video footage from across the state showing BJP-backed criminals, with the help of the police, attacking rival candidates.” “This is only a glimpse of what they will do during the 2022 Assembly elections. The voters should be ready for a struggle to save democracy, which is at stake under the BJP,” Lallu added. The BJP denied the allegations of assault and kidnapping. Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said: “It is the Samajwadi Party that belongs to goons. The entire state used to feel insecure when Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister. They are not being able to accept their defeat in the recent elections for zilla panchayat chiefs and are trying to bully us.” Sitapur district magistrate Vishal Bharadwaj said people opened fire during the filing of nominations for the head of the Kasmanda block. A person suffered injuries and has been referred to Lucknow for treatment, he said without revealing the identity of the individual. Four persons have been arrested, the DM said. Former Samajwadi MLA Mahendra Singh said his party’s candidate was prevented by the police from filing his nomination in the Rampur Mathura block “at the behest of the BJP government in the state”. In Kannauj block, Samajwadi candidate Ajay Dohre and his proposer were allegedly manhandled. At Talgram and Gugrapur, Samajwadi and BJP workers and supporters got involved in an altercation. At Saurikh, local journalist Nitya Mishra was attacked. He suffered injuries and his camera got damaged, the police said. Samajwadi MLC Rajpal Kashyap said: “The BJP is using the government machinery in favour of its candidates and harassing rivals with the help of the police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Over 7 lakh deaths in India per year linked to abnormal temperatures||Nearly 740,000 excess deaths in India annually can be attributed to abnormal hot and cold temperatures related to climate change, according to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal. An international team, led by researchers at Monash University in Australia, found that globally more than five million extra deaths a year can be attributed to non-optimal temperatures. The study published on Wednesday found that deaths related to hot temperatures increased in all regions from 2000 to 2019, indicating that global warming due to climate change will make this mortality figure worse in the future. In India, the number of deaths per year linked with abnormal cold temperatures is 6,55,400, while the number of deaths associated with high temperatures is 83,700, according to the researchers. The team looked at mortality and temperature data across the world from 2000 to 2019, a period when global temperatures rose by 0.26 degrees Celsius per decade. The study, the first to definitively link non-optimal temperatures to annual increases in mortality, found 9.43 per cent of global deaths could be attributed to cold and hot temperatures. This equates to 74 excess deaths for every 1,00,000 people, with most deaths caused by cold exposure. Global warming may “slightly reduce the number of temperature-related deaths, largely because of the lessening in cold-related mortality,” said Professor Yuming Guo, from the Monash University. “However in the long-term climate change is expected to increase the mortality burden because heat-related mortality would be continuing to increase,” Guo said. The data show geographic differences in the impact of non-optimal temperatures on mortality, with Eastern Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa having the highest heat and cold-related excess death rates. Cold-related death decreased 0.51 per cent from 2000 to 2019, while heat-related death rose 0.21 per cent, leading to a reduction in net mortality due to cold and hot temperatures. Of the global deaths attributed to abnormal cold and heat, the study found more than half occurred in Asia, particularly in East and South Asia. Europe had the highest excess death rates per 100,000 owing to heat exposure, according to the researchers. Sub-Saharan Africa had the highest death rates per 100,000 because of exposure to cold, they said. The largest decline of net mortality occurred in Southeast Asia while there was temporal increase in South Asia and Europe. Previous studies had looked at temperature-related mortality within a single country or region. “This is the first study to get a global overview of mortality due to non-optimal temperature conditions between 2000 and 2019, the hottest period since the Pre-Industrial era,” Guo said. The researchers used data from 43 countries across five continents with different climates, socio-economic and demographic conditions and differing levels of infrastructure and public health services. “The study had a large and varied sample size, unlike previous studies,” Guo added. The mortality data from this study are significantly higher than the second-largest study published in 2015, conducted across 13 countries/regions, which estimated 7.7 per cent of deaths were related to cold and hot temperatures. “The importance of taking data from all points of the globe was to get a more accurate understanding of the real impact of non-optimal temperatures under climate change,” Guo said. Understanding the geographic patterns of temperature-related mortality is important for the international collaboration in developing policies and strategies in climate change mitigation and adaptation and health protection, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||J&K: Raj Bhavan, civil secretariat become 'no-fly zones' for UAVs||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared the heavily guarded Raj Bhavan and the civil secretariat office complex in Jammu district as “no-fly zones” for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), the move prompted by last month’s attack on the Indian Air Force station and frequent drone sightings. At least half a dozen districts across Jammu and Kashmir, including Srinagar, have banned the storage, sale or possession of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport on June 27 in what the police believed was the first-ever drone attack in any part of the country. After that, there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. An order issued by Jammu deputy commissioner Anshul Garg said the “airspace over Raj Bhavan, Jammu, and civil secretariat, Jammu, has been declared as ‘No Fly Zone’ and flying of drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) shall be strictly prohibited over and above these premises with immediate effect. “There shall be complete prohibition on flying of drones and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) over all areas/venues in district Jammu as and when the lieutenant governor is scheduled to visit in connection with holding of events.” The order said the decision was taken in view of the “security threat posed due to recent trends of carrying out drone attacks by anti-national elements” due to which it became “imperative to initiate necessary security measures for ensuring the safety of air space” over these landmarks. It also said there was immense threat to the lieutenant governor at the hands of anti-national elements, necessitating the action. The order suggested that drones were free to fly over other landmarks, which is surprising as Jammu is the only district to face a drone attack and sightings of UAVs in the past fortnight and betrays how the government is careful about the public sensitivities in Jammu. The district administrations of Srinagar and Baramulla in Kashmir and Ramban, Rajouri and Samba in Jammu division have altogether banned all drone activities despite no attacks or sightings. The administration said that against the backdrop of recent attack on the air force station in Jammu by using drones, it had been apprehended that terrorists might launch attacks with the help of technology like drones and other flying objects. In an order last week, the Srinagar district administration had imposed a ban on storage, sale, possession, use and transport of UAVs, saying the decision was taken in “view of the security situation apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass”. “It is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles to wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar,” said the order by the district magistrate. The Srinagar administration has asked people owning drones to deposit them with the police. There was an exemption on their use for government departments but they have to inform the police first. The drone attack and other sightings have added a dangerous dimension to Kashmir militancy where security forces now need to secure the installations from both air and ground. 4 dead in gunfight Two army men and two militants died in a gunfight in Jammu’s Rajouri district on Thursday. The slain jawans are Naib Subedar Sreejith M. and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy. The operation to hunt down a group of infiltrating militants was launched nine days back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi emphasises need to translate global research journals into Indian languages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday emphasised the need to translate global research journals into Indian languages and digitisation of higher education. Modi interacted with the heads of centrally funded technical institutions (CFTIs) through videoconference in the presence of new education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said. “The PM added that we need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages,” the release said. Several institution heads and experts, however, later raised concerns such as possible poor quality of translations, the massive scale of the task and lack of experts. “About 10 million papers in technical subjects get published every year. Translating them into Indian languages is a very big challenge,” a CFTI head who attended the meeting told The Telegraph. “In India, there is no single language. Do we have experts to get global journals translated into different languages?” he asked. He said that if research papers were also written in vernacular languages, there would be problems in getting them published as most reputed journals were in English. AICTE chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe, however, said translating journals was very much possible as the council had developed an artificial intelligence-based tool for the purpose. “We have already developed an automated AI tool to translate content in English to Indian languages. It is giving us 80 to 85 per cent success. So, some subject experts are required to do corrections using another tool. We are using the AI tool for translating some of the online courses available on the Swayam portal of the government,” Sahasrabudhe said. “After this tool is further improved, it will have the potential to translate any kind of technical material, including technical journals,” he said. At the online meeting, the Prime Minister advocated online education to increase the gross enrolment ratio (GER), the percentage of youths in the 18-23 age group registered with higher educational institutions. “The Prime Minister appreciated the improvement in the GER in higher education over the past few years and emphasised that digitisation of higher education can play a big role in increasing GER, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education. The Prime Minister also lauded the various initiatives taken by the institutions to increase digitisation, such as that of online bachelor and master degree programmes,” the PIB release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||India||Congress heat on Kerala Left Front over rape and murder of six-year-old girl ||The arrest of a DYFI worker for the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl has put Kerala’s Left Front government under pressure from the Opposition that has launched protests demanding that the guilty doesn’t go scot-free like in an earlier case. Arjun, 21, a well-known worker of the DYFI, the youth arm of the CPM, was picked up last week after the child was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her home in Vandiperiyar in Idukki district by her parents when they returned from work. Both Arjun and the victim are children of tea estate workers and neighbours in the line houses near the plantation area. Police had initially questioned all the neighbours after the death was reported on June 30 and the post-mortem confirmed sexual assault. Arjun had claimed he had not seen the child for two days. But the statement of a neighbour who had seen him with the child on the day she was found dead provided the breakthrough. Arjun later confessed to have sexually assaulted the girl when she was alone at home and using a shawl to hang her when she lost consciousness. He admitted to have raped her multiple times since late 2019 by luring the child with goodies like chocolates. Arjun had even helped the child’s family during the funeral so as not to arouse any suspicion. He has since been booked for rape, murder and several provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sent to judicial custody. Although the DYFI on Wednesday said it had sacked Arjun, the Opposition Congress launched statewide protests to ensure justice is served. State Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil visited the victim’s parents in Vandiperiyar on Thursday and led a protest march. A large number of women from the Mahila Congress jostled with police outside the state women’s commission office in Thiruvananthapuram where they had marched to demand action in the case. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy told reporters that his party would not sit quiet. “This government is not learning any lessons. This child got killed because the government did not give any importance to the earlier cases,” the Congress veteran said, alluding to the 2017 rape of two minor sisters in Walayar, Palakkad. Two sisters aged 13 and nine and belonging to a Dalit family of labourers were found dead 52 days apart in January and March 2017 in their shanty in the industrial township of Walayar. Subsequent investigations confirmed they had committed suicide by hanging after repeated sexual assaults by five men, one of them a minor, who had links with the CPM. But all of the accused were acquitted as the prosecution failed to present any clinching evidence. This had led to massive protests with the Opposition accusing the Left government of protecting its supporters. The matter got a fresh lease of life when the children’s mother contested against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Dharmadam constituency of Kannur in the April Assembly polls. The case is now being probed by the CBI. Two of the accused were arrested again. While one is out on bail, the other died by suicide. State Youth Congress president Parambil accused the Left government of providing good legal support to its cadres accused in such cases. “This only encourages their cadres to rape and kill. We are heading into a very dangerous situation if the CPM doesn’t stop supporting such people,” Parambil told reporters in Idukki. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan, who was among those who helped the victims’ family in the Walayar case, said arrest didn’t mean much. “Even the Walayar accused were arrested, but they were let off due to laxity in the probe. That’s why we fear that the Vandiperiyar case also could meet a similar fate since the CPM has a history of backing its cadres in all kinds of cases,” he told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy named as Public Accounts Committee Chairman||Senior TMC leader Mukul Roy, who recently switched over to the ruling camp in Bengal after winning the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, was on Friday appointed as the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee in the Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. This comes days after he was nominated by the ruling party to become a member of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. BJP MLAs, led by Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, staged a walkout in the Assembly, protesting against this decision. Roy, officially a BJP MLA from Krishnanagar Uttar, joined the TMC last month. He, however, did not resign as an MLA, despite being asked to do so several times by the saffron party. The TMC leader was elected as a member of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in June. Adhikari said that an Opposition MLA is usually appointed as the PAC chairman in accordance with the norm, but the TMC misused that rule to appoint Roy as its chairman. Section 255A of the Assembly rules gives the Speaker the power to appoint the PAC chairman. Sources said Trinamul intended to push Roy’s name as the PAC chairman. The PAC comprises 20 members and 14 of them are nominated by the ruling party, while the Opposition nominates six members. Roy’s was among the 14 names submitted by Trinamul. The BJP had named MLA Ashoke Lahiri in its list and wants him to become the chairman of the PAC. The BJP list also included Suvendu’s name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Educational qualifications of youngest Union minister Nisith Pramanik triggers controversy   ||A new entrant to the Narendra Modi ministry has found himself embroiled in a controversy that has been chasing the government, intermittently, since the Prime Minister took oath in 2014. Within hours of the swearing-in of Nisith Pramanik, the saffron party’s Lok Sabha MP from Cooch Behar on Wednesday, his former party Trinamul raised a red flag over his educational qualifications. So far, there has been no response from Pramanik. Trinamul Congress Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy shared screenshots of an affidavit filed by Pramanik, the youngest minister in the Modi’s council of ministers, before the Election Commission of India, and another from the Lok Sabha website. In the affidavit, Pramanik, who is serving as deputy to Union home minister Amit Shah, has mentioned his educational qualification as Madhyamik from Bhetaguri Lal Bahadur Shastri Vidyapeeth in Cooch Behar’s Dinhata. The year is not mentioned. The Lok Sabha website mentions his educational qualification as Bachelor’s of Computer Application from Balakura Junior Basic School. “There is a discrepancy, and it is the duty of the minister to inform voters of his constituency what is the truth about his educational qualification,” said Roy. “Can a junior basic school give a Bachelor’s degree or certificate? To study BCA, an undergraduate course, one has to clear higher secondary. When and where did he clear higher secondary?” asked Roy. The 35-year-old Pramanik was with the Trinamul till the 2018 panchayat polls when he rebelled against the local leadership and joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha polls. Pramanik also faces allegations of attempt to murder, outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation, rioting and theft mentioned in 11 FIRs against him. State BJP leaders have refused to comment on the Pramanik controversy. However, the controversy over his educational qualifications puts Pramanik in an exalted league of Indian politicians. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s educational credentials have been questioned. Both the Delhi University and Gujarat University from which Modi claimed to have pursued his graduate and post-graduate degrees have refused to share details of the courses pursued by the Prime Minister. Though BJP had claimed Modi had a postgraduate degree in “entire political science”, the Lok Sabha website mentions his educational qualifications as BA, MA (Pol Science), educated at Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, and Delhi University. Ahead of her first election in 1984 when Mamata Banerjee defeated CPM leader Somnath Chatterjee from Jadavpur, wall writings mentioned a “Dr (doctor)” before her name, and she had claimed to have done a PhD from East Georgia University on “the impact of Mughal harem on state and policies.” The United States Educational Foundation in India later clarified that the East Georgia University did not exist. Two other ministers—both handling the human resources development ministry responsible for running educational institutes in the country—have been mired in controversies surrounding their educational qualifications. Smriti Irani had claimed to be a graduate with a BA in 2004. Ten years later in 2014, that was changed to BCom Part I from the School of Open Learning (Correspondence). She never mentioned that she did not complete the course. Irani also claimed to have a degree from  Yale University. It turned out later, in 2013, that she had attended a six-day leadership course in the prestigious US university. Ramesh Pokhriyal, who became the HRD minister in 2019, has never mentioned his school and higher secondary school records ever, though he has been awarded two DLits from a Graphic Era University and Uttarakhand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya. He has also never mentioned the subject in which he did his MA. Given the Trinamul’s charge on the educational qualifications of the BJP leadership, the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly has decided to raise controversies that surrounded the Trinamul leaders. “During the debate on the proposal for a legislative council, the Treasury Bench referred to the educational qualifications of the PM and others. Leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has asked all MLAs to speak about the bogus PhD of Mamata,” said a BJP source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Medica, NSHM join hands to vaccinate teachers and students across Bengal||With an aim to inoculate over 2,000 teachers and 10,000 students, Medica Superpeciaity Hospitals and NSHM Knowledge Campus have started a Covid-19 vaccination drive across Bengal from July 4. Schools and colleges can opt for on-campus or off-campus vaccination for their eligible teachers and students, a press release from the hospital says. The 24-acre NSHM campus in Durgapur has also geared up to offer a green, clean and safe platform for this immunisation programme, it adds. The drive will continue till July 15. NSHM and Medica will provide all facilities for off-campus drives at institutes across the states, provided that a minimum of 100 participants sign up for the programme, while off-campus vaccination will be conducted at NSHM campuses in Durgapur and Calcutta. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Alok Roy, Chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair FICCI Health Services Committee said, “As responsible caregivers it is our utmost priority to inoculate maximum people in the best manner possible. As equal stakeholders for the greater benefit of the citizens, it is a matter of pride for the entire team of Medica to shoulder our collective responsibility towards this vaccination drive in close coordination with the Government machinery and prominent educational institutions like NSHM Knowledge Campus. NSHM trustee Francis Antony said, "Providing easy access to vaccination facility and encouraging mass participation of the teachers and student fraternity is the prime objective behind this vaccination drive." Roy, on the other hand, also urged everyone to follow Covid safety protocols. "On behalf of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, I would urge all teachers and students above 18 years in Durgapur to come forward and get vaccinated. Even post-vaccination, it is imperative that people must continue wearing masks, not be complacent or careless in crowded or closed spaces and follow proper hand hygiene measures."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
09-07-2021||West Bengal||ED to probe fake Covid vaccination camps in Calcutta||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has decided to probe the dubious COVID vaccination camps in Calcutta, sources said on Friday. The matter is at present being probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Calcutta Police's Detective Department, which has already arrested nine persons, including fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb who masterminded the fraud. "The ED has filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) over the matter. The ED will probe the money laundering angle, if there is any," a source in the investigative agency said. The ED’s probe will run parallel to the Special Investigation Team of the Calcutta Police’s Detective Department’s investigation into the case. The SIT has arrested nine including the fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb. The ED’s decision to take up the probe came within hours of a Calcutta High Court division bench comprising Justices IP Mukherji and Aniruddha Roy turned down PILs seeking probe by a central agency into the matter. The bench held that the petitioners may move court at a later stage if there is any cause of dissatisfaction with the investigation being done by the city police. The bench ruled it was not inclined to interfere in the investigation of the case at this stage. Deb was arrested in June for masquerading as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and operating dubious immunisation camps in different parts of the city. Eight of his associates were arrested during the course of the investigation as police included the charge of an attempt to murder along with other sections of the IPC against them. Probe till date has revealed that Deb, posing as a joint commissioner in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had opened several bank accounts in the name of senior officials from the civic body using fake documents, and duped several people promising contracts and jobs. Why Deb had started the camp where he gave fake vaccines to the people is still not clear. Deb and his racket were exposed after actor and Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty got herself vaccinated at the camp held in Kasba but did not get any certificate. Nor did she get any message confirming her inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 995 new Covid -19 cases, 17 more fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 18th straight day of a dip in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 512 to 16,143. On Thursday, the state reported 1,490 recoveries, 995 new infections and 17 deaths. Of them, Calcutta logged 87 new infections and two deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2 per cent on Thursday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by nearly 30 per cent again over these 18 days. With worst-hit Calcutta logging 87 new cases and North 24-Parganas 93, Thursday was the first day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures, while South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit ones. “This achievement is a morale-booster, certainly a significant landmark in the fight against the second wave,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.75 per cent, with the national rate at 97.16. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation was 1.31 per cent. North 24-Parganas reported three deaths. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, while six others reported just one each. Bengal now has a total of over 15.09 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.75 lakh recoveries and 17,867 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Fake judge arrested for duping Siliguri trader of nearly Rs 1 crore||A lawyer posing as a judicial officer was arrested from Kishanganj, Bihar, by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police on Wednesday for allegedly duping a Siliguri trader of nearly Rs 1 crore. Sources said on June 28, the businessman, whose name is being withheld by the police, filed a complaint alleging that a year ago, a man came to his shop calling himself the additional sessions judge-cum-special auction officer based in Kishanganj, and befriended him. “He said he had possession of 84 cars and 5,000 tonnes of wheat, and wanted buyers,” said a police officer. He told the trader to participate in an “auction” to buy the items. The trader and two of his friends paid him Rs 91 lakh. The man gave them official papers and government seals, treasury challans and the cash receipt. Then, the man disappeared with the money and the documents were found to be forged. There was no auction. The trader and his friends eventually found out that this so-called judicial officer was a lawyer named Samir Dubey of Kishanganj and went to the police. The detective department of Siliguri Metropolitan Police sent a team, disguised as buyers, to the Bihar town on Wednesday to trace Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||State govt to sell off or lease part of unused Durgapur Projects Limited land to clear debts||The Bengal government is all set to sell off or lease out a portion of unused land of Durgapur Projects Limited, a loss-making power utility that was under a restructuring plan, to clear the firm’s debts. “A meeting will be held regarding the monitisation of surplus DPL land this evening (Thursday). It is still not clear for which purpose the land would be sold off. But the money that would be generated from the process would be used to meet the liabilities of the utility,” a senior government official told The Telegraph on Thursday. DPL is a state-owned utility, with about 4,000 employees, that supplies power to Durgapur and adjoining areas. This is the first time a concrete step is being planned to generate resources from idle assets. According to sources, the state government aims to sell or lease out a total of about 1,000 acres of land of the DPL out of its 3,559 acres spread across Durgapur and Dankuni in Hooghly. “But the process could start with 154 acres spread in three parcels in Durgapur. Two officers of power department went to Durgapur on Wednesday and visited all three land parcels which could be put up for monetisation in the first phase,” said another official. According to sources, the DPL has its power plant and coke oven plant on around 650 acres. Moreover, it has administrative buildings, township and various offices on around 900 acres. About 50 per cent of its 3,559 acres are lying unused these days. According to a restructuring plan taken up by the power department in 2019, the DPL was divided into three parts. The transmission was taken over by the West Bengal State Electricity Transmission Company, the distribution was handed over to the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company and the West Bengal Power Development Corporation was given the charge of the electricity generation. “But these were yet to be notified duly and no other restructuring process like staff being laid off was not initiated. The DPL has been facing a loss of Rs 200 crore every fiscal for the past one decade. A bold step is needed to clear the burden of at least Rs 2,000 crore at the DPL,” said a source. The Left Front government had also planned to utilise the unused plots of the DPL by setting up townships in a joint venture. But the plan could not materialise because of stiff resistance from the CITU. This time also, the CITU said it would resist if the state wanted to sell off the plots or gave them on long-term lease. “We will put up stiff resistance if the government takes any step like promoting on the DPL land,” said Pankaj Ray Sarkar, a district committee member of CITU. The state government is also aware of the problem and that’s why Moloy Ghatak, a strong Trinamul leader of the area and the PWD and law minister, has been given the responsibility to take forward the process even though he is no way connected to the power department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh calls Saumitra Khan names at news meet||High drama in Bengal BJP continued on Thursday with Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh calling his counterpart in the party’s state youth wing, Saumitra Khan, names at a news meet. Ghosh added that the party would follow its “system” and take action against Khan if he did not act responsibly. This comes a day after Khan, in a Facebook live session, accused the BJP MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari of misdirecting the party’s top leadership in Delhi and that Ghosh “doesn’t understand half the things”. “He is a youth leader. It is normal for him to act foolishly. He has come to BJP, has been given responsibilities, he will understand…If he doesn’t become mature with age there is a system in the party to take action. There is a limit to insanity…There is always a place for jokers in politics…He is not bigger than the party…When the time comes action will be taken against him…” Ghosh said. On Thursday, Khan used a photograph of Ghosh and Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh shaking hands as the display picture (DP) in one of his personal WhatsApp numbers. The Midnapore MP had met Kunal at a wedding. This made Ghosh furious and he asked Khan to remove the DP. Khan obliged and claimed he had no idea how it became a DP. Sources close to Khan said Khan intended to show Ghosh in poor light and was angry with the party for not making him a Union minister. “We understand he is unhappy with the party. Yet he is an MP. What he did was uncalled for,” a BJP youth wing source said. Khan was also not present at a youth wing meeting on Thursday headed by a state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. He had said on Wednesday that his heart was not in the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Fishermen request state fisheries department to conduct dredging at Sankarpur fishing port soon||The Sankarpur Fishermen’s and Fish Traders’ Association has formally requested the state fisheries department to conduct dredging at East Midnapore’s Sankarpur fishing port on an emergency basis in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas as they fear it will affect their business if the job is not undertaken immediately. The port, which facilitates employment for roughly 10,000 fishermen, mechanics, and where their trawlers are moored, has seen a disproportionate deposition of silt in the feeder canal following the cyclone, a development that is causing many inbound trawlers to divert to neighbouring Odisha or East Midnapore’s Contai. “This is a year-old problem. But it has been aggravated by Cyclone Yaas. Now, we are demanding immediate action or else, the entire port may go underwater,” said former MLA and incumbent secretary of the fisheries association, Swadesh Nayak. “Except during high tide, we are rendered non-operational. And if vessels are caught on top of the silt during a receding tide, lives could be lost,” he added. The Champa canal, leading into the Sankarpur port, is flanked on one side by the Digha-Mohona auction centre and the Sankarpur fishing harbour on the other. Sources said it had last been dredged in 2013. Over the last month, fishermen in the area estimate that trawler activity has gone down to 60 per cent of the regular 500 that would be found docked. “Earlier, 500 trawlers used to dock at the harbour and now around 200 come here because of navigation troubles. If the situation is not addressed, the economy of the area and that of the fishing community will be hit,” said a fish trader who operates trawlers from the harbour. “Sankarpur has the best connectivity to the sea, especially for hilsa fishing. But now, apprehending potential accidents, we are shifting half our fleet to Odisha,” said trawler owner Sadananda Jena. “In addition to dredging, authorities ought to provide some sort of sanitation and accommodation-based arrangements as well. Most advanced ports have these facilities to accommodate fishermen who are out for weeks on end,” added fisherman Pratap Das. Fisheries minister and Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri said he was aware of the problem and that authorities were waiting for monsoon tides to subside. “We will attempt to start the dredging in November,” he added. The fishermen’s association has also asked the state government to repair the harbour as it had suffered damage during Cyclone Yaas, said trawler owner Tapan Das. He added that the harbour generated a business of around Rs 200 crore annually. The state government also earns Rs 10,000 in revenue from each trawler every year. Keeping in view the amount of business generated and the number of people who depend on the harbour, Das said: “The jetty has been damaged and the high tide during Cyclone Yaas has affected a few ice factories and a petrol pump had to be shut down. Getting ice has become a problem ever since Yaas struck the harbour. The government should take up repair at Sankarpur harbour immediately as they are doing elsewhere. This is the fishing season and delay in taking up repair is hitting us badly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||John Barla, Nisith Pramanik find cabinet berths||The inclusion of two BJP MPs from north Bengal, John Barla of Alipurduar and Nisith Pramanik of Cooch Behar, into the Union cabinet as ministers of state was greeted with celebrations in various parts of the region, but at the same time raised several questions within the saffron camp, courtesy the backgrounds of the duo. Thursday began with the duo’s supporters celebrating the elevation in their respective pocketboroughs in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar with processions and sweets, but the criticism of the leaders ran as an undercurrent. Many questioned the message the central BJP leadership was trying to give by promoting Barla, who recently demanded Union territory or separate statehood status for the region. While speaking to reporters in Delhi on Thursday Barla said he didn’t want to comment on the controversial demand, a BJP leader said: "He has made it an issue and now it will simmer and create trouble. It’s sad that he is now in the Union cabinet.” Barla, who hails from Lakhipara tea estate of Banarhat in Jalpaiguri, is not in the good books of the Sangh Parivar, especially the Vishwa Hindu Parishad,, for his alleged past. “Leaders of VHP and the RSS, who have been working in the tribal areas of north Bengal, including the tea belt, had said Barla was instrumental in encouraging tribals to embrace Christianity. They had disapproved of his inclusion into the BJP and the decision to field him in the MP’s seat from Alipurduar,” said a BJP leader in Calcutta. Discontentment against Barla within the VHP and the RSS has now percolated into the party's state hierarchy with the MP raising the separate Union territory or state cry, feel many BJP leaders. In north Bengal, BJP leaders are facing questions from residents on the issue and finding it tough to reply. “Our state leaders are conveniently dodging direct replies. Such tactics will eventually not work,” said a BJP functionary in Siliguri. The elevation of Barla and Pramanik also angered some hill residents who wondered why Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was snubbed is the Darjeeling seat from where BJP won thrice in Lok Sabha polls since 2009. In the Assembly polls, the party won in all five seats of the district. The BJP’s plan to appease Rajbanshis and tribals has not gone down well with the Gorkha voters of the BJP,” said an observer. In Cooch Behar, questions are being raised over Pramanik’s elevation as he is a first-time MP with a number of legal cases pending against him. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Mizoram youths held with heroin worth Rs 20 crore||The Special Task Force arrested two drivers and a helper of a truck, heading to Calcutta from Manipur, on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj on Thursday morning after four kilos of heroin worth around Rs 20 crore was recovered from the vehicle. “Four packets, weighing one kilo each, has been seized. The estimated value of the consignment in the international market could be around Rs 20 crore. The arrested trio hail from Mizoram,” said Jangipur police chief, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Two cops suspended on charges of ‘negligence’ in West Burdwan||Two sub-inspectors and an assistant sub-inspector at West Burdwan’s Barakar police outpost were on Thursday suspended on charges of misconduct and dereliction of duty after the alleged custodial death of a youth charged with theft on Tuesday. Five civic volunteers, also allegedly involved in the incident, have also been withdrawn from duty. A case based on the complaint filed by the victim’s family has started. Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur had on Tuesday suspended in-charge of the Barakar outpost, Amarnath Das, and sub-inspector of Kulti police station, Prashanta Pal, on charges of “negligence”. Mohammad Arman Ansari,28, who was picked up by the police for interrogations in connection with a theft case was found unconscious at the lock up at Kulti police station on Tuesday. He was rushed to Asansol district hospital and was declared dead on arrival. Later, a mob ransacked Barakar police outpost and set vehicles on fire alleging that Arman was tortured inside the lock-up. His father Mohammad Abdul Kalam had lodged an FIR against the police officers holding them responsible for the death of Arman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Shantanu Thakur sworn in as junior minister, Matuas remind CAA priority||Celebrations at Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Matua sect in North 24-Parganas, started on Wednesday right after the chief of the sect and local BJP MP Shantanu Thakur took oath as junior minister, but despite the revelries continuing on Thursday, many in the community said that their demand for citizenship was their first priority. “The Centre may have given a ministerial berth (to Thakur) to appease the community fearing the inordinate delay in implementation of the Citizenship Act, but it (the gesture) will boomerang if the government fails to act on its promise (implementing the Act) with which it wooed us,” Manoj Das, a Matua devotee, said. “Much before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the community will send a clear message to BJP,” he added. In the 2021 Assembly polls, the BJP won six of the seven Assembly seats in the Bongaon parliamentary constituency dominated by the Matuas despite the Trinamul wave in North 24-Parganas. The sect is also influential in the Nadia and North Dinajpur districts. Some Matuas demanded that the All India Matua Mahasangha, headed by Thakur, must re-launch the movement with their core issue of implementing the CAA once the Covid-19 curbs ease. A source at the Mahasangha said before the polls the conflict over the delay in CAA implementation was such that Thakur himself had thought of quitting BJP and floating his own party. “The Union home minister (Amit Shah) had cancelled at least two public meetings here at Thakurnagar ahead of the Assembly polls. We believe he was avoiding us because we would raise questions about the CAA. The pressure from the community was such that even Thakur was forced to say in multiple Mahasangha meetings that if the BJP doesn’t keep its promise the community leaders will fight the Assembly polls independently,” the source said. “Hence Thakur must not forget his primary focus now that he is a minister,” this person added. Another section in the Mahasangha said though there is undercurrent of discontent with the BJP, Thakur’s elevation may create the perfect opportunity to up the ante on their CAA demand. “Citizenship is our core issue and we will continue our movement to achieve it. We are not against the BJP. Rather, we feel since it is the party at the Centre, with its support we can solve the citizenship problem,” a source close to Thakur said. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, speaking on the issue said: “The Matuas must be happy that their leader is a Union minister today. He will now be in close proximity with the Prime Minister and home minister and raise their demand at the top-most level personally. The state government here is not cooperating on the CAA’s implementation.” Former Trinamul MP Mamatabala Thakur, who also represents the Matua community, however is not optimistic about Shantanu Thakurs’ ascension to the cabinet. "As an MP Shantanu has done nothing during the past two years. The ministerial berth will only be beneficial to him and his family... The community members will soon realise that both BJP and Shantanu Thakur had made false promises...” Mamatabala Thakur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Two newborn red pandas raise Darjeeling zoo’s cute quotient||The stork visited the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) in Darjeeling on Thursday, as Shobha, one of the female red pandas of the zoo, gave birth of two furry cubs at Topkay Dara, the captive breeding centre of the species run by the zoo. Dharmdeo Rai, the director of the PNHZP, said after the birth of two panda cubs, the population of the species at the centre has increased to 25. Red pandas are a major attractions for tourists who visit the zoo every year. Rai said the cubs were fathered by Noel, a male red panda who is also an inmate of the zoo. “The cubs and their mother are in good health. We are keeping them under constant watch,” said Rai. The captive breeding centre was set up back in the 1980s and is the only such site in the country used for breeding and conservation of the small mammal. On June 5, two more cubs had been born in the centre. Along with captive breeding, the state forest department has also drawn plans to release some of the red pandas in the wild, particularly in the forests located on the upper reaches of Darjeeling hills like the Singalila National Park and the Neora Valley National Park. Apart from pandas, the park is also known for captive breeding place of some other animals which only survive in cold climates such as snow leopard, Himalayan tahr, Tibetan wolf and blue sheep are also carried out at the centre. Sources at the zoo also spoke about a short video that became popular on social media a couple of days back. It showed three snow leopard cubs playing in the zoological park. Zima, a female snow leopard, had given birth to the cubs on April 12. Namkha, the father of these cubs, is also a resident of the park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
09-07-2021||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate summons 7 Bengal IPS officers in coal case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned seven Bengal IPS officers, including Gyanwant Singh, the head of the CID, in connection with the ongoing probe into the multicrore coal pilferage case. The officers have been given a freedom to choose from either turning up physically or attending the questioning session through virtual medium. Each of the seven have been assigned specific dates between July and August for their hearing. “Each of these officers have been responsible for policing the zone from where coal used to be illegally pilfered and transported out in trucks,” said a senior ED officer. “The money that was collected has travelled several routes to reach destinations beyond the country. We would like to understand what was the role of these officers in ensuring there was no illegal pilferage of coal.” Some of these IPS officers have been recently responsible for policing in different districts, including Purulia, Birbhum, East Burdwan, Nadia and Murshidabad. The CBI, which is primarily probing into the alleged siphoning of coal worth several hundreds of crores from parts of south Bengal, have already questioned some of these IPS officers. In May, a team of CBI officers had questioned Singh at Nizam Palace. Officers had then argued that Singh was in charge of the state’s law and order when most of the pilferage had taken place. Before being the top cop in charge of law and order, CBI officers said, Singh was also in charge of Bengal’s western zone that covers some of the collieries from where the alleged pilferage had taken place. Singh has been summoned to appear before the ED on August 5. Koteswara Rao, who was the superintendent of police of Bankura and faced CBI interrogators in April, has been summoned for questioning on July 26. S. Selvamurugan, Shyam Singh, Sukesh Jain, Rajeev Mishra and Tathagata Basu are the five other IPS officers summoned by the CID. While the CBI is probing into the crime behind the alleged pilferage, the ED is investigating the trail that hundreds of crores of rupees, which the trade had generated, had travelled. In the course of the probe both the central agencies have knocked on several addresses of the alleged mastermind of the pilferage business Anup Majhi alias Lala. In June, a team of officers from the ED had visited Majhi’s ancestral home in Purulia in search of some documents. The Trinamul Congress termed the ED summoning the seven officers as a politically motivated act aimed at breaking the morale of a section of IPS officers in the state. “This will go on from time to time. The two central agencies will continue to question different sets of police officers,” said a senior leader of the Trinamul Congress. “The BJP is yet to come to terms with the defeat in Bengal and hence, all these activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
09-07-2021||North East||Assam move to protect land rights of Gorkhas||The Assam government on Thursday declared Gorkhas living in the tribal belts and blocks in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) a protected class. The move will, among other benefits, make it easier for the Gorkha community to buy, sell and transfer land in the four districts — Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri — that make up the BTR. Education and welfare of plain tribes and backward classes (non-BTC) minister Ranoj Pegu announced the decision, adding that over 1.65 lakh Gorkha community members will benefit from the move. “Under the provisions of chapter X of Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886, the cabinet has approved to include Gorkhas as a protected class in the tribal belts and blocks in the districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri who are residing there before 2003, that is, when the districts came under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution,” Pegu said. The Bodoland Territorial Council was established as an autonomous council on February 10, 2003, under the Sixth Schedule, which provides for the administration of tribal areas and safeguarding the rights of tribals. Pegu also said: “Similarly, the cabinet has decided to notify the indigenous Tai Ahom, Moran, Muttock, Chutia and Gorkha people residing in the Sadiya tribal belt (Upper Assam) as a protected class. The government has also decided to create more tribal belts and blocks.” There are 17 tribal belts and 30 blocks spread across Tinsukia, Sonitpur, Nagaon, Morigaon, Lakhimpur, Kamrup, Kamrup (metro), Goalpara, Dhemaji, Darrang, Bongaigaon and the four BTR districts in Assam. The move was welcomed by the Gorkha community, the fulfilment of a long-pending demand. There are around 25 lakh Gorkhas in Assam, of whom about 3.5 lakh reside in the BTR, most of whom migrated to Assam during the British rule. Nanda Kirati Dewan, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisang, state unit said the 2003 cut-off year would ensure no “newcomers” could avail the benefit extended to the permanent residents of Assam by claiming to belong to the Gorkha community. “It is a historic development. We have always demanded that we be treated as an indigenous community. It is a step in that direction. The setting up of the Gorkha Development Council in 2003 was the first baby step towards recognising Nepali/Gorkha language speakers as indigenous Gorkhas in Assam. We also request the Assam government to extend the same rule in the new belts and blocks to be created in the state,”Dewan said. Some other cabinet decisions announced by Pegu and cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika in separate media interactions included: n The cabinet has approved the placing of The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, before the Assembly and repealing the existing The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. n Renaming the post of gaonburha (village headman) as gaon pradhan and restricting the upper age limit of gaonburahs to 65 years. The minimum age required to become a gaonburah is 30. n Unemployed youth can register themselves online through the employment portal instead of going to the employment exchange. The applicants who have already registered and their cards are still valid, will be given an option of entering their previous registration number to retain the date of their initial registration. n The government will bear the complete cost of litigation faced by its personnel while protecting the state’s borders since most of the cases filed by the people of neighbouring states are “frivolous and instituted in a vindictive manner with a view to demoralising the government servant from taking a bold stand on border protection”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
09-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sharper teeth||As serious crimes persist and evolve in nature, in what way must laws be designed to deal with these offences effectively? This would be a pertinent question to ask in the light of the Centre preparing the draft anti-trafficking bill, which seeks to significantly widen the scope of offences that count as human trafficking and impose stringent punishments accordingly. The trafficking in persons (prevention, care and rehabilitation) bill, 2021 has already been praised by experts. They say that it addresses nearly all the concerns raised in 2018 when a previous draft bill had been passed in the Lok Sabha in spite of stiff opposition from parliamentarians and experts. If the new bill is passed into law in its current form, it will expand the ambit of exploitation to include, among other things, forced labour, organ harvesting, illegal clinical drug trials or unlawful bio-medical research. Importantly, it will include transgender people along with women and children in the definition of trafficking victims. It will also be operative in trafficking cases with cross-border implications. There will be scope for life imprisonment in most incidents of child-trafficking, especially those involving more than one child. In extreme cases — for instance, where the victims are less than 12 years old — even the death penalty can be sought. Trafficking has traditionally thrived on poverty, moral turpitude and violence. The crisis has been exacerbated by the pandemic. The enormous financial hardship on families, the death of one or both parents of several children, the mass displacement of people and the closure of schools, where at-risk children could have received attention, have aggravated the threat. Trafficking also relies on shadowy networks among seasoned traffickers, law-keepers and officials. As such, it is heartening that the new law would consider as offenders anyone in a position of authority, including defence personnel, government servants and doctors. However, will the paltry conviction rate — it fell to 22 per cent in 2019 from 29.4 per cent in 2018 — rise under a tightened law? This can only happen if reform is introduced to India’s under-resourced and desensitized police force. The involvement of India’s counter-terrorism task force in the ambit of the bill is instructive. However, concerns about checks and balances in the investigative process are warranted given the fact that overriding powers are increasingly viewed as a licence for impunity on the part of investigative agencies. The draft bill will be useful when it is implemented effectively and responsibly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: The ‘Union government’ debate, Rafale investigation by France||Strong stand Sir — A debate has broken out between the government of Tamil Nadu and the Centre with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-ruled dispensation insisting on using the term ‘ondriya arasu’ or ‘Union government’ instead of ‘madhiya arasu’, that means Central government (“Just a name”, July 5). The decision of the chief minister, M.K. Stalin, to stick to this stance is a major step towards reviving the spirit of the Constitution in our collective consciousness. After 71 years of adopting the Constitution, it is time that we remembered the original intent of the founding fathers — Article 1 of the Constitution says that “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States”. In fact, the Constituent Assembly did not use the term ‘Centre’ or ‘Central government’ in any of its 395 Articles in 22 Parts and eight Schedules in the original Constitution. Perhaps this was done consciously, in order to prevent the centralization of powers in one unit. However, following the Partition and the violence of 1947 in Kashmir, the Constituent Assembly was forced to revise its approach and it resolved in favour of a strong Centre. Stalin’s assertion that his government would continue to use the term, ‘Union’, has revived the debate on state autonomy and federalism. Besides, the conflict arising between the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre must be seen as the result of a power tussle and not merely a definition problem. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The reference to the government at the Centre as the ‘Union government’ by the chief minister of Tamil Nadu is not incorrect. The Constitution itself refers to India as a ‘Union of States’. While taking oath of office in May 2019, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, did not say that he is a Central minister but “a Minister for the Union”. Even a parliamentary committee suggested the use of the term “officials of the Union of India” in place of “Central government officials”. The Centrally administered territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, the national capital territory of Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, to name a few, are known as ‘Union territories’ and not ‘Central territories’. The Bharatiya Janata Party seems to be going overboard to centralize every aspect of our lives and administration. It appears to overlook the fact that the framers of our Constitution envisaged India as a Union of states. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Come clean Sir — An ugly war of words is raging between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress over a French judge being appointed to investigate the allegations of corruption related to the Rafale deal worth Rs 59,000 crore for 36 fighter aircrafts purchased by India. But citizens are not getting any wiser in the absence of any official response from the Narendra Modi-led government on the issue. The Parquet National Financier of France has launched the investigation acting on a complaint by Sherpa, a non-governmental organization. The complaint is based on comprehensive reports backed by incriminating documents published by Mediapart, an online investigative journal. The same organization had earlier declined to probe the deal on the basis of a complaint filed in October 2018 by Sherpa. This indicates that the French agency has reasons to initiate a judicial investigation into the deal to unearth the truth. The Modi government can no longer disdainfully dismiss the allegations of wrongdoings as if they were figments of the Oppositions’ imagination without a meaningful probe. The Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have been pressing for setting up a joint parliamentary committee to probe the various questionable aspects of the deal. Since the deal was struck by India’s  prime minister, he owes it to the nation to come clean. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore  Shut out the heat Sir — It is true that the khorkhoris of yore are increasingly giving way to the ugly sliding glass ones (“Wise window of yore”, July 8). But it is not just a change in architectural aesthetics or inconvenience — khorkhoris are notoriously difficult to clean — that is responsible for these windows falling out of favour. Windows like khorkhoris and jali windows of Rajasthan and Gujarat kept out the heat while allowing wind to enter houses. But as the heat rises outside, these are no longer sufficient to keep houses cool. Aesthetic windows, then, are yet another victim of climate change. Abhik Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: High table||The exit sign, at times, can glow brighter than that of entry. The most talked about point concerning Narendra Modi’s cabinet expansion is not the seven promotions and 36 new inductions but the demotions of 12 ministers. Some of the prominent netas who now find themselves without their beloved kursis include Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal and Prakash Javadekar. Mr Prasad, having led the Centre’s heavy-handed charge against social media platforms such as Twitter, may have reasons to feel a bit cut up. That the axe fell on Mr Vardhan and Mr Pokhriyal, the Union health minister and education minister, respectively, is being cited on non-performance. It is true that India has been lashed savagely by the pandemic with the second wave exposing an unprecedented crisis in oxygen, hospital beds and basic medical amenities. But in a regime as centralized as the one that is run by Mr Modi, where decisions independent of the prime minister’s nod are rare, it would be unfair to pin the blame on the health minister alone. Again, Mr Pokhriyal has been hauled up for the delays in appointments in premier institutions, opacity and policy U-turns, but here too there are whispers that the Prime Minister’s Office had a hand in slowing down things in some instances. It appears that some of the ministers who have been dropped are the proverbial fall guy: taking the plunge only to protect the boss’s sheen. If this speculation is indeed true, it does not say much about Mr Modi’s leadership qualities. A leader who is averse to taking his share of the blame for what clearly are collective failures on the part of the government he heads speaks poorly of the democratic ethos within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. In any case, standards of assessment need to be fair for the entire pecking order of the government. The myth of the BJP being a party with a difference has been busted in another way through the cabinet expansion. The anointment of seven new faces from Uttar Pradesh betrays the BJP’s desperation to send the right signals to the poll-bound state: the outcome of the elections, the BJP is hoping, would set the template for the Battle of 2024. What this shows is that just like any other party, the BJP prioritizes political considerations over performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Rediscover the human touch||In March 2020, an abrupt, Covid-induced lockdown triggered a mass human migration in India. The Indian administration received significant criticism from its global counterparts for aggravating a crisis amidst a raging pandemic. The analyst, Pronab Sen, argued that in the absence of substantial economic capital, migrants were being forced to return to their homes so that they could bank on social capital to stay afloat during the crisis. While the first wave of the pandemic brought to the fore the concern of people dying of hunger, it did not make the idea of death an everyday matter for society at large. The second wave in India has, however, completely changed this notion. Media reports of underreported death counts as well as the visuals of graveyards with multiple burning pyres have stoked the deepest fears in the people. Life, undoubtedly, is uncertain; but when we experience this uncertainty in our everyday affairs, we end up suffering from a ‘novel’ phobia — ‘Covid phobia’. Because of this, we try and maximize our chances of survival by distancing ourselves from possible sources of infection. A good example of this was wealthy individuals taking shelter in safer countries to escape the dire situation in India; this safe physical space was available as a result of their fortunes and influential social connections. Another manifestation of ‘Covid phobia’ was people postponing treatments of other medical conditions. Managing the disease is often a lonely affair. Covid phobia is thus an upshot of this loneliness: the fear of ‘dying alone’ haunts us rather than dying itself. Coping with this emergent crisis calls for collaboration. There needs to be collaboration on taking safety measures and distributing critical medical resources. However, the ground reality is that people across different social strata have varying levels of access to healthcare and other resources. This inaccessibility, combined with inadequate medical facilities, aggravates Covid phobia, which, in turn, makes social collaboration difficult. Amidst a global crisis, instead of an expansion in the circle of caring, there is evidence to suggest that social collaboration is diminishing in the face of shrinking social capital. The exchange of critical information on social media platforms has been a heartening phenomenon. Nevertheless, we need to reflect on whether these platforms reach the ones who need help the most. There is also the challenge of the iniquitous nature of the economic capital needed to survive. Unlike the affluent segments, those who are banking solely on their social capital have been left with nothing as State and society retract their circle of caring. There are predictions that suggest that pandemics and other such extreme events are expected to become periodical occurrences in the age of climate change. Strangely, climate change is still believed to be a phenomenon of the distant future even though the world is getting adversely affected by climatic disasters, leading to extreme uncertainties, fear and panic. Moreover, our responses to such crisis situations, be it Covid or climate change, are likely to be inadequate. It’s safe to assume that we are going to see similar situations in the near future where people would have to live amidst multiple constraints and with limited resources, and the lack of financial resources and social capital would further threaten the lives and livelihoods of marginalized people. Is society capable of collaboration when faced with imminent death? While Covid phobia is diminishing the potential for collaborative action that can emerge as a critical pillar of support for the disadvantaged people, a new form of eco-anxiety, climatic disaster phobia, is likely to creep in. Climate change is expected to exacerbate migration on a mass scale. This displacement is likely to lead to the emergence of newer spatial boundaries based on the lines of class and caste and make society more fragmented. Cities could restrict the entry of rural folks. Upscale neighbourhoods could turn into gated areas under surveillance. In fact, the notion of a ‘climate haven’ includes the idea of gated communities that can efficiently exclude others from accessing critical resources and offer an increased scope of survival to their subscribers. It’s also possible that a black market would take over the dispensing of critical life-saving resources during the crisis. This means that, once again, those on the margins are going to be the worst hit by the fallouts of climate crisis. Harnessing social capital is, therefore, a necessary condition for the welfare of the marginalized who have been stripped of economic resources. Consequently, we as a society need to find a way to tackle our fears and consolidate social collaboration while also expanding the ethics of care. It is more important to address the fundamental human anxieties underlying phobias so that imminent crises do not escalate into humanitarian disasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Fire in the belly||Occasionally, an event takes place which illuminates in a flash of light the appalling injustice amidst which we live in this world every day of our lives. Such an event changes the way we look at the world and leaves a lasting impact on our lives and on the lives of many others, even those located far from the scene of the event. The Spanish Civil War must have been one such event, for otherwise so many young persons from all over Europe and America would not have volunteered to fight in distant Spain as part of the International Brigade and sacrifice their lives. In my lifetime, however, it was undoubtedly the Vietnam War that was such an event. It radicalized thousands among the literati, the result of which was the arousal of an enormous interest in Marxism all over the world. This interest in Marxism had nothing to do with the Soviet Union and the traditional communist parties, since the appeal of traditional communism had faded by then among the youth; and notwithstanding the obvious sympathy that this Left upsurge had for the revolutionary positions adopted by Mao Zedong’s China and the breakaway Maoist groups that emerged everywhere as a sequel to Mao’s split with Moscow, it generally steered clear of these groups as well. The year, 1968, was particularly crucial. In May, there was the workers’ uprising in France which got closely linked to the students’ movement that was occurring simultaneously; the workers occupied factories all over France as the students were occupying universities. And then there was the Tet offensive in South Vietnam where the Viet Cong stormed Saigon and even occupied the US embassy there, precisely at a time the United States of America was claiming success in the war; the offensive made clear to the world that the Americans could never win the war, although the war itself was to drag on for another seven years. As student radicalism acquired intensity, revolutionary literature poured out from publishers who smelt a profitable opportunity and got into the act. Antonio Gramsci’s Prison Notebooks, Rosa Luxemburg’s Anti-Kritik, Bukharin’s critique of Luxemburg, all classics that would otherwise have remained confined to obscure library shelves, suddenly flooded the bookshops along with Pelican paperbacks of the works of Frantz Fanon, Paul Baran, Paul Sweezy, Andre Gunder Frank and a host of other writers. There was a parallel upsurge in creativity in the visual arts, with cinema leading the way. Everywhere, however, there was a desire not just to produce excellent creations but also to contribute in some direct manner to the revolution that appeared imminent. I do not know the mood in India at the time since I was away, but among many Indian students abroad there was a strong desire to return to the country and contribute in some way to the revolution. Given the distance of the Left upsurge from the pro-Soviet communist parties and the cautious stance, despite a certain degree of fondness, towards the pro-Chinese breakaways from these orthodox parties, the few communist parties in the world that had adopted an independent course — independent of both Moscow and Beijing — appeared attractive; indeed the Vietnamese Communist Party itself was one such. For many Indian students radicalized by these developments and wanting to return home to contribute in some way to the cause of the revolutionary struggle, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) appeared an attractive option. The CPI(M), in turn, organized a set of annual conferences around that time where the party’s top leadership (at least two to four politburo members at each conference) interacted with Left intellectuals, including those returning from abroad, in open, no-holds-barred discussions spread over several days. I remember at least three such conferences, one held at Madras Christian College, Tambaram; one held at the Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute, Mumbai; and one at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, Delhi. Thus, the ‘Vietnam generation’ of returnees drifted to a large extent towards the CPI(M) and, to a lesser extent, towards the various Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) groups, although many, of course, did not join any political party but remained committed to the Left cause in their respective spheres of professional activity. With the passage of time, the Vietnam generation of returnees has now grown old. They are now in their seventies and early eighties. The passing away of some of them is to be expected in the normal course, but Covid-19 has been particularly severe on them. The month of May saw the passing of two such stalwarts. Ranjana Nirula was one. She came from an affluent Punjabi family, her father being a doctor who worked for the United Nations. She went first to the United Kingdom and then to the US to study about differently-abled children and how they should be cared for. While in the US, she became active in the anti-Vietnam War movement. Coming from a prosperous background, she had never had any contact with Left politics before. Exposure to Vietnam not only radicalized her but also changed the course of her life. She returned to India and became a full-time activist of the CPI(M). She worked for the trade union wing of the party (Citu), took an initiative in organizing women workers, edited — almost single-handedly — the journal of the Co-ordination Committee of Working Women, and was a founder-member of the All India Democratic Women’s Association. Right until the end, she was active in the women’s movement, especially the working women’s movement. The other stalwart who passed away in May was Mythily Sivaraman. Slightly older than Ranjana, Mythily had a job at the UN that she decided to give up and returned to India to become a CPI(M) activist. When the Keezhvenmani massacre of Dalit agricultural labourers took place, she was among the first to visit the village to report on it and draw the attention of the world to the gruesome carnage that had occurred. Her visit to Keezhvenmani was an act of immense courage for she was taking on the might of the landlords and her reports on the event were both moving and brilliant. Mythily was an outstanding public speaker and a firebrand trade unionist; but she too moved eventually to the women’s movement and was a founder-member of the AIDWA where she remained active until overcome by age-related debility some years ago. What was striking about both these activists was their abiding faith in the possibility of creating a better world. When the revolution is no longer on the horizon as it once appeared to be, there is a tendency on the part of those who had once been activists to settle down to a routine existence, going through one’s communist chores but lacking the fire in their bellies. Both Ranjana and Mythily retained their faith till the very end. This was no doubt because of the strength of their theoretical convictions; but I believe that the strength of these convictions arose from their exposure to the Vietnam War. Any system that could inflict such a savage war on a desperately poor country whose people had endured decades of brutal colonial exploitation and could even envisage bombing them “back to the Stone Age” cannot possibly be an enduring one; its transcendence is inevitable. They acquired this conviction and died with it. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand receives 1 lakh vaccine doses from Centre||The pace of Covid vaccinations is expected to pick up from Saturday with the Jharkhand health department receiving one lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday with officials confirming that stocks had been dispatched to all 24 districts. As per a communiqué from the health department on Friday evening, Ranchi and Dhanbad were allotted maximum doses, to the tune of 8,600 and 8,300 respectively, followed by Giridih (7,700), Bokaro and East Singhbhum (6,400 each) and Palamau (5,900). Jharkhand has so far received 76,54,340 doses vaccines, comprising 13,80,480 doses of Covaxin and 62,73,860 doses of Covishield. As many as 75,52,790 doses have been administered. The remaining 27,240 doses _  0.36 per cent of the total  doses receied _ were wasted, according to the vaccine stock report released by the health department. Currently, 1,28,790 doses are available for the administration, including 1,12,690 doses of Covaxin. The remaining doses are of Covishield.  “Taking today’s (Friday) arrival of stocks into account, the state now has vaccines for the next two days. Another 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield is expected on or by July 15,” said an official of the health department. Since the last three days, the vaccination drive in Jharkhand has suffered owing to depleting stocks. While Friday’s usage figures were yet to be released by the health department at the time of filing this report, sources mainatined that only a  few centres were able to administer vaccines.  “Districts which had stocks available with them held the vaccination drive while those which ran out of stocks suspended the inoculation centres,” said the official. On Thursday, Jharkhand could only vaccinate about 20,000 residents. As per provisional data released by the NHM, as many as 14,541 residents received the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while the second jab was administered to 6,314 beneficiaries. The state has on average vaccinated over one lakh residents daily since fresh supplies arrived on July 2, but the figure dropped to around 60,000 on Wednesday. More than half of those who received vaccines against Covid-19 on Thursday were below the age of 45 years, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jab drive for coal town auto drivers, LPG delivery personnel ||The Dhanbad district administration on Friday conducted a special vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers and LPG cylinder delivery boys, during which around 200 persons were vaccinated. The vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers began on Friday morning at Railway Auditorium near the railway station in the presence of Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad while the vaccination drive for LPG cylinder delivery boys and refilling station staff has been conducted at the LPG refilling station of Indian Oil at Memco Mor of Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO) who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “We have provided 100 Covaxin doses for each of the centre including Railway Auditorium and Indian Oil LPG refilling station at Memco More.” “The drives conducted today are part of the special vaccination series under which 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 at three centres while 60 delinquents of Child Reformatory Centre at Bhuda were vaccinated on June 16,” said Rana. On June 9, 60 physically and mentally challenged persons were vaccinated at Pehla Kadam, a school for differently-abled students. “Our drive for special groups exposed to infection due to their profession will continue and we will be also conducting vaccination for street vendors, milk parlor staff etc soon” said Rana. Speaking at the launch of the vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers, Surendra Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad said, “The auto drivers are exposed to a large number of passengers coming from different places on a daily basis and are prone to infection so their vaccination should be of utmost priority.” He further exhorted the auto rickshaw operator association office bearers present during the launching of the vaccination drive to ensure vaccination of all around 15,000 auto rickshaw drivers at the earliest and said “Regular checking of the vaccination certificates of the autorickshaw drivers would be conducted by the district administration and only those staff bearing the certificates for getting vaccinated will be allowed to operate.” Sunil Singh, an auto rickshaw driver who is also the president of Jharkhand Parivahan Mazdoor Union said, “The drive launched today will not only benefit the auto rickshaw drivers and their family members but will equally benefit the large number of passengers travelling by auto rickshaws and we will request the drive to continue in the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||68-year-old to cycle 80km for Covid jab awareness in Chandil villages||Achinto Pramanik will once again prove that age is only a number when it comes to stamina and endurance. The 68-year-old master athlete who has claimed medals for Jharkhand in national competitions will lead a bicycle rally on July 18 to spread awareness about the importance of taking jabs for Covid-19. The rally being organised jointly by Masters Athletics Association, Jharkhand and Adventure Athletics Group (AAG) will cover 80 km (up and down) to Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The team with 30 adventure enthusiasts will cross villages falling in the Chandil sub-division. The rally will start from Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan at 6am on July 18. "People living in villages are still circumspect about taking vaccines for Covid. We thought of taking out a bicycle rally to try and make the rurals understand that taking vaccines are safe and life saving. We have ordered 1,000 pamphlets highlighting the benefits of taking vaccines for Covid. The pamphlets will be distributed among the villagers," Pramanik said. The sexagenarian, who runs a grocery shop near his home in Gamharia, added each member of the cycle rally will sport T-shirts. "I own a racing cycle with gears but rally members can ride ordinary cycles. We will take a bath at Chandil dam and also enjoy lunch. We will return to Gamharia in the evening," Pramanik told The Telegraph Online. The master athlete is gearing up for the bicycle rally at his home. "I pedal for an hour at home. My racing cycle is in good condition and I am eagerly waiting for the rally to kick-start,"Pramanik said. Pramanik also led a 20-member team which ran all the way to Deori temple along the Jamshedpur-Ranchi NH 33 last year to spread awareness about the dos and don'ts on Covid safety. Adventure vAthletics Group has also organised similar runs to Calcutta, Puri, Rajrappa, Dalma hills and Hathikheda temple in East Singhbhum to spread awareness about pollution, cleanliness and environment. Pramanik’s daily fitness regime includes a 20-km run, gym visits, besides trekking the Dalma hills periodically. Running comes to him from within. He secured first position in the 25-km run under-65 and above age category at the fifth edition of Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018. The lanky athlete finished the race in 2:09:15 seconds to walk home with a medal and Rs 20,000 cash prize. He has also claimed a gold (200m steeplechase), silver (800m) and bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also slotted home three golds (200m steeplechase, 800m and 1500m) and a silver (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017. He also won silver in a virtual marathon event held in November last year. He has missed representing the country in international masters’ athletics competitions for not being able to find a sponsor. Yet, he continues to participate in national events and win medals for Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sahara City rape: court orders trial of 22 people earlier given a clean chit ||A special POCSO court has orderd the trial of 22 people who were given a clean chit after investigations into the rape of a minor domestic help in 2018 in what has come to be known in an around Jamshedpur as the Sahara City rape case. Three primary accused are already facing trial in the case registered with Mango police station in January 2018. Among the 22 others who now face trail, as per the order of additional district judge V. Subhash, are former deputy superintendent of police Ajay Karketta, former MGM thana OC Imdad Ansari and a woman.  The three primary accused are Indrapal Singh Saini, Shib Kumar Mahto and Shrikant Mahto. The court has ordered for inclusion of 22 more accused under CrPC Section 319 after the victim's mother filed a petition against them with the Special POCSO court in March this year. "After the petition was filed in the Special POCSO court, the court recorded the statement of the victim. As names and addresses of all the 22 accused were not in the petition, the court had instructed them to furnish them. The petitioner had furnished the names and address of the accused on July 3," said advocate Mamta Singh who is pleading on behalf of the victim while talking to The Telegraph Online. Earlier, the police had carried out an investigation against these 22 persons, but had given them a clean chit in 2019, leading the victim's mother to approach former chief minister Raghubar Das for justice. Das had ordered a CID probe. The CID had also carried out a probe, but in September last year, a clean chit was given to these 22 persons. According to the prosecution, the victim who used to work as a domestic help at the house of a businessman Nanak Chand Seth was allegedly raped by Shib Kumar Mahto in 2016. An electrician by profession, Shib Kumar had outraged the modesty of the victim while visiting Seth's house in Sahara City in absence of Seth and his family members. Shib Kumar had also made a video clipping of the act and later passed it to his friends, Saini and Shrikant, who had also exploited the minor. In 2017, Saini had taken the victim to Dimna forest under MGM thana area where he was caught by the police along with the girl. The victim was brought to the MGM thana where two police officers, including a DSP,had outraged the modesty of the girl. Incidentally, Tanushri Nayak, a resident of Mango, had come to the rescue of the victim and set her free from the police station. But later, Tanushri allegedly pushed her into flesh trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Oldest coal town orphanage to take in Covid orphans||When there is a will there's a way. The age-old adage holds true for a group of philanthropists of Dhanbad, who, despite facing economic constraints due to lack of any government support, are doing their best to provide shelter to the Covid orphans. Over 20 members of the management committee of the oldest orphanage of the district, Hindu Mission Orphanage, are working on a plan to provide accommodation and help to such children, who lost one or both of their parents during the pandemic. The help plan of Covid orphans for which the members are trying to contact such children is in addition to shelter being provided to 18 regular inmates including 14 who are under- 12 years. Talking to Telegraph Online on Friday, Sujay Nandi, a movers and packers service operator of Hirapur, who is also a member of Hindu Mission Orphanage Committee, said, “We had 18 inmates before beginning of second wave of pandemic but 14 of less than 12 years of age have been sent back to their respective places as there was lack of permission to keep children of less than 12 years of age.” “But, we are in process of bringing back these remaining 14 children in the orphanage as the situation has improved now,” said Nandi and added that they are simultaneously exploring ways of extending help to Covid orphan children as they are deeply peeved over the condition of these children. “We have two permanent staff in the orphanage, including a caretaker and a cook and two to three teachers are also engaged in providing education to the inmates,” said Debabrat Jhampaty, another member of the management committee of the orphanage. “Though, we are also facing financial constraints due to pandemic as the food expense, education expense, electricity and water bills, clothing expense, books and stationeries for the inmates but that didn’t dampen our spirit to help children who turned orphans due to pandemic,” said Jhampaty. Established in 1939 at Hirapur, the members and office bearers of the orphanage committee contribute themselves for managing the expenses. A part of the expenses was managed by rent received through a private school, Kids Garden, operating from a corner of the orphanage, but owing to the closure of schools during the pandemic, the rent has also stopped. “Though, we also receive occasional fund from various benevolent people of the society including, some lawyers, BCCL officers and other persons of Dhanbad origin settled in other parts of the country but during the time of pandemic we are facing difficulty in approaching them” said Jhampaty  and added that the two storey building of 1939 which houses, kitchen, care taker’s room, office on  ground floor and room for orphans for second floor is lying and bad shape. “Though, we have recently carried out repair of kitchen but the bathroom and toilets are lying in extremely bad shape and some rooms are also leaking, for the comprehensive repair of which they have prepared an estimate of Rs 8 lakh but arranging funds for executing the renovation plan” said Jhampaty. Established by a group of Hindu Missionaries in 1939 the orphanage had 93 inmates during its initial days but gradually the number decreased to 18 inmates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ramps up testing, over 11 lakh kits dispatched to districts ||Over 11 lakh kits are being distributed across all districts of Jharkhand to ramp up Covid testing for the next month or so as a part of the state health department’s efforts to ensure early detection of patients even as the daily infection rate has dropped in last few weeks. Health department sources said on Friday that a total of 4 lakh RAT and approximately 7,66,440 VTM (viral transport media) kits for RT-PCR tests have been allocated to districts. “We have already started dispatching stocks to all districts. The state government’s focus is to continue testing as many people as possible on a daily basis to prevent chances of any undetected Covid-19 cases or formation of clusters anywhere in view of concerns over new variants of the virus,” said an official engaged with management of the kits. Providing details of the number of kits being allocated,  he added, “In Ranchi, which has the highest floating population, has been given 41,600 RAT kits and 1.34 lakh VTM kits. Similarly, East Singhbhum, another key district, has got 35,200 RAT kits and 84,000 VTM kits. In Dhanbad, we have dispatched 20,800 RAT and 50,400 VTM kits. Districts are free to identify vulnerable areas for rolling out testing drives in their respected domains.” The official further added that Jharkhand has already received five mobile RT-PCR testing vans with the help of JITM Skills Private Limited, a private agency which has partnered with the state health department for augmenting testing capacity. “In another fortnight, mobile RT-PCR vans too will be rolled out in areas with maximum gatherings like haats, bazaars etc,” he said. Last month, the state health department had directed all districts to set up dedicated 24x7 testing points at all major transit points, such as bus stands, airport, railway station, interstate borders, in view of easing restrictions and allowing free movement of people. On an average, about 45,000 samples are being tested on a daily basis at the moment and the state’s positivity rate was 3.40 per cent as of July first week. State director of the National Health Mission Uma Shankar Singh said the department was not letting its guard down despite a drop in Covid-19 cases. “Uninterrupted testing is a crucial component of  thwarting further spread of the virus. Therefore, the state  government has decided to not allow complacency to set in,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Active caseload drops below 500 in Jharkhand||At least 110 Covid-19 recoveries against 55 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Jharkhand below 500 on Thursday, while one more casualty reported in East Singhbhum took the Covid toll in the state to 5,119, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Deoghar – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 476 Jharkhand residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday. Besides reporting the only Covid casualty on the day, East Singhbhum also reported 15 cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts. The active caseload in the district also rose to 66 on Thursday as only 13 patients recovered from Covid-19 there. The active caseload also jumped to 34 in Bokaro, which reported 12 Covid cases against only six recoveries. Barring Bokaro and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts reported a drop in the active caseload on the day. At least eight Covid recoveries against six fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 70, still the highest among the districts in Jharkhand. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 47,347 residents and 0.11 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.38 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 was hit by a shortage of doses for the second day in a row on Thursday as the state managed to vaccinate only about 20,000 residents on the day. As per provisional data released by the NHM, as many as 14,541 residents received the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while the second jab was administered to 6314 beneficiaries. The state has on average vaccinated over one lakh residents daily since fresh supplies arrived on July 2, but the figure dropped to around 60,000 on Wednesday. More than half of those who received vaccines against Covid-19 on Thursday were below the age of 45 years, government data highlighted. The state, however, is expecting delivery of 1 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday and 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield on July 15, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Resistance march and condolence meeting for Stan Swamy's death||A silent resistance march was held in Jamshedpur on Thursday and a condolence meeting was organised in Ranchi to decry the custodial death of octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy and intensify the agitation for repeal of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Fr Stan, who passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail in judicial custody for eight months, had challenged the UAPA in Bombay High Court. Over 100 social activists, academics, trade union activists and tribal leaders took part in the silent resistance march wearing black masks and passed through different parts of Sakchi, Jamshedpur, before gathering at a local roundabout in the afternoon. “Father Stan Swamy, who had spent all his life raising his voice for the tribals and the oppressed, was killed in custody by the fascist government at the Centre through its wing, the NIA, and the callousness of the Maharashtra prison authorities. We demand stern punishment for all those who conspired to kill an elderly person who had been raising his voice for the rights of tribals,” said Madan Mohan, a leader of the Visthapith Mukti Vahini, an organisation fighting for the cause of the villagers displaced by the Subernarekha Multipurpose Project. “The government should not think that killing Fr Swamy would silence the movement; in fact it would only give more fire to the movement. We would not stop till the draconian UAPA is repealed,” he added. The UAPA, under which Fr Stan had been arrested last year in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, allows for detention without trial for six months. Jawaharlal Nehru University alumni and tribal rights leader Deepak Ranjeet said the time was ripe for a nationwide agitation to release all human rights activists and journalists, including Siddique Kappan, arrested under the UAPA and the sedition law on flimsy grounds. At a condolence meeting in Bagaicha, the social research centre at Namkum near Ranchi that Fr Stan had set up and where he lived, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha MLA Stephen Marandi, Congress lawmaker Rajesh Kachhap, tribal rights activist Dayamani Barla, women rights activist Aloka Kujur and several human rights organisations decided to meet chief minister Hemant Soren and submit a memorandum to governor Ramesh Bais for repeal of the UAPA. “While paying tribute to Fr Stan Swamy, it is time for us to take forward his mission and vision by empowering tribals and the marginalised, making them aware of their rights and also exerting pressure for the repeal of the UAPA under which he was arrested and ultimately killed in custody,” Kujur said. The attendees decided to take out a rally on July 15 demanding the repeal of the UAPA and also meet the chief minister to seek the enactment of a law preventing the NIA from arresting anybody in Fifth Schedule areas without the consent of the gram sabha concerned. The Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province, Father Jerome Cutinha, said the ashes of Fr Stan arrived at Ranchi on Thursday evening in a flight and would be kept at Bagaicha and also taken to various other places in Jharkhand. “Since it is not possible for many Jesuits and others to come to Ranchi to pay their last respects to Fr Stan Swamy, we will be taking the ashes to different parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Chaibasa and Gumla, over a month. On August 3, the ashes will be buried at the Jamshedpur graveyard in Mango,” Fr Jerome said. Fr Joseph Xavier, the director of ISI Bangalore, had earlier carried the ashes of Fr Stan across several parts of south India for people to pay their last respects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
