10-07-2021||Calcutta||23-year-old woman trafficked with job promise, rescued||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly forced into prostitution after a woman she knew lured him to the city from an adjacent district with the promise of a job, police said. The young woman managed to access a mobile phone and dial 100 to report her plight to the Lalbazar control room. New to the city, she failed to share her address but the police could track her down using the tower location of the phone. She was rescued from the stairs of Sealdah station, where she was waiting after escaping the captivity of a small room in Burtolla in north Calcutta. The woman has purpor-tedly told the police that she is from Nadia and was convinced by an “aunt” from her neighbourhood to accompany her to Calcutta for work. “The victim was promised the job of a nurse in the city. Given her financial condition, she had agreed and trusted the woman whom she called ‘aunt’. The older woman brought the victim to the city on Monday night and took her straight to Burtolla,” said an officer of the eastern suburban division. The victim apparently sensed foul play and tried to resist, the police said. Early on Tuesday, the woman, who is a school dropout, managed to get hold of a mobile phone at the place where she was confined and dialled 100. “She got connected to the Lalbazar control room. She narrated her plight to an officer but failed to give her address because she was new to the city and had no clue about where she was,” said the officer. “The mobile number from where she had made the call was tracked and its tower location was identified. The woman was carrying the phone and we were tracking her movement,” an investigator said. Based on her name and the tower location, officers of Entally police station started looking for her in front of Sealdah station. “She was found sitting on the stairs. She had no money and didn’t know where to go. Based on her statement, the place in Burtolla where she had been held captive was raided. Three women, including her ‘aunt’, were arrested on the charge of human trafficking,” said a senior officer. The accused have been remanded in police custody. The victim’s family members were informed and they came to Calcutta to take her home. Several women and young girls from villages and small towns are often tricked by people they know and trafficked with false promises of jobs in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Couple from Bengal savour football fever next door to Wembley stadium||When Harry Kane stepped up to take the decisive penalty in the Euro semi-final against Denmark, Rajarshi Sarkar was watching the match live at home on TV with wife Suklatithi Chakraborty. But unlike the rest of the audience worldwide, he already knew that the captain of the Three Lions had scored. Rajarshi is no soothsayer. It was the roar of the 60,000-plus spectators in the stands on Thursday that had given away the answer. “We stay on the approach road to the stadium, which is a five-minute walk away. The Wembley arc can be seen from our balcony. There must be a lag of a few seconds between the on-field action and the telecast,” he told The Telegraph from London, adding how festive the atmosphere was that night. “Though Durga puja evokes a different emotion in us, the jubilant march of the supporters was somewhat like the stream of pandal-hoppers on the streets on Ashtami night in Calcutta. It is difficult to decide which is noisier,” said Suklatithi, a Tollygunge girl. The IT professional from Kharagpur and his wife purchased the Wembley Park apartment six years ago. Since then, their life revolves around matches in the stadium or concerts in the adjoining Wembley Arena. An email from the residents’ association alerts them about the date and time when no parking would be allowed in the local parking lots. The Euro matches have triggered stricter restrictions. “Engineers Way, the street in front, gets taken over by police vans. Blockades for vehicles are put up at both ends. Only we residents are allowed in through a circuitous route,” Rajarshi said. But the couple do not mind. “It is refreshing to see so many people on the streets after a year of silence during the lockdown.  We are feeling so positive ever since the tournament started being hosted here,” Suklatithi pointed out. Rajarshi has been inside to watch a few matches of Tottenham Hotspur when they played their European home games at Wembley in 2016-17. The Wembley Park Underground station is five minutes away and Suklatithi clicked pictures of it, decked out  for the tournament, on her way to work. “Most fans come by metro. Some hire a bus and come in a group. Everyone wears the team jersey,” she added. Tickets for the semi-finals and finals cost a bomb (upwards of £5000 for Sunday), especially after England made the cut. But even if they cost less, Rajarshi would have been unwilling to venture out. “There is a big food court called Box Park outside the stadium where they have a big pub and lots of smaller eateries around. Had the pandemic not been a factor, we could have gone there. But there is no need to take a risk now.” Watching the legions of maskless spectators walking by has not inspired confidence. The pandemic-induced anxiety is not affecting the celebratory mood though. “Every other house or car has the St George’s cross fluttering. Whenever England scores a goal, people dash out to the balcony, beating a drum or blowing a whistle. We too waved the flag at the fans when they were passing by after the semi-final, chanting ‘England, England’ and singing ‘It’s coming home’,” Rajarshi recalled. Now all they seek is another winning strike from their talisman Kane to hear the Lions roar and bring the Cup home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Owner: What’s the point in rolling out buses if we end up incurring huge losses? ||A union of bus owners has written to the transport minister that an owner who earned a daily profit of Rs 589 in March 2020, before the lockdown, now incurs a daily loss of Rs 2,992 if the vehicle travels the same distance as before. The price of diesel has shot up from Rs 64.60 a litre to Rs 92.65 during the period. While calculating the profit and loss, the average distance travelled by a bus in a day has been kept at 150km and the diesel consumption pegged at 45 litres. The letter to minister Firhad Hakim was first sent by the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannay Samity in end-June, when the price of diesel was Rs 1.52 less than Thursday’s Rs 92.65. It was sent again on Thursday. There is no mention about the need for a fare hike in the letter. “The calculations are based on the average number of trips a bus would make and the average number of passengers it would ferry before the lockdown in March last year. That was compared with the current number of trips and passengers, both of which are much less compared with pre-March 2020,” said Rahul Chatterjee, of the Samannay Samity. “The idea is to lay bare the facts so that the state government can decide whether the demand for a fare revision is justified or not.” The majority of bus and minibus owners across Calcutta and its adjoining areas have not taken out their vehicles since July 1 — the day the state government allowed resumption of public transport with 50 per cent passenger capacity — pressing for a fare hike. Most of them have said their business is not viable anymore and the returns aren’t enough to meet the family expenses. On Thursday, a bus driver in his late 50s was found dead in Dhakuria inside the bus he used to drive. Ranjit Das was unable to meet the expenses of his family. “What’s the point in rolling out buses if we end up incurring huge losses? It is better to keep them parked,” said Somnath Dutta, the owner of the bus that Ranjit drove. “I have defaulted on the EMI for my three buses for three months. The banks will probably take away the buses.” The Samannay Samity’s letter to Hakim shows that on May 15 — when the state government announced a fresh restriction on public transport — a bus owner incurred a loss of Rs 2,754 a day by running a bus. The price of diesel then stood at Rs 85.85, up by around Rs 22 a litre since March last year. By the time the state government decided to withdraw this temporary restriction on July 1, the diesel price had gone up to Rs 91.13 a litre. The state government, while resisting any talks on fare hike, has announced a waiver of road taxes for transport operators till December. “We have been telling the state government that 60 per cent of the operational costs of bus operators is directly related to the fuel cost,” said Tapan Bandopadhyay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “If the price of diesel is up by nearly Rs 26 a litre within a year, how can any dole help us offset this hike?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Roads leading to private hospitals in Mukundapur remain waterlogged||Stretches of roads leading to several big private hospitals in Mukundapur, off EM Bypass, were waterlogged for most of Friday, more than 24 hours after it had stopped raining. Outside one hospital the stench of sewage filled the air, causing discomfort to patients, their families and the staff. There was water in the parking area of another hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation blamed Metro Railway construction for the waterlogging. The railway authorities, on the other hand, blamed the state government. Some of the major hospitals in the area are AMRI’s Mukundapur unit, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and Sankara Nethralaya. There was ankle-deep water outside the exit gate of AMRI Mukundapur. An official of the hospital said the situation was extremely bad on Wednesday and much of Thursday. The entrance to the hospital was flooded and visitors and patients’ family members had to wade through water to enter the hospital. “Many patients complained to us about waterlogging, but this was beyond our control. We had informed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. They had deputed personnel who installed pumps to drain out the water,” official said. “I saw water spilling out of the underground sewer line near the hospital exit. I suspect that is the reason for the stretch being still waterlogged.” The Telegraph found the canal running along EM Bypass at Mukundapur filled to the brim and plastic, thermocol and other items were floating in the water. The basement of one wing of a private hospital in the area got flooded and so the authorities had to shift the offices to another wing. On Friday afternoon, Metro found the parking area on the campus of the RTIICS flooded. An official of the hospital said cars were taking much more time to negotiate their way through the campus because of the waterlogging. “Because of the waterlogging, cars are leaving the campus at a pace slower than usual. Often a long queue is forming when many cars are trying to leave the campus at the same time. The queue is stretching till the entrance and those waiting to enter the hospital are being held up,” said the official. The hospital authorities had installed pumps to drain out water from the campus. Those arriving at the hospital’s emergency department and the Covid vaccination site were the most inconvenienced as both units were on the way to the parking area. The main road leading to RTIICS from the Bypass, the one running along the Avidipta housing complex, was flooded on Friday afternoon. On Wednesday and Thursday, the water level on the road was so high that rickshaws and autorickshaws could not move through the stretch. As a result those going to RTIICS or Sankara Nethralaya, located on the road, and did not have a car had to walk through the waterlogged stretch to reach either hospital. An official of Sankara Nethralaya said patients and their families, and doctors, nurses and other employees of the hospital had been wading through water on the road to reach their campus since Wednesday. Just outside the hospital, the water had receded by Friday morning. All hospitals have either verbally complained to the CMC or written to the civic authorities complaining about waterlogging over the past few years. “Two years back, the CMC raised the level of the road but that did not solve the problem,” said an official of a private hospital in Mukundapur. A senior CMC engineer said that one reason for the waterlogging at Mukundapur was that the canal that drained water out of the area had been blocked in places because of Metro Railway work on the Garia-airport link. Besides, he said, the underground drains could not be properly desilted before this and last year’s monsoon because of the Covid epidemic. Inadequate desilting reduced the capacity of the network to drain out water. “There are seven channels of the Tollygunge-Panchannagram canal, which drains out water from Jadavpur, Mukundapur and other areas. Four of these channels are blocked to facilitate the construction of Metro Railway stations and elevated corridors. This has delayed the draining out of water,” said the engineer. An official of Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd, which is executing the Metro projects across Calcutta, said they received permission to start work two months back. “Some of the Metro piers are constructed on channels, so they have to be partially blocked. If we had received the permission earlier, work could have been completed before the monsoon,” said the official. He said the blockades would be removed in a couple of weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts stay on teachers’ recruitment for upper primary schools ||The recruitment of 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools in Bengal can resume after Calcutta High Court on Friday vacated its stay restraining the school service commission from continuing the process. Justice Abhjit Ganguly said on Friday that henceforth the aggrieved candidates would have to individually submit their grievances to the commission, online or offline. He asked the commission to appoint officers, not below the rank of secretary, to consider the pleas of the appellants. Justice Ganguly gave two weeks to the aggrieved candidates to lodge their grievances and directed the commission to complete the process of considering the appeals within four weeks thereafter. The whole process will have to be completed within six weeks. The court said the upper age limit of the candidates would be 45 years. “I hope and trust (that) the commission would sympathetically consider the case of those who crossed the requisite age limit due to the exorbitant delay in the process of recruitment, which started in 2016," the judge said. The court had on June 30 issued the interim stay on the recruitment. The stay was extended on July 2 for a week following petitions filed by several candidates, who alleged lack of transparency in drawing up the list of candidates to be called for the interview. After being prodded by the court, the commission on Thursday uploaded on its website a list of candidates who have qualified for interview and those who have not, with marks against the name of each. The commission also uploaded a list of over 9,000 candidates who have been rejected for interviews because they failed to upload documents like copies of the training certificate and academic qualifications by the deadline. “Some of the candidates are alleging that the commission erred in putting their names on the list despite the fact that they had furnished all the documents within the deadline. Once these appeals are filed, the designated officials of the commission, as identified by the court, will have to go through the merit of the appeals within the deadline,” said the official. An official of the commission said the candidates who had qualified for the interview would be called to face the final screening, which would be of 10 marks. “After the process is completed, a merit list will be published. The aspirants whose names will figure on the merit list will be called for counselling, where they will be given the option of choosing schools,” he said. When the case came up for hearing before Justice Ganguly on Friday, state’s advocate general Kishore Datta told the court: “Since electronic process has been adopted in preparing the list, there is little chance of error.” An official of the commission said the lists of successful and unsuccessful candidates were uploaded after computing aspirants’ scores in the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) of 2016, and the marks allotted for academic qualifications and training (BEd or DLeD). After hearing the advocate general, Justice Ganguly withdrew the stay order. On October 3, 2019, Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya had instructed the commission that the merit list would have to be prepared on the basis of how an aspirant had performed in the TET, his or her academic eligibility and BEd or DLeD (diploma in elementary education training). On July 2, 2021, the court had expressed its displeasure over the way the merit list was prepared, allegedly in violation of an October 2019 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court declines to immediately order CBI probe into fake vaccine camp case||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday declined to immediately order a CBI probe into the fake vaccine camp case. The bench of Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Aniruddha Roy held there was no need to hand over the case to the CBI at this stage of the investigation. “The court, if needed, may consider transferring the investigation to the central agency in the future. At present, police are directed to continue their probe,” the division bench said while disposing of four PILs, three of which called for a CBI probe. Arguing for one of the petitioners, senior advocate and CPM MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya said prime accused Debanjan Deb and the other accused had connections with the civic body and its office bearers. “There is apprehension that a fair probe would not be conducted. Moreover, the crime that the accused had committed was serious in nature. People have no faith in the police or the CID. So it would be wise for the court to ask the CBI to conduct the probe," he said. Billwadal Bhattacharya, counsel appearing for another petitioner, pointed out that Deb had committed several other crimes. Appearing for the state, advocate-general Kishore Datta said: “The government is well aware about the gravity of the crime. A special investigation team has been constituted to probe the issue. A chargesheet will be submitted by the investigators soon.” Datta also assured the court that the government would inform the court about the progress of the investigation. Deb was produced before a court on Friday and his police custody was extended till July 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||70-year-old man commits suicide in Chandni Chowk ||A 70-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room on the third floor of a five-storey building in Chandni Chowk on Friday morning. Nepal Das stayed with his family comprising wife, son and daughter-in-law at the rented property and worked in a shop. Police have found a voice message in which Das had purportedly said he was killing himself unable to pay EMIs of multiple loans. “We are trying to find out whether the pandemic had made it difficult for him to repay the loans,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Council reduces syllabi for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams||The ICSE council has reduced the syllabi of more subjects for the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2022 exams. Last week, the council had reduced the syllabi of English and Indian languages for Class X and XII. The reduced syllabi have been posted on the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) website under the publications section. In Class X, besides English and Indian languages, the syllabi for history and civics, geography, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, economics, commercial studies, computer applications, economic applications, commercial applications, environmental applications, home science, physical education and yoga have been reduced. In Class XII, apart from English and Indian languages, the syllabi of accounts, commerce, economics, business studies, history, political science, geography, sociology, psychology, computer science, biotechnology and environmental science have been cut. “The CISCE will continue with the process of syllabus reduction in the remaining subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with subject experts. The same will be made available on the CISCE website soon,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE, in a circular sent to heads of affiliated schools on Friday. The council has said that “project work already completed/initiated by the candidates in different subject/s, on topics which have been removed from the Syllabus, is to be accepted and marked”. The council has asked the subject teachers to strictly follow the sequence of topics given in the syllabi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur works on schedule for ‘speedy return’ of students to campus||The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has demanded that the students who are facing resource constraints and not being able to attend online classes be called back to the campus at the earliest. The authorities have said they are working on a schedule for the “speedy return” of such students to the campus. Classes at the premier tech institute are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid-19. Several representatives of the senate, which represents all students on the campus, told the authorities during a meeting on July 5 that scores of students were facing financial constraints because of Covid-induced curbs on economic activities. Many are also facing unstable connectivity while attending classes from home. An office-bearer of the outgoing students’ senate told The Telegraph that such students were eager to return to the campus so they could use the institute’s connectivity and attend classes. “Many are facing acute financial distress because of slump in business or salary cuts. Attending online classes and writing exams throughout the semester involve a substantial cost. Many students are finding it difficult to bear the cost,” he said. Dhrubajyoti Sen, the dean of students affairs at the IIT, wrote to the students after the July 5 meeting: “For students who are facing constraints of resources, the data for which was collected in March… plans are being made for their speedy return to the campus, provided that all criteria regarding vaccination are satisfactorily met as per the protocol dictated by the administrative, medical and security authorities.” Sen told The Telegraph: “We will take a decision on the recall following discussions with competent authorities.” At the IITs and the NITs, students whose parents earn less than Rs 1 lakh per year are allowed full waiver of the tuition fee. If the family income is between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, two-thirds of the fee is waived. “These underprivileged students must be called back to the campus first. Buying a laptop or a desktop is a big ask for them. Add to that the internet expenses. They are in a very difficult situation,” a senate member said. Teachers pointed out that students were also being inconvenienced in several parts of India because of the local administration's decision to shut down the internet ostensibly to quell social unrest. An IIT official said they had decided to call students back to the campus from March this year. But the plan had to be shelved following a renewed surge in Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Sister Luciana passes away at 105||Sister Luciana of the Congregation of the Daughters of the Cross who worked as a teacher, a headmistress and also in administrative roles passed away in the city early on Friday. She was 105. She was born on January 15, 1916, in Kerala. Sister Luciana spent most of her life in north Bengal. After turning 100, she moved to St Catherine’s Home in Kidderpore. She participated in all community activities till she could walk on her own and kept herself “abreast of all current events”. “Sister was very concerned for the poor. She helped people in various ways,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general, archdiocese of Calcutta. The funeral Mass for Sister Luciana will be held at St Vincent’s Home at 2pm on Saturday. A tribute to her said: “Till the age of 104, Sister prayed (at) the Stations of the Cross daily, kneeling at every station.” Sister Luciana had been missioned to Howrah, Kurseong, Basanti and Matigara (north Bengal), among other places. Her longest mission was at Matigara, where she spent 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Business||Shaping your brand with Creative Packaging Solutions - AG Poly Packs||A brand’s packaging is capable of shaping its identity. The packaging industry has witnessed constant changes and has emerged as one of the largest sectors of the Indian economy. The significant contributors driving the growth of the packaging industry are the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), pharmaceuticals, personal care, and the food processing sector. The Global Flexible Packaging Market in India is projected to grow at a CAGR of 13% with a Revenue of USD 9.76 bn during 2021-2024. The YOY (year-over-year) growth rate for 2021 is estimated at 10.49% by the end of 2024. One of the preeminent industries in this line of work is AG Poly Packs Pvt Ltd. AG Poly Packs - Excellence in Quality, Service, and Performance Formed in 1997, the company started as a distributor for other packaging products. Since 2003, AG has diversified its business operations and opened its first manufacturing facility in 2013. In 2017, they established a branch office and warehouse in Vapi and Gujarat and subsequently a sales office and design studio in Mumbai - increasing their geographical presence in West India.  In 2020, promoters, Mr. Gaurav Daga and Mr. Neeraj Maheshwari formed a separate entity AG Synergy Pvt Ltd, a state of the art manufacturing plant at Hapur, UP, covering over 2 lakh square feet. With a mission of providing continuous innovation and sustainable packaging solutions, AG Poly Packs Pvt Ltd is growing 30 percent annually. With an expanding history of marketing in domestic and global markets, their dedication and professional skills are imperative. N2N Packaging Solution Provider AG Poly Packs is committed to designing, manufacturing, and supplying high-quality products through a well-defined system. It is providing packaging solutions to some of the most elite brands, catering to their requirements. Tapping into India’s Potential with Make in India Initiative AG Poly Packs is a ‘Made in India’ brand that has reduced dependency on China for the import of pumps and other similar components used in pharma or personal care products by establishing a world-class manufacturing facility. The company has actively participated in various Indian and Global exhibitions driven by the government's ‘Make in India’ Initiative. AG has invested and expanded its business operations in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. Covid-19 Impact: AG Poly Packs Shaping the New Normal The devastating impact of the Coronavirus outbreak has brought the sharpest decline in the demand for certain types of packaging while stimulating the acceleration of E-commerce and pharmaceutical packaging. These changes have drawn many new challenges in the packaging sector. By rebalancing their sustainability goals, prioritizing needs, and incorporating heightened hygiene practices, the AG group has turned this crisis into an opportunity. The availability of SAP, the world's best ERP software, gave an extra edge to AG in analyzing the client base and repositioning the products as per the need of the hour. With an extensive consideration of how customers perceive the packaging and keeping customers’ interests at priority, they have worked on various innovations. These have helped them navigate cautiously in the post-pandemic world. Redefined Sustainability and Heightened Hygiene in the New Normal Setting a new trend in the packaging industry, they have accustomed their approach between sustainability and hygiene. They have invested huge capital in infrastructure to be a self-dependent firm. With innovations like tamper-proof packaging to protect the products, they have readjusted their focus and raised their game to earn customers’ trust. By delivering excellence and adding value to the customers’ businesses, AG Poly Packs Sets milestones of success and reform. Safety, Security, and Quality Checks The machines used in the manufacturing process are regularly monitored and serviced for unequaled ease of use. Judgment of the quality of each product is done with undivided attention based on various parameters, leaving no chance of errors in the future. Skillful Task Force in AG Poly Packs AG Poly Packs has a committed and credible workforce with an inherent sense of dedication and collaboration who truly cares about exceeding customers’ expectations. The company started with two members and now manages to run the business with more than 450 manpower. To create an inclusive workspace, AG has acknowledged the efforts of its team members by rewarding them for their contributions. Their new plant, AG Synergy, has contributed to the hiring of around 250 employees. The organization aims to serve society and reflect its diversity by actively empowering women. Commitment to Improve and Make an Impact With the enhancement of people’s quality of life, education, and health at their heart, AG Poly Packs has been actively involved in numerous CSR initiatives.  They organized a vaccination drive for all their employees and their families and contributed significantly to setting up a quarantine and health care center at Man Sarovar Bhawan, Ghaziabad. In 2020, AG Poly Packs joined hands with Sewa Samiti, an NGO that provided food to the migrant laborers during the first wave of Covid-19 The company contributed to the foundation of a first of its kind school, hostel, wherein students are imparted knowledge and trained to serve the nation by joining defense forces along with the Sharda Foundation, NGO Vidya mandir & Rajpal Singh Jan Kalyan Samiti. AG Poly Packs - Re-shaping Tomorrow AG Poly Packs commits to ethical business practices and has focused on developing solutions that are biodegradable, eco-friendly, resulting in a more sustainable world. With a turnover of 92 cr in 2018-19, 116cr in 2019-20, 190 cr in 2020-21, they strive to reach 500 crores by 2025. They have been awarded as Best Packaging Partner by one of the Emerging Beauty products brand WOW in their annual event in Thailand, and popular MLM company, Vestige, for their exemplary packaging services. Using cutting-edge technologies, working in a coordinated and seamless manner, they strive to provide efficient results that add value to brands. AG Poly Packs consider packaging as emerging science and a discipline that contributes to a successful brand image alongside being a partner to many mainstream industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||India invites UK companies to invest in insurance sector||India has invited UK companies to invest in the insurance sector, while Britain offered its London market for direct listing of Indian firms. This year India has increased the foreign direct investment ceiling in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent. Earlier, the government had allowed firms to list overseas without simultaneous listing at the domestic market. To deepen bilateral ties in the financial sector, the first meeting of India-UK Financial Markets Dialogue was held on Thursday late evening, a finance ministry statement said, adding the dialogue was established at the 10th Economic and Financial Dialogue (EFD) in October 2020.The government-to-government discussion focused on four themes  GIFT (Gujarat International Finance TecCity) City, India's flagship international financial centre, banking and payments, insurance, and capital markets, it added. Following the government-to-government discussion, private sector partners were invited to the discussion, the statement said. At the meeting, Indian and UK participants discussed matters relating to the insurance sector, including domestic updates on the impact of Covid19, opportunities to encourage UK investment in the Indian market, and the UK Solvency II Call for Evidence. Participants also took stock of capital markets cooperation, it said, adding the UK outlined progress on regulatory reforms, including through the Wholesale Markets Review and the Lord Hill Listings Review. There was also a productive discussion on opportunities for increased cross-border activity, including an update from India on the implementation of the direct listing policy, according to the statement. Both sides agreed that there is significant scope for strengthening financial services cooperation between India and the UK, it said. "Both sides agreed to continue to engage bilaterally on these areas in the coming months, in the runup to the next EFD and the beginning of negotiations for a future India-UK FTA, both expected to take place later this year," it said. The statement said participants provided updates on their respective banking and payments landscapes, to increase cross-border activity in this area. The Bank of England discussed its work on cyber resilience and both sides also recognised the key role the banking sector has played in maintaining stability during the Covid-19 pandemic. The dialogue was led by senior officials from the finance ministry and UK Treasury, with participation from Indian and UK independent regulatory agencies, including the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, International Financial Services Centre Authority, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, the Bank of England, and the Financial Conduct Authority-Nirmals on tax-Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the country has taken fiscal policy measures to get better environmental outcomes. In her address at the G20 High-Level Tax Symposium on Tax Policy and Climate Change, ahead of the third G20 Finance Ministers & Central Bank Governors Meeting, she also said that concessional tax rates are in place in India to promote use of renewables. In a series of tweets, the Ministry of Finance said that the minister shared India's innovative policy mix for better environmental outcomes such as new energy map of India, digital innovation and emerging fuels, international solar alliance for enabling clean energy, and promotion of energy efficiency and afforestation. The third meeting of G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors is scheduled on July 9 and 10, under the Italian G20 presidency. Arpita Mukherjee of Icrier said: “A number of countries, including many EU members, and India are net importers of digital goods and services and they need to work together to have a common view. There is a need to collect data on digitalisation in the country to have data driven policies. As India will take up G20 Presidency in 2023 this areas will need consultations with experts and industry.” Ajay Rotti, partner, Dhruva Advisors LLP, said: “What is important for India is the allocation of profits to market jurisdictions. Indian has clearly stated that the issue remains open and needs to be addressed. It is this aspect on which India intends to remain ‘constructively engaged’ and seek a ‘meaningful and sustainable’ revenue allocation in its own words.” The finance ministry has said it would push for allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions, particularly for developing and emerging economies as it joins OECD backed minimum global corporate tax regime. There are subtle differences between the G7 proposal and the one proposed by OECD. Under the G7 agreement — market countries will be awarded taxing rights on at least 20% of profit exceeding a 10% margin. Under the OECD/G20 Pillar One: between 2030% of residual profit defined as profit in excess of 10% of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions with nexus using a revenue-based allocation key. The proposed solution consists of two components Pillar One, which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax and subject to tax rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to make major organisational rejig to counter adverse pandemic impact ||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) on Friday introduced major organisational changes in its top echelons to counter the adverse impact on sales and market share on account of the Covid pandemic. The company has lost market share from 51 per cent to 47.7 percent in the current quarter. Maruti is also facing major competition in the SUV segment and is ceding ground to competitors such as Hyundai and Kia. Sources said two joint managing directors have been appointed from Suzuki Motor Company to assist the present managing director Kenichi Ayukawa. The company has appointed the two joint managing directors — H. Takeuchi for commercial and S. Tori for production and supply chain. Sources said the appointments have been made for managerial efficiency in a large organisation like Maruti. However, they denied any cost-cutting measures prompted by a falling market share. Meanwhile, Shashank Srivastava and Partho Banerjee have been elevated to the position of senior executive directors and Ram Suresh Akela, who was the national head, sales has been elevated to the post of executive director — marketing. The new leadership changes are effective from the first quarter of 2021-22. Company sources, however, denied any fall in market share saying “in fact the share has risen from 44 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 to 47 per cent in the corresponding period of 2021-22”. However, he admitted that the mid-SUV segment is a cause for concern. “We are watching the mid-SUV segment. In the entry SUV segment we are market leaders with the Vitara Brezza. But in the mid-SUV segment we are quite weak ... we are trying to push the S-Cross,” said the source. In the people mover segment, Ertiga and Eeco seem to be doing well with a 98 per cent market share. The company’s decision to exit the diesel powertrain is also affecting its SUV sales, said an industry expert. “With Hyundai’s Creta and Venue and Kia’s Seltos and Sonet, buyers have a choice,” said the expert. Each of the South Korean companies have shored up a market share of 23 per cent in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Microsoft to reward employees with $1500 as pandemic bonus||Microsoft will reward its employees with $1500 (around Rs 1.12 lakh) as pandemic bonus in recognition of a challenging fiscal year. “As a symbol of our appreciation for coming together as One Microsoft during a uniquely challenging year, we are proud to recognise our employees with a one-time monetary gift,” a spokesperson said in response to a query from The Telegraph. This bonus is separate from our compensation programmes, Microsoft said. Microsoft had over $125 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the period ended March 31, 2021. The tech major earned a profit of $15.5 billion for the quarter ended March at a growth rate of 44 per cent. Microsoft’s chief people officer Kathleen Hogan announced the bonus in a message to the employees on Thursday. The amount will be available to employees in the US and abroad who are below corporate vice-president level that started on or before March 31, 2021, including part time workers on and those on hourly rates. Microsoft has 175,508 employees worldwide and in India it has over 13,000 employees across 11 Indian cities including Calcutta. However, the employees of its subsidiaries LinkedIn, Github and ZeniMax are not eligible for the bonus. Addressing investors at the quarterly earnings Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella had said that over a year into the pandemic, digital adoption curves are not slowing down. “In fact, they are accelerating and it's just the beginning. Digital technology will be the foundation for resilience and growth over the next decade,” said Nadella. A large part of the growth in business in the pandemic for Microsoft has been on account of cloud services with users increasingly relying on such services in a hybrid work model. Microsoft’s meeting platform – Teams – has seen over 145 million daily active users, almost double the number a year ago. Rising PC sales has also supported Microsoft’s growth. Earlier, Facebook gave its 45,000 employees $1000 each and Amazon gave $300 holiday bonus for frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Temasek, Warburg Pincus, Bhavish Aggarwal invest $500 million in Ola||Ola on Friday said Temasek, Warburg Pincus affiliate Plum Wood Investment and Ola founder Bhavish Aggarwal have invested $500 million (about Rs 3,733 crore) in the ride-hailing platform ahead of its proposed IPO. This is among the largest investments in the Indian consumer internet space by these funds, a statement said. “Over the last 12 months, we’ve made our ride-hailing business more robust, resilient and efficient. With a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers,” Aggarwal said. “We look forward to collaborating with Bhavish and the team in the next phase of Ola’s growth,” said Vishal Mahadevia, managing director and head of India at Warburg Pincus. The company, however, didn’t specify a timeline for its proposed initial public offer. Ola has previously talked of a possible listing as well. An IPO will help investors like SoftBank, Tiger Global and Steadview Capital to exit or partially sell their stake to return funds to their shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||SoftBank in discussions to invest in PharmEasy parent API Holdings||SoftBank Group is reportedly in discussions to invest in API Holdings which owns PharmEasy, the country’s largest online pharmacy chain. According to a Bloomberg report, API is seeking a valuation of $5.6 billion in the funding round and the Japanese conglomerate could invest up to $200 million. The report added that API Holdings may also approach other investors. PharmEasy was recently in the news when it announced the acquisition of Thyrocare Technologies Ltd (Thyrocare) for Rs 4,546 crore. API Holdings will acquire a 66.1 per cent stake in Thyrocare from A Velumani and affiliates at a price of Rs 1,300 per share aggregating to Rs 4,546 crore. The acquisition will be done by Docon Technologies Pvt Ltd, a 100 per cent subsidiary of API. Docon will also make an open offer for an additional 26 per cent stake at the same price for a consideration of Rs 1,788 crore if the offer is fully accepted. Earlier, PharmEasy had completed the acquisition of Medlife to become the largest healthcare delivery platform in India. PharmEasy, founded by Dharmil Sheth, Dhaval Shah, Harsh Parekh, Hardik Dedhia and Siddharth Shah, is also present in the B2B pharma marketplace and in consultations. The company has a base of 12 million plus consumers, a network of more than 6,000 digital consultation clinics and 90,000 partner retailers across the country. It currently serves over one million patients for their pharmacy and diagnostics needs and issues over one million digital prescriptions on a monthly basis. Recently, Tata Digital Ltd, a wholly-owned arm of Tata Sons had announced that it will acquire a majority stake in 1MG Technologies Ltd, the online healthcare marketplace, days after the company said it will invest $75 million in fitness-focused Curefit Healthcare for an undisclosed stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Amazon and Future group arbitration battle to resume in Singapore||The arbitration proceeding between Amazon and the Future group will resume in Singapore next week that led to the Indian Supreme Court pushing back its own hearings to July 20 on a plea made by the US e-commerce giant against a Delhi high court order on the Reliance-Future deal. The arbitration proceedings between the two parties will reportedly begin on July 12. In October, the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre in an interim award restrained Future Retail Ltd from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Earlier this year, a three-member arbitration panel was formed that included Michael Hwang, Albert Jan van den Berg and Jan Paulsson. On Thursday, the apex court said it will hear on July 20 the Amazon plea against the Delhi high court verdict which stayed the directive by its single-judge and paved the way for the Reliance-Future deal. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, K.M. Joseph and B R Gavai was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, that the Singapore tribunal will commence hearing on the matter from July 12. While Salve requested the proceedings on the appeals be adjourned for a week, senior advocate Gopal Subramanian, appearing for Amazon, said he had no problem if the court pushed back the hearings by seven days. Amazon had moved the apex court on April 8 challenging the Delhi high court's division bench order of March 22 by which it had vacated a stay on the Future Group proceeding with the deal with Reliance. On February 22, the Supreme Court had asked the National Company Law Tribunal not to pass the final order on the amalgamation. In its suit before the single judge of the Delhi high court for enforcing the award in Singapore, Amazon has sought to restrain Future Retail from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. It had also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged "wilful disobedience" of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India relaxes stand on yield||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) appeared to cede some ground to the bond traders in their face-off on yields — as it fixed a coupon of 6.10 per cent for the new 10-year bond on Friday after trying to anchor the yields at around 6 per cent. The cut-off yield for the new paper is above the 5.85-per-cent set for the present benchmark bond. Amid a huge government borrowing programme, the RBI has tried to cap the benchmark bond at 6 per cent. In several auctions, the RBI had either rejected all the bids or the bonds devolved on primary dealers as the central bank was not comfortable with the high yields sought by the market. More recently, the central bank moved to a uniform price auction for certain bonds to iron out volatility. However, despite its efforts, yields have risen in recent weeks because of concerns about firm crude oil prices leading to high inflation and a higher supply of government bonds during the pandemic. Retail inflation in May touched a six-month-high of 6.30 per cent and the worrying developments on the crude front have only heightened concerns. The Centre on Friday sold Rs 14,000 crore of the new 10-year-paper as well as Rs 3,000 crore of the 4.26 per cent GS 2023 (two-year paper) and Rs 9,000 crore for the 6.76 per cent GS 2061 bond (40-year paper). There were no devolvement on primary dealers. The benchmark 10-year-bond also ended higher at 6.19 per cent — a rise of almost 6 basis points — after opening at around 6.15 per cent. Market circles are of the view that the development indicates some firming up of yields. While the central bank has retained its accommodative stance at its June meeting, it remains to be seen if there is some indication of an unwinding at the next policy meet. According to Bloomberg data, G-sec yields have risen 45-85 basis points in the 3-7 year segment and around 15 basis points in the 10-year paper since the past six months. Tata Mutual Fund in a note said the G-sec yields are expected to move up gradually because of the higher borrowing programme required to support state governments and the pandemic relief. However, the fund house feels the short-term rates will remain stable because of RBI intervention. The fund house believes the RBI will ensure the growth impulses are firmly entrenched before its starts withdrawing its accommodative monetary policy stance. In a separate announcement, the RBI said states will raise a total of Rs 1,92,091 crore during the July-September quarter. They include Bengal, which intends to mobilise Rs 18,000 crore. Sovereign bond The issue price for Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2021-22, which will open for subscription for five days from July 12, has been fixed at Rs 4,807 per gram of gold, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||India||Kerala reports 15 confirmed Zika virus cases so far||One more person has been infected with Zika virus in Kerala, taking the total number of cases in the state to 15. Health minister Veena George said the samples of a 40 year-old man from Nanthancode here were sent to the National Institute of Virology at Alappuzhaand found to be positive for the vector borne infection. So far 14 people from Thiruvananthapuram have tested positive for Zika. Samples of 17 people sent earlier were negative and in the second batch of 27 samples, one has tested positive, the minister said in a press statement. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Zika has been reported in Kerala and it was not unexpected as it is spread by the Aedes Aegypte mosquitoes, which causes dengue and Chickungunya. Vector control units at the district and state level would be further strengthened, he told reporters. Vehicle-check intensified on TN-Kerala border The district administration on Saturday intensified vehicle-check on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border following the Zika virus outbreak in that State. Tight vigil was maintained at 14 strategic points and checkposts at Walayar and Meenakshipuram, official sources said. According to the sources, e-pass mandatory was mandatory for those entering the district from Kerala since the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||J&K government sacks 11 employees from service for allegedly working for terror groups||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sacked 11 more employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin who has been designated a global terrorist by the US, for allegedly working for various terror groups, officials said on Saturday.  Earlier seven employees, including Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Davinder Singh and an assistant professor, were dismissed by the Union Territory's administration.  The dismissals started in the last week of April and have been done under Article 311 of the Indian Constitution under which the employees hold their office under the pleasure of the president and can be dismissed without an inquiry. Dismissed employees can only approach a high court for relief.  The decision to dismiss the 11 employees was taken at two meetings of the designated committee in Jammu and Kashmir for scrutinising such cases. In one of the meetings, three employees were recommended for dismissal and in another, eight were recommended for dismissal from government service.  The final decision was taken after considering the recommendation of the findings of the meetings of the committee, the officials said.  The 11 employees, who have been dismissed, are from the Jammu Kashmir Police, the education, agriculture, skill development, power and health departments, and the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS).  Among the employees, four are from Anantnag, three from Budgam, and one each from Baramulla, Srinagar, Pulwama and Kupwara districts, the officials said.  Syed Ahmad Shakeel and Shahid Yousuf, who are sons of the most wanted terrorist, Salahuddin, were dismissed from service for allegedly being involved in terror funding, the officials said.  Salahuddin has been designated as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist by the United States.  One of them was working with SKIMS as a pharmacist and the other was in the agriculture department, they said.  The National Investigation Agency has tracked terror funding trails of both the persons. They were involved in raising, receiving, collecting and transferring funds through Hawala (non-banking) transactions for terror activities of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen, the officials said.  The three officials recommended for dismissal in one of the meetings included an orderly of the ITI in Kupwara, who was an over ground worker (OGW) of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba, they said, adding he was providing information to terrorists about the movement of security forces, and abetting and harbouring terrorists to carry out activities in a clandestine manner.  Besides him, there were two teachers from Anantnag in South Kashmir who were found involved in anti-national activities, including participating, supporting and propagating secessionist ideology of the banned groups like Jamat-Islami (JeI) and Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DeM), the officials said.  The eight government employees recommended for dismissal in the other meeting of the committee included two constables of the Jammu Kashmir Police who supported terrorism from within the police department and provided inside information to terrorists as also logistic support, the officials said.  Constable Abdul Rashid Shigan has himself executed attacks on security forces, they said. The other constable was identified as Showkat Sofi, who is alleged to be hand-in-glove with the banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed, the officials said.  Another government employee with terror links is Naaz Mhammad Allaie, an orderly of the health department. He is an OGW of the Hizbul Mujahideen and has a history of direct involvement in terrorist activities, the officials said, adding that two dreaded terrorists were harboured by him at his residence.  Employees Jabbar Ahmad Paray and Nisar Ahmad Tantray of the education department, who terminated from service, are alleged to be "actively" involved in furthering the secessionist agenda unleashed by terror-sponsors from Pakistan and are Jamat-e-Islami ideologists, they said.  Shaheen Ahmad Lone, an inspector of the power department has been found involved in smuggling and transporting of arms for the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, the officials said.  He was found travelling along with two terrorists on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway and carrying arms, ammunition and explosives in January last year, they said.  Earlier in April-May, the administration dismissed seven employees including DSP Singh. Along with him Bashir Ahmad Sheikh and Mohammad Yousuf Ganie, both from Kupwara in North Kashmir, were dismissed from the education department.  Dr Abdul Bari Naik, assistant professor, geography, Government Degree College, Women, Udhampur; Nazir Ahmed Wani, Naib Tehsildar (Revenue Officer), Pulwama; and a teacher, Idrees Jan of Government School, Kupwara, were dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||BJP claims ‘historic’ win at UP local polls||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday claimed victory in the polls for the posts of the block panchayat chief, amid allegations of violence by the opposition parties. The Opposition has slammed the state government over incidents of violence in the run-up to the polls. Reports of clashes had surfaced from several areas of the state with allegations that candidates backed by opposition parties were not allowed to file nomination papers. However, claiming an outstanding show by the BJP in the polls to the posts of block and district panchayat chiefs, Adityanath said almost 85 per cent seats went in favour of the ruling party. Terming the success an outcome of the team work, the chief minister said the BJP and its allies bagged 635 of 825 seats of block panchayat chief on Saturday. Meanwhile, lauding the BJP's win in the elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the "big victory" is a reflection of the benefits people have received due to the Yogi Adityanath government's policies and pro-people schemes. All party workers deserve congratulations for this win, he said. The CM also praised the state Election Commission for the peaceful and fair polls. Conducting such a massive election process peacefully, in a state where democracy was mortaged before professional criminals and mafia on the basis of caste religion and sect, is praiseworthy, he told reporters at the BJP headquarters here. He said it was due to the guidance and inspiration of PM Modi, work was done without discrimination for every sections of society. The inclination of the people was towards the BJP and I am happy to say that the strategy of the party has yielded this result, he said. On Saturday, the elections were held for 476 posts of the block panchayat chief as 349 candidates were declared elected unopposed on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 8,296 new cases, 179 fatalities||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,296 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 179 fatalities while 6,026 patients recovered, the state health department said.  With the new additions, the COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra climbed to 61,49,264 and the death toll to 1,25,528.  Of the 179 fatalities, 143 occurred in last 48 hours while 36 in the last week. Additionally, 315 deaths have been added to the cumulative toll report of Maharashtra, which means the overall fatality count has gone up by 494 compared to Friday, the health department said in a report.  A health official said 6,026 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries so far in Maharashtra to 59,06,466, leaving the state with 1,14,000 active cases.  Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 96.05 per cent and the case fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  Mumbai city reported 503 COVID-19 cases during the day and 13 deaths, taking the tally to 7,27,136 and the toll to 15,612, the report said.  The Mumbai division which comprises neighbouring satellite towns and MMR region added 1,674 new cases and 29 fatalities on Saturday, which raised the count of infections and COVID-19 deaths to 16,13,560 and 32,976, respectively, it said.  Nashik division reported 578 cases and seven deaths while Pune division added 2,338 cases and 42 fatalities, as per the report.  The caseload in Kolhapur division went up by 3,214 and the death toll climbed by 69. Aurangabad division reported 101 cases and 23 deaths. All these deaths were reported from rural parts of Aurangabad. No fatality due to COVID-19 was reported from the rest of districts and cities in the division, the report said.  The caseload in Latur division increased by 251 while the count of fatalities due to COVID-19 mounted by seven. Nagpur division reported 71 new cases and one death, it said.  With 2,35,020 new tests, the overall number of samples tested so far for coronavirus in Maharashtra went up to 4,38,00,139, reflecting an overall positivity rate of 14.04 per cent.  Currently 5,85,580 people are in home quarantine and 4,737 people are in institutional quarantine across Maharashtra.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 61,49,264, new cases 8,296, deaths,1,25,528, recoveries 59,06,466, active cases 1,14,000, tests so far 4,38,00,139.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||‘Bangabandhu Chair’ to be set up at Delhi University by ICCR||Dinesh K Patnaik, Director General, ICCR and PC Joshi, acting DU Vice Chancellor, will sign a Memorandum of Understanding on July 12 for setting up of the Chair, a statement said, adding the MoU will be for a duration of five academic years. "The ICCR will be establishing 'Bangabandhu Chair' at Delhi University to honour Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of Bangladesh and to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War and Indo-Bangladesh diplomatic relations," the statement said. The Chair will be occupied by a foreign visiting professor or subject expert on Bangladesh preferably a person of that country's origin. "This initiative is the outcome of one of the understandings reached during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's state visit to Bangladesh in March 2021. Bangabandhu Chair focus is on better understanding of developments in Bangladesh, one of India's most important neighbours, positioned at the strategic intersection of our 'Neighbourhood First' and 'Act East' policies," the ICCR said in the official statement. The ICCR said it has setup various Chairs on Indian studies abroad and this is the first of its kind initiative of setting-up of a Chair on Bangladesh in India and is an important step towards strengthening Indo-Bangladesh ties. "This step will reinforce exchanges in the field of academics, art and culture between the two countries. "As Bangladesh records consistent economic growth and has rapidly raised its socio-economic standards, there could not be a more appropriate time for Indian academia and contributors to policy making to pay more attention to Bangladesh studies in an institutional manner. This Chair is an important step in this direction," it added. The Chair will focus on the Indo-Bangladesh common cultural heritage and subjects like Anthropology, Buddhist Studies, Geography, History, Modern Indian Languages (including Bangla), Music and Fine Arts, Political Science, International Relations and Sociology, it said. "It will teach as per the academic requirements of the university and will also help in guiding and mentoring of research students. It will also take part in other activities of the university relating to seminars, conferences, faculty interaction etc. and public lectures," it said. The Delhi University also tweeted, "In a couple of days, University of Delhi would enter a historic MoU with ICCR, MEA, Govt of India featuring creation of Bangladesh Chair. A first of its kind! Long Live Indo-Bangladesh Friendship!!" The chair is being established to promote India-Bangladesh ties and encourage Bangladeshi students to study in India, a varsity official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
10-07-2021||India||Congress leader sends Burnol to BJP minister to get relief from ‘jalan’||Trading barbs over the induction of Jyotiraditya Scindia in the Union cabinet, a Congress leader on Saturday sent tubes of Burnol cream to Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra to `ease pain'. Mishra on Thursday had said that those who are feeling jealous about Scindia, a former Congressman, getting into the Narendra Modi cabinet should be given Burnol (which is used to treat minor burn injuries). “When the Congress issued a statement about a betrayal by Scindia, Mishra said he would send us Burnol. Now we have sent two tubes of the ointment to Mishra because he needs them more,” state Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja said. The tubes were sent through an e-commerce platform, he said. “One tube is from Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, because Mishra was eyeing his post. Another tube is from state Congress chief Kamal Nath because Mishra is obsessed with him and continuously talks about him,” Saluja said. State BJP secretary Rahul Kothari said it was a cheap stunt. This is a cheap tactic being used by the Congress. The opposition party should tell us what kind of ointment Nath needs, because he travels only by air and now Scindia has become the aviation minister," Kothari retorted. Scindia brought down the Kamal Nath government in MP last year when he and 22 Congress MLAs loyal to him quit the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Pandemic is not yet over, says Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday sounded a note of caution against reported blatant disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour at hill stations and other tourist locations, stressing that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over. The Home Secretary was reviewing the steps taken by the state governments for checking the spread of Covid-19 at hill stations and tourist locations, a home ministry statement said. During the meeting, the overall management of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination status in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal were discussed. The meeting was conveyed that the decline of the second wave is at variable stages in the different states and UTs in the country, and while the overall case positivity rate may be declining, the case positivity rate in certain districts of Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh is over 10 percent, which is a cause for concern, the statement said. The Union Home Secretary sounded a note of caution in the wake of media reports showing blatant disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour at hill stations and other tourist locations, the statement said. Bhalla emphasised that the second wave of Covid was not yet over and states should ensure strict adherence to the protocols prescribed in respect of wearing of masks, social distancing and other safe behaviour. States were also asked to follow the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Covid Appropriate Behaviour, as has been laid out in the MHA order dated June 29, 2021. Adequate health infrastructure preparedness, especially in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, was also advised to tackle any potential future surge in cases. The meeting was attended by V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Director General, Indian Council for Medical Research; and Chief Secretaries, Directors General of Police and Principal Secretaries (Health) of the eight states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||International drug racket busted, Afghan national among 4 arrested||The Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested four men, including an Afghan national, and recovered a record 354 kilograms of heroin worth over Rs 2,500 crore in the international market from them, officials said on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Rizwan Kashmiri, a resident of Ghitorni here and native of Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir, Gurpreet Singh and Gurjot Singh, both residents of Jalandhar in Punjab and Hazrat Ali, a native of Kandahar in Afghanistan, they said. It recently came to the notice of the police that Kashmiri was involved in drug peddling in Delhi and other states like Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. "On Monday, police received information that Kashmiri was going to deliver contraband in south Delhi's Ghitorni area. A trap was laid and the accused was arrested when he was going to deliver a packet of one kilogram of heroin," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. “Kashmiri revealed that he works under an Afghan national named Isha Khan who recently left India and went to Afghanistan. Khan directed him to contact Gurpreet and Gurjot who were currently operating a drug racket from Faridabad in Haryana,” the DCP said. “Based on the disclosure of Kashmiri, Gurpreet and Gurjot were arrested,” he said. “Police recovered 166 kg and 115 kg of heroin from two cars which were parked in a society based on the duo's information. Later, 70 kg heroin was also recovered from the rented accommodation of both the accused,” police said. According to police Gurpreet and Gurjot revealed that they were operating the drug racket on the instructions of a man named Navpreet Singh, presently based in Portugal. Gurpreet met Navpreet in Punjab's Kapurthala Jail when they were in judicial custody in separate cases, the DCP said. Based on the disclosure of Kashmiri, Ali was also arrested from Gurgaon and two kg heroin was recovered from his possession. Around 100 kg of different chemicals used in the preparation of heroin was also recovered, Kushwah said. Elaborating about the operation, the police said opium grown in various parts of Afghanistan is concealed in different legitimate exports -- talc stone, gypsum powder, basil seeds and in packaging material like gunny bags, cartons etc. It is then transported in containers to Chabahar Port in Iran from where the consignments are shipped to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai, they said. “Thereafter, the material is separated from the legitimate exports and sent to makeshift factories based in Shiv Puri in Madhya Pradesh for further extraction and processing to get the final product, police said. The locals with the help of Afghan experts process the heroin and the chemicals required for the process are procured from various shops located in MP and Delhi,” police said. “After preparation, the heroin is then delivered to Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan J-K and various other parts of the country using different supply chains. The arrested accused are parts of different components of this network,” police said. According to then, in 2019, the Special Cell had seized 330 kg of such heroin in a multi-state operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Chirag taunts estranged uncle Paras upon landing cabinet berth||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Saturday paid a backhanded compliment to estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, by congratulating him on joining the union cabinet, which he said was a goal he achieved by breaking up his own family. The beleaguered LJP leader, who has suffered a setback with the Delhi High Court rejecting his petition challenging the election of Paras as the party leader in the Lok Sabha, made it clear, “I am not going to give up my fight to reclaim the party nurtured by my late father Ram Vilas Paswan’s blood and sweat.’ In an oblique reference to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who he suspects of engineering the putsch in the LJP, Chirag said, “I cannot allow the party to be taken over by those, who because of personal ambitions, are sitting in the lap of people who did not deign to come out with even a tweet on my father’s birth anniversary recently.” The Jamui MP also hinted at his disillusionment with the BJP which has kept silent over the crisis in his party despite his unreserved adulation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When asked by reporters whether he still considered himself a Hanuman to Modi, akin to the relationship between the monkey god and Lord Ram, Paswan cryptically replied this is a question you need to ask when elections are round the corner. The 38-year-old, who has been reaching out to the family of his late father from the first marriage, also said I feel overwhelmed by emotions. After the death of my father and the betrayal of my family members many other dear relatives have come out with support. In the state since Monday as part of his ashirwad yatra, Chirag has paid visits to his step-sisters here besides his stepmother in his native district of Khagaria, in a charm offensive to win over his close relations. The former Bollywood actor has in the past been accused of condescension towards them. “I am not a legal expert. So I will not comment much upon the Delhi High Court order until a meeting with my legal team in the national capital. But I am not going to give up,” he asserted. After making his political debut in the Lok Sabha elections of 2014, Chirag succeeded his father as LJP national president five years later. He opened a front against Nitish Kumar ahead of the assembly polls last year, claiming that the people of the state wanted a change in leadership and he was helping the BJP form its own government. The BJP, which had backed Kumar for a fourth consecutive term, distanced itself from Chirags politics of brinkmanship. It, however, ended up benefiting from the melee as it returned with a tally much higher than that of JD(U), for the first time. Paras, along with four other party MPs, staged a political coup last month when they broke away voicing disapproval of Chirag’s stance towards the JD(U). Paras replaced Chirag as the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha and was elected national president of the breakaway faction. The uncle and the nephew seem poised for a long legal and political battle with the former appearing to have the cadres support but the latter capturing the public imagination as the heir to Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the tallest Dalit leaders of his generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Have asked states to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols, Centre tells HC||The central government has informed the Delhi High Court that it has asked all states and Union territories (UT) to ensure strict compliance with the national directives for COVID-19 management and take necessary measures under the Disaster Management Act. Order was also issued to them to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for COVID19 management until July 31, the Centre has said. The Centre also stated that while the opening of activities after a decline in COVID-19 cases was essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated. The statement was made in a status report filed by the Centre through its standing counsel Anil Soni in connection with the high court's suo motu proceedings on violation of COVID-19 protocols in various markets in the national capital. The Centre has submitted that national directives for COVID-19 management include face coverings, social distancing, not spitting in public places, work from home, staggering of work/business hours, screening and hygiene and frequent sanitisation. "MHA issued order dated 29.06.2021..directing state/Union Territory governments and state/Union Territory Authorities to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for COVID-19 management till 31.07.07.2021 as conveyed vide aforesaid MoHFW advisory dated 28.06.2021 and also take necessary measures under the relevant provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. "MHA also directed state/Union territories that National Directives for COVID-19 Management shall continue to be strictly followed throughout the country, the report reads. Clarifying that the decision to impose or ease restrictions has to be based on the assessment of the ground situation, the Centre added that state/UT authorities should ensure that there is a continuous focus on containment efforts and uniformity in implementing graded restrictions/relaxations . The high court was also informed that the framework for implementation of prompt and target action was also shared by the Centre with the states. The framework, Centre said, speaks of a five-fold strategy for effective management of COVID-19 i.e. test, track, treat, vaccinate and adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour. The framework also emphasises that COVID-19 management can succeed only through a whole of government and whole of society approach. States are nonetheless at liberty to plan additional public health measures based on their local situation, it is said. The Centre has also submitted that a letter was addressed to chief secretaries of all states and administrators of UTs, stressing effective management of COVID-19 by following advisories issued by the home and health ministries. A vacation bench of the high court had initiated a PIL last month after it took note of certain photographs sent to one of the high court judges on WhatsApp by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for COVID-19 protocols by street vendors in markets. The court had observed that such breaches would only hasten the third wave of coronavirus which cannot be permitted at all. The high court said if this behaviour of flouting COVID-19 norms continues "we will be in great trouble". "We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the bench had observed, adding that "we as a citizen of this city are worried when we see these images". It further said the memory of the second wave of COVID-19 is still fresh with so many people having suffered personal loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||India offers to share CoWIN platform for free with other nations||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday offered to share CoWIN platform with other nations for free, saying that humanitarian needs outweigh commercial benefits. Participating on the second day of the ongoing G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting, Sitharaman shared India's successful experience in integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic, the Finance Ministry said in a series of tweets. "FM Smt. @nsitharaman shared how #CoWIN application has efficiently supported scale and scope of our vaccination & #India has made this platform freely available to all countries given our firm belief that humanitarian needs outweigh commercial benefits," a tweet said. During the meeting, discussions of finance ministers were focused on policies for economic recovery, sustainable finance and International Taxation. "In policies for recovery session, FM discussed 3 catalysts of economic recovery- #Digitalization #ClimateAction & #SustainableInfrastructure; shared India's successful experience in integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic," another tweet said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Govt keen to make cooperatives more empowered, says Amit Shah||The government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered, Union minister Amit Shah, who met some leading figures of the country's cooperative sector on Saturday, said. The meeting came three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reallocated the portfolios of his ministers in which Shah was given the charge of the newly-created Ministry of Cooperation. Those who met the Union home minister include chairman of the National Cooperative Union of India Dileep Sanghani, the chairman and the managing director of the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) B S Nakai and U S Awasthi respectively and chairman of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) Bijender Singh. "Today met @ncuicoop Chairman Shri Dileep Sanghani ji, @IFFCO_PR Chairman Shri B S Nakai ji, Managing Director Shri U S Awasthi ji and @nafedindia Chairman Dr Bijendra Singh ji. "Under the leadership of Modi ji, we are determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered," Shah tweeted in Hindi. Officials said even though Shah has not yet assumed the charge of the ministry of cooperation, he has begun to meet people. In the meeting, the minister asked cooperatives like IFFCO and KRIBHCO to work in the field of seed production using vacant land of 38,000 hectares as well as in organic farming, the NCUI said in a separate statement. The minister also assured that the government is committed to strengthening the cooperative movement in the country, the benefits of which would go to the grass-root level cooperatives, it said. Shah also assured the delegation that the same benefits and concessions given to Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) will be provided to primary agriculture cooperatives in the country for strengthening them, it added. In the meeting, the minister desired that a conference with representatives of state-level cooperatives should be organized by NCUI, IFFCO and other cooperatives for discussing pertinent issues confronting the cooperative movement. The delegation apprised the minister about the problems and challenges confronting the cooperative movement. The government has recently carved out a new ministry for cooperation, which earlier was a small department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||NCW writes to UP Police on harassment faced by woman BDC member||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked the UP police to immediately take action against two men who misbehaved with a woman, pulling her sari, during the filing of nominations for the block chairman polls in Uttar Pradesh' Lakhimpur Kheri. As a video of the incident involving the woman proposer appeared online, sparking condemnation, the women's organisation said that NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma had, in a letter issued on Thursday, sought strict action against the men. "National Commission for Women (NCW) on July 8th had taken suo motu cognisance of an incident wherein a woman was allegedly attacked and misbehaved with and her sari was pulled in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh," the Commission said. It took action after it was tagged on Twitter to a video clip of the incident posted. Sharma had written to the Director General of Police of Uttar Pradesh to immediately intervene in the matter and take strict action against the men, it said. Voting was held on Saturday for 476 posts of block panchayat chiefs in the state, with sporadic incidents of violence. The Opposition Congress has attacked the BJP government over the violence during the polls including the Lakhinpur Kheri incident and demanded that it apologise. The man, identified as Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP chief Yash Verma, has been arrested on the charge of attacking the woman||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Those with over two kids can't contest local polls, apply for govt jobs in UP||According to a draft of the proposed population control bill, anyone violating two-child policy in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies elections, from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, and receiving any kind of government subsidy. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) states that the provisions are part of the draft titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The UPSLC website says, "The State Law Commission, UP is working on control, stabilisation and welfare of the population of the state and has prepared a draft bill." Suggestions have been invited from the public to improve the draft bill and July 19 is the last date for it. Listing incentives for public servants who adopt the two-child norm, the draft bill says, "Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer's contribution fund under national pension scheme." A State Population Fund will be constituted for the purpose of implementation of the act. Listing the government's duties, the draft bill says that maternity centres will be established at all primary health centres. The centres and NGOs will distribute contraceptive pills, condoms, etc, spread awareness about family planning methods through community health workers and ensure mandatory registration of pregnancies, deliveries, births and deaths across the state. The draft bill also says that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools. The bill seeks to revitalise efforts and provide for measures to control, stabilise and provide welfare to the population of the state by implementing and promoting two-child norm. The draft bill reads, "In Uttar Pradesh, there are the limited ecological and economic resources at hand. It is necessary and urgent that the provision of basic necessities of human life including affordable food, safe drinking water, decent housing, access to quality education, economic/livelihood opportunities, power/electricity for domestic consumption, and a secure living is accessible to all citizens." It is necessary to control, stabilise the population of the state for promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution, it says. It is necessary to ensure healthy birth spacing through measures related to augmenting the availability, accessibility and affordability of quality reproductive health services to achieve the goal of population control, stabilisation and its welfare in the state, the draft bill reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Centre denies visa to New Zealand origin YouTuber, Indian wife moves Delhi HC||YouTube vlogger Karl Edward Rice's wife has approached the Delhi High Court challenging the central government's alleged "arbitrary and unreasonable" decision to blacklist him and deny him a visa to enter India. The petitioner said by virtue of denying his visa to her husband, who has been "arbitrarily blacklisted" by the respondents (Centre), she is deprived of living with him, thereby violating her fundamental right to life and dignity as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The plea, which is likely to come up for hearing next week, said petitioner Manisha Malik and her husband, popularly known as Karl Rock, are YouTube vloggers and have visited most of India to capture its beauty and contribute to the promotion of tourism here. It said the authorities have not communicated the grounds of blacklisting Rice even though several representations have been preferred by him and his wife, which has led to the separation of a married couple, lack of any opportunity or notice to them to indicate any violation of visa conditions and denial of issuance of visa to him. Terming the Centre's move an arbitrary abuse of power, the plea said it violates the petitioner's rights under Article 19 (protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech) of the Constitution. Union Home Ministry officials had on Friday said the New Zealand national has been restricted from entering India till the next year for violating terms and conditions of his visa. He was found to be doing business activities on a tourist visa and also violating other visa conditions, they had said without specifying. The plea said since their marriage in 2019, the couple has been living in Delhi and Rice has not been able to return to India from New Zealand since October 10 last year. "The petitioner's husband, Karl Edward Rice, has a dual nationality New Zealand and the Netherlands and has been visiting India since 2013 strictly abiding by the laws of the country and the conditions of the visa. "During the entire period since 2013, while the petitioner's husband has been granted Indian visa on various occasions, there hasn't been even a single allegation against the petitioner's husband," the plea, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, said. Subsequent to their marriage, Rice was granted an X-2 Visa (meant for spouse/children of an Indian citizen) which had a validity period of May 2019 to May 2024 and one of the conditions in the visa for him was to exit India every 180 days or to intimate the Foreigner Regional Registration Office concerned. "Complying with the aforesaid condition of exiting the nation, while Rice left India on October 10, 2020, he has not been able to return to India because any application for issuance of an Indian visa is being rejected by the respondents. "While the petitioner has been running from pillar to post and no reasons are communicated to either Karl Edward Rice or to the petitioner herself as to on what basis her husband's request for issuance of visa have been rejected," the petition said, adding that Rice was only verbally informed that he has been blacklisted and therefore he is not permitted to enter into India. The plea sought direction to the authorities to call for records pertaining to cancellation of visa and unilateral blacklisting of Rice and also sought to review or quash the decision blacklisting him and allow him entry to India. As an alternative, the plea sought to direct the authorities to grant a meaningful hearing to the couple on the sudden blacklisting of Rice. The petition has arrayed Centre, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, FRRO and Bureau of Immigration as parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
10-07-2021||India||Karnataka intensifies vector control measures for Zika virus||The Karnataka Health Department has instructed officials to intensify vector control measures in the state, in view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighboring Kerala. The districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagara, bordering Kerala, have been asked to be more vigilant. "In view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighboring State of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also. The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, which is a vector for Zika Virus Disease," a circular by the Commissionerate of Health & Family Welfare Services said. Considering the prevalence of "Aedes aegypti" in Karnataka, which is a vector of Dengue, Chikungunya as well as Zika, it said, the routine surveillance activity in rural areas by ASHA and Health Assistants, the fortnightly surveillance activity in Urban wards should be implemented on war-footing mode with strict monitoring and supervision. Effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent Aedes breeding in peri-domestic situations, it added. The circular signed by Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra further instructs all the District Vector Borne Disease Control Officers (DVBDCOs) to ensure certain activities as preparedness towards prevention and control of Vector Borne Diseases like ZVD, that include intensifying integrated vector management. Noting that the ZVD presents with symptoms like fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, joint pain, etc, the circular said, travel history or visit of the guests may also be considered for suspecting the ZVD and the samples collected from suspected cases should be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Bengaluru for testing. During UltraSound Scanning for pregnant women, due focus should be given for presence of Microcephaly, it said, adding if detected, the serum sample of the pregnant women, also in case of newborns and their mothers, must be collected and sent to NIV for testing. Ensuring availability of logistics such as adulticide and larvicide at all levels, up to villages, are among the intervention measures that are to be implemented effectively, in the interest of public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||UP has renamed violence as masterstroke, alleges Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Saturday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over alleged violence and misbehaviour with women during the filing of nominations for blockhead elections, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying that violence has been renamed "masterstroke" in the state. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the BJP had "crossed" all limits to stop the nomination of a woman in the polls. "A few years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against a BJP MLA and an attempt was made to kill her and her family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman. Same government. Same behaviour," she said in a tweet in Hindi and also tagged a video purportedly showing a woman being stopped from filing her nomination in the polls. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, violence has been renamed "masterstroke". The brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate's husband and supporters ahead of the polls for the block panchayat head. In another incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, a Samajwadi Party candidate was allegedly manhandled by BJP workers, after which six policemen were suspended with the administration ordering a magisterial probe. A woman BDC member's saree was also pulled in front of police officers, alleged the Congress and sought an apology from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Odisha eyeing to start boating services at 100 locations to woo tourists||The Odisha government is eyeing to start boating services at 100 locations by the end of this year to boost tourism in the state, officials said on Saturday. At a high-level meeting, Chief Secretary SC Mohapatra directed the departments of Forest and Environment, Water Resources and Tourism to identify the spots in a month, they said. The activities should start by the end of the year, Mohapatra directed the officials concerned. The locations should be identified on the basis of their competitiveness for being popularised among tourists, and must offer exotic experiences, he noted. "Proper choice of the location and their popularisation will attract private investment to the sector and that will take the state's eco-tourism industry to the next level," the chief secretary said. He also directed to put in place proper safety measures and suggested the officials to adopt a community management model by involving locals with proper training. Odisha has around 118 big and small dams, including Hirakud, Mandira, Patora, Deras and Hadgarh. The state is bestowed with natural lakes like Chilika, Ansupa, Pata and Kanjia, Hiarkud. Besides, there are around ten major river basins such as Mahanadi, Bramhani and Baitarani, an official said. These places offer scores of sites for boating activities, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Mother Dairy to hike milk prices in Delhi-NCR by Rs 2 per litre from Sunday||Leading milk supplier Mother Dairy has increased milk prices in Delhi-NCR and other cities by Rs 2 per litre with effect from Sunday due to higher input costs. It had last raised the milk prices in December 2019. From July 1, Amul had hiked its milk prices by Rs 2 per litre. Mother Dairy said it is "compelled to raise its liquid milk prices by Rs 2/litre in Delhi-NCR with effect from July 11, 2021." The new prices will be applicable for all milk variants. "The company has been experiencing inflationary pressure on the overall input costs which has increased multi-fold in the last one year, accompanied by the distress in milk production due to the ongoing pandemic," the statement said. In the last one year, farm prices have increased to the tune of 8-10 per cent coupled with mounting operational costs of processing, packaging and logistics. "It is pertinent to note that the farm prices of milk alone have firmed up by about 4 per cent in the last three-four weeks. Despite paying higher prices towards milk procurement in the last one year, the consumer prices were kept intact. With this revision, the milk prices are undergoing a revision of 4 per cent," Mother Dairy said. Prices are also being revised across key markets including east and central Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Nagpur and Calcutta from July 11 onwards to the tune of Rs 2/litre on the current prevailing MRP in respective markets, it added. Mother Dairy sells more than 30 lakh litres of milk per day in Delhi-NCR. Mother Dairy's decision comes at a time when the price of petrol has shot up above Rs 100 mark in many states. But it’s not fuel price alone that is burning a hole in the pockets of people. Over the past year and a half, the prices of several essential items have shot up to an extent that tens of thousands of households have their backs to the wall. From eggs to milk to pulses and edible oil, items that are part of everyday lives have become far costlier than they were just before the start of the pandemic. The price rise hits harder because the virus has robbed many of their income and stalled the income of many more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Monsoon likely to reach Delhi today, IMD predicts rains ||The meteorological department has predicted light rain or thundershowers in Delhi as the monsoon is likely to reach the city on Saturday. The minimum temperature settled at 28.6 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, in the city, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 65 percent. The IMD said the southwest monsoon is likely to reach Delhi on Saturday, making it the most-delayed monsoon in the capital in the last 15 years. "The monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10," it had said. The weatherman has predicted a partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers towards evening and night in the city. According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature would settle around 38 degrees Celsius. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi's hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8 am was 108. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Covid: India logs over 1,200 new fatalities, 42k cases in a single day||India has logged 42,766 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally to 3,07,95,716, while the active cases have declined to 4,55,033, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,07,145 with 1,206 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.48 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 19,55,225 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 42,90,41,970, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 19 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,33,538, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.21 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Kerala tea labour leader in jail for six years under UAPA||Every day, Jameela Ibrahim worries about a very sick and aged man who defended the rights of the downtrodden before being arrested under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, branded a Maoist and locked up in jail without bail. It’s not the 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy whom this retired plantation labourer from a remote Kerala village has in mind. The 63-year-old school dropout knows very little about the Ranchi-based Jesuit and tribal rights activist who died in National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody on July 5, waiting for bail in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case. She, however, says she knows all about how the anti-terror law can be invoked to silence dissent. Jameela’s husband and tea labour leader N.K. Ibrahim, 67, was arrested under the UAPA in July 2015 and has since been held without bail in a Kerala jail. Her son Noufal finds it ironic that the Kerala government of CPM chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who publicly condemned Father Stan’s detention, handed over the case against Ibrahim to the NIA. Ibrahim has survived two cardiac arrests in prison, his family and jail authorities say. A painful gum disease — a complication of the severe diabetes he suffers from — has caused him to lose all his teeth. “He now gulps down the jail chapatti after dunking it in water because he can’t chew. He takes 22 tablets a day for diabetes,” said Jameela. Jameela and Noufal visit Ibrahim at the Viyyur central jail in Thrissur district, 187km from their home in Nedumkarana village in Wayanad district, at least twice a week. Ibrahim was arrested on July 14, 2015, on the charge of storming a senior police officer’s home near Vellamunda in Wayanad — 47km from Nedumkarana — along with a group of alleged Maoists on April 24, 2014, and torching his motorbike. The police allege Ibrahim is a Maoist courier and had participated in the armed attack with seven others, including the CPI Maoist’s south India leader Roopesh, his wife Shyna and their comrades Anup, Jayanna, Kanya and Sundari. Jameela insists that Ibrahim was in his native Nedumpala, 64km from Vellamunda, on the day of the alleged incident. She says he had faced no criminal case till then and had told her the charges against him were fabricated and that he had never had any Maoist links. The complainants and witnesses are all police officers attached to the Vellamunda police station. Jameela alleged a conspiracy by a tea company for which she and Ibrahim worked and which had sacked them both over the past decade, years before they had reached the retirement age of 65, citing poor profits and the financial situation. She claims the company implicated Ibrahim — who continued to fight for the plantation labourers’ rights after his sacking — by telling the police he was a Maoist close to Roopesh, Shyna and Anup. “My husband was a popular leader of plantation workers in Wayanad and was at the forefront of agitations against the company in the 1990s when it arbitrarily sacked workers citing price fluctuations and poor yield,” she said. “Those agitations made him a target for the management.” Two cases were filed against Ibrahim and the others, one for alleged recruitment of youths for the Maoists in Payyoli and the other for offences such as rioting, trespass, criminal intimidation and terrorism in connection with the Vellamunda raid. A sessions court in Kozhikode district acquitted Ibrahim and his co-accused in the first case earlier this year. No one has any idea when the second case might come up for trial. “During the trial of the first case through videoconferencing, Ibrahim had collapsed because of poor health,” said C.P. Rasheed, a human rights activist. Ibrahim’s requests for bail and parole have been rejected half-a-dozen times so far by the local courts. His family says three of Ibrahim’s teeth fell out three years ago before the rest of his teeth were surgically removed six months back under advice from a dentist and a diabetologist. This has affected his food intake, and he has lost 8kg in the past one month alone, the family says. Ibrahim’s family is unhappy with the Kerala government. “On Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued a statement expressing concern at the way (Father Stan) Swamy was treated in jail,” Noufal said. “Now I’m wondering why the chief minister is not ensuring justice for my father, who has been jailed without bail or trial for the last six years in his state, and that too in a case lacking independent witnesses and solid evidence. At least the chief minister is duty bound to ensure adequate medical care for my father, against whom there are no proven charges so far.” Six of the seven other accused too have been denied bail but they are all aged below 50 and appear to be in good health. Shyna alone received bail after four years in Coimbatore jail. Roopesh, 44, and Anoop are in Coimbatore jail, while the rest are imprisoned in Mysore and Bangalore. All seven had been arrested in several other cases before being charged in the Payyoli and Vellamunda cases. Thrissur-based human rights activists said over 200 jail inmates, including some convicted of murder or rape, had been released on parole from the Viyyur central jail since last year because of the pandemic. Among those released on parole are Kodi Suni, Muhammed Shafi and Kirmani Manoj, three hired assassins sentenced to life for hacking to death the expelled CPM leader T.P. Chandrasekharan. Suni is also accused of plotting murders, smuggling gold, and trafficking in narcotics from jail. However, Ibrahim never found a place on the list. “In the last six years, he was able to visit home only twice, and that too under tight police escort and only for one day each time,” Jameela said. “When the second wave of Covid began and experts cited the possibility of a third wave, we again initiated the process for bail,” Noufal said. “We were concerned because he has severe co-morbidities. When those who commit heinous crimes easily get bail and parole here, we should at least ensure justice for my father.” It’s thanks to the family’s persistent pleadings that the jail authorities have provided some medical treatment to Ibrahim, Noufal said. But the family is too poor to afford a set of false teeth for Ibrahim. Two weeks ago, prominent writers and social activists including J. Devika, K. Satchidanandan and Meena Kandasamy wrote to Vijayan, urging him to release Ibrahim. “We request there should be timely intervention in Ibrahim’s case as you did in the case of Siddique Kappan (Kerala journalist charged under the UAPA in Uttar Pradesh) and Hany Babu (academic jailed in the Elgaar Parishad case),” the letter said. But there was no response. Vijayan had written to the Centre and the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra about the two detainees but without results. While Kerala’s ruling CPM says it’s against draconian laws like the UAPA, Vijayan’s government has allegedly been using it as a tool to silence critics. Allan and Thaha, two students from CPM families, were arrested under the anti-terror law two years ago when they began criticising party policies. They were labelled Maoists and handed over to the NIA. Allan is now out on bail but Thaha remains in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||UP polls 2021: BJP leader held for attack on woman BDC member||A video showing two men pulling a woman’s sari, backed up by an official complaint, has led to the arrest of Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP chief Yash Verma on the charge of attacking a woman block development council (BDC) member. The video purportedly shows Yash and Brij Singh — said to be a supporter of Rekha Verma, BJP parliamentarian from Dhaurahra in Lakhimpur Kheri — assaulting the woman BDC member on the compound of the Pasgawan block office, 130km north of Lucknow, on Thursday afternoon. Nomination papers were being filed on Thursday for the post of block pramukh — head of the BDC, the second tier of the panchayati raj system whose members had been elected during the state-wide rural polls in April. The run-up to the July 10 and 12 pramukh elections across the state’s 822 blocks — where the voters are BDC members — has been marred by violence, with the BJP accused of trying to prevent rival candidates from filing their nominations. A would-be pramukh candidate for the Pasgawan block told reporters in Lucknow on Friday that the woman in the video was her proposer. She alleged that Yash and Brij had pulled her sari, too, inside the returning officer’s chamber and prevented her from filing her papers. “I handed a written complaint to the police on Thursday that Brij, a resident of J.B. Ganj area and a supporter of Rekha Verma, and Yash Verma pulled my sari and that of my proposer,” she said. “They registered the case a day later under media pressure.” She described the incident: “I somehow pushed past the crowd blocking the entrance to the room of the returning officer and walked in, but they held the BDC member by her hand (on the premises outside), pulled her sari and snatched her belongings, including Rs 7,500 in cash and gold jewellery. They left her injured while pulling her gold earring.” She added: “Some BJP members present in the returning officer’s room tried to drag me out while Rekha Verma and the police officers present looked on. I couldn’t submit my nomination papers. My supporters somehow rescued me and the BDC member (proposer) and took us away.” The complainant, a resident of Semra Janipur in Lakhimpur Kheri, had rushed to Lucknow on Friday to meet leaders of the Samajwadi Party, which had supported her in the panchayat elections and was supporting her for the pramukh’s post. The woman in the video told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri: “Anything could have happened to me — the BJP members wanted to kidnap me.” She said Rekha and Yash were close relatives and belonged to the same village, Maksudpur. Sumit Kumar, who identified himself as Rekha’s representative, blamed Samajwadi supporters for the “ruckus” at the block office but sidestepped the specific incident of sari-pulling. Kumar said: “The dispute began when a Samajwadi supporter’s car hit my car while we were about to enter the block office. Our supporters didn’t do anything; the Samajwadi members created a ruckus as they knew they would lose the election.” As news channels began beaming the video and social media users circulated it on Friday, additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar said Yash had been arrested and officers were probing the matter to see whether Brij should be taken into custody too. “Seven policemen have been suspended for allowing such an incident to happen, and an inquiry has been ordered,” he said. Buddhipriya Singh, assistant returning officer for the pramukh election at Pasgawan block, said she had received only two nominations — those of Urmila Katiyar and Shikha Singh. The would-be candidate who alleged she was prevented from filing her papers said Urmila was the outgoing block pramukh and the mother of Rekha and that Shikha Singh was an associate of the MP and “a dummy candidate”. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asserted “zero tolerance” for the perpetrators of the sari-pulling but named no political party. Former chief minister and Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of “bullying Opposition candidates” and alleged that district magistrates and superintendents of police were “behaving as BJP workers”. Some BJP workers tried to kidnap a woman BDC member from Khairighat, Bahraich district, around 2am on Friday and ended up murdering her 60-year-old brother-in-law, a police complaint says. Sundar Lal, husband of BDC member Yadurai Devi, said: “Sudhir Yagyasaini, the husband of block pramukh candidate Sarita Yagyasaini, and his goons tried to kidnap my wife at 2am from our home in village Dinapurva. When my elder brother Mayaram resisted, they hit him with a rifle butt and killed him on the spot.” Sudhir is a known BJP worker. Bahraich superintendent of police Sujata Singh said: “The husband of a block pramukh candidate and four others have been booked on the charge of murder and kidnapping. We are trying to arrest them.” News agency PTI later quoted Sujata as saying two accused, Ram Bhulawan Shukla and Jitendra Kumar, had been arrested and teams formed to nab the other accused. In Sirathu block, Kaushambi district, a police team raided the home of Independent candidate Dileep Patel on a tip-off and found 18 BDC members present there, PTI reported. They were taken to Saini police station and later released after the intervention of BJP MLA Shitla Prasad Patel. Circle officer Yogendra Krishan Narain said he had received information that Patel was holding 18 BDC members hostage, but all 18 said they had gone there willingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||India raises issue of ‘legitimacy’ of who governs Afghanistan next||India on Friday raised the issue of the legitimacy of who governs Afghanistan next, hours after Taliban claimed control over 85 per cent of Afghan territory. “At the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect which cannot be ignored,” external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said at a media briefing in Moscow with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. The observation comes at a time India has opened channels of communication with the Taliban, reversing a decades-old policy of not dealing with the outfit that has held sway on the war-ravaged country for nearly 30 years. Jaishankar admitted India was concerned at the events in Afghanistan, and said it had implications for regional peace. About his meetings in Moscow, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan occupied a lot of attention because of the direct implication for regional security. “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around. It’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms is maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.” Lavrov, however, indicated that Moscow had no intention of stepping in to stop the violence in the wake of the departure of US and Nato troops from Afghanistan. “The clashes are of great concern as the situation may spill across the border into our allied countries,” he said, underlining that the Taliban was in control of Afghanistan’s borders with Tajikistan and Iran. “We are not going to undertake any measure but urge for the political process to be taken forward.” Although a Taliban delegation had visited Moscow on Thursday to assure Russia the outfit would not violate the borders of Central Asian countries and guarantee security for diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan, neither Jaishankar nor Lavrov referred to this engagement between two erstwhile sworn enemies. The two ministers also discussed the Quad, of which Russia has been openly critical. According to Jaishankar, India supports cooperation that reflects the multi-polar and rebalanced character of global politics. Iterating India’s commitment to the centrality and unity of Asean, he said a more active Russian presence and participation in the Indo-Pacific was “very, very important”. Travel rules India and Russia also sought to make common cause on vaccination certificates for international travel. India, Jaishankar said, is batting for testing — both pre-departure and on-arrival — to be made the basis of international travel instead of vaccinations. Russia and India face the spectre of home-developed vaccines being excluded from the list of authorised vaccines recognised for travel in the European Union, in particular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||Covid: Children are at the lowest risk of severe infection, says Study||Children are at the lowest risk of severe Covid-19 but among them, those with cardiac and neurological illnesses or with two or more chronic health disorders face the greatest risk of severe disease or death, researchers have said. Their study, the first global review of data on the risks of critical care admission and death in children and young people with Covid-19, can help identify the subsets of this population to be prioritised when non-adults become eligible for vaccination. “The risks are very low for all children and young people,” said Lorna Fraser, a paediatrician at the University of York in the UK and a senior study team member, in a media release. “Even when we found higher risks for some groups with severe medical problems, these risks were still very small compared to the risks seen in adults.” The UK researchers examined 81 studies from across the world and included 57 in a “meta” analysis” — an exercise to evaluate all available and reliable evidence — to assess the risk factors for severe illness and death from Covid-19 among young people. The meta-analysis corroborated some risk factors already flagged by previous studies, but it also found that obesity in children and young people increased the risk of severe Covid-19. “It is something we’ve known for some time in adults, but it is only now becoming evident as an important risk in children and young people too,” Rachel Harwood, a paediatric surgeon and clinical research fellow at the University of Liverpool, said in the media release. Their analysis has also revealed that children with trisomy 21 — or Down syndrome — are at an increased risk of critical care admission and death, a pattern already observed among adults. The risk appears to operate through and independently of cardiovascular anomalies, indicating that all children and young people with Down syndrome are at increased risk of severe Covid-19. “It is reassuring that these findings reflect our clinical experience — we see very few seriously unwell children, this hasn’t changed recently with the Delta variant,” said Elizabeth Whittaker, a study team member from Imperial College, London. The researchers believe their findings could guide the prioritisation of children and young people when Covid-19 vaccines become available for them. Indian health officials expect the candidate Covid-19 vaccine from Zydus Cadila to become the first approved for children in the country later this year. India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines is now evaluating the results of the Zydus Cadila vaccine’s clinical trials. “This trial involved volunteers in the 12-to-18-years age group and if it gets approved by the regulators, we expect this vaccine to become available for children in this age group,” Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the government’s immunisation policy, told The Telegraph. Bharat Biotech too has initiated a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of Covaxin on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
10-07-2021||India||SC declines to entertain Delhi govt’s pollution plea||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain on technical grounds Delhi government’s plea for directing the closure of 10 coal-fired thermal power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh that have allegedly been set up without toxic gas mitigation measures and are contributing to the pollution in the capital. These plants have allegedly been set up without the installation of flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) facilities, which remove toxic sulfur dioxide from exhaust flue gases of fossil-fuel power plants. The court wondered how a state could file a public interest litigation. A PIL is normally filed by a citizen or an NGO for the enforcement of fundamental rights of citizens. The AAP government in Delhi had filed a PIL for a direction to the three states and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and R. Subhash Reddy told senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the Delhi government, to withdraw the petition and instead file an intervention application in the connected case of M.C. Mehta Vs UoI in which the apex court has been passing orders for several years on controlling pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. The Delhi government counsel withdrew the PIL with the liberty to file an intervention application in the pending matter. The bench expressed surprise at the AAP government’s legal strategy of coming up with a PIL for a direction to the states and statutory authorities when under law no such litigation can be filed. “The entire world is laughing at us today. You all are reducing the lifespan of people. Why are people being forced to live in gas chambers in Delhi? It is better to kill them all in one go. Get explosives in… bags at one go and kill them. Why should people suffer all this?” the bench had earlier told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. However, the court could not take up the matter for months because of the pandemic. The Delhi government had sought the quashing of an order passed by the CPCB allowing the 10 thermal power plants an extended deadline to install the FGD facilities. The plea had also sought the setting aside of an order passed by the ministry of environment and forest extending the deadline by which coal-based power plants were to comply with emission norms. The PIL had also sought directions to the power plant operators and regulatory authorities, that is the state pollution control boards and the CPCB, to provide online continuous emission monitoring data on their websites. Gonsalves pleaded on Friday that if the power plants were not directed to be closed down, it would have a severe effect on the lives of people living in the Delhi-NCR region as the units were major contributors to the increasing pollution levels. Justice Sinha, heading the bench, however, pointed out that the CPCB had extended the compliance deadline till December 31, 2022. The Delhi government’s argument was that the original deadline for installation of FGD facilities was December 2019, which the CPCB unilaterally extended. Gonsalves submitted that pollution was increasing rapidly every day and the deadline should be brought forward. “Your case is that the CPCB has made a statement before this court and they are deviating now. You can intervene in that matter and tell the court,” the bench told Gonsalves, asking him to withdraw the PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Jab campaign saved lives & averted hospitalisations in US: Study||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign has saved over 275,000 lives and averted 1.2 million hospitalisations in the US, researchers have estimated through a study that independent experts said India would find difficult to undertake at this point because not enough people are vaccinated. The study by infectious disease epidemiologists at Yale University and other academic institutions is the first to evaluate nationwide cases, deaths and hospitalisations averted by the vaccination campaign in the US in the face of highly transmissible coronavirus variants. “Our results demonstrate the extraordinary impact of swift vaccination for averting cases, hospitalisations and deaths,” Alison Galvani, a professor of epidemiology at Yale, and her colleagues said in the study, not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online repository for preprints. Health officials have often described India’s vaccination campaign as among the fastest in the world, pointing out that the US took 193 days to administer 320 million doses while India took only 163 days. But health experts in India who have seen the US study said the number of doses administered daily is less important than the proportion of the population protected. “It is not the number of the doses given daily that really matters, but the proportion of the population protected fully,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The US has fully vaccinated over 48 per cent of its population with the two required doses, while India has so far vaccinated only 7 per cent of its eligible population with two doses. India is “sadly” quite a distance from even trying to make such assessments, said another senior medical researcher who is a member of an expert panel guiding India’s Covid-19 response. It is “too early” to conduct such a study in India, an adviser to the government’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign told The Telegraph. Poor planning and lack of early investments have meant India’s vaccination campaign has been slower than it could have been. The campaign has so far administered over 370 million doses but requires over 1,500 million doses to fully vaccinate an estimated 944 million currently eligible people. Health officials have expressed confidence that India’s stocks of doses will grow significantly — through both ramped up production and new vaccines — between August and December to complete the task by the year-end. The US researchers examined the impact of vaccinations taking into account the population demographics and transmission features of circulating coronavirus variants, among other factors. They also simulated two “counterfactual scenarios” — no vaccinations at all and an inoculation campaign running at half the actual pace. Their study has estimated that the vaccination campaign has potentially averted 26 million Covid-19 cases, 1.25 million hospitalisations, and 279,000 deaths in the US between the campaign’s start on December 12, 2020, and June 28 this year. The researchers said vaccination prevented a large surge during April 2021 when the US could have experienced around 4,500 deaths during its peak, a toll that would have likely exceeded the 2020-21 winter surge because of the highly-transmissible Alpha variant. As new variants — including the Delta variant that was first detected in India — surge among unvaccinated people, Galvani and her colleagues have said, there is a need for an intensified campaign, particularly in areas with low vaccination rates. “Even low vaccination coverage such as in India would have a high impact on averting severe Covid-19 and deaths,” Pratha Sah, an associate research scientist at Yale and study team member, told this newspaper. “It should be possible to assess such impacts of vaccination in India too.” An exercise to estimate nationwide cases and deaths averted may not be as meaningful in the early phase of the vaccination campaign when coverage is low. “This is because the impact of vaccination is hard to distinguish from other population-level changes,” said Abhishek Pandey, a team member at Yale. “But since 30 per cent of people in India have received first doses, it should be feasible to evaluate its impact on the ongoing Covid-19 situation in India.” John at the George Institute said India could have initiated an exercise to evaluate the real world effectiveness of vaccines in the early weeks of the vaccination campaign. Over 290 million people in India have received a single dose and over 70 million have received both doses. “If we had designed and implemented a real-world vaccine effectiveness evaluation exercise, we could have gained some insights about the vaccines’ nationwide impact in India,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Covid: DDMA puts into force Graded action plan for Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has put into force a Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) which lists varied restrictions or different levels of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plan would help people plan commercial activities and travel better by monitoring key parameters on the pandemic that are publicly available on central and state health websites or Covid portals. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told officials on Friday at the DDMA meeting: “Now that this plan is going in front of the public, there will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan descriptively elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed and when it will be lifted.” The plan has four levels of alerts named — yellow, amber, orange and red. A yellow alert — the lowest level — is declared if any of the following criteria are met: More than 0.5 per cent positivity rate for two consecutive days, or 1,500 cases, or 500 oxygen beds occupied in the preceding week. Similarly, for amber, the criteria is one per cent positivity, or 3,500 cases, or 700 oxygen beds occupied. For orange alert, the criteria are two per cent positivity, or 9,000 cases or 1,000 beds. Five per cent positivity, or 16,000 cases, or 3,000 beds will trigger a red alert. Theatres, spas, entertainment parks, gyms, educational institutions are closed if any of the alerts are in force. During a yellow alert, retail outlets will open on alternate days from 10am to 8pm, restaurants will operate with half their seating capacity as well as parks and hair stylists would be open. There is a night curfew from 10am to 5pm for the first three levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India|| Supreme Court refuses to stay challenge to IT rules||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the multiple high court proceedings on petitions that have challenged the Centre’s new IT rules, but agreed to consider transferring them to itself for an authoritative pronouncement on these regulations’ constitutional validity. Various petitions have accused the new IT rules, which are aimed at regulating digital and social media outlets, of violating the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that the matter would be heard on July 16. Alongside, the bench will hear a connected petition, moved by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha, seeking a leash on OTT platforms from airing porn and other material deemed objectionable. The Centre has sought transfer of all the petitions to the Supreme Court to avoid a multiplicity of proceedings and possibly conflicting high court verdicts. But as Mehta pressed for a stay on the proceedings before the high courts, Justice Khanwilkar said: “We’re not passing any other orders except tagging it and directing to list the same before the appropriate bench. Let the same come up on July 16.” The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, have been assailed by digital media houses such as The Wire and The Quint and the legal portal Live Law and certain others in the high courts. Some of the provisions of the new rules prohibit the digital dissemination of any news, views or statements that: ⚫ Insult or harass on the basis of gender; are libellous or racially or ethnically objectionable ⚫ Encourage money laundering or gambling, or are otherwise inconsistent with or contrary to the laws in force ⚫ Are harmful to children ⚫ Infringe on patents, trademarks, copyrights or other proprietary rights ⚫ Deceive or mislead people about the origin of the message or knowingly communicate false or misleading information that may reasonably be perceived as fact ⚫ Facilitate impersonation ⚫ Threaten the unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign countries, or public order; or incite any cognisable offence or prevent investigation of any offence or insults another nation ⚫ Are patently false and have been disseminated to mislead or harass for financial gain or to harm someone The intermediaries are also to exercise caution and discretion while featuring the activities, beliefs, practices, or views of any racial or religious groups. The new rules mandate a grievance redress mechanism under which ⚫ The intermediary is to prominently publish on its website, mobile-based application or both the name of its grievance officer and his or her contact details as well as the mechanism by which a user or a victim may lodge a complaint about any violation of the rules or any other matter relating to the computer resources made available by the intermediary ⚫ The grievance officer must (i) acknowledge the complaint within 24 hours and dispose of it within 15 days of its receipt; and (ii) receive and acknowledge any order, notice or direction issued by the appropriate government or any other competent authority or a court of competent jurisdiction ⚫ After receiving a complaint about content that exposes private areas of an individual, shows the individual in full or partial nudity or in any sexual act or conduct, or impersonates the individual in electronic form — for instance, through morphed images — the intermediary must within 24 hours take all reasonable and practicable measures to remove or disable access to such content hosted, stored, published or transmitted by it ⚫ The intermediary must implement a mechanism for receiving complaints that will enable people to provide necessary details about any contentious content or communication link ⚫ The stipulations apply to publishers of news and current affairs as well as publishers of curated online content||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||CRPF leash on messaging apps||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has issued a circular that warns of stringent action against its personnel who are found circulating sensitive documents on messaging apps. Sources said the top brass of the country’s biggest paramilitary force issued the directive after it was found that information relating to movement of troops/vehicles, arms and ammunitions and other classified information were allegedly leaked on social media and various messaging applications. “This is a very serious offence under the Official Secrets Act. The circular was recently issued to all formations of the force across the country,” said a CRPF official. The commanding officers of all the formations have been directed to avoid social media platforms for sending or receiving official messages and communication. “They have been asked to ensure that only the internal communication system of the CRPF is used for sending or receiving official messages and communication,” the official said. A couple of years ago, the Union home ministry had restricted the use of social media by paramilitary personnel and they were stopped from uploading personal photos or videos on Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram or YouTube without permission. The ban followed in the wake of a spate of incidents where jawans took to social media to ventilate their problems and grievances relating to poor quality of food and bad working conditions, leaving the government red-faced. In 2018, the BSF had sacked a constable Tej Bahadur Yadav, who had uploaded video clips to complain that troops were allegedly served substandard food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Covid: Opposition questions Kerala virus model as cases soar||The Opposition and some experts have questioned the celebrated Kerala model of Covid management at a time daily cases have remained stubbornly high and the second wave has refused to taper off. A state otherwise lauded for its quality health services, Kerala has been struggling to bring down Covid cases with most states even in the neighbourhood doing better. On Thursday, Kerala recorded 13,772 new Covid-19 cases — the highest in the country — and 142 deaths, pushing the virus caseload to 30,25,466 and fatalities to 14,250. More than half the Covid cases in India last week were reported from Kerala and Maharashtra, according to the Centre. While Kerala accounted for 32 per cent of the cases, Maharashtra registered 21 per cent. The leader of the Opposition in Kerala, V.D. Satheesan of the Congress, is among those who has blamed the revised pattern of Covid management for the surge in new cases. “Most Covid patients are being asked to stay in home isolation. While it may sound reasonable, especially for mild cases, home isolation is the main cause of the rapid infection rate that is keeping the test positivity rate at more than 10 per cent,” Satheesan told The Telegraph on Friday. The state health department’s website puts the seven-day average test positivity rate at 10.41 per cent till Thursday. “Home isolation is conducive to this fast-spreading virus and its variants. So the government should take urgent steps to ramp up facilities for institutional Covid care,” Satheesan said. “The government should focus on creating more beds at hospitals to treat Covid patients and prevent these super-spreads. At least that would help us be better prepared for the impending third wave,” Satheesan said. Health minister Veena George said the government was fully apprised of the needs and was gearing up for a possible third wave. “Although we didn’t face oxygen shortage in the second wave (unlike most other states), we are in the process of setting up 36 new oxygen plants,” she told a media conference on Friday. George had to hit the ground running when she was appointed two months ago. “We are ramping up all facilities, including paediatric wards and ICUs, to prepare for the third wave,” she said, alluding to the fear that a subsequent surge could affect children. Indian Medical Association state secretary Dr Gopikumar P. identified insufficient vaccine doses, crowding and home isolation as the key reasons for the rising Covid cases. “Home isolation has been counter-productive since whole families are contracting the virus. While people now understand the importance of masks, they still need to adapt to behavioural changes to totally avoid crowding,” he said. “The IMA had suggested to the chief minister to ramp up vaccination even before the second wave. But the overall vaccine shortage in the country affected us too. Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination on a war footing are the only solutions to reduce the number of positive cases,” Gopikumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||India||Tej Pratap Yadav ventures into incense stick production, brands products 'LR Radha Krishna'||The next time you light an incense stick during prayers, it might just have a Lalu-Rabri connection. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, an MLA, has ventured into the production of incense sticks and perfumes, branding the products “LR Radha Krishna”. LR represents Lalu and Rabri Devi, both former chief ministers. The incense stick manufacturing unit has been set up at Lalu Khataal, a cowshed where the RJD chief used to rear cows. A swanky showroom, the first of its kind in Bihar, has been opened at Danapur on the outskirts of Patna. “I worship regularly and am fond of good incense sticks. The thought of manufacturing them came to me after I met a friend who runs a production unit for incense sticks in Delhi,” Tej Pratap told reporters. “We are manufacturing these incense sticks from used flowers procured from temples and also various other natural aromatic materials. We are not using any chemicals. Their aroma lingers for a long time even after the stick gets burnt out,” he said. Fifteen varieties of incense sticks, including agar, sandalwood, rose, parijaat (night-flowering jasmine) and basil are available. The prices range from Rs 90 to Rs 1,020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh likely to meet JP Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh will most likely meet the party’s National president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday to discuss a range of issues, said a party leader, reports hindustantimes.com. According to a report by hindustantimes.com, a senior BJP leader said that while the party is thinking of imposing some kind of penalty on those who have been openly criticising the party and its leaders after the assembly elections, there could also be some structural changes in the coming days “All these issues, including how to boost the morale of party workers who are bearing the direct brunt of post-poll violence, could be discussed in the meeting,” said a senior leader. When asked whether the party is going to impose any penalty against leaders who have spoken against the BJP, Ghosh said that the issues were being discussed. “The issues were being discussed. The decision would be taken by the party’s policymakers,” he told the media, quotes hindustantimes.com. While the party’s national vice president, Mukul Roy, has already sided with the Trinamool Congress, a section of leaders has openly criticised the party and its state leaders. A few others, who had abandoned the TMC to join the BJP ahead of the 2021 assembly polls have expressed their intention to return to the TMC. “Sometimes, a bark of one tree can be fixed on another tree. We had done some experiments. They didn’t work. Those who joined the BJP know its ideologies. The problem crops up when someone thinks that he is above the party,” said Ghosh. However, the TMC took a jibe at the BJP saying that good sense prevailed even though it was late. “It is good that they have understood and accepted that their experiment with barks has failed. They tried to nurture one tree with the bark of another tree. But instead of growing, the tree became shorter. They have lost seats compared to 2019,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister. In the recent Union cabinet reshuffle while four BJP MPs were inducted into the cabinet as ministers of state, two erstwhile ministers in the cabinet, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, had to bow out. “The party may also give them and some other leaders some responsibilities in the state unit and to strengthen the party,” said another BJP leader. While elections in more than 100 civic bodies are pending, panchayat elections are also scheduled in 2023. Even though the BJP had set a target to win more than 200 seats in the recently held assembly elections and form the government in West Bengal, the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP could manage only 77 seats. “Since then, several of our party workers have been killed and many injured. Thousands had to abandon their homes due to violence. The party needs to stand beside them and boost their morale before the civic and panchayat polls,” said a BJP leader. On Friday, election strategist Prashant Kishor and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met in Kolkata to discuss organisational changes in the TMC and the alliance of regional forces the party plans to form against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul members stage protests across Bengal over soaring fuel prices||Trinamul Congress members protested across Bengal on Saturday against the spiralling fuel prices that are causing hardships for the common people amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Petrol is retailing at over Rs 101 per litre and diesel at more than Rs 92 in Bengal, while domestic LPG touched Rs 861 per cylinder. The protests were held in Dum Dum, Central Avenue and Chetla areas of Calcutta, Canning in South 24 Parganas, Chinsurah in Hooghly, and Malda, besides other parts of the state. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said the Centre imposed enormous taxes on petroleum products, causing a lot of hardships for the common people. "Petroproduct prices were unregulated, allowing oil companies to raise prices to increase their profits so that their share prices also rise," he claimed. "In turn, this will help the Centre to sell the state-run oil companies to foreign investors," he said. Hitting out at the Centre, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury said his party has been demanding rollback of taxes to bring down the prices of petroleum products to ease the burden on the people. "The Bengal government should also consider the reduction of tax on petroleum products," he said, adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee came to power with a huge mandate and should review this. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that taking to the streets will not result in a reduction of the prices of petroleum products. "Prices of petroproducts are linked to the international market. When the international market stabilises, prices in the country will also be moderated," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Cultural personalities hold Modi government accountable for death of Father Stan Swamy||Cultural personalities Chandan Sen, Bimal Chakraborty, Debdut Ghosh, Manasi Sinha and Subhaprasad Nandi Majundar, at a meeting at Barrackpore on Friday, held the Narendra Modi government accountable for the death of 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. The ailing activist, arrested in a case in which rights activists stand accused of having Maoist links, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while awaiting bail. The meeting, held under the banner of the Left-backed socio-cultural outfit Platform for Education Literature Culture, demanded an independent probe preferably by a retired Supreme Court judge into the death of Fr Stan. Calling his death “institutional murder”, playwright-director Sen said: “If the Centre has nothing to hide, it should allow judicial inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba to PM Modi: BJP not serious on Gorkhas||Neeraj Zimba, BJP MLA from Darjeeling, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing disgruntlement for not including Darjeeling MP Raju Bista in the new cabinet. Zimba has also stated that his government has taken “no substantial steps” towards fulfiling the commitments made to the people of the region, making the Indian Gorkhas believe that BJP is “never serious” about Gorkhas and their issues. Four first-time Lok Sabha MPs from Bengal — Nishith Pramanik, John Barla, Santanu Thakur and Subash Sarkar — were inducted in the new cabinet on Wednesday. Pramanik, from Cooch Behar, was made junior home and youth affairs and sports minister. Barla, from Alipurduar, was made MoS in the ministry of minority affairs. The other two MPs, Thakur and Sarkar, also took oath as ministers of state. In his letter to Modi, Zimba stated that the people of the region wanted Darjeeling MP Bista in the new cabinet and has backed the claim stating that Bista was instrumental in the party’s growth in north Bengal. “With 100% per cent results in the Darjeeling district, Raju Bista Ji has delivered 5 out of 5 seats from the district and has also influenced Gorkha voters in about 10 seats across the north Bengal region,” wrote Zimba. Zimba alleged that the BJP-led central government had taken no substantial steps towards fulfilling the commitments made to the people of the region. “The people of Darjeeling have fully trusted the BJP leadership to this date, despite the fact that no substantial steps have been taken towards fulfilling the commitments made towards the region vis a vis the Sankalp Patra and the repeated assurances made by the Central BJP leadership,” Zimba’s letter stated. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the BJP had promised a permanent political solution for the region and granting of tribal status to 11 hill communities. “Sir, the much-talked-about finding permanent political solution to the region’s issues seems to be gathering dust,” wrote Zimba. He alleged that there is a lack of “political will” to grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “…while the demand for the inclusion of 11 omitted Gorkha communities is lost in the quagmire of bureaucracy, due to the lack of political will,” Zimba’s letter said. “The demand for establishing a central university in Darjeeling has been denied despite several assurances given to MP Raju Bista by the Hon’ble minister. All official responses to the issue of the Gorkha community and the Darjeeling region have only been met by a stoic silence,” Zimba wrote in the letter. Darjeeling has been electing BJP MPs since 2009 starting with Jaswant Singh, S.S. Ahluwalia and Raju Bista in 2019, Zimba told to Modi. “Not including MP Raju Bista Ji in the new ministerial team has not only demotivated the dedicated party workers but the entire Indian Gorkha community who feel that BJP is never serious about the Gorkhas and their issues,” Zimba stated in the letter. Many in the hills believe the content of Zimba’s letter is a sign of growing discontent towards BJP which is seen making tall claims for the community without anything concrete to show on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
10-07-2021||West Bengal||District administration to start survey on occupied Durgapur Projects Limited plots from today||The West Burdwan district administration will start a survey with the help of drone cameras to identify encroached land parcels of Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) from Saturday in a bid to enable the power department to sell off or lease out surplus land of the power utility. Sources said district officials, the DPL management and police would jointly go on a door-to-door campaign to counsel encroachers to vacate. A DPL official stressed that the process needed to be “peaceful”. District magistrate Vibhu Goel, on Nabanna’s instructions, held a meeting with the DPL management on Friday to enquire about the company’s unused land which the state government has decided to sell off or lease out. The DPL has around 3,759 acres in Durgapur, Borjora in Bankura, Bali and Dankuni in Hooghly and Burdwan in East Burdwan. The plant and township along with other infrastructure have come up on around 2,000 acres. Over 1,700 acres are vacant on paper. However, authorities found out that most unused plots are encroached upon and in many settlements the state government supplied power and water connections before the 2017 civic polls. The visit of police and government officials triggered panic among encroachers. “I have been staying here for over three decades. How can the government ask me to vacate now?” asked Ajit Ruidas. The area under which the land falls will see civic polls next year. The BJP and the CPM have supported the encroachers. “The government will have to make it public what they want to do with the land. We won’t allow the government to evacuate people just because it wants to sell the land to private companies,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar of the CPM. BJP MLA from Durgapur (West) Lakshman Ghorui said their leader Suvendu Adhikari had raised the issue in the Assembly. “Our priority is people and not private realtors…we will protest,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||No-eviction hurdle to land sale; plan to free encroached DPL plots||The Mamata Banerjee government may have to tweak a policy on encroachment, framed six years ago, to implement its plan to sell off or lease out 1,000 acres of unused land owned by the Durgapur Projects Limited. The need to bend the rules was felt on Thursday evening after Nabanna came to know that most of the unused land parcels had been encroached upon. “The government wants to monetise unused land of the DPL. But the DPL authorities last evening (Thursday) said during a meeting at Nabanna that most of the unused plots had been encroached upon a few years ago. Now, we will look into how we can overcome the problem as there is a government policy against evicting encroachers from government land,” said a senior government official. Sources said the DPL authorities informed the top government officials as well as power department officials that only 154 acres of land in the Bidhannagar area of Durgapur were free of encumbrances. “Though nearly half of 3,759 acres of land owned by the DPL is lying unused on paper, right now only 154 acres can be leased out or sold as encroachers have settlements on the rest. A policy of the government has come in the way of removing the encroachers,” said a bureaucrat. The Bengal cabinet in 2015 adopted a policy of granting long-term settlement rights to those occupying government land for at least five years. It drew flak from several quarters amid fears that it would stall development projects. But the state government, which follows a hands-off land policy, did not reconsider. Based on the policy, the state government went on to grant long-term settlement rights to thousands of those living on state government land ahead of 2021 polls. “Now, for the first time the state government is facing a problem over it. It will be interesting to see if the state reviews its policy in order to make its DPL plan successful,” said a senior official. But, officials said the government had laid stress on clearing encroachments from DPL land during Thursday’s meeting. “This is a positive move. If the state goes ahead with its DPL initiative, it means the ruling establishment has realised that encouraging encroachment on government land cannot yield positive results,” said an official. Sources said the top brass of the state government was unhappy with the DPL authorities as they had come with papers of 154 acres only as these were free from encumbrances. DPL authorities have been asked to identify more areas that could be sold or leased out by clearing encroachments. “This (development) gives hope for many projects that could not be taken up because of illegal encroachments,” said a source. Questions on this particular settlement policy were raised most vocally in 2018-19 when the state government announced Rs 17,000 crore of infrastructure projects across the state. However, the projects never took off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 990 new infections in a day||Bengal on Friday reported the 19th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 453 to 16,690 now. On Friday, the state reported 1,424 recoveries, 990 new infections and 19 deaths. With worst-hit districts Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logging 73 and 94 new infections, Friday was the second day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported three-digit figures of new infections. Twenty-one districts reported double-digit figures while Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, had come down to 1.93 per cent on Friday, indicating shrinking Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.78 per cent, while the national rate is 97.17 now. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.32. Of the 19 deaths reported on Friday, two were from Calcutta city and four from North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths while three others reported just one each. The total number of active cases in the state had declined  till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by nearly 32 per cent again over these 19 days. Bengal now has a total of over 15.1 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected in March last year. The figure includes 14.76 lakh recoveries and 17,886 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||‘BJP member’ Mukul Roy made Public Accounts Committee chairman, BJP cries foul||Mukul Roy was on Friday appointed the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the Bengal Assembly amid protests by the BJP-led Opposition. The Krishnagar North MLA had once been Trinamul’s de facto No 2 but switched to the BJP and who the Assembly poll. He has now returned to Trinamul without stepping down as BJP MLA. BJP MLAs, led by the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, walked out of the Assembly soon after Roy’s appointment was announced by Speaker Biman Banerjee. Roy, on paper, remains a BJP MLA. While there is no set rule on the selection of the chairman of the key standing committee, and the appointment is the Speaker’s call, the post conventionally goes to the Opposition. BJP leaders had told the Speaker they wished to nominate economist Ashok Lahiri, the Balurghat MLA. “Nobody got a chance to discuss it. Conventionally, the PAC chairman is selected from the Opposition. Just as the government has the right to spend (funds), the Opposition has the right to examine expenses. The ruling party has broken that convention, showing its power of numbers,” Adhikari said at a news meet in the Assembly after the walkout. “The government just tore up the relationship between the ruling party and the Opposition in the Assembly. The BJP has vowed to implement the anti-defection law in the Assembly (with regard to the likes of Roy),” said Adhikari. The BJP has officially appealed to the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. A hearing on the matter is scheduled on July 16. Adhikari said that if the Speaker doesn’t act soon, the BJP would move court. Despite being a BJP member on paper, Roy’s name didn’t find mention in the list of PAC members submitted by the BJP to the Speaker. Of the 20 members who form the PAC, 14 are nominated by the ruling party, six by the Opposition. Roy’s name was proposed by Ruden Lepcha, the Kalimpong MLA of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Trinamul-backed faction and seconded by Trinamul’s Egra MLA. Last month, during a news meet at Nabanna, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had endorsed Roy’s membership in the PAC. She also stated that Roy “is a member of the BJP”. She had said Roy had the support of the Treasury benches. However, she added that the selection of the chairman was at the Speaker’s discretion. Adhikari said the BJP refused to chair any of the remaining standing or House committees offered to them. “In 2016, the Left and the Congress had an equal number of MLAs (77, which the BJP had at the start of this 17th Assembly) and they were asked to chair 15 such committees. We were first given nine, and later, 10 committees. We have refused the offer.” “This is for the first time since Independence that the Opposition is not chairing the standing or House committees… Let Trinamul enjoy all the power, because this is their last term,” he claimed. The BJP’s embarrassment with Trinamul turncoats continued on Friday, as journalists asked the party’s Bengal chief, Dilip Ghosh, in Barasat about rifts within. Ghosh said newcomers were yet to “fully fathom” the BJP. “They are facing problems. There is no problem with old-timers…” He said the BJP was mulling action against Trinamul turncoats Rajib Banerjee and Sabyasachi Dutta who had openly criticised their new party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Police start murder case related to alleged unnatural death of Suvendu Adhikari's security guard ||Police on Friday started a murder case related to the alleged unnatural death of a security guard of BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife. She blamed the Trinamul turncoat for the death of her husband by a bullet wound in 2018 at a Calcutta hospital. “Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty, wife of Subhabrata Chakraborty, has lodged a complaint against Adhikari and others for the death of her husband. A case under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy has been started,” said a senior officer of the East Midnapore district police. Contai police have drawn up an FIR under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy against “unknown miscreants.” The case into the death of the security guard was politically motivated, alleged several BJP leaders. They said the state government was being vindictive against Adhikari. Adhikari said Trinamul was doing “politics of revenge”. “I’m not a person to bow down. There is no point in trying to frighten me or terrorise me by the police. They are doing all these because Mamata Banerjee lost Nandigram.… Let the chief minister tell me straight that she wants me in jail for six months, I’ll show her respect and go to jail.… I’ll do the needful in the right place...,” he said. On October 13, 2018, morning, Chakraborty’s family had been informed that he was hospitalised in Contai with a bullet wound. Suparna alleged in her complaint: “On Suvendu Adhikari’s instruction, arrangements were being made to shift my husband to Calcutta. But there was a huge delay in arranging the ambulance. By the time he was taken to a Calcutta hospital, it was 7pm. He passed away the next morning. I am surprised why there was a delay in arranging the ambulance despite Suvendu Adhikari being so influential. I am yet to understand under what circumstances my husband received the bullet injury.” She further stated: “I have been quiet because he (Adhikari) was not only influential in the district but in the entire state. But now circumstances have changed. I want justice for my husband.” The complaint letter mentions Adhikari’s personal assistant Rakhal Bera who was purportedly present during the post-mortem of the deceased. Bera is in the custody of Calcutta police in connection with a job racket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Stray bullet injures 10-year-old boy in North Dinajpur||A 10-year-old boy was injured by a bullet when he was caught between two groups that clashed over the possession of a tea plantation in Islampur, North Dinajpur, on Friday. Mohammad Shahnawaz was rushed to Islampur subdivisional hospital and then to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, Siliguri. Shahnawaz was playing with other children when a stray bullet hit his abdomen. A person has been detained. Sources said Kamrul Haque and Mohammad Huda of Gathiatole, a locality in Burijagir village, Islampur, and their aides were clashing with weapons over a vacant plot marked for tea plantation. The warring groups fled when the bullet hit the boy. In Kalimpong’s Teesta Bazar, plumber Ranjit Biswas, 31, and mason Choton Sarkar, 26, tenants of one Prabal Pradhan, died trying to save him from the dagger attack of his friend Raju Kumar Subba. Prabal is hospitalised while Raju is arrested. Police are probing why Raju attacked Prabal. In East Burdwan’s Bhatar, a couple and their son were injured and their home damaged in Baneswarpur village when crude bombs allegedly stockpiled at their home exploded early on Friday. Both Trinamul and the BJP have denied links with the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Medicine crisis as Visva-Bharati halts pension||Nibait Mukhiya, a 79-year-old retired watchman of Visva-Bharati who lost his sight years ago, is having a tough time this July. The aged man is surviving without medicines and proper food as he is yet to get his pension of Rs 12,000 for the month of June, in the wake of varsity authorities halting salary and pension of 4,000-odd employees while awaiting “government nod to open the accounts office”. “The money I had left got over in four days of July. Now, I have no medicine, no proper food. I even tried eating roti with salt,” said the man whose wife Buchi now visits the bank daily to check if his pension has been credited. Mukhiya is one of many from around 1,800 pensioners facing a cash crunch. “I can tell you of at least a hundred such families in dire straits. Varsity authorities are yet to let us know when we will get our pension,” said Sisir Kumar Datta, the secretary of the Visva-Bharati Pensioners’ Association. Several officials and teachers said the varsity stopped paying salary and pension without proper notice. The pensioners’ association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chancellor of Visva-Bharati, on Thursday, on the hardships. Visva-Bharati officiating PRO Anirban Sircar, the only official authorised to speak to the media, did not reply to this paper’s calls or text message. The varsity is closed amid Covid-19 curbs imposed by the state government. Sources said that in an online meeting last month, the varsity’s accounts department officials told VC Bidyut Chakrabarty that to do their job, they needed permission to reopen the office. Following the VC’s order, officiating registrar Ashok Mahato wrote to the Union education ministry, seeking a nod to reopen the office. The ministry shifted the onus on the state. Mahato then wrote to state chief secretary H.S. Dwivedi. “The accounts office opened during the peak of the pandemic. If that was a violation, why not now?” asked a professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
10-07-2021||North East||Home secretary meeting to resolve Assam-Mizoram border skirmishes||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held a meeting with chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram in Delhi on Friday to resolve the fresh round of border skirmishes between the neighbouring states. Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and his Assam counterpart Jishnu Baruah attended the meeting and apprised the MHA about the prevailing situation and what led to the fresh tension, sources said, adding  two rounds of meetings were held — first between both the states and then between MHA and both states. Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah told The Telegraph from Delhi that the discussions lasted nearly five hours and that a “tentative understanding” has been reached wherein both sides would revert to their “respective pre-Covid border position (April 2020)” . Further consultations will be held to work out the details, Baruah said. However, a Mizoram government statement  said the “points of discussions” of Friday’s meeting to be submitted to “higher authorities” of both states. “The situation is under control along the border,” an official said. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972. Efforts for a breakthrough since 1995 to resolve the border dispute have not made much progress. The fresh round of skirmishes between the two states started late last month along the Kolasib (Mizoram)-Hailakandi (Assam) inter-state border but escalated around July 2-3 after Mizoram police accused their Assam counterparts of entering  their territory, clearing banana plantations and dismantling two of the three camps set up by them. Both sides had mutually agreed to set up camps in the Kolasib-Hailakandi border to keep an eye on encroachment in the area claimed by both states. The  inter-state border is about 164.6km long. Three districts of Mizoram — Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit — share borders with south Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts. Bhalla has been handling the border skirmishes between the two states which has become frequent since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. The fresh round of tension involves Hailakandi and Kolasib districts. Hailakandi locals allege people from Mizoram have entered and occupied at least 10 km of Assam’s territory while Mizoram locals say 2.5 km of their land has been encroached by people from Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
10-07-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to campaign against UAPA ||Anti-CAA crusader and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who walked out of judicial custody after over 18 months on July 1, has announced he will launch a nationwide campaign for scrapping the “draconian” Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is being “used” to target activists across the country. The trigger for the proposed campaign has been the death of 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while in judicial custody. Akhil has also decided a tentative launch date — August 15 — because he will be busy with the month-long Assembly session starting July 12. “I have started discussions with like-minded people and organisations. I am looking at a August 15 launch given the significance of the day,” he said on Thursday evening. Besides the anti-UAPA campaign, the 46-year-old Akhil, said he would also mobilise opinion to ensure that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was used only for what it was set up — probing terror-related cases — and not as a “political tool” against activists and freedom of expression. Akhil told The Telegraph that the death of Fr Stan should be an eye-opener for everyone. “Father Stan was charged under the UAPA. He died fighting for bail. I was also charged under the UAPA but eventually both cases filed by the NIA against me collapsed and I was discharged. I was also accused of Maoist links but the special NIA court said there were no prima facie materials to frame charges against me.” Fr Stan was arrested by the NIA under the UAPA in 2020 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. Akhil, who won the Sivasagar seat in the last Assembly elections held in March-April this year from judicial custody, was slapped with sedition and UAPA charges after his arrest on December 19, 2019, for allegedly fomenting violence during the peak of the anti-CAA protests in Assam. As many as 13 cases, including the two NIA cases, were slapped against him. He has obtained bail in the remaining 11 cases. The first-time MLA also came down heavily on chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for justifying the strategy of policemen to shoot at criminals/accused attacking/fleeing from custody. Sarma had said on July 5 during the first-ever conference of officers-in-charge here that there should be zero tolerance against such accused/criminals. “It should be the pattern if somebody tries to attack or flee from police custody. The law allows to shoot a criminal/accused on the leg, not on the chest, if an accused tries to flee or fire back... when there are no other ways to stop them,” Sarma, who also holds the home portfolio, had said. Akhil countered Sarma’s views. “Since June 22, there have been 12 such incidents, of police firing at accused/criminals. These are signs of our state moving towards a dictatorial regime. Today they are firing at accused but what is the guarantee they will not fire at political opponents in future?,” Akhil asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
10-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Miles to go||The 2019-20 report of the Unified District Information System for Education Plus seemed to give the Narendra Modi government reason to cheer. More children joined school in 2019-20 than in the previous academic year, an increase of 42.3 lakh from 2018-19 to a total of 26.45 crore students from pre-primary to higher secondary classes. Since the government’s National Education Policy aims at 100 per cent gross enrolment rate by 2030 — two elections away — it must have felt optimistic. Not only has the GER improved, but gender parity too. There has been a growth in the enrolment of girls at all levels; they even outnumber boys in the transition from secondary to higher secondary classes. Besides, there are now more women teachers than men, while the pupil-teacher ratio has improved with the recruitment of 2,50,000 teachers since 2018-19. These may certainly be read as indications of an expanding and inclusive educational base. Yet, does a higher GER mean better education? The Annual Status of Education Report of 2019 records very disappointing achievement levels. The UDISE+ report shows that the average dropout rate at the secondary level is 17 per cent, reaching more than 25 per cent in some states, with more boys than girls leaving. Of these, 33 per cent are children from the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes. Unfortunately, there can be no way forward without linking the story hidden in the figures with socio-economic inequalities and kinds of employment. To create a vibrant society of young people who can deal efficiently with cognitive challenges, foundational knowledge must be solid and the need for dropping out minimized. The increase in women teachers, too, has a hidden story: they predominate in the lower classes, where the pay is lower. Also, women are perceived as more nurturing, which is a sexist bias. Teaching is a preferred profession for women because it is ‘dignified’ and ‘safe’ in a country where their participation in work outside the home is noticeably low. These do not suggest progressive attitudes. Covid-19 has upset all calculations. Children excluded from online lessons or those who have lost their parents and, therefore, access to education are yet to be counted. That many rural families bought smartphones — Nirmala Sitharaman rejoiced at this — is not a magic solution for inequality, especially with poor connectivity and the cost of recharging. On this theme, the UDISE+ report may also be read as a record of huge gaps. The number of schools without internet or computers is enormous, and some schools still do not have electricity. While ‘handwash’ facilities are now 90 per cent, washrooms for girls and boys are fewer, and 79 per cent of the more than 15 lakh schools have no washrooms for differently abled children. The hurdles to universal and equal education were already numerous — let alone digital education; Covid has multiplied them many times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
10-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, post-Covid ‘revenge travel’||Hold off Sir — In a temporary respite for those Indian citizens who were circumspect about having to accept WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, the popular messaging app has said that it will not implement the policy till India’s data protection law comes into force. WhatsApp had run into stiff opposition from users who believed that its new policy would threaten their privacy rather than protect it. However, it remains to be seen how citizen-friendly India’s data protection law turns out to be. The Union government’s new IT rules have already been accused of impinging on citizens’ freedom of expression. Would a data law devised by the same dispensation be much different? Aleya Basu,Calcutta Invite trouble Sir — If large religious congregations and election rallies in the middle of the pandemic resulted in the devastating second wave of Covid-19, then bustling tourist destinations, crowded vaccination centres and hundreds of people jostling against each other in front of liquor outlets could invite, or speed up the arrival of, the third wave. The scale of damage that the third wave would wreak cannot be predicted. As such, the pictures and videos of people swarming to public spaces and openly flouting Covid-19 protocols make for frightening viewing. It is evident from the reckless behaviour of masses of people that the great suffering and the massive death toll caused by Covid-19 so far have had no significant impact on them — at least not enough for them to modify their behaviour. In what is being called ‘revenge travel’ — a phenomenon in which people are going on holiday even in the middle of a global contagion because they want to escape the fatigue of isolation caused by lockdowns — crowds are thronging to tourist destinations such as Manali or the Kempty Falls in Mussoorie, seeking respite and rejuvenation. They seem to be completely oblivious of the considerable risk to their own lives and those of others. Their actions will wipe out any possibility of citizens and the medical fraternity being able to delay or stave off the third wave even before the second wave has fully receded. Their failure — more accurately, their refusal — to resist the temptation of merrymaking during a raging pandemic could prove fatal. Moreover, going on holiday is grossly inessential at a time like this. A tourist spot is not like a workplace where one needs to go to earn a living, or a grocery store which one is often compelled to visit to stock up on essential items. It is almost as though these people no longer fear the devastation that the pandemic can bring. The moment curbs are eased after a full or partial lockdown, life goes back to the way it was before the pandemic. It is clear that a lot of people follow restrictions only out of compulsion and the fear of being penalized. They do not do it out of awareness or their own free will. If they did, then we would not be seeing so many people crowding public places, roaming around maskless on the streets, or going on holiday in droves. The lack of any kind of social distancing in vaccination centres defeats the entire purpose of getting vaccinated. The desperation to get the jabs and the disappointment people display at being turned away make it clear that the problem is not vaccine hesitancy but vaccine shortage. The Kerala High Court has cautioned that if the crowding in front of liquor retail outlets continues the third wave will not be far behind. This warning must be taken seriously. It is imperative that all of us adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour till we finally get the better of the pandemic. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It was unnerving to watch videos and view pictures of crowds of people indulging in revelry in Manali and Mussoorie. The logic put forth by several of these travellers at a time like this is that they wish to go on a holiday before the third wave arrives. Do they not realize that the arrival of the third wave will be facilitated by their actions? The whole point of avoiding travel while the pandemic rages is to break the chain of transmission, thereby putting off the possibility of more outbreaks of the disease. In their bid to enjoy themselves for a few days, these people are putting the lives of hundreds, perhaps thousands, at risk. Sharmin Hossain,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
10-07-2021||Opinion||Tale of two friendships: Khushwant Singh's legacy||The legacy of Khushwant Singh, who always wished for warm relations between India and Pakistan, is being kept alive by his journalist son, Rahul, through the recently concluded Khushwant Singh Lit Fest, London — this year’s theme was “No man is an island”. The opening session was introduced by the Pakistani historian, Fakir S. Aijazuddin. He observed that having a virtual literary festival had distinct advantages: “We can share the joy of being able to interact like this unfettered by borders, visas or itchy censors.” In another session, Victoria Schofield explained that The Fragrance of Tears: My Friendship with Benazir Bhutto was not a conventional biography of Pakistan’s assassinated prime minister, but a very personal account of their 33-year-long friendship going back to when they first met as undergraduates at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. Schofield told the tale of being deported from Pakistan to India by Gen Zia-ul-Haq’s regime in 1979: “I sometimes do get accused of being a bit pro-Pakistan. I am very pro-Pakistan. I’m also very pro-South Asian, and very pro-India. Soon afterwards, I was due to have an interview with Indira Gandhi. And I was terrified the interview will be cancelled. The first thing she said to me was, ‘So they did not allow you into Pakistan.’ And I said, ‘No, Prime Minister, I’m afraid not.’ She said, ‘Never mind. You’re welcome here in India.’” Enduring message One of the best lines in The Overseas Student, Tanika Gupta’s play on M.K. Gandhi’s youthful years in London, which is now playing at the Lyric Hammersmith, comes when he is told by a steward to move from the deck reserved for Europeans during the sea voyage to England. Gandhi, then 18, reflects: “The English are so exquisitely polite. No shouting or cursing — simply a civil tone and firm kindness. It is a joy to be reprimanded by them.” Gandhi remains firmly in fashion. Ramesh Sharma’s 92-minute documentary, Ahimsa — Gandhi: The Power of the Powerless, which has been shown at the London Indian Film Festival, deserves wider circulation. Sharma tells me: “For me this has been a work of passion, as I truly believe that ahimsa is the only tool which can redeem humanity.” What impressed me was the extent to which Gandhi anticipated today’s “Black Lives Matter” movement decades before the campaign was conceived. Sharma interviewed several prominent African Americans in the course of three trips to the United States. Among them was the Democratic Congressman and civil rights activist, John Lewis, before his death at 80 years of age, in July last year. Lewis is quoted as saying: “I said to President Barack Obama on one occasion. I said, ‘Mr President, if it hadn’t been for Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. you wouldn’t be President of the United States of America.’” Martin Luther King Jr’s eldest son, Martin Luther King III, 63, a human rights activist, reveals Gandhi’s influence on his father: “He used to say that ‘I got my inspiration from Christ but my technique from Gandhi’.” Personal space The Daily Mail devoted acres of space to the former health secretary, Matt Hancock, apparently leaving his wife for his former special adviser. Now, the marriage of a second senior minister in Boris Johnson’s government has collapsed. Michael Gove announced that his 20-year marriage was over, but it was an “entirely amicable” split and “no one else [was] involved”. The end of Gove’s marriage was the front-page lead in The Daily Telegraph but only briefly mentioned on page 22 of the The Daily Mail. The satirical magazine, Private Eye, will no doubt remind readers that Gove is married to the Mail’s high-profile columnist, Sarah Vine, who usually delights in writing at length about the breakdown in other people’s relationships. Concrete garden I woke up at 5 am to make the 8 am opening of the Hampton Court Palace Garden Festival. It is run by the Royal Horticultural Society, which is encouraging greater cultural diversity and more Indians to take up gardening, considered good for mental health and apparently better than exercise. Perhaps I am stereotyping, but you can often guess which house is Indian-owned: either the front garden is unkempt or concreted over to allow for off-street parking for his-hers cars. His is invariably the bigger model. Tragedy retold Shakespeare’s Globe recently staged Romeo & Juliet. But Shakespeare’s tragic story of young love is reinterpreted as a grim morality tale to warn society that “suicide is the leading cause of death among all people under 35”. These days colour blind casting is common in London; in this case, both Romeo (Alfred Enoch) and Juliet (Rebekah Murrell) — she shoots herself with a pistol after Romeo dies writhing in agony after swallowing poison — are people of colour. Even the “groundlings” with the most affordable open-air tickets happily sat through the downpour. Footnote Rishi Sunak posted a photograph of himself with Nova, the family’s new Labrador retriever, which his daughters had desperately wanted. Nova made her debut on Instagram, posed perfectly on the chancellor’s lap, an indication of good training even this early on. The post has racked up 25,000 likes and counting. British media claim that this means that Dilyn, the Jack Russell rescued by his next-door neighbours, Boris and Carrie Johnson, is “no longer top dog”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
10-07-2021||Opinion||A subtle trap||People often tell me Bengal will soon have a Muslim majority. The ominous tone warns of an apocalypse such as that predicted for Afghanistan once the Americans leave. What is even more worrying is the profound mistrust with which today’s majority seems to view its supposed successor. Not that anyone admits animosity. A saffron activist I tried to ask laughed off the question, strengthening the suspicion that those who speak on Hindu-Muslim issues ignore the drawn sword covered in pleasantries lying between the two communities. I have no idea how Muslims feel about Hindus: in that respect I am like James Baldwin, the black American writer who confessed he would never know whether the white liftman had kept him waiting because he was black or the lift was genuinely busy. But persistent signs of Hindu misgivings invite two conclusions. First, while a single legal system may be ideal for national unity, it is folly to expect two such sharply different groups ever to blend into the melting pot of a unitary society. The realistic aim would be what Canadian sociologists call a “tossed salad”, a multicultural mix that is harmonious precisely because it doesn’t deny space to any ingredient. Second, although Mohan Bhagwat’s commendable assurances are welcome as an expression of his own enlightened outlook, I wonder whether comments addressed only (or mainly) to Muslims are at all relevant for general social conditions. The respective strengths of the two communities suggest that although Muslims are capable of making a nuisance of themselves, only Hindus can change the ground rules. Indeed, even alter the ground altogether. We have seen that with triple talaq, the Ayodhya temple, Jammu and Kashmir and Lakshadweep. I am not saying any of these actions was wrong, only that they reflect Hindu priorities. As Jawaharlal Nehru believed, following Jean-Paul Sartre’s assessment of France’s Jew-Gentile question, the peril lies in majority communalism. There are just so many of us that “India, Hindu India, is eternal”, as V.S. Naipaul and countless others have written. We will always carry the day. Not that we can all be lumped together. Leaving aside differences of language and region, some might be Hindus by conviction, as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi became in London. At the same time, ambition and expediency are making devout Hindus of more and more politicians, judges, businessmen, diplomats, bureaucrats and media personnel. The third group — the vast majority — is Hindu by instinct. Religion, culture and identity are rolled into one for it. It sees lighting lamps for inaugurations and smashing coconuts for launches — customs that Syed Shahabuddin decried as unsecular — as innocently Indian. The two overlapping identities which fuelled the political demand to call all Indians Hindu can prompt rich irony. Just when the Trinamul Congress was basking in the triumph of having delivered a resounding blow to the Hindutva party, some errant members who had boarded what they then thought was the winning bandwagon shaved their heads and sprinkled Ganga water to signify their ghar wapsi. It was the only form of penance they knew. Obviously, some characteristics are common to all three groups. Although a nod (and perhaps more) from above helped, the “radicalization” of Hindus that the president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Asaduddin Owaisi, blames for Muslims being lynched would not have happened otherwise. The majority communalism Nehru feared rests on conscious or subconscious prejudice that can be tapped by events like the recent Haryana mahapanchayat or by politicians like the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, Suraj Pal Amu, who heads an organization called the Karni Sena, and reportedly makes inflammable comments. The etiology of antagonism is more complex in India than in Sartre’s France. Family servants from Bihar who believed the British should have handed India back to the Muslims from whom they took it would not kill a snake that had crept into the bathroom because it was ‘Shiv ki jatha’ and harmless. A local equivalent of Sartre’s notion of “the idea of the Jew” may stoke passion, but beard, muslin cap, mosque, minaret and muezzin back theory with a tangible personalized target in this land of evocative imagery. “Is the groom Bengali?” was asked at a rare mixed-religion marriage in Calcutta that I attended. “No, Muslim” was the answer. Overhearing, the groom shot back, “You’re quite right. We are Persian!” A Hindu guest whispered he had to say that to avoid being dismissed as a Dalit convert. Folklore keeps passions festering. However vigorously denied, they are part of the Hindu’s collective memory. Even a liberal thinker like Nirad C. Chaudhuri confessed that while he respected the logic of numbers in undivided Bengal, “what repelled [him] was the idea of living under Muslim social and cultural domination”. He tried to rationalize this aversion by saying that Muslims would reshape even the Bengali language. When the communal award of 1932 promised Muslim dominance in government, he predicted that the official education system would be recast in a Muslim mould. Leaving aside social and sexual overtones and ritual taboos, pan-Islamic sentiment was one cause of Hindu resentment, even though it was fanned by the calculated cynicism of Gandhi’s Khilafat movement. Chaudhuri talks of a rustic lad who had never left his Bengal village claiming dates as his favourite fruit because they came from Arabia. Those who attributed animosity to the communal basis of Bengal’s agrarian discontent and economic inequality were proved partly right when the new East Pakistan government lost no time in abolishing zamindari. During visits to East Pakistan in the 1960s, I found local officials and grassroots politicians surprisingly sensitive to traditional Hindu sensibilities. Anxious to be hospitable but nervous about giving offence, they seemed to expect me to burst out like Shylock to Bassanio, “I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you”. My hosts couldn’t know that in my childhood we shared a sprawling railway bungalow in Lucknow with a Muslim colleague of my father’s and his family because of a shortage of official accommodation. The bungalow was big enough for distanced living but we shared a kitchen and ate together. They were enriching convivial occasions but I cannot forget a visiting aunt’s start of surprise when someone from the other family picked up a paratha, tore it in two and passed one half to her with his left hand. The National Awami Party’s Muzaffar Ahmed blamed Bengal’s “two-hookah culture” and, implicitly, Hindu exclusiveness, for partition. Asking Muslims not to be trapped in a cycle of fear somehow misses the point. Assurances that violence in the name of cow protection cannot be condoned, that those who are guilty of lynching are against Hindutva, and that anyone who says Muslims should not live in India is not a Hindu will be credible only when offenders are brought to speedy and deterrent justice. Otherwise, the victim will suspect a trap. Well-meant statements about Hindus and Muslims being of the same nation with a common DNA can sound like a clever way of reiterating that Muslims are lapsed Hindus awaiting reconversion. The pledge that Indians alone can be dominant in a democracy could be another affirmation of the majoritarian principle. No minority ever wins the numbers game. That makes the majority’s education a matter of the utmost importance. But it will remain a distant dream as long as universities are encouraged to teach astrology, politicians recommend cow dung and urine for treatment, and senior leaders boast of artificial insemination and plastic surgery in Vedic times. “Give me an educated mother, I shall promise you the birth of a civilized, educated nation,” Napoleon said. Rulers are even more like a mother when a semi-literate nation is steeped in superstition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC ropes in Eli Sabia to strengthen backline||Jamshedpur FC have added Brazilian defender Eli Sabia to their list for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) to be held in Goa from November onwards, in a bid to strengthen the defence of the team. The 31-year-old Sabia, who played for Chennaiyin FC for the last three seasons, will compensate for the absence of Nigerian international Stephen Eze in the backline. Eze has not signed for Men of Steel as he is looking to play in the European circuit. Sources familiar with the situation said JFC head coach Owen Coyle was keen to have Sabia in the side. Coyle was with Chennaiyin FC before he joined Jamshedpur in the last season. "Sabia has reunited with Coyle," one of the sources added, requesting not to be quoted. The Scotland-born Coyle was also instrumental in bringing Chennaiyin FC's goal machine Nerijus Valskis and defender Laldinliana Renthlei when he moved to Jamshedpur. He also ensured the signing of English defender Peter Hartley who captained the club in the last season. Sabia and Hartley are expected to strengthen the JFC backline. The Brazilian first joined Chennaiyin FC in 2016. He then returned home for a spell at Sertaozinho FC before switching to Al Raed in Saudi Arabia. Out of six foreign players to be included, Jamshedpur already have four – Hartley (United Kingdom), Valskis (Lithuania), Jordan Murray (Australia) and Eli Sabia (Brazil), on board. Jamshedpur finished sixth, four points behind fourth-placed FC Goa last season, with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL held in Goa. They are determined to qualify for the play-offs for the first time and have more or less worked out the team formation for the tournament ahead. The club has tried out four coaches – Steve Coppell (England), Cesar Ferrando, Antonio Iriondo (both from Spain) and the present incumbent Coyle – and some Indian and foreign players since the 2017-18 ISL season. However, JFC are yet to make it to the play-off. But for some poor refereeing in the last season, the club would have qualified for the knock-outs. Moreover, Valskis, who showed great form in the beginning, failed to fire when it mattered the most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||At Ranchi requiem for Father Stan Swamy, a prayer for the world ||Ranchi archdiocese held a special mass at St Mary’s Cathedral on Saturday in memory of Father Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist who breathed his last on June 5 at a hospital in Bombay under judicial custody after his arrest under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. Father Stan's last rites were held at Mumbai's Shivaji Park crematorium _ because of Maharashtra Covid protocols _ his associates brought his ashes to Ranchi where he spent several decades working for adivasis. Church leaders said the requiem, held in the presence of archbishop of Ranchi Father Felix Toppo, bishop of Ranchi Father Theodore Mascarenhas and a handful of other priests, was more for the sake of humanity’s awakening than mourning for Father Stan's passing. The mass was also streamed online since there were Covid restrictions in place on the number of people who could attend the gathering. “We pray for the whole world today not just for father Stan,” Archbishop Toppo said. After the proceedings, church leaders distributed food packets among the poor. Bishop Mascarenhas said, “More than the mourning, we have gathered here to thank God for sending a holy soul like Father Stan Swamy. We are here to pray that what happened to him does not happen to anyone else. We appeal that all accused under UAPA along with Stan must be released unless proven guilty.” He said that everyone will remember him (Stan) with gratitude and humility for his service and utter courage which he possessed in all the odd situations.  “We had a courageous man, not afraid of anything. A man, loved by many, and persecuted and tortured by some, but left for the heavenly abode after fulfilling his time and purpose on the earth. The kind of treatment he faced in prison, for very simple things like a sipper and straw for drinking water due to his health condition, any ordinary human being would have given up. But he kept fighting.” "What was his crime?" the Bishop asked. Father Stan, Bishop Mascarenhas said, was not afraid of those who would touch his body. "He was not afraid to fight for the rights of under privileged, tribals, Dalits and all those who needed his help. Those who hated him continued till they were sure that he had gone to his grave. When he was in court and very sick, there was so much reluctance to give him medical help. His last wish was - 'Let me go back to my people'," the Bishop added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||In Jharkhand, a sudden spike in black fungus cases ||At least eight confirmed cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis have surfaced in Jharkhand in the past 48 hours after a significant drop in cases since the end of June, figures released by the health department on Saturday highlighted. On Thursday, there were 86 confirmed and 66 suspected cases of black fungus in the state. By Saturday, the count of confirmed cases jumped to 94, while suspected cases dropped to 58, revealed data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the body that monitors cases of mucormycosis since it was listed as a notifiable disease by the government. “The patients who were already getting treated for suspected mucormycosis have added up to the list of confirmed cases as their test reports arrived,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. Even though cases of infection have increased, the fatality rate was gradually dropping, which according to doctors, was a positive trend. The fatality rate for mucormycosis in Jharkhand was 27.65 per cent, which was lower than the average fatality rate of 50 per cent for this disease in general. No fresh casualties caused by the fungal infection occurred in the state this month. The state reported two confirmed cases of mucormycosis on June 30, and no fresh cases were reported until Friday. As per data with the IDSP, two confirmed cases were reported in Ranchi and one each in East SInghbhum, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla and Palamu in the past 48 hours. So far, at least 26 people have died of mucormycosis in the state and the last fatality was reported in June, IDSP data further highlighted. As per IDSP, at least 75 patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand so far. The fungal infection, as per government data, has affected people in at least 18 of the 24 districts in the state. Of the 152 suspected and confirmed cases of mucormycosis in Jharkhand, at least 55 have been reported in Ranchi and 23 in East Singhbhum. The remaining 16 affected districts have reported less than 10 cases. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India in the past couple of months and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand|| ITI students in Jharkhand face career uncertainty amid second wave||More than one lakh students of Jharkhand pursuing ITI courses in different trades are facing uncertainty over career due to delay in the final examination of their course and publication of results. The aggrieved students of 2018-20 batch who earlier took out a protest march in Dhanbad and staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on  February 8 this year have now decided to carry out a fresh agitation from July 15 demanding early examination and publication of results. Jharkhand has over 200 ITI colleges where training in different trades -- including wireman,  fitter, welder, turner, electrician, diesel mechanic, electronics mechanic, plumber, carpenter, turner, draughtsman mechanic, surveyor -- is given. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday, Saurabh Sao (24) a  student of privately run KK ITI Dhanbad said,  "Our session is delayed by more than a year as ideally the final results of our batch should have been published in July 2020 but instead our final examination is yet to be completed." "To apply for recruitment exams, the upper age limit is 24 and due to the delay in examination and publication of results, many students including me will be deprived of that opportunity," said Sao. He added that after their  protest in February, examinations of two papers were held but the entire examination could not be completed in wake of aggravating of Covid situation again. "The ITI exams of students of our batch in other states, including in neighbouring Bengal, were held amidst strict adherence to Covid protocols despite a similar situation there," said Sao. Majority of the students pursuing ITI are from humble family backgrounds and thus the hope of family as a prospective main source of earner for the family rests on them, he further said. Goutam Koiri (23), another student of KK ITI Dhanbad, said, "My father is a small farmer who has somehow managed to fund my education curtailing other expenses but the delay in examinations and publication of results seems to spoil our career as we will be not able to appear for many recruitment exams," "If the examinations of IITs and other engineering colleges can be held then why can't the examinations of ITIs be held," questioned Koiri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Zomato boy thrashed by cops, residents stage protest outside police station||A group of over 50 residents on Saturday staged a demonstration in front of Ulidih police station, Mango in protest against the brutal thrashing of a Zomato delivery boy by the police. Led by Vikash Singh, who is a social activist, the protestors demanded action against the two Mobile Tigers (cops on bike) responsible for the high-handedness and they would intensify the stir. After an hour-long demonstration, the agitated protestors handed over a written complaint to the OC Meghnad Mandal, seeking action against the cops concerned. A resident of Tank Road in Ulidih, the victim Debendra Kumar (23) was returning home from his food delivery duty on Friday at about 11 pm. As the youth was about to reach his home, two Mobile Tigers intercepted his bike near Rajasthan Bhawan in Ulidih and started thrashing him mercilessly. "The two cops claimed I did not stop on being waved on the way and started hitting me with the batons. Despite repeatedly telling them that I could not see them waving, they did not stop and continued to thrash me," said Devendra while talking to this website. The youth whose shoulder was filled with the bruises from baton injuries said he could not sleep throughout the night and informed the social activist Vikash Singh about the incident in the night in the morning. The OC, Ulidih thana, Meghnad Mandal confirmed to have received the complaint, but said that he would recommend for any action after an enquiry into the incident. "First of all, we have to find out whether the alleged high-handedness by the Mobile Tigers had taken place under my jurisdiction or not. Secondly, whether Zomato delivery boy was thrashed by any Mobile Tiger or sustained injuries in a clash with others somewhere else will have to be investigated, " said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. However the OC, when asked, conceded that they will try to get the CCTV footage of the alleged thrashing. Vikash Singh said the unemployed youths who work in the online food delivery companies have to work till late night. "Not only do those working in an online food delivery company have to work late night shifts, but they also have to ride the bikes at a comparatively high speed owing to the limited delivery-time. The cops on patrolling duty should not swing into taking punitive action without verifying the fact, " observed the social activist while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two friends drown in Vrindaha waterfall as villagers rescue the third||Three college friends from Bihar who came to enjoy the famous Vrindaha waterfall in Jarga panchayat under Tilaiya police station of Koderma district met with a tragic accident as two of them drowned on Friday. The third one was saved by local villagers. A police team reached there shortly after the incident but failed to recover the duo's dead bodies as the search operation was called off owing to dusk. Sources said the trio, namely Karthik Kumar (19) and Sunny Raj (20) of Patna and Siddharth Kumar of Nawada decided to go for a vacation. Sunny studies in a college at Patna and suggested Kakolat waterfall as it was in his hometown Nawada.The trio reached there on Friday but were stopped by the police as the fall becomes risky during monsoon. They then searched on google and came to know about Vrindaha waterfall which is known as Kashmir of Koderma. They reached Koderma at 11 in the morning and had their breakfast at a restaurant before heading towards the fall. After reaching the place, the friends went close to the 100feet high fall. Suddenly, Karthik slipped and fell into the deep water. Siddharth and Sunny jumped in the water to save their friend but all three of them started drowning. The villagers ran to their rescue, managing to save Sunny but the other two drowned. "We came in contact of each other through PubG. Karthik was fond of traveling and he put together the plan to visit any tourist spot. Two days ago too, we planned to come to Kakolat but we failed to wake up early," Sunny said at the Tilaiya police station, crying inconsolably. Officer-in-charge of Tilaiya police station, Dwarika Ram said, "Local divers had been hired to find the bodies but operation had to be called off as it was getting dark. We will again search for the bodies tomorrow." adding that the parents of the boys have informed. In another incident. a man died after being accidentally shot from his friend's service revolver on Friday. Three friends including a trainee deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ashutosh Kumar went to the popular Tilaiya dam for picnic. Sources said that Ashutosh is undergoing training for DSP in Buxar of Bihar. It appeared that while showing his service revolver to his friends, Ashutosh accidentally fired the gun and the bullet hit one of his friends Nikhil Kumar's right chest. Ashutosh and his other friend Siddharth Kumar immedietly put injured Nikhil in the car to take him to the hospital but Nikhil succumbed to his injuries in the car. Ashutosh tried to cover up the matter but the senior officials of Koderma sent a police team which brought the body to Koderma sadar hospital. Koderma deputy superintendent of police (headquarter) Sanjeev Kumar confirmed the incident and said a probe has been initiated. Nikhil's brother Vineet Sinha rejected the story of accidental firing and claimed that his brother was killed over some dispute and demanded justice. Police officials said DSP Ashutosh and Siddharth were arrested and are being interrogated. "We will solve the case soon, we're waiting for the postmortem report," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jesuits and Catholics plan Requiem Masses for Stan Swamy||The ashes of Father Stan Swamy arrived at the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, from where he had begun his service in Jharkhand, on Friday and was placed at the Loyola Chapel for people to pay their last respects. Jesuits and Catholics have planned Requiem Masses (held for the dead) at Jamshedpur and Ranchi. Politicians and tribal rights activists on Friday visited Bagaicha, the social research centre at Namkum near Ranchi that Fr Stan had set up and where he lived, and vowed to carry on with the movement to repeal the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Fr Stan, who passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday in judicial custody while awaiting bail for nine months, had challenged the UAPA in Bombay High Court. He had been arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon Maoist links case under the UAPA, which allows for detention without trial for six months. The Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, Fr Jerome Cutinha, said the ashes of Fr Stan would be kept at the Loyola Chapel in Jamshedpur for two days — Friday and Saturday. Since Sunday is a weekend lockdown in view of Covid, the planned memorial Mass at XLRI Jamshedpur will be held online in the evening. “There will be a Requiem Mass at the Ranchi Cathedral by the Ranchi Archdiocese on Saturday morning and thereafter in the evening an online mass will be held by Jesuits. If there are requests, we will send the ashes to other parts of Jharkhand for people to pay their respects. On August 3 the ashes will be laid to rest at the Jesuits’ graveyard in Jamshedpur,” Fr Jerome said. CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya visited Bagaicha on Friday evening to pay his respects to Fr Stan. “I had come here during the first NIA raid (in 2019) and spent some time with Fr Stan, who has been martyred for raising his voice for the tribals and the oppressed. We will continue the agitation and the mission of Fr Stan,” he said. “Our leader (Bagodar MLA Vinod Kumar Singh) will take part in a joint rally of rights activists, academics and political leaders of different parties to the Raj Bhavan on July 15 to submit a memorandum demanding the repeal of the UAPA and the release of rights activists lodged under the sedition law in Jharkhand and other parts of the country,” Bhattacharya said. Mahendra Patha, a leader of the Jharkhand Kisan Mahasabha that is part of the farmers’ movement against central farm laws, also visited Bagaicha. He said the BJP-led central government’s “efforts to suppress voices of dissent with arrests would not be successful” and that the agitation would be intensified by also involving farmers and social activists. RJD state vice-president Rajesh Yadav said efforts should be made to form a common platform of all Opposition parties not only in Jharkhand but across the country against the BJP-led Centre’s strategy of arresting rights activists under draconian laws like the UAPA. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 105 UAPA cases had been registered in Jharkhand in 2019, trailing only Manipur (306), Tamil Nadu (270) and Jammu and Kashmir (255).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Focus on 15 specific priority sectors in Jharkhand policy  ||The Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, which was cleared by the state cabinet on Tuesday, will focus on 15 specific priority sectors. Of these 15, seven are high-priority or focus sectors — textile and apparels, automobile, auto components and electric vehicles, agro food processing, meat processing industries, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM). The remaining eight are priority sectors — start-up and incubation centres, education and technical institutes, healthcare, tourism, IT and ITeS (information technology-enabled services), breweries and distilleries, renewable energy and high and medium engineering. The JIPP, which will replace the 2016 Industrial Policy of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government, also envisages setting up of industrial parks under government, private, joint venture or PPP (public-private partnership) mode in apparel fibre (textile park), IT and software technology park (STPI), gems and jewellery park, biotech and herbs park, chemical and pharmaceutical park, food processing and meat processing park, automobile vendor and ancillary industries park, ceramic park, plastic park, knowledge park and film city. “The JIPP will be in effect for five years. Through this policy, the government aims to fetch investments worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the state and provide employment to 5 lakh people. The state government will provide subsidy upto Rs 50 crore and additional subsidy of 5 per cent for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, women and differently abled,” said chief minister Hemant Soren during a review meeting of the industry department in Ranchi on Friday. The new policy, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, admits the Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected the economy and development of the state due to disruptions in supply chains and a crash in overall demand. “The major industries of the state including construction, mining, tourism, automobile and light/heavy engineering were amongst the worst hit leading to a crash in exports from the state. The manufacturing and service industry needs to be revived and with this aim, the policy has been revised to provide investors with regulatory support. To rejuvenate the existing rural industries including sericulture, handloom, handicraft, khadi, textile, etc, it is envisaged to assist them in modernisation/technological upgradation and provide necessary common facilities, backward and forward linkages including product design, marketing support, etc, to make them globally competitive. The Government realises that export units in the state need to be modernised by adopting the latest technologies, undertaking skill upgradation,” states the policy mission. The policy envisages focus on industries with export potential and to encourage and motivate such industries for increasing the volume of exports. It will also focus on export items manufactured from 100 per cent indigenous inputs normally done by the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector and to establish linkages between OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and MSME/ancillary industries. It will provide a simple, proactive, and supportive institutional mechanism for the rapid growth across sectors and promote employment generation in industrial and services sectors by providing facilitation under the Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy, MSME Act, 2006, and other policy interventions. The policy also outlined technology and skill upgradation in the traditional sectors like mineral-based products, handicrafts, handlooms, agriculture and processed food products to enhance value addition and quality competitiveness. The policy also aims to develop Jharkhand as a textile hub. “There has been phenomenal growth in the sericulture sector and the state has the highest production of tasar silk in India. Jharkhand primarily exports tasar silk to the US, the UK, Germany, France, Turkey, Japan, Australia, Sweden and Switzerland. In addition to silk weaving, the State has taken adequate measures for the revival of cotton wool weaving. The Government of Jharkhand is committed to upgrade the facilities in Industrial Training Institutes for apparel production. An autonomous institute of quality apparel training will be set up on its own or in joint venture/collaboration with multiple agencies/institutes,” states the policy outline. The policy aims to notify all textile and apparel parks as public utility services. Meanwhile, Soren during the review meeting on Friday stressed on the constitution of an investment promotion board, making an action plan for execution of one district one product (ODOP) plan, investment in industrial parks and forming of a MIS (management information system) for the survey of beneficiaries under the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ajsu apparently unhappy over the induction of MP Annapurna Devi ||The All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu), a constituent of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, is apparently unhappy over the induction of Koderma MP Annapurna Devi as a Union minister of state on Wednesday. The reason for its discontent was a strong rumour that Giridih MP Chandra Prakash Chaudhary, who is the Ajsu’s lone representative in Parliament, would get a central berth. “We also heard that rumour but we can’t comment on it officially as we were not given any assurance or hint about him (Chaudhary) becoming a minister,” Ajsu central spokesperson Deo Sharan Bhagat said. “What’s wrong if a NDA constituent expects a berth at the Centre, particularly when other partners were given the same?” asked an agitated Ajsu member who requested anonymity “because such comments may have an adverse impact”. “They (BJP) have made MPs belonging to other partner parties from neighbouring states ministers but not from here,” he grumbled, naming R.C.N. Singh of the Janata Dal United and Pashupati Kumar Paras of the Lok Janshakti Party from Bihar and Anupriya Singh Patel of Apna Dal from Uttar Pradesh who were also made central ministers on Wednesday. The rumour about Chaudhary becoming a minister gained ground because the BJP had left the Baghmundi Assembly seat in Purulia district for the Ajsu in the recent Bengal Assembly election. But a section of political observers felt the BJP would not offer a central berth to the Ajsu because it had fought the 2019 Assembly election in Jharkhand independently, despite fighting the parliamentary polls together earlier that year. Not only those from the Ajsu but even a section of the BJP are also not happy at the induction of Devi as a minister, according to JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “I’ve been receiving calls from my some of my old friends who are dedicated workers of the BJP for many years but are now frustrated after Annapurna Devi was made a minister,” Bhattacharya told mediapersons on Thursday. “Ab BJP ka matlab ho gaya bahari jonon ki party (BJP is now a party of the outsiders),” Bhattacharya quoted some BJP workers as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur author in India Book of Records 2022||A young author from Jamshedpur has entered the India Book of Records 2022 for writing the largest collection of thoughts in a book. Ansuman Bhagat’s A Lot of Your Own Thoughts aims to provide positive energy to stressed minds. Though published in 2018, the book has attained renewed significance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. The confirmation from the India Book of Records was received last week. “The record for writing the largest collection of thoughts in a book was set by Ansuman Bhagat (born on March 7, 1996) of Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. The book titled A Lot of Your Own Thoughts (ISBN: 9789388333-23-8) is a collection of inspiring, motivational thoughts written in English and Hindi which encourages the reader to develop positive thinking. The first edition of the book was published in 2018 by Invincible Publishers, as confirmed on May 28, 2021,” stated the letter sent to the writer. Bhagat, 25, an alumnus of Kerala Samajam Model School, Jamshedpur, said: “I had written the book in 2018 but it got relevance in 2020 and 2021 during the Covid pandemic. The pandemic has led to people’s lives being stressed and increased negative thinking. People have become engrossed in earning money and do not have time to think about themselves. I believe the book with over 234 inspirational quotes will provide much needed positive energy to the readers.” Bhagat believes that everyone has difficulties in life and no person is born successful. Hence, hard work and many sacrifices have to be made in life to be successful. “It is necessary to have good and positive thinking,” he said. Bhagat has also received two awards from OMG Book of Records a few days back. “I received the national record from OMG Book of Records in the category of India’s most popular young face in the writing world in 2021 and was recognised as a young inspirational (self-help) writer for the same book. The OMG Book of Records has included these records in its 2021 edition,” he said. The OMG Book of Records is an annual book of records which has the collection of record holders in different categories such as sports and social service. Around 400 records are categorised under this initiative. Bhagat, who has also found a place among Indian authors in Google and whose works are available on the online platform too, is now penning a book on the life of artistes of Bollywood and TV industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Clash among labourers halts work at BCCL site||Two warring groups of unorganised labourers pelted stones at each other during a clash at Godhar Coal dump of Bharat Coking Coal Limited on Friday demanding priority in work allotment. Several labourers were injured in the clash. The situation however came under control after a police lathicharge and forced eviction of some agitating laborers sitting on dharna at the coal loading site. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Kumar who also reached at the site along with a large number of policemen took details of the incident from the colliery management and workers and warned the representative of both the groups of resorting to any sort of violence. Unorganised labourers engaged in manual coal loading work at Godhar Coal Dump, including one group led by Trade Union Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Bachcha Singh faction) and other groups of local residents keep fighting on the issue of allotment of coal loading work. Over 60 supporters of the Bachcha Singh faction on Friday sat on the dharna at the Godhar demanding allotment of work. The protesters blocked the entrance of the coal loading site since the morning, obstructing the movement of other labourers inside the mine which in turn affected the coal loading and coal transport work. The tension continued for more than an hour. Perturbed over the blockade, another group of labourers who were allotted work, objected over the blockade after which a verbal argument ensued between them and some resorted to stone pelting against each other. A team of Kenduadih Police station led by officer in charge, Binod Oraon who reached at the site, carried out the minor lathicharge and also apprehended some of those engaged in blocking the entrance of the coal dump site. “The issue is a minor one related to demand of work allotment but police and administration had to intervene to bring an end to deadlock as blockade carried by some protesters obstructed the loading work at the site affecting the livelihood of many people,” said Surendra Kumar. “We will hold a meeting with both the groups and try to find out an amicable solution under the mediation of BCCL officers” further said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
