11-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police arrest 37 for partying at Park Street hotel||At least 37 people were arrested in the early hours of Sunday from a five-star hotel in Calcutta for partying, defying the Covid-related restrictions, police said. Two high-end cars and 38 mobile phones were among the several items seized in the raid at the Park Hotel on Park Street in the heart of the city, they said. "Acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at Park Hotel around 1.15 am and 37 people were arrested from the second and third floors for partying with loud music amid the Covid-related restrictions," a senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. "During the raid, some of those arrested pushed and manhandled police officers," he added. The police also seized two Pioneer DJ discs, an amplifier, two sound boxes, a DJ light, three hookahs, four liquor bottles and a ganja puria, the officer said. A case was registered at the Park Street police station under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Rs 12 lakh con on medical seat at Calcutta Medical College ||A police team from Jhargram on Saturday arrested a man in Lake Town for allegedly duping a medical aspirant of Rs 12 lakh by promising him a seat at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Shyamal Das, 38, was picked up from his rented accommodation in Lake Town by the police team from Jhargram and a Calcutta police team after they tracked down his mobile phone number. Das had posted several advertisements offering medical seats to students, a police officer said. “The accused used to frequently put up advertisements and posters at various places including railway stations offering admission to medical colleges,” said the officer. A few months back, a young man got in touch with Das who promised him admission to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the officer said. “The accused took Rs 12 lakh from the medical aspirant and said that he will ensure that he gets admission to the medical course. However, he stopped all forms of communication and switched off his phone after he got the money,” said the officer. The medical aspirant waited for several months before realising that he was duped, after which he lodged a complaint with police. “We are trying to track down other members of his gang,” said the officer. Another investigating officer said, during questioning, Das said he had cheated other men and women in a similar manner in several states. “This racket has been active for sometime. We are trying to zero in on the others and will get in touch with the other victims as well,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
11-07-2021||Calcutta||SSC starts accepting complaints from teacher-job aspirants||The school service commission on Saturday started accepting complaints from teacher-job aspirants who are aggrieved because their names don’t feature on the list of candidates awaiting interview calls. The commission will receive the applications for a duration of two weeks. Calcutta High Court has set the commission a deadline of 12 weeks from the receipt of the applications to give the appellants a “reasoned hearing”, commission chairman Subha Shankar Sarkar said on Saturday. “Those who have not been called for an interview can apply within the dead-line.... The commission will give them a reasoned hearing. As part of this they would be called here (at the commission’s office in Salt Lake),” said Sarkar. While vacating its stay on the recruitment of 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes VI to VIII), Justice Abhjit Ganguly said on Friday henceforth the aggrieved candidates would have to submit their grievances individually to the commission, online or offline. The aggrieved candidates are alleging that the commission erred in putting their names on the list of candidates who have been rejected for interviews because, either they failed to upload documents like copies of the training certificate and academic qualifications within the deadline or documents were not properly uploaded. The commission on Thursday uploaded a list of 9,500 such candidates. Some of them are claiming that they had furnished the details within the deadline. Another section of the candidates alleged although the commission in a notification issued in January this year had said they would be notified through email for rectification in case the documents are found to be incomplete/ distorted/not properly uploaded, this was not followed. The documents were supposed to be uploaded from January 4 to January 22. Sushanta Ghosh, a candidate said since the candidates were denied the chance of rectification, many got rejected. When asked about this allegation of the aspirants being denied scope of rectification during Saturday’s press conference, the commission chairman said: “...candidates who feel that they have been deprived a call for an interview, will be given a reasoned hearing. This will be the remedy of their grievances”. Education minister Bratya Basu on Saturday said the  government would try to hold teachers’ eligibility test (TET) each year to appoint primary and upper primary-level teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||More private buses likely to ply on Calcutta’s roads from Monday||More private buses are likely to ply on Calcutta’s roads from Monday and operators said they would charge fares that make their business viable. This means a passenger will be expected to pay between Rs 10 and Rs 20 on most of the routes unlike the government-prescribed price band of Rs 7 to Rs 10. Officially, transport minister Firhad Hakim said it was unacceptable that a section of bus operators would fix their own fares even though the state government completely sympathises with their operational challenges. Unofficially the government has so far not acted on any of the buses that have asked passengers to pay more than the government-regulated fares. “Bus malik der haath joro korey onurodh korchhi (We are requesting the bus operators with folded hands). We know they are facing a lot of hardships.  But how will the commuters pay?” Hakim said at a meeting in Chetla on Saturday as a part of the Trinamul’s statewide protest against the rising price of diesel and petrol. The price of petrol crossed the Rs 100-mark and sold at Rs 101.62 a litre. Diesel sold at Rs 92.97 a litre. Bus operators said they require anything between 40 and 45 litre of fuel for a bus each  day. Moreover, there are not enough passengers as the state government has set limit of 50 per cent capacity. “More private buses will start their operations from Monday with the new fare structure. So far we have not faced any resistance from passengers. Most said they would have spent more than the revised ticket fare if they were to commute by other means,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus Minibus Owners’ Association. Several bus operators said they were keen on bringing out more buses on several routes in and around Calcutta. But in case the operators faced harassment from police, they would withdraw their services. On Saturday, operators of several routes came together to decide on the number of buses they want to increase from Monday, despite it being a holiday because of Rath Yatra. Operators of route 222 connecting Bon Hooghly near Baranagar in north Calcutta and Behala said they have 21 odd buses of which 12 were on the roads. The remaining would start rolling from next week. Similarly, operators of route 34C connecting Baranagar and Esplanade will roll out three more buses of the eight. At present, five buses of the route are plying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police start noting down numbers and details of beacon-fitted vehicles||Police have started noting down the numbers and details of all beacon-fitted vehicles spotted at major crossings in the city, sources in the traffic department said. All the 25 traffic guards in Calcutta have been instructed to deploy civic volunteers at major intersections and manually note down the registration number, the make of the car, the details on the board on the windscreen if available and the colour of beacon fitted on it. The data is being collected every day at the respective traffic guards. The move, which started on Tuesday, came a week after all the police stations were asked to compile a list of government officials in their respective jurisdictions eligible to use red or blue beacon-fitted vehicles. “Once both the lists are ready, it will be easier to tally the approximate number of vehicles with beacons spotted on the road with the number of people eligible to use beacon-fitted cars in different traffic guard areas. If the number of cars spotted (with beacons) is found to be more than the number of eligible officials, it would be clear that some of the cars are making unauthorised use of the beacons and flashers,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. There have been several instances reported in the past where beacons have allegedly been misused by unauthorised persons who have purportedly taken advantage of a beacon to jump signals or park in no parking zones. Of late, some of the misuse has been specially to get immunity against the road restrictions during the lockdown period, the police said. Several police officers said that the recent arrest of Debanjan Deb, who allegedly impersonated an IAS officer and used a beacon-fitted car, has been an eye-opener into how many in the city were misusing beacons, which are meant only for posts authorised by the court and the state transport department. After the arrest of Deb, who was posing as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC and state transport minister Firhad Hakim had said that the transport department would soon revise the list of posts eligible for beacon-fitted vehicles and flashers. A senior police officer said: “Our officers face a lot of harassment while trying to check the veracity of the occupant of a beacon-fitted car. To avoid that, we would like to start the crackdown once the accurate list in consultation with the transport department is ready.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal CID arrests 12 men for running fake call centre||The state CID has arrested a gang of 12 men who were allegedly running a fake call centre in the guise of a finance company at a highrise in Rajarhat. The gang was fraudulently offering loans from banks and financial institutions at cheap interest rates and allegedly convincing people to buy insurance in return. CID officers said the investigating agency had received multiple complaints of cheating from many people across the city running into several lakhs. The complainants were duped of lakhs of rupees in the guise of getting purported personal loans. CID sleuths said four “operatives” who were behind running the racket had hired around 10 youths who would call potential customers at random and offer bank loans at cheap rates. “Once the customer showed interest in taking a personal loan, the racketeer would say that the loan could be taken at zero per cent interest rate if he or she bought insurance from a particular company. If the customer agreed, the racketeers would start asking for processing fees,” said a CID officer of the cyber crime police station. Officers said several people who had invested money realised it was a racket when the purported insurance was not processed and neither was a loan sanctioned from any bank or financial institute. The racketeers were running the fake call centre in an office named Ignite Wealth Management at Mani Casadona, East Tower, 4th and 7th floor in Rajarhat, the police said. Based on information, the police raided the Rajarhat office and arrested eight people on Friday. Pursuing their statement, investigators arrested four more people — Ishwar Chand Das, Kaushik Pattanaik, Swapan Sil and Bappa Koley — who were identified as the “main operatives”, the police said. The accused were produced in court on Saturday. They have been charged with sections of cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy and under sections of the information technology act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||14-year-old boy gets gift of a kidney at Charnock Hospital ||A 14-year-old boy, whose kidneys are damaged, underwent transplant of one of the kidneys at Charnock Hospital on Saturday. Around midnight on Thursday, the teenager’s family was informed about the prospect of a kidney transplant. The boy was brought to the hospital around 3am on Friday. A team of doctors from Charnock Hospital went to Ruby General Hospital for retrieval of the kidneys of a 38-year-old woman who succumbed in the hospital to injures suffered in a road accident. A green corridor was created to transport the organ.  “The transplant began at 2am on Saturday and got over at 4.30am. The boy is doing well,” said an official of Charnock. The woman’s other kidney was taken to SSKM Hospital. Mohammad Parvez, the father of the boy who underwent the transplant, said he was grateful to the family of the woman, who agreed to donate her organs. “She was admitted to our hospital on July 3 after she met with a road accident at Chandernagore. We counselled her family after she succumbed to the injuries. The family agreed to donate her organs,” said an official of Ruby General Hospital. The woman’s skin was also harvested and taken to SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers learn to help anxious kids||A 15-year-old boy is struggling to balance his classes with his work as a caretaker of an apartment building. A 14-year-old boy, talking incoherently in the class, revealed that he could not bear to see his parents fight every day. The teenagers are pupils at a community learning centre for children of unorganised workers, mostly first-generation learners. The teachers of the centre — Rokeya Siksha Kendra — have been participating in a workshop focused on mental health of such children and teenagers. The aim of the training programme is to equip the teachers to deal with the anxieties triggered in the minds of the pupils by the pandemic. Rokeya Siksha Kendra is the only link to institutionalised learning for around 80 children, aged between six and 18 years. The students live mostly in slums in and around the Patuli-Briji-Garia neighbourhood, off EM Bypass. Their parents are masons, drivers, domestic help or from some other unorganised sector. Most of them are students of a government or municipality school on paper. But the lack of economic and technological resources have left them in the lurch. They cannot attend online classes. Many of them have to focus on assisting their parents in earning money because the Covid-19 curbs have robbed their income. “Many children are going through a lot of stress because of the pandemic. But being cramped in a 1,000sqft flat and being cramped in an 8ftX10ft room in a slum are two different things. The socio-economic condition of these children has only worsened their mental well-being,” said Mohit Ranadip, a psychiatric social worker, who has been conducting the workshop for the teachers of Rokeya Siksha Kendra. The sessions are held every Sunday. Theoretical lessons are a part of the programme but the stress is on activity-oriented modules. The workshop on July 11 will focus on counselling. The teachers at Rokeya have been dealing with several cases of mental anxiety among students. A 15-year-old boy comes running to the class, panting and often late or just in the nick of time. On several days a week, he has to work as the caretaker of an apartment and struggles to find time to attend classes amid running errands for the residents of the building. The pandemic has robbed his father’s regular income. Another boy, aged 14, was “speaking and behaving incoherently” at the class on multiple days. After much prodding, he told his math teacher that he was “sick and tired of seeing his parents fight every day”. “We try to be informal in our approach with students. They confide in us because we give them a proper audience. More often than not, they don’t have anybody to share their feelings with,” said Manas Bose, who teaches mathematics at the centre. Another student is a 17-year-old girl, who works as a domestic help. Virtually abandoned by her father, she used to pay her school fee and other educational expenses from her own earnings. Her mother died when she was six years old. She wanted to carve out a future for herself and the long shutdown of school has multiplied her stress. “We are learning what affects children’s minds. Not being able to attend school, being bereft of friends and neglect at home — all these are reflected in the students,” said Adharshila Chatterjee, who teaches English to students aged 16-18 at Rokeya Siksha Kendra. Chatterjee is an assistant professor of English at the Women’s Christian College. “I am used to teaching adults. Dealing with teenagers is also a new learning experience for me,” said Chatterjee. The workshop will also focus on imparting “life skills” to the students, said Ranadip. “Self-esteem building, assertiveness and critical thinking are important aspects of the workshop for the teachers,” he said. Named after Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain (1880-1932), Bengal’s pioneering Muslim feminist writer, educationist and activist, the centre has been set up by a group called the Humans of Patuli, formed in 2019 to resist the Centre’s citizenship thrust at the grassroots level. “Rokeya inculcates values that help build a society of equality, empathy, scientific temper, conscience, rights, unity of the oppressed, with awareness of co-existence in a planet we need to nurture and repair; rejecting a society of discrimination and oppression and hate,” said a member of the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Business||GI-certified consignment of Fazli mangoes from Malda exported to Bahrain||Fazli mango growers are set to get new connoisseurs as a GI-certified consignment of the variety was exported to Bahrain from Bengal’s Malda district, the commerce ministry said on Saturday. The GI tag helps growers get a premium price for the product as no other producer can use the name to market similar goods. “In a major initiative which would boost mango exports from the eastern region, especially to the West Asian countries, a consignment of geographical identification (GI) certified Fazli mango variety sourced from Malda district was exported to Bahrain on Saturday. The consignment of Fazli mango was exported by APEDA-registered DM enterprises, Calcutta, and imported by Al Jazira group, Bahrain,” the ministry said. In June, a week-long Indian mango promotion programme was organised in Bahrain where 16 varieties of the fruit, including the GI-certified Khirsapatin, Lakshmanbhog and Zardalu (Bihar) varieties, were displayed. Both Khirsapatin and Lakshmanbhog are from Bengal. While most of the states in India have mango plantations, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka have a major share in the total production of the fruit. Alphonso, Kesar, Totapuri and Banganpalli are the leading export varieties from India. Other varieties that are exported include GI-certified Khirsapati, Lakkhanbhog, Amrapali and Chausa from Malda, Dusshheri from Malihabad in Uttar Pradesh and Langda from Nadiya in Bengal. For the first time in this season, India recently shipped a consignment of GI-certified Banganapalli and other varieties of Survarnarekha mangoes sourced from farmers in Krishna and Chittor districts of Andhra Pradesh. Mango is exported primarily in three forms: fresh fruit, pulp and mango slice. A geographical indication (GI) tag is used for an agricultural, natural or a manufactured product (handicraft and industrial goods) originating from a definite geographical territory. Typically, such a name conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness attributable to the place of its origin. Darjeeling tea, Tirupathi laddu, Kangra paintings, Nagpur orange and Kashmir pashmina are among the registered GIs in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Equitas Holdings mulls merger with its small finance bank||Equitas Holdings Ltd, the promoter of Equitas Small Finance Bank (ESFB), is looking to merge with the bank. At present, Equitas Holdings Ltd has an 81.98 per cent stake in the niche lender. In a regulatory filing to the bourses on Saturday, Equitas said according to the RBI’s small finance bank licensing norms released on November 27, 2014, and the subsequent clarification in January 2015, a promoter of a small finance bank (SFB) can exit or cease to be a promoter after the mandatory initial lock-in period of five years depending on the central bank’s regulatory and supervisory comfort and the Sebi’s regulations at that time. “In the case of ESFB, our subsidiary for which the company is the promoter, the said initial promoter lock-in for the company expires on September 4, 2021. Hence, the bank had requested the RBI if a scheme of amalgamation of the company with the bank, resulting in the exit of the promoter, can be submitted to the RBI for approval, prior to the expiry of the said five years,” Equitas said in the filing. It disclosed that the central bank through its communication on July 9 has permitted the bank to apply, seeking approval for the scheme of amalgamation. Further, the RBI has also conveyed that any no-objection, if and when given on the proposed scheme, would be without prejudice to its powers to initiate action, if any, for violating any licensing guidelines or any terms and conditions of licence, or any other applicable instruction. “Accordingly, we would be initiating steps to finalise the scheme of amalgamation, submit to the boards of the company and the bank for approval, and take further action thereafter in accordance with applicable regulations and guidelines,” Equitas Holdings added. On Friday, shares of ESFB ended with gains of almost 2 per cent at Rs 65.10, while the Equitas Holdings share finished 2.44 per cent higher at Rs 115.35. ESFB had posted a net profit of Rs 384.22 crore for the year ended March 2021 against Rs 243.63 crore in the previous year. In a recent update on its performance during the first quarter of this financial year, the small finance bank had disclosed a 15 per cent rise in gross advances to Rs 17,839 crore compared with the same period of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Fuel demand up in June as several states ease Covid-19 restrictions||Fuel demand rebounded in June after slumping to a nine-month low in May as several states eased Covid-19 restrictions and economic activity picked up. However, the spike in global crude prices after failure of Opec+ to reach an agreement is likely to add to inflationary pressures on the economy, analysts said. Fuel consumption rose 1.5 per cent to 16.33 million tonnes in June from a year earlier and by 8 per cent over May 2021, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas showed. Petrol sales rose 5.6 per cent year-on-year to 2.4 million tonnes in June. It was up 21 per cent from the May sales of 1.99 million tonnes. Diesel - the most used fuel in the country - rose 12 per cent from May to 6.2 million tonnes, but was down 1.5 per cent from June 2020 and 18.8 per cent from June 2019. This is the first monthly increase since March. Aditi Nayar, chief economist with Icra, said, “Benefitting from the anticipated rise in mobility and economic recovery aided by an acceleration of the coverage of Covid-19 vaccines, the YoY growth in the consumption of petrol and diesel in FY22 stood at 14 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, on the low base of FY21. Our forecasts suggest that consumption in FY22, relative to the pre-Covid level of FY20, will be 6.7 per cent higher for petrol, and 3.3 per cent lower for diesel.” Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi of Nomura said, “India would be adversely impacted by rising oil prices, given its status as a net oil importer. Rising crude oil prices are a negative terms-of-trade shock for consumers and businesses, and we estimate every 10 per cent increase in oil prices would shave off 0.20 percentage points from GDP growth. It could also dent the pace of the growth recovery that we currently expect to be supported by the ongoing vaccinations, strong external demand and easy financial conditions, adding downside risks to our GDP growth outlook of 10.4 per cent y-o-y for FY22.” “A 10 per cent rise in crude oil prices would further widen the deficit by 0.3 per cent of GDP. Inflation represents a more material risk, as core pressures are already building. A 10 per cent rise in crude oil prices would lead to a 0.3-0.4 percentage point rise in headline inflation, adding further upside risks to our projection of 5.6 per cent for 2021 and 2022,” they added. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March Covid-19 infections led to the re-imposition of lockdowns in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August last year amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states.Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. With Covid case addition continuing to decline and vaccination pace picking up, state governments have continued to reopen, though some exceptions such as Maharashtra exist. The then oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan had last month stated that India’s fuel demand would recover to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2021. “We are confident by the end of this calendar year we will be in a position to restore our original (pre-Covid) consumption behaviour,” Pradhan said. Consumption of LPG, the only fuel which showed growth even during the first lockdown because of free supplies by the government to the poor, rose 9.7 per cent year-on-year to 2.26 million tonnes. It was up 26.3 per cent over June 2019. With airlines yet to resume full-scale operations because of travel restrictions around the globe, jet fuel sales at 2,58,000 tonnes was up 16.2 per cent year-on-year but 61.7 per cent lower than June 2019. Naphtha sales dropped by about 3.1 per cent to 1.19 million tonnes, while sale of bitumen used to make roads was down 32 per cent to 509,000 tonnes. Fuel oil consumption rose 1.9 per cent to 533,000 tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Global tax overhaul gains pace||Global leaders on Saturday agreed to move ahead with what would be the most significant overhaul of the international tax system in decades, with finance ministers from the world’s 20 largest economies backing a proposal that would crack down on tax havens and impose new levies on large, profitable multinational companies. If enacted, the plan could reshape the global economy, altering where corporations choose to operate, who gets to tax them and the incentives that nations offer to lure investment. But major details remain to be worked out ahead of an October deadline to finalize the agreement and resistance is mounting from businesses, which could soon face higher tax bills, as well as from small, but pivotal, low-tax countries such as Ireland, which would see their economic models turned upside down. After spending the weekend huddled in the halls of an ancient Venetian naval shipyard, the top economic officials from the Group of 20 nations agreed to forge ahead. They formally threw their support behind a proposal for a global minimum tax of at least 15 per cent that each country would adopt and new rules that would require large global businesses, including technology giants such as Amazon and Facebook, to pay taxes in countries where their goods or services are sold, even if they have no physical presence there. “After many years of discussions and building on the progress made last year, we have achieved a historic agreement on a more stable and fairer international tax architecture,” the finance ministers said in a joint statement at the conclusion of the meetings. The approach marks a reversal of years of economic policies that embraced low taxes as a way for countries to attract investment and fuel growth. Instead, countries are coalescing around the view that they must fund infrastructure, public goods and prepare for future pandemics with more fiscal firepower at their disposal, prompting a global hunt for revenue. “I see this deal as being something that’s good for all of us, because as everyone knows, for decades now, the world community, including the United States, we’ve been participating in this self-defeating international tax competition,” Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen said on the sidelines of the G20 summit. “I’m really hopeful that with the growing consensus that we’re on a path to a tax regime that will be fair for all of our citizens.” The agreement followed a joint statement last week that was signed by 130 countries who expressed support for a conceptual framework that has been the subject of negotiations at the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for the better part of the last decade. The OECD estimates that the proposal would raise an additional $150 billion of global tax revenue per year and move taxing rights of over $100 billion in profits to different countries. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||India||Ministers have increased but not vaccines: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the central government, saying the number of ministers has increased but not the Covid vaccines. He also shared a chart of the average vaccinations per day, which are falling short of the target to vaccinate all adults by December 2021. "The number of ministers has increased, not of vaccines," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" His comments came after 43 ministers were inducted into the Modi government, taking the total number of ministers to 77. The chart shared by Gandhi was on India's vaccination equation that aims to stop the third wave of Covid-19. The chart stated that the target is to vaccinate 60 percent population with both doses by December 2021 and the required vaccination rate per day is 8.8 million. However, it pointed out, that the actual vaccinations in the last seven days were at an average of 3.4 million per day, leaving a shortfall of 5.4 million per day. It also highlighted that the actual vaccination on July 10 is 3.7 million, leaving a shortfall of 5.1 million for the day. The Congress has been raising the issue of shortage of vaccines in the country and has urged the central government to speed up inoculations, saying it is the only way to stop the third wave of Cpvid-19. The BJP had hit back at the opposition party by targeting the performance of Congress-ruled states and had also accused it of encouraging vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||UP polls 2022: Bhupesh Baghel to play key role, meets Priyanka Gandhi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls next year with a focus on strategising and booth management, sources said on Sunday. Baghel, who had played a crucial role in the run up to the Assam Assembly polls with his team carryng out extensive booth training of party workers, met Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and Rajeev Shukla here at party chief Sonia Gandhi's 10 Janpath residence. According to sources, Priyanka Gandhi has asked Chhattisgarh Congress leaders be sent to Uttar Pradesh, and during the meeting, an outline of booth management and worker's conference in the poll-bound state was also discussed. There was also a discussion on intensifying the activities of the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh. On the recommendation of Baghel, his parliamentary advisor Rajesh Tiwari has been made AICC secretary-in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. Amid speculation about an agreement in 2018 that Baghel would be chief minister of Chhattisgarh for two and a half years after which the state's health minister, T S Singhdeo, would take over, Baghel told reporters that he had taken oath after the high command asked him to and if the party top brass asks someone else to step in, it will be so. However, sources in the Baghel camp said the party's top leadership has assured him that he would continue as the chief minister. P L Punia, the AICC in-charge Chhattisgarh, said the speculation over leadership change was only in the media and was not true. "Whatever is being circulated in the media (about leadership change) has no truth in it and there is no such agreement or decision on it that is being talked about," Punia told PTI. Asked if Baghel would continue as the chief minister, he answered in the affirmative. Baghel had also met Punia at the latter's residence here earlier in the day before heading back to Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi holds meeting with BJP national secretaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the BJP national secretaries, along with party president JP Nadda, at his official residence here on Sunday.  Almost all the national secretaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were present at the meeting chaired by Modi. BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh was also present.  Earlier in the day, Nadda chaired a meeting with the BJP national secretaries at the party headquarters here. The meeting lasted for about an hour.  Modi held similar meetings last month with the BJP general secretaries and the heads of the saffron party's different wings at his residence.  Both meetings had lasted for about five hours and wide-ranging political discussions were held, mainly on the recently-held and the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||CBI books BOC officials for getting newspapers empanelled for govt ads on 'false' documents||The CBI has registered a case against unidentified officials of the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC), along with Harish Lamba, Aarti Lamba and Ashwani Kumar, for allegedly getting newspapers empanelled for government advertisements on the basis of false and fabricated documents, officials said on Sunday. After a preliminary enquiry, the agency has alleged that unidentified public servants of the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), now the BOC, in collusion with the Lambas, got six newspapers -- two editions each of the Arjun Times, the Health of Bharat and the Delhi Health -- empanelled with the DAVP by furnishing false and fabricated documents. The agency had initiated the preliminary enquiry on the basis of a joint surprise check on August 30, 2019. It came to light during the check that in spite of not meeting the criteria to become eligible for empanelment with the DAVP, these newspapers got empanelled in collusion with unidentified officials of the directorate. The agency has alleged that false documents, including certificates of chartered accountants, were submitted in the department to get empanelled for government advertisements. "It was further alleged that the above named newspapers were shown to have printed and circulated around 1.5 lakh copies (each containing eight pages) per day whereas, the collective circulation of the said newspapers may not be more than 100-150 copies per day," the FIR alleges. The CBI has alleged that the advertisements given to these papers resulted in a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer. No active printing and publishing work was being carried out at the addresses of the publishers or the press of the said newspapers, it has alleged. During the enquiry, the agency found that in its papers submitted in 2017 for the Arjun Times, Ashwani Kumar was shown as the publisher. Harish Lamba is the owner or proprietor of the newspaper. "The name of the printing press was shown as Dolphin Pictography in Jhandewalan Extension, New Delhi-110055. Enquiry revealed that Darshan Singh Negi is the owner of Dolphin Pictography and he does not know any person namely Harish Lamba or Ashwani Kumar. The newspaper, Arjun Times, was never printed from this printing press," the CBI has alleged. It has alleged that the contract between the publisher and the printer and the form of declaration submitted with the application, purportedly issued by Negi, were forged as those were never issued by him. The enquiry further revealed that the chartered accountant certificate was also forged purportedly showing the number of copies printed per publishing day as 25,800. However, no copy of the newspaper was ever printed from Dolphin Pictography. Similar irregularities were found in connection with the other newspapers as well. The agency has alleged that these newspapers fraudulently and dishonestly got empanelled with the DAVP and got advertisements of Rs 62.24 lakh from 2016 to 2019. "This amount may be more if calculated from the starting of the empanelment of the newspapers," officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||IT rules 2021 empowering and protecting users: Ashwini Vaishnaw||IT and communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday said the new information technology rules are empowering and protecting users. The new IT rules will ensure a safer and more responsible social media ecosystem in India, the minister said. “Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India,” Vaishnaw said in a post on Twitter's Indian competitor Koo platform. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies, with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a Nodal Contact Person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be a resident in India. Twitter, which had been in the eye of the storm over its alleged failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, has named Vinay Prakash as its Resident Grievance Officer for India, according to the company's website. However, Facebook-owned Whatsapp has challenged the new IT rules for social media intermediaries requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, saying they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. Whatsapp further alleged the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits at risk. Some of the media houses have also challenged the new IT rules and the matter is sub-judice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
11-07-2021||India||Women and Child Development identifies 268 children orphaned due to pandemic||The Delhi government's Women and Child Development (WCD) Department has identified 268 children who have been orphaned during the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Sunday. There are nearly 5,500 children who have lost either of their parents ever since the virus hit the national capital, WCD director Rashmi Singh told PTI. "The 268 children who have been identified include those who lost their parents to other ailments apart from coronavirus. There are also some children who were abandoned by their fathers and were living with single mothers. After the mother died, the children were left orphaned since the father could not be contacted," she said. Of the 268 orphaned children, 27 have been placed in institutional care while the others were found living with extended family, grandparents, or elder siblings, Singh said. The WCD is conducting a survey to identify orphan children and has appointed 20 welfare officers for the purpose. The officers have been given time till July 20 to complete the survey. Over 2,000 children in the city have lost either one or both their parents to the novel coronavirus infection, with 67 of them losing both their parents, since the pandemic outbreak in March last year, according to a survey conducted by the Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR). As many as 651 children have lost their mothers and 1,311 children their fathers to the infection, it stated. The WCD department data comprises these figures too, the official added. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that those children who have lost both or either of the parents to COVID-19 will be given financial assistance of Rs 2,500 per month till the time they attain the age of 25. A WCD official said that the child welfare committees and district child protection officers are in touch with the families and completing their paperwork. The official said efforts are also being made to enroll those children, who lost their parents to other reasons apart from coronavirus during the pandemic, in other welfare schemes. Kejriwal had on May 14 said his government would bear the cost of education and upbringing of the children orphaned during the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month announced a number of welfare measures for such children, including ensuring a corpus of Rs 10 lakh when they turn 23 years of age and providing for their education. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Bhopal cops use water cannons to disperse protesting Cong workers ||The Madhya Pradesh government's decision to allot land in an industrial estate to an RSS affiliate associated with small industries prompted the opposition Congress to stage a protest under senior leader Digvijaya Singh here on Sunday wherein police used water cannons. The incident occurred when Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, and other Congress workers were trying to climb on a barricade during the protest held at Govindpura industrial area, officials said. Police have filed a case against Singh and eight other Congress leaders along with 200 workers of the party for organising a protest without prior permission and violating Covid-19 rules. Police used water cannons but we will continue to fight against the land allotment till the association of Industrial area is with us. The water got into my ears,"' Singh told reporters. He alleged Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had given this land worth crores to the Laghu and Madhyam Udyog Bharti at the rate of Re 1 despite opposition from the Industrial Association. "This is the only park where workers take their lunch and rest, Singh said. The former chief minister said the Govindpura industrial estate was developed for ancillary units of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) in Bhopal. The park land in the estate is being allotted to this organisation without changing the land title and securing due permissions. 95 per cent of the industrialists are opposed to the land allotment to this body, he said. "I, CM Chouhan, former CM Babulal Gaur had planted saplings in this park," Singh recalled. Eyewitnesses said a heated argument broke out between Singh and Bhopal DIG Irshad Wali during the demonstration in the presence of police personnel. When Singh said the Congress will demolish the foundation stone on the allotted land, Wali is heard saying the police will keep an eye on him, they said. District Collector Avinash Lavania told Singh that the work at the allotted land is allowed only after securing necessary legal permissions including from the Industry Department. Reacting to the Congress' protest, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang said the upcoming project of the Laghu Udyog Bharati will provide skill development and create jobs. "This land was allotted to the Laghu Udyog Bharti after considering all the aspects," he told reporters. Sarang said contrary to the claims made by Singh, no industrialist was seen during Saturday's protest. Digvijaya Singh is always opposed to every new creation and brings negativity into every positive thing. The youths will be prepared for employment. Digvijaya Singh was CM for ten years but instead of giving jobs, he deprived the daily wagers of their employment. He is now feeling bad when something new is created," Sarang alleged. Congress leader and former Union minister Arun Yadav condemned the use of force by police against the party workers and Singh. The BJP regime allotted the land to an organisation affiliated to the RSS. Police used force when Congress workers staged a protest. The CM should take action against erring officials, Yadav demanded. Ashoka Garden police station in-charge Alok Shrivastava told PTI that police filed cases against eight leaders including Digvijaya Singh, MLA PC Sharma, Vibha Patel and others, besides 200 party workers. "These leaders were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code," he said. Shrivastava said only water cannons were used to disperse the protestors and no excessive force was used during the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||NIA carries out raid in Kashmir in connection with circulation of ISIS propaganda||The National Investigation Agency on Sunday carried out searches at seven places in Srinagar and Anantnag in south Kashmir in connection with a case related to circulation of propaganda by banned terror group ISIS, the agency said. The spokesperson of the NIA said a case was registered on June 29 in connection with the conspiracy of the proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youths in India to wage violent jihad against the Indian State. In this connection, an India-centric online propaganda magazine 'the Voice of Hind' ( VOH) is published on monthly basis to incite and radicalise youths by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred, the spokesperson said. To execute its nefarious plan, an organised campaign has been launched in cyberspace which is supplemented by on-ground terror financing activities. ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with ISIS cadres in India, by assuming pseudo online identities, have created a network wherein ISIS-related propaganda material is disseminated for radicalising and recruiting members into its fold. Searches in the case on Sunday led to the recovery and seizure of a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops and hard disks, and T-shirts having the ISIS logo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Al Qaeda unit busted in UP, Calcutta Police arrest 3 suspected terrorists in Bengal||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday said they had busted an Al Qaeda unit in Lucknow, which was reportedly planning suicide attacks in crowded areas of the city and other places in the state. Two men named Minaz Ahmad and Masiruddin, also known as Mushir, both residents of Lucknow, have been arrested as part of the operation, the police said, as per a report by ndtv.com. "ATS (Anti-Terrorism Squad) UP has uncovered a big terror module. The team has arrested two terrorists linked with Al Qaeda's Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Cache of arms, explosive materials have been recovered," senior police officer Prashant Kumar was quoted as saying by the media organisation. The two suspects were detained from Kakori town in Lucknow district after searches were conducted, the police said. In a related incident in Bengal, three suspected terrorists of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) were arrested from south Calcutta's Haridevpur area on Sunday afternoon, police said. The arrests were made by the Calcutta Police's Special Task Force (STF), they said. The three suspected JMB terrorists were living in a rented accommodation for a few months in the middle-class locality, raising concern among the locals. The three suspected terrorists were nabbed following a tip-off, a senior police officer said. "We are investigating the matter and interrogating them. It is at a very initial stage," the officer told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Kejriwal promises 300 units of free electricity to Uttarakhand if voted to power||If elected to power in Uttarakhand, the Aam Aadmi Party will give free electricity up to 300 units per month to every family, waive old bills and give free electricity to farmers, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Making the announcements in the hill state where assembly elections are due next year, Kejriwal said his government has done it in Delhi and can do it in Uttarakhand also as the state generates power. "These things are guaranteed if we come to power in the state. If we can do it in Delhi, then why can't we do it in Uttarakhand, which not only produces electricity but also gives it to other states," Kejriwal said at a press conference here. "There will be no power cuts. Free electricity doesn't mean long outages. When we took over in Delhi 7-8 hours long power outages were common. We set that right," said the AAP leader who recently promised free electricity to every household in Punjab that consumes up to 300 units of power if his party forms government in the state next year. Kejriwal had last year announced 100 percent subsidy to those who consume up to 200 units of electricity in Delhi. Consumers of 201-400 units received approximately 50 percent subsidy. In Uttarakhand, he said, every household will be provided 300 units of free electricity if the AAP forms the government. The freebies announced on Sunday are being seen as his attempt to woo voters and steal the ruling BJP's thunder by going one step ahead of it. Uttrakhand Power Minister Harak Singh Rawat had also recently announced that the state government will give free electricity to people of the state up to 100 units The AAP which has not been able to win a single seat in the state in the past elections has plans to emerge as an alternative to both Congress and BJP in the next assembly polls. The AAP leader remembered how he and his ministers went door-to-door to get transformers and wires replaced. He claimed that AAP workers touring different areas of Uttarakhand have found that exaggerated bills have been issued on a large scale to people "deliberately to dupe them". "So we have decided to waive the old bills and start afresh if elected to power. We will also give free electricity to farmers for agricultural purposes," Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||India's vaccination drive not as bad as it looks, one-third of target already met ||First the good news – and then a host of qualifications. India’s vaccination drive’s been a jerky stop-and-start affair but it’s closer to its targets than might have been expected just a few weeks ago. Nearly one-third of all adult Indians to be vaccinated have received at least one jab. Will that be enough to stall a future third wave? That’s an altogether different question. A total of 366 million people have been vaccinated since the drive started on January 15. Out of that number, 296 million have received their first jabs and another 69.8 million have had their full quota of two injections. Don’t forget that India’s target is to vaccinate around 940 million people who are over 18. We’re a very young nation and almost 400 million people are under 18 and, therefore, under the current regulations don’t need to be vaccinated. So, for the first jabs, we’re almost one-third of our way to the target. Don’t start celebrating too quickly, though. The first jab of Covishield, the Indian version of AstraZeneca, confers just 32.9 per cent protection against symptomatic infection by the now dominant Delta strain, according to a Public Health of England study, but it does provide 71 per cent against hospitalisation. After the second dose, protection against symptomatic infection ranges rises to around 73 per cent. And two doses gives 92 per cent against hospitalisation. Still, the vaccination pace has been picking up. Between July 2 and July 9 we’ve vaccinated 27.6 million people and, if we can keep up this pace, we should easily be able to vaccinate 100 million a month. By December we could do around 600 million more vaccinations if nothing goes seriously wrong with the drive. At a rough estimate, 400 million of these could be first jabs and 200 million could be second ones. In fact, the numbers could rise even further because the vaccine-making companies are aiming to hike production very soon. Serum Institute has informed the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) that it will be turning out 100 million doses monthly. And, in its filing, Bharat Biotech told the DGCI, output could hit 78 million doses in August. (That Bharat Biotech target would be up steeply from its 20 million production in April).  And there could be even more on the market as it’s not known what others like Russian Sputnik V, Pfizer and Moderna might be delivering to the Indian market by then. While the overall vaccination numbers look like they are heading in the right direction, vaccination progress differs sharply from state to state. Among the big states, the two leaders are Kerala and Gujarat. Just over 42 per cent of the populations of both those states have received their first jabs. In Jammu & Kashmir, 44.1 per cent of the population has had one jab. In terms of the percentage of the population which has received their first jabs, the smaller states are far out in front. In Himachal Pradesh, 61.5 per cent of the population has had their first jabs. Uttarakhand is at 47.4 for the first jabs. In Kerala, 14 per cent of the population and in Gujarat 12.8 per cent have had both injections. The picture’s grim at the other end of the scale. In Uttar Pradesh, 19.9 per cent have received one jab and 3.5 per cent both jabs. Similarly, in Bihar, the figures are 20.5 per cent with one jab and 3.4 per cent with two. In West Bengal, the figures are 23.9 per cent and 8 per cent. As far as heading off a third wave, experts say a lot will hinge on a combination of the vaccination rollout and people's observation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which Prime Minister Narendra Modi red-flagged this week as beginning to fall apart. The daily positivity rate India-wide on Saturday was 2.19 per cent -- it’s now been below 3 per cent for 19 days. Some 42,766 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, after hitting an 11-day low of 34,703 cases on July 6. While the numbers are clearly better than two months ago when the country hit a peak of more than 414,000 new daily cases on May 7, among the good numbers are some worrying figures. Kerala continues to be a Covid-19 hotspot, reporting 13,563 fresh cases on Friday, while Maharashtra reported 8.992 infections. Kerala attributes its recent surge in cases to relaxations of the state government's lockdown programme. Tamil Nadu has extended its lockdown until July 19 with some easing of restrictions. And what is concerning on the positivity score, is that some 66 districts across India had a positivity rate of 10 per cent in the last week. There’s also an additional complication. Do the under-18s need to be vaccinated? That’s a global debate that’s inconclusive as yet. But in Israel, where the vaccine drive rollout has been extensive, the Ministry of Health is vaccinating teens and pre-teens in response to an ever-increasing proportion of new infections in the country in younger age groups. The US has also started vaccinating children over 12. Says Health Economist Rijo M. John: “Potentially 80 per cent plus of the entire population need to be jabbed to reach any sort of herd immunity. The virus doesn’t care for this 18-plus cut off.” Anyone who might think we have beaten the pandemic should look at the UK. There, the vaccination programme has been super-efficient -- some 66 per cent of the adult population has now been double-jabbed. Nonetheless, the UK is seeing a huge sudden surge in infections and on Friday, July 9,  had 35,707 new cases – that’s the highest since January 22. What’s also astonishing, is that more than 400,000 people in the UK tested positive in the week to July 3, according to the Office of National Statistics. The Government has warned that there could be up to 100,000 fresh cases daily as summer rolls on. Most people in Britain have received the AstraZeneca and the Pfizer vaccines. Some have also received the Moderna and Janssen vaccines. Despite Covid-19 infections soaring, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has nevertheless announced the lifting of pandemic restrictions on July 19 which many scientists in Britain and globally have condemned as reckless. Johnson also ominously warned when announcing the plans to lift all restrictions that, “We must reconcile ourselves, sadly, to more deaths from Covid-19.” By lifting all restrictions and with still millions of people to be fully vaccinated, scientists have warned that the UK could be creating a "variant factory" where new, potentially more lethal variants could emerge. Russia, South Korea and neighbouring Bangladesh are all reporting a serious upsurge in infection numbers. From the UK experience, it appears clear that observing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is going to be crucial in the coming months.  If people continue to flout Covid-19 safety measures such as mask-wearing and social distancing in markets and tourist hot spots such as Himachal Pradesh and  Uttarakhand, case numbers could again explode, warns Dr V.K. Paul, the head of India’s pandemic task force. “The rate of decline of the number of (Indian) cases is somewhat slow… and if we do not make concerted efforts to control the virus, the virus may have an upper hand over us,” Paul told reporters in New Delhi. “We have seen this in the past, there were predominantly localised infections and then they exploded,” he says. India needs to wrestle cases down to a baseline 10,000 a day for at least three weeks before cases can be said to be under control, Paul says. “The war is not over…. The nation is not safe,” he insists. While experts say the COVID-19 virus will reach its endemic stage like influenza after a while, it is going to take time. "Influenza, commonly known as flu, was a pandemic 100 years ago but today it is endemic. Similarly, in the case of Covid-19, we expect it will gradually become endemic from its current state of being a pandemic,” says Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Indican Council for Medical Research’s epidemiology division. For the Modi government though, the way the pandemic plays out over the coming months is of crucial concern with the all-important Uttar Pradesh elections due in February 2022. The state government is installing oxygen plants and hopes its vaccination drive will ensure that the horrific scenes witnessed in the second wave in UP aren’t repeated. The rebooted Modi government has a big stake in getting its act together in tackling the pandemic. Its political future may be riding on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||‘Pressure fuse’ used in bombs dropped on Jammu IAF station indicates role of Pak military||The ‘pressure fuse’ used in the bombs that were dropped on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu through drones in a first-of-its-kind attack indicates that some elements of the Pakistan army or the ISI helped terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba in fabricating the IEDs, according to security sources. The improvised explosive device (IED) that pierced the rooftop of one of the IAF buildings at the Jammu airport carried less than one kg of RDX and a cocktail of other chemicals whereas the one that was dropped on the ground contained a little over one kg of the deadly explosives along with some ball bearings, they said. The sources said the IED used in the June 27 attack on the IAF station ‘definitely’ used the technical expertise of the Pakistani military. The ‘pressure fuse’ used is similar to the ones used by the Pakistani army. A ‘pressure fuse’ is generally used in minefields, anti-tank mines and those dropped by the air force in the fuselage between the explosive and main detonator of a shell or an IED. The explosive devices are activated by the pressure of either falling on the ground with force or some individual or vehicle passing over it. However, in these sophisticated IEDs, the 'pressure fuse' had been deployed at the nose of the bombs so that they trigger with a force after falling on the ground, the sources said. Most of the artillery shells and mortar bombs have this type of fuse and that's why they don't explode in the air but on impact, they explained. Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh had said earlier that Pakistan-based terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba were suspected to be behind the bombing of the IAF station in Jammu through drones, which may have come from across the border. The National Investigation Agency took over the investigation into what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations in India on June 29. Two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions that took place within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari on the outskirts of Jammu. The second one was on the ground. It is mentionable that Pakistan has been procuring armed drones from China and Turkey of late. The sources said drones can fly up to three hours and can be monitored and manoeuvred remotely through Global Positioning System technology. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. In September last year, five Lok Sabha members from the YSR Congress, in a written question, had asked whether the government had issued any guidelines in the light of the possibility of drones being used as weapons of attack on high-security installations. The then Minister of State for Home G K Reddy had stated, “In order to counter the threat of drones in the country, necessary guidelines have been issued, which include measures to be taken by the central and the state governments in consultation with the security agencies.” Earlier in March last year, four Lok Sabha members and a BJP leader had asked whether the government had formulated a comprehensive policy to prevent attacks by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on vital security installations. In a written reply, the then Minister of State for Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said, “The government had issued a standard operating procedure to prevent drone attacks on vital installations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy's custodial death unjustified, says Shiv Sena MP||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the death of Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists are "more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists". In his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut wondered whether India's foundation was so weak that an 84-year-old man could can wage a war against it, and said being critical of an incumbent government doesn't mean being against the country. Swamy, 84, possibly the oldest person to be accused of terrorism in India, died in a Mumbai hospital recently in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. "A government that is scared of an 84-year-old physically challenged man is dictatorial in character, but weak in the mind," said Raut, who is the executive editor of 'Saamana'. The activities of the Elgar Parishad cannot be supported, but what happened later should be called a "conspiracy of cracking down on freedom", Raut said, referring to the arrest of activists like Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gaurav Navlakha and others in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Raut said all those arrested (in the case), including (scholar-activist) Anand Teltumbde, belong to a particular ideology who voice their rebellion through literature. "Can they overthrow the government with this?" he asked. Raut said Stan Swamy died in custody while Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with those who want autonomy for Kashmir and are demanding restoration of Article 370 there. "We may not agree with the ideology of Maoists and Naxals. Swamy's death in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists and Naxals are more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists," the Rajya Sabha member said. He expressed surprise over Prime Minister Modi's name figuring in the list of global leaders who crack down on press freedom. "The situation has not gone out of hand in India even if it is true that the government's critics are put in jail under sedition laws. The Indian press also raises its voice against such incidents," he said. "Is the country's foundation so weak that it can be threatened by an 84-year-old man?" Raut asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Yogi unveils population control draft bill to eliminate 'hurdle'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the increasing population was a "hurdle in development" and that more efforts are needed to control it. He was speaking during a function held at his official residence here on the occasion of World Population Day. Unveiling the Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030, Adityanath said, "Across the world, from time to time, concerns have been expressed that increasing population can be a hurdle in development, and for the past four decades discussions on it are going on." "The countries and states which have made efforts in this direction have seen positive results. However, more efforts are needed in this regard," he said, adding that the UP government was implementing this policy keeping in mind all sections of the society. The unveiling of the policy comes days after a draft of the population control bill was put up on the state law commission website. The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution. It also says that anyone violating two-child policy in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies elections, from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, and receiving any kind of government subsidy. Listing incentives for public servants who adopt the two-child norm, the draft bill says, "Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer's contribution fund under national pension scheme."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
11-07-2021||India||Delhi schools to open for training & meeting purposes||Auditoriums and assembly halls in Delhi schools will be allowed to be used for training and meeting purposes but physical teaching and learning will continue to remain suspended, stated a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The order issued by DDMA on Saturday said that the auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions can be used for training and meeting purposes with a 50 per cent seating capacity limit. All schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed and online or distance learning will be permitted, said the order. Other prohibited activities and services include cinema halls, multiplexes, spas, theatres, entertainment parks, political, social, cultural festivals and such other gatherings. These were banned with the imposition of lockdown in Delhi on April 19 due to surging Covid infections. Public transport, including Delhi Metro, will continue to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity. DTC and cluster buses will also run with 50 per cent seating capacity, the order stated. Activities that are prohibited and restricted will remain so till 5 am on July 26, said the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Twitter names resident grievance officer for India to comply with IT Rules||Amid tensions with the government, Twitter has appointed a Resident Grievance Officer, days after it designated a chief compliance officer, as it also released its first India Transparency Report to meet the new IT rules. The US social media giant's website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedure for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms. Twitter had previously appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force on May 26. However, Chatur stepped down within weeks of taking over the key role. California-based Jeremy Kessel was named as India's grievance redressal officer, on the platform's website - although the appointment did not meet the requirements of IT rules that clearly mandate key officers - grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer - to be resident in India. Twitter's website on Sunday showed Vinay Prakash as the Resident Grievance Officer (RGO). Users can contact him using an email ID listed on the page. "Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042," the page further said. Prakash's name appears along with Kessel, who is the Global Legal Policy Director, and is based in the US. Twitter did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer. Twitter has also published its maiden compliance report. In its India Transparency Report: User Grievances and Proactive Monitoring July 2021 report, Twitter said it had received 94 grievances and "actioned" 133 URLs between May 26 and June 25, 2021. Twitter said the majority of complaints received via Grievance Officer - India channel during the reporting period fell into categories including defamation (20), Abuse/Harassment (6), Sensitive Adult Content (4), Impersonation and privacy infringement (3 each), IP-related Infringement (1), and Misinformation/Synthetic and Manipulated Media (1). In addition to this, Twitter processed 56 grievances which were appealing Twitter account suspensions. In a separate category - 'Proactive Monitoring Data', Twitter said 18,385 accounts were suspended over the issue of Child Sexual Exploitation, Non-Consensual Nudity, and similar content, while 4,179 accounts were suspended for Promotion of Terrorism. However, the 'Proactive Monitoring Data' -- content proactively identified by employing internal tools and industry hash sharing initiatives -- represents global actions taken, and not just actions related to content from India. Twitter noted that going forward, it will publish this report on a monthly basis and that it will make improvements over time, based on feedback received from the government, or in accordance with internal changes that allow it to provide more granular data. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 50 lakh users) are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The new IT rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. The rules also mandate appointment of three key personnel - grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer. These officials need to be resident in India. The Indian government had confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the IT rules, despite repeated reminders. Twitter -- which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India -- lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Ashwini Vaishnaw, who has recently taken charge as Information Technology Minister, had on Thursday said all those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. On the same day, Twitter had informed the Delhi High Court that it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer (CCO), who is a resident of India, and that it will make an endeavour to fill the regular position within eight weeks as per the IT rules. In an affidavit, Twitter had said Twitter has posted publicly a job announcement for a CCO as a direct employee and is accepting applications at this time. Twitter will endeavour in good faith to make an offer of employment to a qualified candidate to fill this position within 8 weeks . Earlier, Twitter had advertised for filling the positions of Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Officer and Resident Grievance Officer in India on the careers section on its website. The Delhi High Court had granted two weeks' to Twitter Inc to file an affidavit, notarised in the US, on compliance with the IT rules and had made it clear that it was not extending any protection to the microblogging platform. The High Court had said the centre was free to take action against Twitter Inc in case of any breach of the IT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||India records 41,506 Covid-19 cases in a day, 895 fatalities||With 41,506 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,37,222, while the active cases declined to 4,54,118, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,08,040 with 895 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.47 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed A decrease of 915 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,43,500 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,08,85,470. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.25 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.32 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,75,064 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.60 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 895 new fatalities include 494 from Maharashtra and 109 from Kerala. A total of 4,08,040 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,25, 528 from Maharashtra, 35,779 from Karnataka, 33,371 from Tamil Nadu, 25,012 from Delhi, 22,693 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,903 from Bengal and 16,177 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Mother gone, teens cry to sleep but shield siblings||In a small, colourfully painted house on India’s eastern coast, G. Sonali Reddy cooks meals and feeds her younger siblings by day and rocks them to sleep at night, hoping to assuage their fears, just as her mother would. Sonali, still a child at 14, is her family’s caretaker. Several years ago, her father took his own life after the failure of the family’s business selling spare trolley parts. Then in May, her mother, Sabita, contracted Covid-19 as a calamitous wave of infections swept across India. Within hours of reaching the closest city hospital with medical oxygen, Sabita was dead. “My mother kept us safe like an umbrella does, from the heat and rain of life,” said Sonali, holding back tears. “I imagine her being close to me. That’s what keeps me going.” Sonali and her siblings are among more than 3,000 Indian children who have been orphaned during the pandemic, according to state governments. They are a heart-rending testament to the devastation wrought on families as the coronavirus has erased hundreds of thousands of lives across the country. States have announced compensation for each orphan, along with promises of food and free education. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed in a tweet to “ensure a life of dignity and opportunity” for the children. But advocates fear that when the attention inevitably fades, the orphans will be left susceptible to neglect and exploitation. Already, the children, shell-shocked in some cases from the loss of their entire families, have found it difficult to obtain death certificates to qualify for government benefits. Some will also find it hard to return to school. In the longer term, the many orphans from poor families in remote areas face the risk of human trafficking and child marriage. “The government is trying to save its face as the catastrophic tragedy ravaged India,” said Medha Pande, a law student at Delhi University who has written about sociolegal issues arising from the pandemic. “They came out looking unprepared,” she added. “They are just creating a subgroup out of a larger group of vulnerable children, saying they can easily look after them.” On a recent morning, officials in the village of Pattapur, in Odisha, arrived at Sonali’s home, where her maternal grandmother moved in after her daughter’s death. They had come to deliver an “orphan pension” to the children, enough money to last for the summer. Bank accounts were opened in their names. The officials dropped off large bags of rice. Saucer-eyed, Sonali listened carefully as they rattled off a list of instructions for using her bank account. Her siblings — Jagabalia, 8, and Bhabana, 5 — looked on listlessly, clutching their sister’s blue dress. Even before her mother’s death, the family had a meagre existence. Newly widowed, Sabita opened a small snack shop in the front room of their home. She spent what little money she had to provide after-school study for Sonali. With her father gone, Sonali was especially close to her mother. “My siblings beg me: ‘We want to go to mummy,’” Sonali said as she fiddled with her thumbs. “When our father passed away, we thought, ‘At least mummy is there.’ Now, the virus has taken her away too.” Hundreds of miles away in the southern city of Hyderabad, G. Sathwik Reddy, 13 — no relation to Sonali — hears similar pleas from his sister after their parents died during the peak of India’s recent wave of infections. When his sister, Haanvi, 3, asks for “mummy” and “daddy,” he tells her simply: “They will come home tomorrow.” Their father, Gopal, had a small business making iron fences for farms. Like millions of middle-class Indian families, they saved as much as they could to send their children to a private school. Their mother, Deepa, cooked special chicken dishes for her children every Sunday and helped Sathwik with his homework. In April, Gopal, Deepa and the children’s grandmother contracted the virus within days of each other. With chronic oxygen shortages in India and hospitals turning away patients, the family worried about their chances. Once at a hospital, Deepa became gravely ill. She remained intubated for two weeks, unconscious. Gopal’s lungs, too, rapidly deteriorated. By early May, all three were dead. At the crematory, Sathwik saw his father’s face for a brief moment from behind a plastic sheet. He became numb with shock. Now, he often cries himself to sleep. “I must stay strong for my sister,” he said. In the dusty plains of northern India, Shawez Saifi, 18, also finds himself sniffing back tears in the dark of night, when his sister jolts awake, screaming out for their mother. Their parents, Shamshad and Shabnam, became sick in April, and Shawez took them to a local doctor, who recommended a coronavirus test. But with little money to go around from the dwindling work that father and son did on construction sites, Shabnam suggested that they return to their home in Murad Nagar to recuperate. The children slept on the veranda outside their one-room shack while the parents locked themselves inside. After their condition quickly worsened, they moved to a relative’s house. A few days later, Shabnam was dead. Her husband died a few days after that. When Shawez, who had given up his studies to work with his father, returned home without his parents, the landlord had locked them out, saying he would give them the key only after the rent was paid. His uncle borrowed money to cover some of the debt so that Shawez and his siblings could collect their belongings. Shawez’s younger sister, Kahkashan, 9, has been hit the hardest. Nearly every day, she picks up the phone and dials her mother, talking to her as if she were on the other end. “Mother, when will you come? I miss you,” she says. “My only dream is to educate my siblings,” Shawez said. “My mother would call me when I would be out for work and ask, ‘Son, it is getting late. When will you come home?’ Now no one will call me anymore,” he said. In Pattapur, Sonali, too, feels as if she has lost her most powerful protector. In a thick diary, on the page next to the one on which she has noted the dates of her parents’ deaths, Sonali jotted a poem dedicated to her mother. On a recent day, she read it aloud to her siblings. Undergoing the ups and downs of life, our mother brings us up. Our mother is the tallest in this world, she is the one who can keep us well. This world is barren without mother, this world is not the same place without her. Mother bears the pain on our behalf, but we fail to bear the pain on mother’s behalf. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Village Cooking Channel gets YouTube badge after hitting 1 crore subscribers||For years, Subramani, his brothers and cousins had dreamt of leaving the country and working as chefs in places like America, Thailand or Malaysia. None had ever cooked even for a roadside eatery. But in southern Tamil Nadu’s Chettinad region — famous for its cuisine with its unique blend of pastes and spices — even the men in many families not just cook regularly but take pride in their expertise and innovation. Then, in 2018, Subramani and two others from the family saw their hopes dashed when their efforts to secure employment in the US fell through at the last moment. However, amid the gloom came the spark of a bright idea. “We asked ourselves, why not make cookery videos on the splendorous variety of Chettinad cuisine and upload them on YouTube?” Subramani, who is in his 30s, told The Telegraph. So began their rural start-up, the Village Cooking Channel, in early 2019, with the participation of cousins Subramani, Murugesan, Ayyanar, Muthumanickam and Tamilselvan— all in their 30s — and their 75-year-old grandfather Periyathambi. The channel hit 1 crore subscribers last month to win YouTube’s “diamond play button” and left chief minister M.K. Stalin deeply moved on July 4 by donating Rs 10 lakh towards Covid relief. No cookery group from south India has ever before notched a diamond play button, which YouTube awards to creators of channels that have over 1 crore subscribers. Subramani credits the surge in subscribers to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had in January-end this year featured as a guest in one of the group’s videos and participated in cooking “mushroom biryani”. “Our channel averaged 10,000 viewers for months, but after Rahul Gandhi joined us it suddenly crossed 30,000 subscribers,” Subramani said. The surge continued over the next five months, with the 1 crore mark attained by the third week of June. This despite the lessons being in Tamil, without English subtitles, and despite the pandemic having forced the group to cut down the number of videos from three to four a week to just one a week. Grandfather Periyathambi, the main chef of the channel who has been cooking at home for over 50 years, said he felt deeply emotional when the silver-paper-wrapped designer suitcase from YouTube arrived from California in early July, bringing the diamond play button. “If I can get this recognition at 75, all the credit goes to the viewers of our cookery videos the world over,” he said, voice choking. “Heartiest congratulations to the Village Cooking Channel for their ever-expanding viewership,” Rahul wrote on his Facebook page on July 5, sharing a link to his interaction with them. “I also congratulate them for the much appreciated gesture of making a significant donation to the Tamil Nadu Covid relief fund. Looking forward to seeing you all again someday.” Meals for all The channel’s videos provide recipes and cooking lessons, with the group’s six members filming themselves preparing various Chettinad dishes under the open sky. They sometimes cook entire multi-course meals in one session. So far, they have uploaded 172 videos. While they mostly cooked in their village of Chinnaveeramangalam in Pudukkottai district, 420km from Chennai, in the pre-Covid days they often travelled to a different village to shoot their videos, the idea being to change the background visuals and avoid monotony. If the village was nearby, they carried the large pots and other utensils, ingredients and firewood on their heads. If it was far off — they once travelled to Tuticorin, 200km away — they hired pick-up vehicles. Whether in their village or elsewhere, the group — which focused on “bulk cooking” for a large number of people — distributed the food among local people and nearby orphanages and old-age homes. The group cooks both vegetarian and meat dishes. It uses fish, crabs and snails from local streams besides eggs and mutton, Subramani said. During the group’s pre-Covid travels, “we went for lobsters in areas close to the sea”. In keeping with tradition, they cook only over firewood and use stone grinders in preparing the pastes and powders. The Covid outbreak, however, not just put a stop to their travels but wrecked the group’s overseas ambitions a second time just when its younger members were thinking of using the channel’s popularity to secure assignments at foreign hotels. But it turned into a blessing in disguise, thanks to Rahul. The big break Rahul had been campaigning in Karur in January-end for the April Tamil Nadu elections when the local Congress MP, Jothi Mani, suggested he meet Subramani’s group. “I was so impressed by the group’s simplicity, enthusiasm and compassion that I mentioned this channel to Rahul Gandhi,” Jothi Mani told this newspaper. “We thought of taking him to their village in Pudukkottai (172km from Karur) but as Rahul’s election tour had already been finalised, we brought the group for a cookery session to a village near Karur with great difficulty (because of the Covid restrictions).” “I enjoyed the food; it’s excellent Tamil food,” Rahul is heard saying in the video. He promised to help the group get in touch with his “friend in the US” (Sam Pitroda) to see whether he could organise a cooking event for the channel at Chicago. “That was how we could not only set up a new benchmark but earn more and contribute Rs 10 lakh to the chief minister’s Covid relief fund,” Subramani said. The group’s earnings come from YouTube advertisements. After they met Stalin at the state secretariat in Chennai and handed over the cheque, the chief minister told reporters he was deeply impressed at such a small group donating so large a sum. While Rahul’s backing helped, the channel’s fans believe the group owe their success to themselves. “Your cooking is very clean; congratulations,” Sujatha, a homemaker, commented on a recent video showing “mutton liver biryani cooking”. “I like one thing; they are helping poor people. I am proud of them,” wrote another YouTube watcher, Sravan Patel. “You guys are great ambassadors of amazing India,” wrote a third while a fourth suggested they introduce English subtitles. MPhil chef Subramani’s family has 10 acres of farmland but the dry Chettinad climate means it lies fallow six months a year, which made it necessary for the young men to look for greener pastures elsewhere. Subramani has a master’s and an MPhil in commerce but that he set his hopes on becoming an international chef rather than seeking a regular office job probably owes to the importance of cuisine to Chettinad’s culture. Chettinad, which sprawls 1,550sqkm across the Sivaganga and Pudukkottai districts, is home to the Nagarathars or Chettiars, traditionally a community of bankers. It’s known mostly for its food and architecture. While small Chettinad hotels and eateries are common in Tamil Nadu, its cuisine had hardly been explored outside, Subramani said. “We are now looking at how to improve the quality of our videos,” he added. Chettinad cuisine is essentially family-based, with the cooking skills passed down from one generation to another, said Sivakumar, who runs a Chettinad restaurant in Karaikudi town near Chinnaveeramangalam. “What makes Chettinad food stand out is that apart from a lot of masala, we use lots of curd. No synthetic stuff is used,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Doyen of Ayurveda passes away at 100||Dr P.K. Warrier, doyen of Ayurveda and managing trustee of Arya Vaidya Sala (AVS), Kottakkal, passed away here on Saturday, family sources said. He was 100. In his lifetime, Dr Warrier treated tens of thousands of people from across the globe and his patients included former Presidents and Prime Ministers. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Dr Warrier was instrumental in leading Ayurveda to global fame and acceptance. Dr Warrier worked towards ensuring that money should not be a barrier to treatment. “He was the patriarch of Ayurveda in Kerala,” Vijayan said. The renowned Arya Vaidya Sala in Kottakkal near here and the Ayurveda Medical College flourished and became synonymous with Ayurveda after Dr Warrier took up the reins of the institution decades ago. The country had honoured him with the Padma Shri in 1999 and the Padma Bhushan in 2010. Born to Sreedharan Namboodiri and Panniyampilly Kunhi Warrisyar in June 1921, Panniyampilly Krishnankutty Warrier did his schooling in Kottakkal and joined AVS at the age of 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh population draft bill proposes two-child policy, stringent measures for violators||Uttar Pradesh is set to introduce a two-child norm and anyone violating it will be barred from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs, receiving any kind of government subsidy and contesting local body elections, according to a draft of the proposed population control bill. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) has said the provisions are part of the draft Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The UPSLC website says: “The State Law Commission, UP, is working on control, stabilisation and welfare of the population of the state and has prepared a draft bill.” Suggestions have been invited from the public to improve the draft bill and they have to be submitted by July 19. The draft bill says: “Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances, and three per cent increase in the employer’s contribution fund under the national pension scheme.” A State Population Fund will be constituted for the purpose of implementing the act. A.N. Mittal, the UPSLC chairman, said: “There is a provision in the draft that those who have two children will receive the benefits of the state government’s schemes quickly. They will get houses at a subsidised rate. Those who have more than two children wouldn’t be given such benefits. Ration will be granted for up to four members per family. Those violating the two-child policy will not receive the benefits of government schemes.” Asked about the apprehension of the minority communities that the provisions would work against them and that they had been planned keeping next year’s Assembly elections in mind, Mittal said: “The bill doesn’t have anything to do with elections or a community. It was to be done in any case.” A government source said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said at a meeting with officials on Friday that the administration would launch a campaign to sensitise people about population-control measures. “Poverty and lack of literacy are the main reasons behind population expansion,” the official quoted Adityanath as saying. Listing the government’s duties, the draft bill says maternity centres will be established at all primary health centres. The centres and NGOs will distribute contraceptive pills and condoms, spread awareness about family planning methods through community health workers and ensure mandatory registration of pregnancies, deliveries, births and deaths across the state. The draft bill also says that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools. The draft bill says: “In Uttar Pradesh, there are limited ecological and economic resources at hand. It is necessary and urgent that the provision of basic necessities of human life including affordable food, safe drinking water, decent housing, access to quality education, economic/livelihood opportunities, power/electricity for domestic consumption, and a secure living is accessible to all citizens.” It is necessary to control, stabilise the population of the state for promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution, it adds. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||UP poll violence: India never witnessed this kind of anarchy, says Congress spokesperson||Videos showing a senior Uttar Pradesh police officer narrating how he was slapped by people who were carrying sticks, bricks and bombs. A Congress leader pointing to the torn papers and broken bangles of his wife who was prevented from filing her nomination for the heartland state’s block pramukh elections, held on Saturday. A BJP leader and a supporter of a ruling party MP being arrested after being accused of pulling the saris of a woman candidate and her proposer. An IAS officer assaulting a journalist. These will remain some of the abiding images of the local body election, marred by violence and abductions of block development council members — the sole voters in the election. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India had never witnessed this kind of anarchy in any election. “When did we see elections of this kind? Kidnappings, threats, blackmail, violence, attacks on women — what is going on?” she told The Telegraph. “In the 21st century, we want blood on the streets, women being disrobed, goons running amok with guns and bombs? If the BJP can go to this extent in local polls, imagine what they will do in the Assembly elections?” Saturday’s elections were held to elect the heads of the block development councils (BDCs), the second tier of the panchayat system. Earlier, violence had been reported during the polls to elect the chiefs of the top tier, zilla panchayats. The BJP had performed badly in the April polls to elect panchayat members but has since then managed to win the majority of zilla (district) heads and, according to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, has now won most of the block pramukh posts. Shrinate dismissed the BJP’s claim that local body polls under Samajwadi Party rule too had witnessed extreme violence and coercion, and that the violence was worse during the recent Bengal Assembly polls. “What the country witnessed in Uttar Pradesh is unprecedented. And if violence happened in the past, should that be an inspiration?” Shrinate said. “Violence was always wrong and must stop. What is shocking is that the violence is happening under State patronage; police are either helping the goons or watching silently. The buck stops with the chief minister — he has to take responsibility.” Congress leaders recalled how the BJP had kicked up a row over the post-poll violence in Bengal, with the governor running a campaign against the state government and the Prime Minister and Union home minister getting involved. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Violence has been renamed masterstroke in Uttar Pradesh.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had tweeted on Friday: “Some years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against the BJP MLA who was involved. There were attempts to finish off her entire family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop a woman from filing nomination. The same government, the same behaviour.” The state Congress posted a video in which party general secretary Vidit Chowdhary described how his wife Sangeeta had been stopped from filing her nomination. “She had already filed the first set of papers. It was taken out by some people and torn. They manhandled her; you can see the broken pieces of bangles and injuries on her neck and hands,” Chowdhary says. “The second set of papers was torn by the BJP MLA, Devendra Singh Lodhi, himself. When we tried submitting the third set, they said the time was over.” Shrinate said: “What is the message we are sending? With great difficulty, women step out to enter public life and you are indulging in such violence to tell (them) to stay indoors? This is a step against women’s empowerment. “The world has seen that video in which goons tried to disrobe a woman. If this can be done to an elected representative, imagine what ordinary women would be facing daily. It’s shameful that the BJP’s top leadership is silent. The BJP has 11 women MPs and four women ministers from Uttar Pradesh, and none cared to utter a word.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||BJP ‘sweeps’ Uttar Pradesh block pramukh polls marred by violence||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath “announced” the results of Saturday’s Uttar Pradesh block pramukh polls before the state election commission (SEC) did, raising further questions about an election marred by allegations of the BJP kidnapping voters and the official machinery working “like party cadre”. By the time Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his congratulations on the BJP’s “bumper victory” about two hours later, the state poll panel had still not officially declared the results. Elections were held only to 476 of the state’s 825 block pramukh seats, with candidates elected unopposed in the remaining 349 or 42 per cent of seats, state election commissioner Manoj Kumar said. Adityanath said 334 of these 349 winners were from his party, a claim consistent with allegations of violence to prevent Opposition candidates from filing nomination, including women aspirants’ saris being pulled, papers snatched and torn, and bangles smashed — all in front of returning officers and police. While Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav condemned what he called the BJP’s “naked dance”, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate feared this was a preview of the upcoming Assembly elections that the BJP is desperate to win. “Kidnappings, threats, blackmail, violence, attacks on women... goons running amok with guns and bombs — if the BJP can go to this extent in local polls, imagine what they would do in the Assembly elections,” she said. Saturday’s polls were meant to elect the heads of block development councils (BDCs) — the second tier of the panchayati raj system — whose members had been elected during the state-wide rural polls in April. BDC members alone vote in the pramukh elections. Around 6.24pm, Adityanath held a news conference to say: “We have won 635 of the 825 seats, including 334 where we won unopposed.” He betrayed no trace of irony as he added: “It’s a victory of democracy. The people voted against casteism, communalism and professional criminals.” At 8.12pm, Modi tweeted in Hindi: “The BJP has registered its victory in the block pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh. The benefits of the government’s policies and welfare schemes are reflected in the bumper victory. All the party workers deserve to be congratulated.” State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and party spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi blamed the violence on the Samajwadis. Yet Lakhimpur Kheri district BJP president Yash Verma and Brij Singh, said to be a supporter of party MP Rekha Verma, have been arrested on the charge of preventing a candidate from filing her nomination on Thursday and pulling her sari and that of her proposer and fellow BDC member. A Congress general secretary has accused BJP MLA Devendra Singh Lodhi of tearing his wife’s nomination papers, saying the jostling left her with broken bangles and injuries to her neck and hands. There were allegations of BJP supporters breaking several journalists’ cameras on Saturday. News channels showed sporadic clashes between BJP and Samajwadi workers. Umesh Kumar, a BDC member from Firozabad, said: “I had gone to cast my vote in Lotan block but someone snatched the voter’s slip from my hands and pushed me out of the room.” Kumar is a supporter of Ashish Singh, an Independent pramukh candidate. Surendra Mani Tripathi, the BJP candidate, said he had not heard of the incident. Kidnappings The alleged spate of attempted and successful kidnappings of BDC members to prevent them voting — with the fingers pointed mostly at the BJP — has already led to murder. The husband of a BJP pramukh candidate is among five named in the murder of Mayaram, whose family says he was hit with a rifle butt while resisting the kidnapping of sister-in-law and BDC member Yadurai Devi in Bharaich on Friday. On Saturday, a BDC member from village Thathar in Sant Kabir Nagar, Ajay Kumar Yadav, alleged that BJP supporters had kidnapped him at gunpoint on Friday afternoon from the funeral of his father and held him captive for four hours. Ajay’s uncle Chandrabhan Yadav said the BDC member was in his car watching mourners prepare for his father Maniram’s cremation on the Saryu’s banks, when “some people arrived in four SUVs fitted with BJP flags and kidnapped him at gunpoint”. “We took my brother’s body to Dhanghata-Umariya Bazar and sat on a dharna. The kidnappers dropped Ajay back at the ghat around 7pm,” Chandrabhan said. Ajay said: “They blindfolded me and drove for about 30 minutes. I was pushed into a room. Later, two kidnappers dropped me back in one of the SUVs.” Badri Prasad Yadav, the district BJP president, said: “Ajay planned his own kidnapping with Opposition members to malign us.” Rohit Prasad, the local station house officer, said the police were probing the kidnapping complaint. In Ghazipur, however, the Samajwadis faced kidnapping charges. A complainant, Ram Pyare, told the police that Akshay Raj Prajapati, son of Samajwadi-supported candidate Mohra Devi, had abducted his elder sister Binda Devi, a BDC member from Jaitpur. “They kidnapped her two days ago but the police registered a case only on Friday evening. My sister has not returned home,” he told reporters. Ghazipur city superintendent of police Om Prakash Singh said investigations were on. Additional reporting by Sanjay K. Jha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Joe Biden nominates Los Angeles mayor to head American diplomatic mission in India||US President Joe Biden on Friday nominated close associate and Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti to head the American diplomatic mission in India, the move prompting many Angelenos to rejoice at seeing the back of the controversial politician and wish India luck. The long-anticipated nomination of Garcetti, who had studied Hindi and Urdu for a year in college, now needs clearance from the Senate. Garcetti is known to have the President’s ear — he is among those who had urged Biden to run in 2016 and was co-chair of the successful 2020 presidential campaign. He was also one of the four members of the search committee that picked Indian American Kamala Harris to be Biden’s running mate. Garcetti, a climate advocate, has been mayor of America’s second-largest city since 2013, following 12 years as member of the city council. He has travelled several times to India. According to the White House brief on Garcetti, he led Los Angeles’s successful bid to host the 2028 summer Olympic Games. He co-founded the bipartisan Climate Mayors network and led more than 400 US mayors to adopt the Paris Climate Agreement. As an intelligence officer in the US Navy Reserve Component, Garcetti had served under the commander of the US Pacific Fleet, and with the Defence Intelligence Agency. He has lived and conducted fieldwork on nationalism, ethnicity and human rights in Southeast Asia and Northeast Africa. But a vocal segment of Los Angeles residents holds a poor view of Garcetti, going by the social media comments posted since the White House picked the pro-immigrant politician for New Delhi. No sooner had Garcetti announced his nomination from his official social media handles than the floodgates opened on Twitter and Instagram, with users essentially saying “good riddance”, peppered with expletives. The People’s City Council-Los Angeles tweeted: “Never forget Eric Garcetti’s legacy in Los Angeles: really ineffectual leadership that at its best was just self-serving, but at its worst was very deadly. He gave $3 billion to LAPD (Los Angeles Police Department) every year and he marched… under a Blue Lives Matter flag. #GoodRiddanceGarcetti.” Blue Lives Matter is a counter-movement in the US advocating that those convicted of killing law-enforcement officers should be sentenced under hate crime statutes. The Los Angeles chapter of Black Lives Matter said: “Eric Garcetti, the mayor of increasing police budgets, gentrification, displacement and appropriator of movement language, is finally leaving LA.” Many such posts made the hashtag #GoodRiddanceGarcetti trend all day. Some of these posts came with warnings and sympathy for India. Angel Martinez tweeted: “Omg, @ericgarcetti. Run. Don’t walk. Do not pass Go. Go directly to your ‘service calling’ to India. Why the @POTUS would consider you for this position is beyond logic. You know you destroyed LA…. Watch out, #India.” Speculation of this posting has been rife in LA for months now, with the “waiting game” pushing the city into what the Los Angeles Journal described as “political purgatory”. For Garcetti, the Journal said, this could be a turning point. “He has been mayor for eight years, and with the coronavirus, an intractable homelessness crisis, harsh media coverage, and occasional protests outside his home, the gig is now a grind. A diplomatic assignment could start a new chapter for the ambitious 50-year-old politician,” the Journal said. Garcetti issued a statement saying he was “honoured” to accept the nomination, which has to be confirmed by the US Senate. If confirmed by the Senate, Garcetti will replace Kenneth Juster, who served as the US ambassador to India during Trump’s tenure. “Today, the President announced that I am his nominee to serve as US ambassador to India. I am honoured to accept his nomination to serve in this role,” Garcetti, a Democrat, said in a statement. In an interview to the Los Angeles Times, Garcetti said the Biden administration had raised the idea of the India posting in early spring. The White House called him on Thursday to finalise his nomination, he said. “It’s the largest democracy in the world, soon to be the most populous country in the world, one of the top handful of superpowers in the world,” Garcetti said. “We can’t get our climate goals without India hitting its climate goals. We can’t see the economy truly reopened to international commerce and tourism until Covid is under control. We’re all very closely connected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
11-07-2021||India||Maneka Gandhi shuts down animal centre after furore on social media||Last year, Maneka Gandhi had rushed into a hate-filled rant on Kerala’s Malappuram district after the death of a pregnant elephant, only to find out through others’ due diligence that the incident had taken place somewhere else. Now, heart-wrenching videos have emerged of a dog being flung against a wall by a para-vet and left bleeding at the BJP parliamentarian and animal rights crusader’s care centre for destitute and rescued animals in the capital. On Saturday, Maneka closed the centre after a furore on social media. While Maneka is known to publicly hound suspects of real or perceived crimes against animals and has also campaigned to end slaughter of any animal, the Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre she runs with sister Ambika Shukla has been mired in controversy. On Monday, Animal Help Media’s Instagram handle tweeted videos of a dog being flung against a wall; the canine bleeding from its mouth, right anterior limb and vagina; and a statement from a girl who described herself as an employee of the centre in west Delhi’s Raja Garden. The dog died. In a video, the girl accused two para-vets named Satyam and Pradeep of cruelty to the dog, and Satyam of assaulting it on its vagina. She also accused them and another employee of threatening her. The phone numbers of both the para-vets, shared in Instagram posts, were switched off. In subsequent videos, the girl, who did not reveal her name, said the dog had died, the post-mortem had been delayed and that police had not written her specific allegations in the FIR. Delhi police officers did not respond to queries on the case from this newspaper. Maneka, the chairperson of the centre, tweeted on Saturday: “Recently a dog was brought in for rescue to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC) in New Delhi. Over the last one year SGACC has been short staffed due to Covid-19 and the two newly hired para-vets were providing support. The rescue took a regrettable turn when the dog — naturally agitated as she was in extreme pain — bit the para-vet, who in turn retaliated with frightful violence. The dog died from her injuries.” She added: “We immediately filed an FIR against the para-vets and they have been arrested. The doctor-in-charge of the section has been given notice to leave…. SGACC has faltered in its mission and needs to be rebuilt again.” Maneka said the centre, started in 1983 on a grant to her late husband Sanjay Gandhi from Australian benefactor Ruth Cowell, would shut on August 1. “It will be closed to any future rescued, and existing animals will be rehabilitated. We will rebuild this institution again — physically (with the entire dog section rebuilt, with new infrastructure) and more importantly, in terms of staffing,” she said. The video went viral after an online petition for action against the centre and government supervision of such institutions was shared even by Maneka’s associates like Noida-based animal rights activist Kaveri Rana Bharadwaj. The Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre has faced allegations in the past as well. In April, a Delhi court had ordered an FIR against Shukla, an administrator of the centre, for not complying with a court directive to return three Persian cats to their lawful owner. The order was later stayed by Delhi High Court. In 2014, a couple had accused the centre of exhuming and dumping without authorisation their dog’s carcass from the facility’s cemetery despite having charged a burial fee. Maneka herself has been at the receiving end of public ire after threatening an Agra veterinarian over the phone to compensate for an allegedly botched-up tubectomy. A purported audio of her telling a police officer in Sitapur, Uttar Pradesh, to slap a man accused of hitting a dog last month was widely shared on social media. The man was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Activists stir up a Twitter storm with #UmarKoRihaKaro to mark 300 days of his arrest||Many activists on Saturday tweeted appeals for the release of human rights activist Umar Khalid, marking 300 days of his arrest on the charge of inciting riots through his protests last year against the new citizenship regime. The Twitter storm with the hashtag #UmarKoRihaKaro comes against the backdrop of Monday’s custody death of Father Stan Swamy, a priest jailed in connection with an alleged Maoist plot, whom activists consider a “prisoner of conscience” like Umar. A cultural event was conducted on Facebook in solidarity with jailed activists and in memory of Fr Stan, at which theatre personalities Danish Hussain and Quasar Thakore Padamsee, singer Moushumi Bhowmik and actor Suhaas Ahuja performed. Poet Nabiya Khan recited a new poem titled You are the Revolution on Umar and other “political prisoners”. Poet Hussain Haidry tweeted: “Whether it is Umar Khalid or Sharjeel Imam or any other young Indian Muslim figure with an original voice, they are being hounded and punished by the State because they have the potential to be the fresh blood of diverse leadership of Muslims in Indian politics.” Manhattan-based author and lawyer Suchitra Vijayan tweeted: “Minute by minute, hour by hour, they stole 300 days from Umar. Every time we remember Umar, every time we speak of their dreams, we reclaim a bit of what is stolen. Let’s reclaim a day. Storm the Twitter with #UmarKoRihaKaro.” Congress social media convener Hasiba Amin drew parallels with a youth who shot and injured a Jamia Millia Islamia student last year, and recently delivered an incendiary speech in Pataudi, Haryana, while out on bail. She tweeted: “300 days of being behind bars for exercising his constitutional right to dissent against an unconstitutional law, while those like Rambhakt Gopal who shoots a gun & threatens to kill Muslims remain free. What a shame!” Others contrasted Umar’s speeches, which called for people to respond to hate with love, with BJP leader Kapil Mishra’s threats to anti-CAA protesters. All India Students’ Association president N. Sai Balaji tweeted: “It has been 300 days since arrest of #UmarKhalid. The UAPA case filed by Delhi Police is fictitious & politically motivated, devoid of any substance as shown by Delhi HC in its bail order of Asif, Devangana & Natasha. #UmarKoRihaKaro #ReleaseAllPoliticalprisoners #RepealUAPA.” The three activists, charged in the same case as Umar, were recently released on bail with Delhi High Court highlighting flaws in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Odisha DGP airlifts jawans injured in encounter with Maoists ||Odisha director-general of police Abhay airlifted two jawans of the Special Operations Group of the state police, who had suffered bullet injuries in an encounter with suspected Maoists along the Boudh-Kandhamal border on Saturday, and brought them to Bhubaneswar. The DGP, along with director (intelligence), inspector-general (operations) and other senior officers of the department were on a tour of Malkangiri and Koraput districts to review anti-Maoist operations. Abhay cancelled all his engagements after hearing the news of injuries to the SOG jawans during the encounter and rushed to the area in his helicopter. He airlifted the injured jawans to the state capital for treatment. The exchange of fire between the police and Maoists took place in a dense forest on the Boudh-Kandhamal border, around 290km from here. “Based on reliable input an operation was launched under Gochapada police station of Kandhamal district on July 9. During search of the core area, Maoists opened indiscriminate fire on the security forces this morning. Two commandos of SOG sustained bullet injuries. When the DGP heard the news at Sunabeda, he cancelled all his programmes and rushed to Padelpada in Boudh district adjoining Kandhamal district. He himself airlifted the injured jawans to Bhubaneswar. Doctor accompanied him,” said Amitabh Thakur, IG (operations). Later Abhay said: “Two commandos of SOG sustained bullet injuries. Both of them with the help of CRPF were rescued and brought to the road head from the operational area. An IAF helicopter was also requisitioned but could not make it to Padelpada because of bad weather. However, the BSF pilot found an alternative route and safely landed the chopper in a small patch of land. Later we were successful in airlifting the two SOG jawans from Padelpada to Bhubaneswar. Now they are undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Both of them are stable. With the help of the CRPF, Odisha police have intensified its operation against the insurgents.” The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, has constituted a six-member team for the treatment of the injured jawans. Former DGP Sanjeev Marik told reporters: “The fight between police and Maoists is continuing for the last eight hours. It’s a matter of concern. Such a long fight indicates that the rebels have a large quantity of arms and ammunition.” Sources said a number of Maoists have also sustained injuries in the operation but they managed to escape in the dense forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Covid jab shortage forces Odisha govt to suspend vaccine drive in 10 districts||The shortage of Covid-19 vaccines forced the Odisha government to suspend the ongoing vaccination campaign in as many as 10 districts on Saturday. This is the second time this month that the government has been forced to stop the vaccination drive. The districts where vaccination was stopped on Saturday are Balasore, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Kalahandi, Kendrapara, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nayagarh and Sonepur. However, the inoculation drive continued at 308 centres in other parts of the state, said officials. Odisha has 30 districts. “We will intensify the vaccination drive after we get the vaccines. The vaccination programme has got a good response in the state and because of a coordinated effort, there is no wastage of vaccines. The cold chain has been maintained successfully,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph. A senior official said: “We are facing the heat at ground level. The people are pointing fingers at us. There are long queues outside the vaccination centres. If we don’t stop the vaccination programme and continue with a minimal stock, it may lead to a law and order problem. In order to avoid that, we have been forced to stop the vaccination programme for the time being. Once the vaccines arrive in the state, we will expedite the drive. We require at least 31 lakh doses in the month of July.” Currently, the state has only 59,920 doses of Covishield and 393,010 doses of Covaxin. The state has vaccinated 1.32 crore people so far. However, the death toll due to Covid-19 remains a cause of concern for the state. During the last 24 hours, the state reported 58 more deaths due to coronavirus, with the toll touching 4,534. Odisha registered 2,334 new cases on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 937,470. Of the 2,334 new cases, 1,342 were recorded in quarantine centres and 992 detected during contact tracing, a health department official said. Khurda district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 380, followed by Cuttack at 371, and Kendrapara at 196. Eight districts reported new cases each in triple digits. Eleven fresh fatalities were reported from Khurda, seven each from Bargarh and Puri, six each from Ganjam and Sundergarh, four from Sambalpur, three from Kendrapara and two each from Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar and Nayagarh. One each succumbed to the infection in Angul, Gajapati, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kalahandi and Mayurbhanj. This apart, 53 Covid-19 patients in the state have died due to comorbidities. Amid allegations that the state government was suppressing casualty figures, the health department, in a statement, said: “The list does not reflect deaths that have occurred on a particular day. It gives details of past deaths for which the audit process has been duly completed and the cause identified as Covid-19.” Odisha currently has 26,364 active cases, while as many as 906,519 patients, including 3,341 on Friday, have recovered. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||India||Odisha earns praise from Centre for setting up 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures ||Odisha has earned praise from the Centre for setting up 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures in the state to aid water conservation and groundwater recharge ahead of the onset of the southwest monsoon under “Catch the Rain” campaign. Hailing the achievement of the Odisha government, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: “Brilliant effort Odisha! 10,000 Rain water harvesting structures in 75 days across 114 local bodies is a commendable feat. This campaign run under Mukhya Mantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan will help #CatchTheRain at a mammoth scale across the state.” The campaign, which will benefit 114 towns, was completed in 75 days under the Mukhyamantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan Yojana (Mukta). “The Mukta scheme is an urban wage employment scheme that provides opportunities to needy people. The scheme is launched by the chief minister,” said a media release issued by the housing and urban development department of the Odisha government on Friday. Under the scheme, the state government built 5 to 10 rainwater harvesting structures in each ward in small towns, while under municipal corporations, it has built 20 to 25 such structures. The campaign began on April 15 with the aim of constructing rainwater harvesting structures to facilitate in-situ water conservation and ground water recharge in all Odisha towns before the onset of southwest monsoon. These are low-cost structures specially designed based on hydro-geological parameters. The government plans to build at least 15,000 rainwater harvesting structures and has earmarked Rs 70 crore for this project. “Though we are a water surplus state and we receive rainfall that varies from 1,200mm to 1,800mm, most of the rainwater goes waste as we have not developed harvesting structures. Besides, Odisha also faces drought like situation because of the erratic nature of rainfall. “The groundwater level has also depleted. Now with the construction of the rainwater harvesting structures, we can reap the benefits as the groundwater level will always remain charged,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Amit Mitra to step down as Bengal finance minister due to ill health||Noted economist and senior TMC leader Amit Mitra will step down as the Bengal finance minister and even retire from active politics due to ill health, party sources said on Sunday. Seventy-three-year-old Mitra, who has been the state finance minister since 2011 when the TMC came to power after ending the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front, had refrained from contesting this year's assembly elections. "Amit Da will not continue as the state finance minister as he will be completing six months in the post without being elected on November 4. He has already informed the party leadership that he doesn't want to continue in politics and administration due to ill health. "But, due to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's insistence, Mitra had taken charge as the finance minister of the state after the party returned to power for the third time in May this year," a senior TMC leader told PTI on condition of anonymity. Sources quoted by anandabazar.com have also said that Mitra will live with his daughter abroad after stepping down. After Mitra steps down, the chief minister will keep the ministry with her for some time before appointing the next finance minister, another TMC leader said, confirming the development. Mitra was a two-time MLA from Khardah constituency in North 24 Parganas since 2011. Apart from finance, he had also held the industry portfolio from 2014-2021. Due to ill health, Mitra was not present in the vote- on-account in February and state budget last week. Although the budget was prepared by him, the chief minister had presented the vote-on-account in February and state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee had tabled the state budget last week. Mitra, a former FICCI secretary general, has been part of Banerjee's close decision-making team since 2009, when the TMC was part of the UPA-2 and she was the railway minister. After the party came to power in West Bengal in 2011, Mitra has been part of Banerjee's cabinet, and was given the charge of making a financial turnaround of the debt-ridden state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
11-07-2021||West Bengal||KPP shuns John Barla, backs Mamata||Leaders of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP), a political outfit with considerable clout among the Rajbanshis, have unequivocally opposed the recent demand for separate statehood for north Bengal raised by BJP MP and Union minister of state John Barla and some other elected representatives of the saffron camp. The KPP also expressed their confidence in chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “There is no question of supporting the demand of sep¬arate statehood raised by some BJP legislators. We believe it (the demand) is noth¬ing but a political gimmick and (we) will never stand by them (the legislators),”  Chandan Singha, the KPP spokesperson, said here on Saturday. He added that in 1969, the demand for a separate Kamtapur state had been first raised. “In due course, our party was formed over two principal demands, separate statehood and recognition of the Kamtapuri language. A separate state for the Kamtapuri population will always be our aspiration but that does not mean we will stand by the BJP. More importantly, Mamata Banerjee has recognised our language in 2018. She has formed a language academy and is taking initiatives to introduce the language as a medium of instruction in schools. We have full confidence in her and we will continue to stand with her against this recent demand,” added Singha. Such an assertion from the KPP, which is one of the proponents of the demand for sepa¬rate Kamtapur state for the Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) popu¬lation of north Bengal, is expected to bolster the confidence of Trinamul that is vehemently against any parti¬tion of the state, said political observers. “Leaders like John Barla and some others are trying to stoke the sentiments of Rajbanshis and some other communities by harping on separate statehood. At such a time, such assertions from the KPP should help Trinamul thwart the advocates of separate statehood and win the confidence of the Rajbanshis,” said an observer. The KPP leaders, who held an organisational meeting in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri on July 8, said they have restructured the party’s central committee, following the death of their founderpresident Atul Roy last month. According to them, a 25-member committee has been formed at the meeting. “Menoka Roy, our late president’s wife, has been selected as the new president of the party. Also, Amit, their son, has been included in the committee,” said a KPP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 997 new infections and 17 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged the 20th straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 386 to 15,304. On Saturday, the state reported 1,336 recoveries, 997 new infections and 17 deaths, three of them from Calcutta. With Calcutta logging 86 new infections and North 24-Parganas 96, Saturday was the third day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and North Dinajpur, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. North 24-Parganas reported five deaths, Darjeeling one and 17 Bengal districts zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.9 per cent on Saturday, indicating a reducing Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.8 per cent, with the national rate 97.18. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 per cent now and that of the nation is 1.32. Bengal now has a total of over 15.11 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.78 lakh recoveries and 17,903 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt land encroach charge on BJP minister John Barla||Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri filed a complaint with the district magistrate’s office on Friday, alleging Alipurduar BJP MP and new Union minister John Barla has encroached on a government plot for business purposes. “The MP has occupied government land at Chamurchi More in Banarhat (under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district) and is building a commercial-cum-residential complex at the site. We have submitted detailed documents to the administration and have sought necessary steps,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief of Jalpaiguri. Barla, the junior minority affairs minister, is not in north Bengal and has not commented on the allegation. Despite phone calls and WhatsApp messages from this paper, he could not be contacted. Barla shot into the limelight recently by demanding separate statehood or Union Territory status for north Bengal, which left leaders of the Bengal BJP in an awkward position. The Jalpaiguri district administration has initiated action on the Trinamul complaint. DM Moumita Godara Basu has instructed the district land and land reforms department to check the status of the plot at Chamurchi More and submit a report to her. Trinamul insiders said their preliminary findings revealed the plot was government land. “Even so, we want the administration to come out with full details. If our allegation is proved correct, a district-wide movement would be launched against the MP,” said a party leader. A Trinamul leader in Alipurduar town, Dipto Chatterjee, said on Saturday that once the MP is back, they would wave black flags and shout slogans against him to protest his divisive statehood call. “We don’t want him in Alipurduar. He is a man with a separatist mindset.” The Telegraph has checked the affidavit he had filed along with his nomination in 2019 when he had contested in the Lok Sabha polls. In the affidavit, it was stated that his wife owns 6.11 acres of agricultural land that she had bought in 2014. “The affidavit shows he and his wife did not own any non-agricultural land till the day he filed the affidavit. Buildings can’t come up on agricultural land unless a formal conversion of the land’s status is done. There is always a chance that he bought the land (in Trinamul’s allegation) afterwards or taken it on lease but his silence is unusual,” said a political observer. Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP chief, accused Trinamul of political vendetta. “As he is now included in the Union cabinet, Trinamul is coming up with such charges. If the allegations are found false, we will take legal steps against Trinamul,”he  said. Bhusan Modak, convener of Alipurduar district BJP, said: “Only the MP can reply to it (the allegation). As far our party is concerned, we will only comment on it if a state government official and not a political party makes such an allegation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul goes after party state unit chief Dilip on Facebook||A “sigh of relief” appears to have become the latest bone of contention in the Bengal BJP. Babul Supriyo said in a social media post on Saturday that he had not understood “in his full senses” what state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had meant in a purported comment on his exit from the new Narendra Modi ministry earlier this week. Supriyo, the Asansol MP, said in the Facebook post in Bengali: “As state president, Dilipda often says things to his heart’s content. He has said something again, I have heard it. But what is the harm if I don’t understand this time in my full senses why he made such a comment? This is my reaction. I am happy that Dilipda is happy with my ‘sigh of relief’. He is the state president, respected by all. I, too, convey my heartfelt respect to Dilipda.” Ghosh had been quoted as saying by some media outlets that Supriyo had been an active minister, but the chief minister used to abuse him a lot. “Now, Babul must have heaved a sigh of relief,” Ghosh had been quoted as saying while reacting to Supriyo’s exit from Modi’s ministry. Ghosh told reporters on Saturday that he had been “misrepresented”. The Telegraph tried to contact him but calls to his phone went unanswered. The Bengal BJP chief was during the day summoned to Delhi by national president J.P. Nadda for a meeting on Sunday. Sources in the BJP claimed the Midnapore MP had been called over his purported comments on Supriyo, who had posted on social media after the July 7 cabinet shuffle that he had been asked to resign but had later amended his comment to say that he had resigned. Asked why he was going to Delhi, Ghosh said: “I wanted to sit with him (Nadda) after the polls. That didn’t happen. Now he has called me. I will speak to him on the issues I had wanted to.” BJP sources claimed that state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, who has been publicly critical of Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari and Ghosh, could be removed from his post. Khan, who had himself expressed his desire to quit in a Facebook post on July 7 apparently after he was denied a berth in the Union ministry, was unavailable for comment. Three names are doing the rounds as the next probable BJP Yuva Morcha president for Bengal. Biman Ghosh, the BJP MLA of Purshura and a close aide of Ghosh, is said to be the frontrunner. Amid growing speculation that Supriyo and Khan could be showcaused over their public comments, Saptarshi Chowdhury, the in-charge of the BJP’s Bengal media cell, issued a statement saying no such notice had been issued. Sources close to both MPs told this newspaper none of them had received any notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Centre starts process to build new road bridge over Teesta river after getting approval from railways||The Centre has started the process to build a new road bridge over the Teesta river that would connect the Sevoke Bazaar area with the Dooars, a longstanding demand of residents, with necessary approval from the railways to construct the approach road to it on railway land. On Saturday, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista said this March, he raised the issue in Parliament. “Recently, I received a letter from the Union minister of state for road transport & highways (Gen V.K. Singh) saying preparation of the detailed project report of the proposed bridge is in progress. Also, the ministry sought and obtained the right of way (RoW) from the railway ministry for construction of the approach road of the bridge, along with certain modifications,” said Bista. The Union minister said the bridge project was included under the National Infra¬structure Pipeline (NIP) programme for 20232024 fiscal. Till now, the most popular route to access the Dooars from Siliguri and the hills is NH 31 that moves through the Coronation Bridge in Sevoke, some 25km from Siliguri. But in 2011, cracks were noticed in some parts of the Coronation Bridge built over the Teesta in 1941. The state PWD impose a ban on vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above on the bridge. Since then, heavy vehicles bound for the Dooars take detours via Jalpaiguri, raising the demand for a bridge parallel to Coronation Bridge but a little down¬stream to avoid hilly terrain. “Accordingly, it was decid¬ed that a 1.6kmlong and 13mwide bridge will be built to link Sevoke Bazaar with Ellenbarrie tea estate,” said a source. Rakesh Asthana, the BSF directorgeneral, reached north Bengal on Saturday for a twoday visit. Asthana reached the north Bengal frontier of the BSF at Kadamtala on the outskirts of Siliguri to a warm welcome from senior officers. On Day One, he visited the Teenbigha Corridor on the IndiaBangladesh border and the in¬tegrated checkpost in Fulbari and witnessed the joint retreat ceremony of India and Bangladesh. Asthana also inaugurated two new border outposts and a 120men barrack at the station headquarters of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty faces ‘unrest’ charge||A human rights activist on Saturday lodged a complaint with Santiniketan police, charging Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his associates “with creating social and economic unrest” by withholding salaries and pensions of around 4,000 present and past employees of the central varsity. Secretary of the Bolpur unit of Association for Protection of Democratic Rights  Sailen Mishra, said the decision to halt salary and pension was part of a “criminal conspiracy by varsity authorities” that affected employees, pensioners and local traders. Visva-Bharati pays around Rs 23 crore a month towards salary, pension of employees and ex-employees and pay of contract/temporary staff. Though 10 days of July are gone, no one has received their dues of June. The varsity has also not told its employees and pensioners the reason for delay. “Several people are facing hardships (without money). Salary and pension are basic rights and the present VC is trying to inconvenience employees in the midst of the pandemic. It is a criminal conspiracy and a move that affects democratic rights of employees and pensioners,” said Mishra, also an advocate. He urged the police to lodge criminal proceedings against Visva-Bharati officials including VC Chakrabarty, officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and accounts officer Sanjay Ghosh. “We have started an inquiry,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief. Sources said the VC convened a virtual meeting with senior varsity officials on Friday evening where he said he would write to PM Narendra Modi, explaining the situation. Officiating varsity PRO Anirban Sircar, who is authorised to speak to the media, did not respond to calls or WhatsApp text sent by this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited  township-shrink plan to free land for sale||The state government has planned to accommodate the Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) Township into a smaller area to try and monetise surplus land to support the loss-making state-owned power utility. The township — where employees of the power utility stay — is spread across 1,045 acres divided into A (380 acres), B (494 acres) and C (171 acres) zones. At present, the DPL has around 2,600 employees on its payroll and the township has 3,300-odd quarters. Sources at the DPL said initially they planned to merge the A and C zones with B. The company has already circulated a notice on this. Employees were asked to respond with applications for re-allotment of company quarters by July 25. However, in the notice the DPL management said they had taken this step to crack down on illegal occupants of company quarters. “The employees staying in quarters at the A and C zones will be reallocated at quarters at the B zone. They were asked to apply via a form available in the office by July 25. Re-allotment of company quarters will be on first-come, first-serve basis depending on availability,” said a DPL official. Sources said that after a meeting with the West Burdwan district administration, the DPL management planned to demolish the quarters after the merger of the A and C zones and the land would be sold off or leased out. “If we can merge the township and confine our employees into a smaller area, we can use vacated land for monetisation,” said the official. DPL insiders said that at present the company did have surplus quarters after manpower in recent years reduced with no further recruitment. “Half the quarters are vacant on paper but have illegal occupants. Earlier the DPL had around 8,500 employees but now the figure has reduced to around 2,600. Many of them stay in self-owned homes,” said a DPL official. Local sources said the land at the C and A zones was closer to Durgapur railway station and the Damodar river and could prove lucrative for realty projects. “During the Left Front regime, the government planned a residential project on the public-private partnership model on the unused land of the township. At that time, it was decided that 25 per cent of the flats will be reserved for present and past employees of DPL and the rest sold at market rates. We had estimated a generation of around Rs 3,000 crore,” said a retired DPL manager who was posted in township administration. The proposal to re-allot quarters has irked DPL employees. “I have been staying in a bungalow for the past 10 years. The company allotted me the accommodation after I was promoted as manager. Why should I shift to smaller company quarters? It is an insult and inconvenience to me,” said an employee. CPM leader and Citu district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said no employee could be “forced” to relocate. “The company has suddenly come up with the (zone) merger idea without discussing the matter with trade unions that represent employees. We demand the government should make it public first what they want to do with the unused DPL land,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
11-07-2021||North East||Indian tea export likely to fall nearly 15 per cent in 2021||The tea industry is bracing for a decline in exports to the tune of 30-40 million kg this year as compared to 2020, due to the availability of low-cost varieties in the global market and amid trade restrictions in countries that have traditionally been strong importers, industry sources said. The coronavirus-induced economic downturn in much of the world is also a factor for falling shipments, they said. For the period between January to March this year, exports fell by 13.23 per cent as against the corresponding period a year ago, and by 29.03 per cent compared to 2019, as per Tea Board India data. Altogether, 45.86 million kg tea was exported from India between January to March in 2021. The figure was 52.85 million kg in 2020 and 64.62 million kg in 2019. The dip in the share of shipments from North India has been more compared to South India since the last three years. While the tea export share of South India fell by 5.41 per cent in 2021 between January and March compared to the same period in 2020, the decline was 25.85 per cent compared to 2019. In case of exports from North India, the figure for the three-month period was lower by 17.83 per cent as against 2020 and 31.04 per cent compared to 2019. "Indian exports have suffered in the last two-three years due to very low prices of Kenyan and Sri Lankan tea. "Kenyan tea auction price average is below 2 US dollars per kg, which is much lesser than our auction average," Dinesh Bihani, secretary, Guwahati Tea Auction Buyers Association (GTABA), told PTI. “Kenyan tea is available for 1.8 US dollars per kg (Rs 130-135 per kg) on an average, while for Indian tea, the average auction price is nearly Rs 200-210 per kg,” he added. India had exported 208 million kg of tea out of the total production of 1,255.60 million kg in 2020, while shipments accounted for 252 million kg out of 1,389.70 million kg produced in 2019. Another tea industry source pointed out that there is very limited domestic consumption demand of the beverage in Kenya and Sri Lanka, which means that more tea is available and targeted for export. About 80 per cent of it produced in India is sold for domestic consumption, as per a 2018 'Executive Summary of Study on Domestic Consumption of Tea' published by the Tea Board. Exports to Pakistan, a major market for Indian tea, have also stopped since the last three years following escalation of tension between the two countries, the industry source added. "The US sanctions against Iran is also a cause of concern for Indian tea exporters," he said. Iran imported 9.98 million kg of tea between January and March 2020 at an average cost of Rs 263.14 per kg, which decreased to 4.57 million kg for the corresponding period this year, sold at an average price of Rs 246.81 per kg, as per Tea Board India data. "The global economy is going through a crisis due to the Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions, which have led to further global decline in demand for tea," the source said. Domestic consumption of tea is also expected to have gone down since the onset of the pandemic last year in the out-of-home sector (tea sold in railway stations, bus depots and cafeterias), though the actual figure is yet to be surveyed, Bihani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
11-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hard work, harder lives||All humans are equal, but some are less equal than others. Women, as usual, have drawn the short straw. A study by the Center for Global Development found that globally, women took on 173 additional hours of unpaid childcare last year, compared to 59 additional hours for men. The gap widened in low- and middle-income countries, where women cared for children three times as much as men did. As the pandemic isolated people at home, limiting access to care arrangements and social support networks, it ended up increasing the share of women’s care work. The division of labour was skewed in other ways too. When it came to tricky decisions about which partner keeps the paid job and who quits to provide the unpaid care needed at home, women mostly lost out since they are paid lesser and have lower job security than men. Relevant data paint a grim picture. Earlier this year, research by the Azim Premji University revealed that in India, women were seven times more likely than men to lose their jobs during the lockdown and 11 times more unlikely than men to return to work thereafter. Even those who have broken the glass ceiling were left broken. Women having to juggle professional demands with housework, an independent study found, either fall seriously ill or underperform. There is a line of thought that says that one way out of the conundrum would be to compensate domestic labour. But even this kind of affirmative intervention could create a new set of challenges. Households headed by men, be it the husband or the father-in-law, are likely to view the woman as a paid employee, deepening the sense of entitlement that Indian men already harbour towards women and their labour. Remuneration for household work could put men off even further from sharing domestic responsibilities since — given the toxic nature of patriarchal sensibilities — women would be entitled to receive payment. This might lead to the creation of a culture where women choose or are coerced to shun employment outside the home. Recently, the Centre announced that male government employees who are single parents may take paid childcare leave of up to two years to take care of a minor child. This policy is welcome, but why should it preclude other fathers? Is that because domestic responsibilities, especially childcare, are intrinsically linked to primitive, gendered notions concerning the nature of labour? Policy must also cover other kinds of ground because the care economy, a fledgling area, needs imagination and meaningful support in the time of a pandemic. Cash transfer programmes and other support services for poor women and men with unpaid care responsibilities, especially those who are taking care of sick family members, can contribute to family budgets, subsidize the cost of caring and compensate for foregone sources of income. The private sector must work in tandem with the public sector, implementing flexible work hours and arrangements and increased parental leaves and introducing childcare support. Most important, enlightened interventions must not be stained by a patronizing ethic. Efficient, overworked women, at home or at work, must believe that these measures, if they are introduced across sectors, are a right and not a privilege.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Range of changes in Union cabinet baffling ||Sir — Bengalis are infamous for their love of football — arguments over East Bengal and Mohun Bagan have started many a fist fight. It appears now that geography is not a limiting factor either. Ahead of the Copa America final between the footballing giants, Argentina and Brazil, police had to ban gatherings of fans in a distant Bangladeshi village, nearly 15,000 kilometres away from Rio de Janeiro, the venue of the match, following a violent street battle between fans of the two teams. Peacekeepers may have more work on their hands with the Euro final less than 24 hours away. Abhirup Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The range of changes in the latest reshuffle of the Union cabinet has surprised both political pundits and the general public (“Makeover bid betrays guilt”, July 8). The departure of veteran ministers and the induction of new faces are being interpreted in many ways. While allies in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance have been included in the cabinet, political considerations that will have an impact on the assembly elections to be held next year have also been prioritized. But perhaps the most important aspect here is that the failure to deal with the second wave of the pandemic has made scapegoats of certain ministers. An attempt was made to send the message that those who cannot handle their responsibilities would be shown out and those who work would be promoted. In this context, the retention of Narendra Singh Tomar as the minister for agriculture in spite of the unending deadlock between the Centre and the protesting farmers over the three controversial farm laws sends an interesting message. The government is clearly in no mood to back down and is ready to dig in its heels as far as these damaging laws are concerned. Abhijit Roy,Jamshedpur  Sir — Recently, 12 senior ministers have been removed from the Union cabinet likely on account of their incompetency. But many other inefficient ministers escaped the same fate in spite of worse performances just because of their closeness to the Central leadership. The prime minister, who seems to be intent on inducting fresh blood into the administration for the progress and development of all sectors of the country, should have paid more attention to this aspect. The country is in the doldrums and is headed for a disaster that would set it back significantly. There is still time for the prime minister to remove these inefficient officials who are making a mockery of their ministries and positions. Their actions would otherwise only degrade the image and credibility of the nation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The grand design behind the cabinet reshuffle is not hidden from anyone. Clearly, one purpose was to remove select regional leaders from poll-bound states in order to avoid local friction — this can break vote banks — when it comes to nominating candidates or forming alliances in the future. The deeper and most serious concern, however, was the fact that the pandemic has marred the image of the government. A touch-up was overdue; this is why the health minister had to go. The rebuke received by the government over its handling of the pandemic or its passage of the new information technology rules made it hard for the Centre to keep on certain ministers.R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — In the first cabinet reshuffle of the NDA 2.0 government, 36 new faces have been inducted into the council of ministers and seven junior ministers promoted. The surprise, though, were the 12 ministers who were asked to resign. They bore the burden of the government’s dip in popularity. By dropping these ministers, the government hopes to repair its image in the country and abroad. Muaz Qasmi,Mumbai Sir — The Centre has tarnished its image by elevating Anurag Singh Thakur in spite of his hate speeches. This sets a bad precedent and must be condemned. Soumya Bera,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Second class bogie||After reading the Pew report on religion in India last week, I happened to read Mohammad Ali’s essay on being a Muslim in India. Ali is an Indian journalist, now living in America. His piece appeared in the July issue of The Baffler, a magazine that appears both online and in print. It’s called “The Scream: Is this the end for Muslims in India?” Reading these disparate texts in quick succession was a deranging experience, like walking out of some temperately quantified world into a malevolent snake pit. The Pew survey aggregated answers to a set of questions put to weighted and counted individuals from India’s major religious communities. I can imagine a historian some decades from now reading these answers, expressed in percentages, as an authoritative snapshot of desi opinion. Reading Pew’s results as a contemporary, I found some of its numbers at such odds with lived (if anecdotal) reality that I think the survey ought to be required reading for historians not as an archive of information but as a cautionary tale, a lesson in how well-meaning enumeration can go unwittingly wrong. Pew’s strangest result is the response of Muslims to a question about religious discrimination. Asked whether there is a lot of discrimination against Muslims in India, a large majority of the Muslim respondents answered that they didn’t believe that was the case. To juxtapose Ali’s account of life as a Muslim in Narendra Modi’s India with Pew’s bland percentages is to look upon two incompatible realities. Ali was a reporter with a liberal Indian newspaper for a long time and in the Modi years, communal violence directed against Muslims became, by a kind of default, his beat. He writes about how the creeping majoritarianism of earlier decades became a new and brazen thing under the auspices of successive BJP governments. But the heart of his essay was his realization that the central conceit of being a reporter, being above the fray, wasn’t available to him as a Muslim journalist because his identity as a Muslim had become part of the story that he was writing. The arc of Ali’s essay is the transition from being a reporter taking risks to tell the story of India’s majoritarian turn to the realization that the vigilantes that he interviewed now defined public opinion in his country, defined a consensus committed to the violent subordination of Indian Muslims like him. Ali reflects on how traumatized and fearful his years of fraternizing with murderous goons to report from the frontline of Indian politics had left him, especially when he realized that their violent fantasies had become the stuff of middle-class WhatsApp posts. Towards the end of his essay, he comes to a conclusion that should be required reading for anyone who isn’t Muslim in India: “For some time now, Muslims have been wondering about our future in the Hindu Rashtra, or Hindu Republic. I believe that it will demand our obedience, debasement, and public humiliation. Indian Muslims will endure the model that has been deployed in Kashmir, in Gujarat, in Assam: subjected to subordination, segregation, and periodic violence. Like them, we will have to learn to live outside the protection of law, watching our helplessness feed the hubris of a triumphant Hindu public. The Muslim body’s vulnerability is the foundation of their imperialist ambitions. Modi has reduced us — all of us — to our immediate identities. As Muslims, we experience an existential threat that overrides all other aspirations. We once felt entitled to an honest life of dignity in India. That dream is over; there is no getting around this fact.” Both the Pew survey and Ali’s desolate and moving account of the violent marginalization of Muslims bear witness to modern India. Only one of them can be true. Some might argue that Ali’s job, cultivating lumpen bigots and covering communal violence as a Muslim journalist, skewed his sense of the place of Muslims in India. That Muslims going about their ordinary business (and taking time off to answer a survey’s questions) mightn’t see their plight in Ali’s dire terms. They would be wrong. Ali worked in his newspaper’s Delhi bureau and his beat was communal mayhem in North India. Any Muslim who lives in Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh or lived in the vicinity of northeast Delhi through the riots, who reads a Hindi newspaper or watches a round-the-clock news channel, knows exactly what Ali means. Hindus might not. This could be for several reasons: because they haven’t been paying attention or because they believe Muslims have been coddled and pampered and some corrective justice is in order or simply because it’s impossible to understand the threat of institutional subordination and intimidatory violence unless you’re at the receiving end. In 2002, Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist, wrote an important book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in India, in which he tried to explain the base conditions for communal peace or communal violence in Indian towns. He showed that equivalently sized cities with comparable Hindu and Muslim populations often had very different levels of communal violence. He argued that one important institutional check on communal rioting was the existence of institutions that brought Hindus and Muslims together, not as friends but as professionals or colleagues or just citizens sharing common spaces. Lawyers associations, Rotary clubs, trade unions, reading rooms, any institutional setting that Hindus and Muslims shared, lessened the prospect of an open, violent breach in their relations. Towns that didn’t have strong civil society institutions were more volatile than towns that did. Varshney’s thesis was vulnerable to the chicken-and-egg argument: perhaps these institutions that transcended religious community were the consequence of communal peace, not its cause, but his book demonstrated that these institutions, however construed, were signs of civic health. In the vocabulary pioneered by the French Revolution, these institutions expressed a basic republican value: fraternity. Ironically, 2002 was also the year of the Gujarat pogrom, which, along with the ‘Gujarat Model’, came to symbolize the ideal of the radically unfraternal republic, envisioned by V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar and halfway achieved by Modi. The subordination that Ali believes is the fate of Indian Muslims is the explicit objective of the sangh parivar’s majoritarian project. The new Parliament building needs a new motto to fit the shape of this unfraternal republic better than ‘Liberty, Equality, Fraternity’ does. ‘Community, Disunity, Impunity’ should be blazoned across its main entrance. Or perhaps it won’t come to that. Ali writes that “Modi has reduced us — all of us — to our immediate identities.” The “us” here refers to Muslims but it applies equally to Hindus. In a country where the State reduces Muslims to their religious identities, it reduces, by implication, Hindus to theirs. When Muslims are lynched and ghettoed and disenfranchised, it is in our name... unless we explicitly act and speak and write to show that it isn’t. If we do, Ali’s unfraternal hell mightn’t become a permanent condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||What 73-year-old Lalu Prasad did not expect and who beat who in Odisha||The inimitable smiles of Lalu Prasad are said to be a giveaway. Recently delivering an address — this time a virtual one — from Delhi after over three years on the silver jubilee foundation day of his party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, the 73-year-old was telling party leaders and workers about his health and how doctors have asked him to practise abstinence from food as well as recommended drinking less water. But at the same time, an impish smile swam across his face. All senior RJD politicians listening to him also broke into smiles because they understood its meaning. Lalu, a diabetic with ailing heart and kidneys, is a foodie. He is known to love mutton, fish, sweets, and mangoes, and doctors have always found it extremely difficult to restrain him from indulging in them. There have reportedly been instances when he managed to eat sweets, mutton and kaleji (mutton liver) even while convalescing in hospitals. Referring to how well his sons, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, have coped up with the rough and tumble of Bihar politics, he said, “humko umeed nahi tha (I had not expected)”. And he smiled again. Ashwini Vaishnaw, a rather low-profile Rajya Sabha member, has beaten his party colleague and civil services batchmate, Aparajita Sarangi, the sitting member of parliament from Bhubaneswar, in the race for a berth in the Narendra Modi ministry. This is being seen as a setback for Sarangi who had won the high-profile Bhubaneswar Lok Sabha seat in 2019 against all odds. At that time, she had humbled the former Mumbai police commissioner, Arup Patnaik, who had reportedly been hand-picked by the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, to contest the seat as the Biju Janata Dal candidate. There is no doubt that Sarangi was a strong contender for a ministerial berth at the Centre. Sarangi’s supporters are crestfallen. But if the bureaucrat-turned-Lok Sabha MP is feeling hurt at being ignored by the leadership then she camouflaged her feelings rather well. While interacting with the media which sought her reaction on the expansion of Modi ministry, she not only congratulated both Vaishnaw and Bishweswar Tudu, the two new inductees in the Modi ministry, but also described the former as a friend who also happened to be her Indian Administrative Service batchmate (1994). The Bharatiya Janata Party-Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura coalition government in Tripura is not in trouble right now, but the run-up to the assembly polls in 2023 is going to be challenging. Until now, the BJP has managed to check the dissent against the chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, from getting out of hand but the deep cracks in the IPFT are showing, evident from the resignation of one of its eight members of the legislative assembly, Brishaketu Debbarma, on June 29. The resignation has not been accepted on procedural grounds but this did not stop Debbarma from joining the Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance on Thursday. This is the IPFT’s second blow at the hands of TIPRA. It had failed to win a single seat in the recent autonomous council polls in spite of being part of the ruling coalition. The TIPRA leadership has claimed more MLAs would join them and that they would contest all 60 seats in the state polls. This will not be good news for the BJP. If the ‘rumour’ of a Trinamul Congress revival in Tripura after its epochal victory in Bengal turns true, the BJP could be facing two formidable rivals — TMC and TIPRA — at once. In 2018, the BJP made history by ending the Left’s 25-year reign. But if the BJP-IPFT do not get their act together, it is widely believed that 2023 could see history being repeated, this time in just five years. Embarrassment seems to be a given for the BJP’s Kerala unit. Whether it is losing its only seat in the assembly or its state president being accused of poll bribery, the party has faced it all in the state where it is yet to make as much as a toehold. While the party has high expectations of its educated newcomers, one of them has now made its leaders cringe by saying the youth wing, Yuva Morcha, should emulate the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the youth arm of its arch rival, the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The former director general of police, Jacob Thomas, whom the BJP had fielded in the recent state polls, made this suggestion to revive the saffron youth brigade. Reportedly, his contention was that while DYFI cadres actively take part in all occasions, whether funerals, medical emergencies or weddings, the same cannot be said about Yuva Morcha. Perhaps the BJP has chewed more than it could swallow by roping in former bureaucrats who have seen cadres of each party at work. The death of Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old priest jailed on terror charges in Mumbai, sparked outrage from almost all Indian Opposition parties as well as international rights groups. But the Samajwadi Party, Shiv Sena and Aam Aadmi Party have stayed aloof, perched firmly on the fence between human rights and ultra-nationalism. The silence of AAP, once a darling of liberals, has further alienated the party from its progressive supporters who backed its stance against the Centre. Party leaders privately admit that their leader, Arvind Kejriwal, has decided not to make public interventions if there is no political gain. Another notable silence was of the CPI leader, Kanhaiya Kumar, although his party condemned the harassment of Stan Swamy and the other 15 undertrials. Kumar, who wields more influence on social media than his party, has been an infrequent user since April. However, he started tweeting after the cabinet formation, leaving many wondering if he is going the AAP way of pandering to disgruntled BJP voters, who still consider him an anti-national. Tired of internal strife and mounting discontent over the Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, his loyalists are now planning a trip to Delhi to apprise the Central leadership of the trouble-mongers within the house. While it is not easy to dislodge Yediyurappa, given the support he has from lawmakers and religious leaders, the CM can ignore the dissidence only at his peril. It now remains to be seen how the counter move would be taken by those miffed with his leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Mango shake||In the Garden of Even, the mango is the fruit of bidding. Last week, the vaccine choke notwithstanding, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina sent crates of Haribhanga aam to President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi and the CMs of the north-eastern states of India with whom Bangladesh shares its borders. Tripura CM Biplab Deb expressed his gratitude with pineapples, but everyone else was showering aam. Right at the beginning of July, keeping up an olden tradition and setting aside political differences, Mamata Banerjee sent PM Modi and other political heavyweights in Delhi Bengal’s choicest Himsagar, Malda and Lakshmanbhog aam. Pakistan too sent out its Chausa aam to 32 countries. There were reports that the US and China rejected the gift, but then there were other reports that claimed that this had solely to do with quarantine regulations instead of some diplomatic disinclination. In 1996, after Hasina won her first elections, she sent the then CM of Bengal, Jyoti Basu, hilsa or ilish. Later that year, she and the Indian Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda signed the treaty on the sharing of the Ganges water. That Basu had played a positive role in all of it was no secret. The late Pranab Mukherjee also played a pivotal role in Indo-Bangladesh relations. When Hasina visited Mukherjee in 2017, she is said to have cooked steamed ilish for him in the Rashtrapati Bhavan kitchen. Speaking of President Mukherjee, in 2015 US President Barack Obama gifted him a facsimile of the first telegram sent by the 33rd American president, Harry S. Truman, to the first Indian Head of State, Rajendra Prasad. When US President Richard Nixon visited China in 1972, he was gifted two pandas Ling Ling and Hsing Hsing. The visit is supposed to have normalised US-China tensions. In return, the US sent China a pair of musk oxen. Recently, PM Modi was gifted a horse, Kanthaka, by Mongolia. After World War II, Japanese schoolchildren wrote to the then Indian PM Jawaharlal Nehru, telling him about the two elephants they had lost in the war and requesting him for one.  Nehru picked an elephant named Indira and had it sent to Japan. He called it a gift from the children of India to the children of Japan. He wrote to the children of India too about this. He said, “Grown-ups have a strange way of putting themselves in compartments and groups. They build barriers… I hope you will take a long time in growing up…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Oh my, did we meet? We didn’t even tweet||But never mind, the time is now gone. It does not matter, nothing matters, it’s all ether. There was an appointment, yes, as a matter of fact there were several, but each time we appeared for the appointment it so happened that we got told it wasn’t the appointed time. But never mind, the time is now gone. We could have met. We could have spoken. We could have had a chance to sort things out this way or that way, but that chance was kept in abeyance too long. Far too long a time for life. Wonder why, although some, or more than some, have ceased to wonder because they believe they know why. They believe this life had to run out of time, that’s why; they believe it was not a life that deserved more time. And yet a time was granted, on many occasions and many times, and each time that time was postponed for this reason or the other. We were to meet, but did we? We probably passed each other, we probably were where our shadows crossed and our breaths mingled. But oh no, not the mingling of breath, no that’s not allowed, or at least that isn’t proper, not for my health nor for yours. Keep your breath away, and please don’t take my breath away, you may be carting yourself to death. Instead, it is me. You know. Dead. What did you breathe into me? I know we never could really meet, or I would have told you and you would have heard, and having properly heard, you would probably not have had me dead. But we did not meet. Perhaps it was a rumour we met; propaganda, slander, whatever. That happens, that happens all the time. Things that never happened are reported as having happened; what did happen is not told as having happened. Like you know, you know very well, like I have been murdered and you know, but it will never be told that I was murdered. They will say I died. That happens. You get told one thing when it is another. That cup and lip and slip sort of thing, in between those things many things happen. A sip could have happened. A sip could have been prevented. Or delayed. Wait! You need a sip between the cup and the lip, do you? Give me some time, let me see, let me assure myself that I will not become a thing of peril. I’ve suddenly begun to wonder, now that I am dead and can wonder with freedom, is this where the phrase came from? Many a slip between the cup and the lip? I sought a sip, what you gave me is a slip. Well done. Whatever it was can’t be told It is all hush and a hush you see But Father, be brazen and be bold Was it coffee, tea or just me?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rain, thunderstorms across Jharkhand ||Several regions of the state, including capital Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dumka and Pakur, experienced rain and thunderstorms on Sunday due to an active monsoon trough. Weather experts said the trough was running from central parts of western Rajasthan to northwest Bay of Bengal across east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, south Chhattisgarh, Odisha and north Coastal Andhra Pradesh extending upto 0.9 Km above mean sea level. Several districts, including Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum, Koderma, Lohardaga, Dhanbad, Simdega and Ramgarh, experienced light to moderate rain on Sunday.  Kuru in Lohardaga district recorded the highest rainfall of 25.6 mm. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas recorded about 15 mm of rain. Ranchi, Khunti, Pakur and Dumka recorded below 10 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said, "Generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thunder is likely at few places over Jharkhand during the next 72 hours." He ruled out the possibility of heavy rain during the next three days. Against a normal of 310 mm, Jharkhand has so far recorded rainfall of 344 mm, a surplus of 11 per cent, this monsoon. Weathermen at both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met Centres said Ranchi and Bihar is expected to get normal rainfall in the month of July, the second monsoon month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma is Bihar’s Goa post-2015 alcohol ban||Once known for mica and making the maximum number of song requests on popular radio programme Binaca Geetmala, Koderma definitely moved on. It has now earned the status of being ‘Goa’ for the people of Bihar. An accidental firing from the service revolver of Bihar DSP Ashutosh Kumar, which resulted in the death of his friend has once again highlighted the fact that Koderma has turned into a hot destination for the Bihar people. DSP Kumar, had reached Koderma with his friends and checked into a hotel before going to the banks of Tilaiya Dam for celebration where one of his friends got killed in accidental firing. According to sources Jawahar ghat - kown for its mind blowing beauty and greenery, was the spot selected by the DSP to party with his friends in seclusion. With no proper road to reach the spot, he took the help of a local villager. From the spot the police have seized liquor bottles and also gathered evidences that indicate that food was cooked by the DSP and his friends. Another incident that took place at the dam area yesterday, was the untimely death of two youths - Karthik and Siddharth. The duo had come from Bihar with their third friend Sunny Raj to enjoy their day. But they got drowned, expert divers took six hours to fish out their dead bodies yesterday. Many believe that Koderma situated along Bihar-Jharkhand border, has quickly transformed into a hot spot for celebration and liquor parties for the people of Bihar. Given the fact that alcohol was banned in April 2015 in Jharkhand’s neighbouring state, many have been flocking the district simply because of easy access to liquor. This in turn has made the mica district earn the name of Bihar’s Goa. Sources maintained that the 2015 decision of the Bihar government to ban alcohol in the state, has made the mica district a hotspot for people to party. With the influx of people from the neighbouring state for parties has made many roadside dhabas come up in Ranchi-Patna highway which has alcohol on offer. Visitors from well-to-do-families, often come to the Tilaiya Dam for a break along the banks of this picturesque reservoir. Excise department officials on condition of anonymity said sale of alcohol is up by mainfold in Koderma in comparison with districts like Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh. They admitted that people not just coming for booze parties but are also planning weddings. Even many remote villages of the district are engaged in manufacturing country liquor, which is often supplied to Bihar. “We cannot stop anyone from coming to Koderma or going to any other districts,” said excise officials. “But we are carrying regular raids at illegal liquor making units and destroying it. Even raids also taking place regularly in roadside dhabas to stop them selling liquors without having the license,” added they. Coming back to the DSP case, Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib visited the spot where they had partied when the accidental shooting took place. He talked to local villagers and passed instructions to his team to collect samples from the spot including the empty bullet. He said an FIR lodged against DSP and his friend under sections 302, 120B and 27arms act of the IPC. He said probe going on to reach to the facts of this case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on post-Covid ailments, directs daily reporting in districts||With a drop in Covid cases and fatalities, the Jharkhand government has shifted its focus on post-Covid complications and causes of death among survivors, officials said on Sunday, adding that the health department has directed all 24 districts to send in data related to health disorders and casualties reported at dedicated post-Covid care facilities to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) every day. The National Health Mission (NHM) director, in a letter addressed to all the deputy commissioners recently, asked them to send details such as the number of visits by Covid survivors, number of admitted patients, number of patients receiving physiotherapy or any alternate therapy, number of patients discharged and the number of fatalities at post-Covid care centres every day by 5pm. “So far, no fatalities have been reported at any of the post-Covid care centres. We started compiling data related to post-Covid complications on Saturday, and it is too early to draw any inference on the types of health disorders that were most prevalent among Covid survivors in the state,” said Dr Ranjit Mandal, the nodal officer appointed for post-Covid care centres in Jharkhand. The decision of reporting daily entries and treatments at post-Covid care centres comes close on the heels of the reportage of a new crippling condition called "bone death" among Covid survivors in some parts of India. Avascular necrosis, a health complication that causes the death of bone tissues, has been reported in some Covid survivors in Pune who were treated with high doses of steroids during treatment. Even though no cases of avascular necrosis have been reported in Jharkhand, doctors say that patients in early stages of this condition may seek physiotherapy. Health experts monitoring physiotherapy at post-Covid care centres may be able to diagnose bone death in patients depending on their symptoms and some tests such as X-Ray, doctors added. Jharkhand has operational post-Covid care centres in all 24 districts. Many cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis, or black fungus, also came to light at these centres earlier this year. As per the latest directive from the health department, the districts also need to mention the number of patients who were referred to “higher centres” from the post-Covid care centres for better treatment. Even those patients who do not need hospitalization for Covid treatment may suffer from severe ailments post-recovery and need medical attention, say doctors. Several cases of lung fibrosis and cardiovascular disease in Covid survivors were also reported in the state during the first as well as the second wave. As per government data, as many as 3,46,279 Jharkhand residents have been infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Olympic assignment for Ranchi athletics coach||Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) president Madhukant Pathak has been named manager of the 26-member Indian athletics squad for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics which is scheduled to begin from July 23. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) sent a formal communiqué to this effect to its state unit on Sunday. Besides 26 players, AFI will also send a team of 13 coaches headed by chief coach Radha Krishnan Nair along with eight support staff and two officials. AFI President Adille J Sumariwalla in a statement said, "We have selected coaches and support staff as per requirement of our athletes who have qualified for the Games." Pathak, who is also treasurer of AFI, thanked AFI for bestowing him with the responsibility. He said that as the manager of the team, he will have to ensure that the contingent, mainly players, is taken care of in all aspects so that individuals can put up a good show during the Olympics. “As a manager, my job will be to take care of all technical aspects like attending technical meetings, preparing the athletes for competition, taking them for their dope tests, etc. In a nutshell, I will be the crucial bridge between our athletes, technical officials and the main competition," he explained. This is not the first time that the athletics coach and official of the Jharkhand outfit has been tasked with international duty. In the past, he was with Indian athletics contingent in previous three Olympics held in Beijing, London and Rio in 2008, 2012 and 2016 respectively. While none of the Jharkhand athletes could qualify for a place in the Indian squad for this year’s Olympics, Jharkhand will be pinning its hopes on three players, in hockey and archery, to clinch medals at the global stage. Golden girl Deepika Kumar of Ranchi will be the lone representation from India in the individual women recurve category in archery while Nikki Pradhan of Khunti and Salima Tete from Simdega will be part of the national squad in hockey. Salima will be making her Olympics debut, while the other two athletes have represented the country in previous games. Earlier this month, while interacting with Olympics-bound players of the state, chief minister Hemant Soren had announced cash awards of Rs 2 crore, Rs 1 crore and Rs 75 lakh for players if they won gold, silver or bronze medals, respectively in the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park in shambles||The lone entertainment park of Dhanbad -- Birsa Munda Park, opened its gates to the visitors on July 1, after a gap of 70 days. But all its amenities seem to be in a mess. All the rides including toy train, dragon train, vortex, caterpillar and dhum jhula have been non-operation since it reopened. This apart, other facilities like swings, sea-saw and slide have also become defunct, thanks to the gross neglect by the custodian of the park -- Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The list doesn’t end here. About 25 staff of the park including the gardeners, ticket booking staff and jhula operators have not been paid their salary since the last three months. The park is also devoid of security guards as their service had been withdrawn during the lockdown period on the ground of fund crunch. As a consequence, gardeners, clerks and other staff including jhula operators were being used as security guards. Notably the estimate for repairing some of the facilities, including the toy train, swing, slide, sea-saw and seats etc has been sent by the park management to DMC earlier this year (March); a reminder has also been sent recently, but they are yet to get any response. When TT Online contacted Niwas Kumbhkar, park manager, he said, “We reopened the park on July 1. As of now the park is witnessing a daily footfall of around 200 persons, which is way lesser than (500) it used to get during the non-Covid time.” “Yesterday, we also relaunched the laser fountain. We are hopeful of running it in the evening. But it again depends on the power supply as we can’t run it through a generator,” said Kumhkar. He added, “It too expensive to operate it using a power generator. It consumes 20 litres of diesel per hour.” “Since no extra charges are taken from the visitors for the laser show viewing, it is unfeasible to operate the laser fountain through generators,” he said. “We are in the process of restoring other facilities like the toy train, which has been lying defunct due to lack of battery. Swings, slides etc will also be repaired. An estimate has been sent in March followed by a reminder last week,” said Kumbhkar. Asked about the non-functional caterpillar, dhum jhula, vortex and dragon train, Kumbhkar said, “These facilities are lying non-functional due to lack of manpower. Our ride operators are at present working as security workers. We have written about the same to DMC.” Established in 2009 during the tenure of former Deputy Commissioner of Dhanbad Ajay Kumar Singh, the park is spread over 24 acres of land in Baramuri area about 6 kilometers from the district headquarters. It is equipped with several facilities for children as well as other visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railways eye green initiatives and energy conservation measures||South Eastern Railway has decided to promote energy conservation measures and use of alternative sources of energy in the current financial year. As part of its environment friendly measures it will focus on the installation of solar plants to harness clean energy, usage of LED lights to cut down on regular electricity consumption and the introduction of Head On Generation (HOG) system in train operations. HOG technology is an electrical power supply system which provides power drawn from the overhead electric lines to cater to the entire train load which includes lighting of the coaches, air conditioning, fans, pantry and other passenger interface requirements. “These measures will make trains cost-efficient and also cut down on pollution,” explained a railway spokesman at Garden Reach, Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway. The HOG system is free of air and noise pollution. Currently, around only 35 trains are moving on the HOG system. Data indicates that it has resulted in the reduction of fuel cost and carbon emission. SER also plans to increase the number of trains moving with HOG technology to 60 by March next year. To save conventional energy, it will be switching over to non-conventional sources of energy in various phases. Till now in SER, 2.306 MWp solar plants have been installed on the roof top of its Garden Reach headquarter and four divisions including Ranchi and Chakradharpur. According to railway officials around 500 acre of vacant land along the railway tracks as well as settlements in SER jurisdiction have been identified for the installation of 201 MWp capacity of solar plant. Notably, by consuming solar energy as an alternative source of energy, SER has saved Rs. 33.6 lakh in 2019-20 and Rs. 39 lakhs in 2020-21. SER has also replaced conventional light fittings with energy efficient LED lights in all around 363 stations that fall under its jurisdiction and other railway establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pray for the release of Elgaar Parishad accused if not proven guilty||A call to pray for the release of all the Elgaar Parishad accused was sounded after the Requiem Mass for Father Stan Swamy at St Mary’s Cathedral in Ranchi on Saturday. “We would like to appeal to all to pray that all those accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case be released immediately unless the State is able to prove their guilt conclusively,” Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas said while delivering the homily after the mass, which was broadcast online. The Ranchi-based Father Stan — an ailing, 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist who died in federal custody on July 5 in Mumbai — had been held for nine months without bail under the anti-terror law UAPA in the Elgaar Parishad case. He and 15 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and litterateurs were arrested and accused of Maoist links in the case amid suggestions that at least some of the “evidence” against them had been planted. “We do not mourn Father Stan Swamy but rather celebrate his life, lived for the poor and marginalised. He was loved by many but also hated by a few who tortured him, persecuted him, refused to meet his basic needs,” Bishop Mascarenhas said. Father Stan, a Parkinson’s patient, had been for a period denied a sipper and straw in jail that he needed to drink water. Citing an old article by former Mumbai police commissioner Julio Ribeiro, Bishop Mascarenhas said: “The article states that only 2 per cent of the cases prosecuted under the UAPA have ended in convictions till date.” He added: “The State (Union government) is obviously not concerned about convictions. It is more interested in the process that keeps the accused in jail for years, thus neutralising their abilities to organise a viable opposition to unjust projects that rob the poor of their rights and even their livelihood.” Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo presided over the Requiem Mass, which was attended by Bishop Mascarenhas, Simdega Bishop Vincent Barwa and the three Jesuit provincials of Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Hazaribagh who concelebrated the mass. Father Jerome Cutinha, provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province (to which Father Stan belonged), said: “Father Stan lived for the tribals, fought their battles and died for them. Father Stan and his battles will continue to live on in us.” Father Ajit Xess, provincial of the Ranchi Jesuit province, read the gospel of the day. Father Santosh Minz, provincial of the Hazaribagh Jesuit province, delivered the vote of thanks at the end of the mass. Bishop Mascarenhas spoke of Father Stan being gathered to his people through his ashes, which have been brought to Ranchi, just like Jacob who wanted to be gathered to his people. After the Mass, Archbishop Toppo, the other two bishops, the three provincials and young Catholics handed over food packets to over 150 poor people outside the Cathedral gates and the Chunwatoli basti near the Ranchi bus stand. The Indian People’s Theatre Association’s Jharkhand unit has decided to stage plays to build awareness among tribal and marginalised communities about Father Stan’s custody death at the hands of a “fascist central government”. “We will not let Father Stan’s martyrdom go in vain. We shall take help from likeminded organisations, form jathas (small groups) and go to the different blocks and panchayats of Jharkhand, targeting areas whose issues Father Stan had raised,” IPTA state secretary Upendra Kumar Mishra said. “We will stage plays to create awareness against the current fascist government at the Centre which killed an 84-year-old man in its custody without even a trial.” The IPTA, which has over 500 members across the state’s 24 districts, paid tributes to Father Stan at an event in Kanta Toli, Ranchi, together with tribal human rights groups and Left parties on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cervical cancer: Jharkhand to focus on screening of suspected cases  ||The Jharkhand government will focus on screening of suspected cases of cervical cancer to prevent the spread of the disease, officials said during an online orientation programme on Saturday. The state health department also fixed screening targets for district hospitals during the programme. “The targets were fixed just to give the initiative a momentum. Otherwise, all suspected patients need to be given proper treatment,” additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh, who presided over the programme, told the civil surgeons of various district hospitals. Though it kills a huge number of women, cervical cancer — a tumour of the cervix or the lowermost part of the uterus — can be prevented if treated on time, the doctors were told and advised to intensify screening at the government facilities they head. “On an average, 185 women die of cervical cancer everyday,” said Dr Bharati Kashyap, president of the women doctors’ wing of the local branch of Indian Medical Association, who is involved in the initiative, and took part in the programme. “But the cancer takes upto 10 years to blow up fully and, as such, enough time is available for preventing it from spreading further if diagnosed at an early stage and treated properly,” she further said. Early screening and vaccinating the symptomatic women would help achieve the purpose, she added. The cryogenic machines needed for screening are available at Sadar hospitals in 11 of the 24 districts of the state but they are not in use at many of these facilities. Many doctors of the district hospitals were also given training for screening such patients by Dr Kanika Gupta, director of gynaecological oncology, Max Superspeciality Hospital, New Delhi. “The spread of the disease can be checked but we need to work with an aim to eradicate it,” said Dr Gupta who joined the programme from New Delhi. When requested, she agreed to address the doctors of the state on the topic online and also conduct a training programme in Ranchi in September. Singh directed the civil surgeons to start screening such patients from next week itself and also gave them initial monthly targets. The targets were worked out to 15 per cent of the average number of women visiting the outpatient departments of the hospitals with gynaecological problems in a day. Accordingly, Ranchi Sadar Hospital was given the maximum target of screening 180 women every month while the Jamtara hospital was asked to screen the minimum of 22 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
