12-07-2021||Calcutta||37 people arrested for partying amid Covid restrictions at The Park||As many as 37 people were arrested at The Park early on Sunday for allegedly taking part in night-long revelry at the Park Street hotel, defying Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Some of those arrested were allegedly involved in a scuffle with police when asked to stop the revelry. The Park issued a statement: “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of the Covid-19 protocols. Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis. We are complying with all rules and regulations and will continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities.” Two cars, including a Mercedes Benz, and several mobile phones were seized, along with other items. Park Street police station has drawn up an FIR under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. The FIR names some officials of The Park, senior police officers at Lalbazar said. The officials of the hotel will be questioned to establish whether they had any role in helping the revellers organise the party, which was accompanied by loud music and held on the corridor of the third floor. The police said some of the revellers had booked four rooms on the second and third floors for nearly a month. On Saturday night, they allegedly invited guests from outside and arranged a party. They also allegedly hired a DJ. “The party was on beyond midnight and hotel employees asked them to stop,” an officer said. The hotel authorities alerted the police after the revellers allegedly ignored their plea to stop. “A team from Calcutta police’s detective department reached the hotel around 1.15am and asked the revellers to stop. They were in no mood to listen. Most of them were gyrating to loud music that blared from sound boxes placed atop one another on the third-floor corridor,” said an officer. When officers showed their identity cards and tried to stop the music, some of the revellers allegedly pushed them away. Some are said to have argued that they were entitled to party till late hours as the event was being held inside a hotel. The cop team arrested 37 people and took them to Park Street police station. The accused were produced at Bankshall court, where the police sought remand of nine persons, who had allegedly assaulted them and prevented them from doing their duty. Seven of them were remanded in police custody and the other two in judicial custody. The remaining 28 accused were granted bail. Later in the day, a team of forensic experts reached the hotel and collected some items for examination. Officers said some powder-like substances seized from the party spot would also be sent for forensic tests. Investigating officers have asked the hotel management for the registers of room reservation of the second and third floors. “During the raid, some of the revellers manhandled our officers,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “Two Pioneer DJ discs, an amplifier, two sound boxes, a DJ light, three hookahs, four liquor bottles and a ganja pouch were also seized.” The Bengal government had on June 28 imposed a series of restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the West Bengal Epidemic Disease Covid -19 Regulations 2020. The order had mentioned that the restrictions would remain in force till July 15, 2021. The 26-point government order had spelt out: “All political/ social/ cultural /academic/ entertainment / related gatherings shall continue to be prohibited.” The order had also mentioned not more than 50 persons would be allowed at a time in marriage ceremonies and related gatherings. “We have reasons to believe that this was not a gathering related to any wedding and there were more than 50 persons. The participants had organised a party violating the restrictions that are in place,” said an officer. The alleged incident exposed the habit among some party organisers to ignore Covid curbs at weekend get-togethers. From Saturday night till Sunday noon, as many as 83 persons were booked for not wearing masks and 14 drivers were prosecuted for defying the ban on movement at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Rathyatra to roll on trailer truck, not chariot in Calcutta||For the first time in five decades, Lord Jagannath will roll out of Iskcon’s Albert Road temple not in a chariot but on a trailer truck, to be escorted by a police pilot car, because of the Covid pandemic. To avoid the congregation of devotees along the road, the route has not been announced. The Rath Yatra festival will also be scaled down in Nadia’s Mayapur, the global headquarters of the Iskcon. “There will be no traditional Yatra this year. The deity of Jagannath, which used to travel 6km from Rajapur village to the Gundicha temple in Mayapur, will travel within the Iskcon premises with only 50 pujaris alongside,” said a source. The Mayapur premises will remain closed to all visitors on Monday. In the golden jubilee year of Iskcon’s Calcutta Rathyatra, the divine siblings will travel from the temple to Iskcon House on Gurusaday Road. The traditional mela on the Maidan has been cancelled. “We had been planning for this occasion for seven years. An order had been placed in the US for a 40ft Flying Hanuman balloon, costing Rs 1.5 crore. Devotees would have come from 150 countries to join a 3km-long procession. But the Covid pandemic put paid to all our plans,” said Radharaman Das, vice-president, Iskcon Calcutta. Last year, the idols were not even brought out of the temple. Monday’s puja will start at 11am, followed by 556 bhog and then mid-day bhog to be sent by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who used to inaugurate the rathyatra. A mini empty rath will be pulled inside the temple as a symbolic gesture. The deities will be placed in the trailer at 1pm for the trip to the Gurusaday Road premises, where a symbolic Gundicha temple (or aunt’s house) is being erected for their stay. “A speed of 15 to 20km per hour will be maintained by the trailer for the 4km ride,” Das said. Darshan will be allowed in batches from 4pm to 8pm daily. “We will maintain the cap of 50, according to Covid protocol. Barely six of us and the priest will stay inside so that more devotees can get in. Darshan will take place as part of a moving queue,” Das said. Packed prasad will be distributed. The priests in the city on Sunday spoke about Fr Stan’s “fight against injustice” and to convince tribals to believe that they should not “lose their rights”. ituals will be live streamed on Iskcon Calcuttta’s social media pages. At Mayapur, only one chariot, instead of the customary three, will travel less than 200m from Gada Bhawan to the gate of the Panchatatva temple. “The movement of the chariot of Lord Jagannath will be restricted to the Mayapur temple premises,” said Iskcon Mayapur’s head of media communications, Subroto Dasa. In Serampore, while the 625th edition of the Mahesh Rathyatra has been cancelled, the natmandir will be opened to the public at 4pm for darshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrest three Bangladeshis for suspected terror link||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested three men suspected to be operatives of the banned terror outfit Jamat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), which was allegedly responsible for the Khagragarh blast in East Burdwan in 2014. Rabiul Islam, Naziur Rahman Pavel and Mekail Khan were arrested early on Sunday from a house in Haridevpur, where they had been staying for months. All three are Bangladeshis, the police said. “We have seized several incriminating documents from their possession, including a handwritten diary which has names and numbers of some top JMB leaders,” said an STF officer. “There are reasons to believe that these three men are actively involved in JMB activities.” The police said they had been tracking social media accounts of the three based on specific intelligence inputs and realised that they were part of the JMB’s sleeper cell engaged in organising funds and recruiting people. The officers then started tracking their phone calls and identified their hideout based on their tower location. The accused will be produced in court on Monday. The police have learnt that the three had taken the Haridevpur shelter on rent using false names and posing as traders dealing in fruits and mosquito nets. Naziur, for instance, had taken the name of Jayaram Byapari, the police said. Naziur, who also went by the name of Joseph, had served three years in jail in Bangladesh. “We want to find out whether the three were in contact with other modules across the country and details of their funding pattern,” an officer said. In September last year, the National Investigation Agency had arrested 10 people in Bengal and Kerala for their alleged terror links. These were followed by several more arrests in subsequent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Former classmate arrested for circulating girl's number, photos on WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger||A former classmate of a senior police officer’s daughter has been arrested in Barasat for allegedly circulating her phone number and objectionable photographs in several groups on WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The accused, Arkadeep Kundu, is the son of a Trinamul Congress leader and coordinator of Ward 10 of Uttarpara-Kotrang Municipality in Hooghly. He was picked up by a team from the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake on Sunday morning. An officer of the commissionerate said the daughter of a senior police officer had lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police station alleging that her cellphone number and objectionable photographs were being circulated for several months in various  WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger groups. She mentioned in the complaint that several people had called her and made objectionable comments. “We started checking the numbers from which the woman’s number had been circulated. We found that several numbers used by Kundu had added the complainant’s number to various groups on WhatsApp,” the officer said. Another officer said the woman and Kundu had been classmates in college. “Initially, the woman had tried to persuade Kundu not to circulate her number and photographs but he refused, citing connections in political circles,” the officer said. “Incidents of people trying to use social media as a tool to commit crime are on the rise. It is important for women to come forward and report the crime to the authorities. There are strict laws against online offences,” said an officer not attached to the case. Hundreds of such incidents happen where women are subjected to extortion and blackmail by men they had trusted. Only a few are reported. Another officer said it was best to avoid clicking personal photographs with strangers or with persons one barely knows. Social media platforms, including messenger services, have become potential weapons of cyber crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Roman Catholic churches pay respects to Father Stan Swamy||The Roman Catholic churches in Calcutta paid their respects to Father Stan Swamy and spoke about the work of the ailing Jesuit priest who passed away in federal custody waiting for bail at the age of 84. In some of the churches, spontaneous respect was shown to the tribal rights activist during the Sunday service and in some others, prayer meetings were held remembering him and  praying for the repose of his soul. Priests in the city on Sunday spoke about Fr Stan’s “fight against injustice” and to convince tribals that they should not “lose their rights”. A prayer was held for Fr Stan at Archbishop’s House on Sunday evening. The Ranchi-based Fr Stan, who had been suffering from Parkinson’s disease, died on July 5 at a Mumbai hospital after being in custody for nine months. “...Father Stan Swamy never gave in and did not compromise to injustice. He persevered and fought for the cause of justice for the tribal people, marginalised, downtrodden, rejected and unwanted, for which he had to pay a heavy price,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. On Sunday, he led the prayers at St Vincent’s Home Chapel and St Catherine’s Home Chapel, both in Kidderpore. The sisters of Daughters of the Cross arranged to pay tributes to Father Stan and prayed together for him. Father Gomes said at the prayer meeting that to be “a Christian, a Missionary in today’s world is indeed a great task, a challenge and a responsibility”. “Should one give in and not take up the challenges or make efforts to fight… today all of us should continue to fight against the injustice to the tribal and poor people… many are behind bars for no reason whatsoever,” said Father Gomes. “Are we going to dilute, compromise, be lukewarm or adopt an all-is-adjustable policy with respect to our Christian values? Or are we ready to grow and stand firm in our convictions and make efforts to live a true Christian life? “How many of us will take up the cause of Father Stan and be ready to follow in his footsteps, to be a martyr for their people. Is the world transforming me… or am I, as a Christain, transforming the world?” he said. Father Gomes asked all those present to take a pledge. “Let us pledge today to fight injustice at all levels of our society and pray for more and more Father Stan to take birth and stand for the poor and weak,” he said. At the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, the parish priest spoke about Father Stan in the morning as well as the evening service. “Father Stan told the tribals that they should not lose their rights and dues and that like any other community they have to come to the mainstream,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish  priest, Church of Christ the King. “Many would think tribals mean backwardness,  tribals mean no-civilisation but he (Father Stan) was fighting and was like a light to the community,” he said. The visitors,  limited because of the pandemic, prayed for Fr Stan’s soul. “In almost all 65 churches of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta, respect was shown to Fr Stan in different ways,” Father Gomes said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Two friends who set pigeons at the Maidan||Two young men come to the Maidan on most Sundays to set dozens of pigeons free from a cage. They buy the pigeons from New Market, where the birds are usually meant to be slaughtered for meat. “We have been doing this for the past year. We have released close to 400 pigeons till now,” said Tushar Ranjan Das, 30. Das, along with his friend and neighbour Saurabh Pandey, had started freeing birds last summer. “No one is meant to live in a cage or end up on a plate,” said Das. Das and Pandey, who live near Burrabazar police station, usually keep Sundays aside for freeing birds. The two drive to New Market in Pandey’s car in the afternoon. Last Sunday, they bought 18 pigeons at Rs 400 a pair. The birds had to be taken in a cage for which they had to deposit Rs 400 with the trader. The amount is refunded once the cage is returned. Accompanied by Pandey’s younger brother, they reached the Maidan around 3.40pm. The three released the birds, one by one. A couple of teenagers who had come to play at the Maidan looked in awe and cheered them as the birds took flight. “When we started, we used to buy some smaller birds as well. But predators like eagles killed and devoured them, sometimes in front of our eyes. So, we restrict ourselves to pigeons. Pigeons usually survive,” said Das. The friends choose different spots on the Maidan on different days to release the birds. Das, a commerce graduate, runs a tutorial for children of Classes I-XII in Mullick Street, behind Burrabazar police station. Das used to earn “around Rs 30,000” from his tutorial before the fresh Covid curbs. His student pool has come down to 28 from 50 because of the curbs. “Many parents and their wards are not ready to pay the usual fee for online classes,” he said. The price of one pair of pigeons has gone up to Rs 400 from Rs 300 a few months ago. Pandey, who comes from a family of cloth merchants, also contributes to buying birds. “The sight of the birds getting a taste of freedom is priceless,” said Pandey. “We had set ourselves a target of releasing over 50 birds every month. More often than not, we cannot match the target,” said Das, who also runs a charity that works for the uplift of street children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Business||Retail inflation remains high at 6.26 per cent||Retail inflation remained above the RBI's comfort level for the second consecutive month despite slipping slightly to 6.26 per cent in June while the factory output recorded a growth of 29.3 per cent in May, mainly on account of the base effect, the government data showed. The marginal slippage in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was noticed despite little firmness witnessed in the food inflation which inched up to 5.15 per cent in June from 5.01 per cent a month ago. Retail inflation based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) was 6.3 per cent in May 2021 and 6.23 per cent in June 2020. As regards the factory output, the Index of Industrial Production rose sharply by 29.3 per cent in May against a decline of 33.4 per cent in the corresponding month of 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on June CPI, the inflation on annual basis in the 'oils and fats' segment was 34.78 per cent in June. While the rate of price rise in fruits basket was 11.82 per cent, it contracted in vegetables (-0.7 per cent). The inflation in 'fuel and light' segment was 12.68 per cent. The RBI has been mandated by the government to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on the either side. The central bank mainly factors in the CPI inflation while arriving at its bi-monetary policy. The NSO data revealed that industrial production surged by 29.3 per cent in May, mainly due to low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors, but remained below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- grew 34.5 per cent in May this year, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Monday. The mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May while power generation increased 7.5 per cent during the same month. In May 2021, the IIP stood at 116.6 points compared to 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019 as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Commenting on the CPI data, Suresh Nagpal, Chairman of Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade (COOIT), an apex association of edible oil, said internationally, the prices of edible oil started correcting in the second fortnight of June. "The Government of India has also reduced duty and has lifted restriction on imports of certain edible oils for the next few months. As a result, the prices of edible oils have softened in both wholesale and retail market since mid of June. We expect prices to remain at the current level over the next few months," he said. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said the softer-than-expected CPI inflation comes as a relief after a shockingly high May reading. While the headline inflation still remains elevated and risks remain, the high frequency mandi data shows further moderation in food prices in July signalling towards a return of sub-6 per cent readings going ahead, she said. "We continue to expect the MPC to retain its current policy guidance in the August policy in favour of growth. However, towards the end of the year gradual policy normalization will be underway," she added. On factory output, Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA Limited said as the widening state-wise restrictions caused the sequential momentum to falter, the pace of year-on-year IIP growth expectedly flattened to 29 per cent in May 2021. "The sequential dip in activity was broad-based across the use based categories, as well as two of the three sectors, namely manufacturing and electricity. Only mining escaped the impact of the localised restrictions brought on by the second wave of Covid-19, with a mild month-on-month uptick of 0.6 per cent in May 2021," she said. Shravan Shetty, MD Primus Partners said: "The IIP for May at 29.3 per cent... suggests the supply chains have adopted over the last year to dampen the impact of second wave. This points to a robust Q1 considering the high-frequency parameters for June are also positive". The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 85.3 per cent in May 2021 as against a contraction of 65.9 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 98.2 cent in the month under review compared to a 70.3 cent decline in May 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 0.8 per cent in May this year where it was a contraction of 9.7 cent in the year-ago period. The second wave of the pandemic started by the middle of April this year and many states imposed restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. "The growth rates over corresponding period of previous year are to be interpreted considering the unusual circumstances on account of COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020," NSO said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||SC refuses to interfere with HC order in Lodha case ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order dismissing contempt petitions filed against Harsh Vardhan Lodha for continuing as a director and chairman in companies of the M P Birla Group. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy said it was not inclined to interfere with the high court order of April 22, as appeals are still pending there. The apex court directed the high court to make an endeavour to dispose of the bunch of pending appeals as expeditiously as possible and in any event on or before March 31, 2022. The group companies headed by Lodha are Birla Corporation, Universal Cables, Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cable. Appearing for the Birlas and petitioner Arvind Kumar Newar, a battery of senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, P Chidambaram, K V Vishwanathan and Janak Dwarkadas, said the high court is completely wrong in dismissing the contempt petitions. "The high court said that he has to comply with its order but he has not complied with directions. I am not interested in contempt or sending him to jail but I want him to be removed," Sibal said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan and advocate Sumeer Sodhi, appearing for Vindhya Telelinks Ltd, said a direction be issued that all the pending appeals before the high court are heard in four weeks. Divan said that there were several contempt petitions filed and the opposite party have selectively chosen one contempt petition and they have been repeatedly writing letters to the company. He said that they have no registered share in the company and since the last two years the actions of the two of the three administrators have constantly been to interfere with the affairs of the companies under the guise of an unwarranted/ illegal control by the Committee, not only over the Estate but also over third-party trusts, societies and publicly-held companies which are part of the MP Birla Group. Senior Advocate Darius Khambata, appearing for Lodha, said the the high court's single-judge verdict on September 18 last year had refused to interfere with the resolutions passed at the annual general meetings of the four manufacturing companies, where his client was reappointed as director by an overwhelming majority of at least 97.98 per cent of votes cast in his favour. The Birlas and the Lodha family are embroiled in a litany of court proceedings over the M P Birla Group's assets. On April 22, the High Court had dismissed several contempt petitions filed against Lodha for continuing as a director and the chairman in companies of the M P Birla Group. The High Court had also dismissed contempt proceedings against other directors of the companies in view of findings of the court that Lodha had not committed contempt by attending board meetings as director/chairman of the company. It had observed that Lodha's participation in the board meetings "cannot be termed as a contumacious violation of the order of this court as willful disobedience has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt." "There is a possibility that he could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL (Administrators Pendente Lite) Committee and the promoter and promoter groups and PACs (persons acting in concert)," the court had said. An APL is appointed by a court to begin probate proceedings during a lawsuit that challenges the will. The contempt petitions before the High Court were filed by the Birlas alleging wilful violation of an order passed on October 1 last year. In that order, the High Court had declined to pass an interim stay on a single bench judgment over administering the Priyamvada Devi Birla Estate by a court-appointed committee, while clarifying parts of the order under challenge. The high court is hearing a probate application by Harsh Vardhan, whose late father R S Lodha had claimed that Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed her estate, comprising the M P Birla Group, to him through a will. The Birlas, one of the oldest industrial groups in the country, have challenged the probate application by the Lodha family and they have been involved in a legal battle over the control of the M P Birla Group since the death of Priyamvada Devi Birla in 2004. Priyamvada Devi Birla's husband M P Birla died in 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after volatile session||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty closed on a flat note after a volatile session on Monday, following a mixed trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 13.50 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 52,372.69, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 15,692.60.  Bharti Airtel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping around 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, Infosys, HDFC, Bajaj Auto and PowerGrid.  On the other hand, Ultratech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and IndusInd Bank were among the gainers.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the rupee appreciated by 6 paise to close at 74.58 against the US dollar.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.47 per cent lower at USD 74.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Buy Instagram Followers from These 4 Trending Websites||Instagram is a social network platform where there is a strong competition of getting viral. People all over the world use this platform for general surfing or uploading their different content and posting. They want to get a high number of followers on their post. They desperately wait to see when their post or videos get a high number of likes and shares. The frequent sharing of different content from Instagram to other platforms also becomes the source of getting viral. There is another way of getting viral over night with the blink of an eye. Have you ever thought how famous you can become and will find your name on different platforms? Today I shall tell you the easiest way to become viral. Most of the brands and celebrities also utilize this strategy for fan following and publicity. Four trending followers selling websites There are many websites that sell followers, likes to their customers. These websites have multiple packages according to the customer demand. Among all those, there are four trending websites which provide the best real-quality followers. These websites will make your account viral overnight. These are Buy Instagram followers from four these trending websites •        Activeig.com •        Qubeviews.com •        Instadean.com •        Wbix.com Activeig.com This website is famous for its quality service and real Instagram followers. It provides an instant service after placing your order. They never wait their customers and do any negligence. The instant service of them will make your account trending and viral overnight. The quality service will not only boost your profile but also involve in making a high number of engagement on your post. It multiplies your visibility and makes your account recognizable very fast. Another important thing about this website is it is very cost effective. It provides packages according to the clients demand at a very reasonable price. The process of placing the according to the date it receives is very simple. The quality service of this website is available on multiple platforms. In the given table below the price of the packages with the number of followers are given below: Number of followers/Price of packages 100/$2.99 500/$7.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 Qubeviews.com The packages and striking features make this website trending and popular among people. The Qube views are user-friendly website which provides a quality service to their customers on multiple platforms such as YouTube, Instagram, spotify and sound cloud. The website offers a simple process which can be followed by anyone easily to place the order. All you have to do is to decide the amount of order that you want, that is, how many followers you want. Then select the package according to your demand. Enter the details and then wait for the result. The customer service support by this website is available 24/7 for their customers. The representatives are highly skillful and knowledgeable. The payment options offered by them are by various means such as visa cards, debits cards, credit cards, master cards, American express, Citi bank and chase capital one. This versatile mode of payment is the source of attraction for other customers. It makes the payment easy with a suitable price package and full-privacy mode for their clients. Number of followers/Price of packages 100/$2.99 500/$7.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 7500/$69.99 10000/$84.99 15000/$129.99 25000/$199.99 50000/$249.99 Instaden.com This is the hub of real-quality followers, likes and other similar services on various platforms. This platform is famous for not compromising quality and quantity. The instant delivery of the order and active customer service support for the clients makes it favorable and trending. The followers which this platform provides are involved in following your post, like it and engage with it for a long time. Their service satisfied their clients by providing such quality followers that last long on your account. The process of order is very simple and easy. One of the most attractive features which make this website trustworthy is a money-back guarantee within 30 days. Number of followers/Price of packages 500/$6.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 10000/$78.99 Wbix.com This website is user friendly as it provides very striking features to their clients. The services of this website are available on multiple platforms. This platform will take you to the top of social media. The one who buys the followers from them also becomes a partner in their business. Their business is spread over Europe, Asia, Russia and the Pacific region due to their focus on quality, quantity and loyal service. They provide a very reasonable package to their customers according to their need. The discount offer is also available on their site. So try to be up-to-date to date to grab the golden opportunity of the discount. Number of followers/Price of the packages 1000/6.99 5000/$24.99 50000/$209.99 100000/$374.99 1000000/$2799  Points to be consider while selecting website When you are going to select any website for buying the followers, you must consider the following points in your mind: •        The website must be secure with SSL certification and a valid payment option •        The reviews and testimonials are a good source for evaluating the quality of the website and their services. Significance of high fan following on Instagram The increase in the number of fans following on Instagram not only gives you fame and makes your account viral, but also other financial benefits as well. When you have increased followers, your account becomes recognizable. You become to appear everywhere on this platform. In this way, new people on Instagram want to share your account. Mostly, those people who want publicity for their products will contact you. They will pay you for sharing your platform for their personal use. In this way, getting viral has multiple benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 240 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 240 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries amid a firm trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 241.95 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 52,628.14 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 81.65 points or 0.52 per cent to 15,771.45.  ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Maruti Suzuki, SBI, UltraTech Cement, IndusInd Bank and Tata Steel.  TCS and Reliance Industries rose up to 0.56 per cent in early trade.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra and Hindustan Unilever were the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 182.75 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,386.19. The NSE Nifty dropped 38.10 points or 0.24 per cent to close at 15,689.80.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,124.65 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.19 per cent to USD 75.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Andrew Yule to shut down electrical division||Century-old Andrew Yule is bringing the curtains down on its city-based electrical division rendering close to 600 workers jobless in one more instance of central public sector organisations under the Narendra Modi-government paring their presence in Bengal. The process of winding up the division’s two units, both located in the Khidderpore area, is likely to be completed by September and employees offered voluntary retirement or separation schemes. An internal committee of the board has approved the closure of the units by meeting the expenses of the separation scheme from internal resources. The panel had submitted its recommendations to the board and the concerned central ministry more than a month ago, on June 2. The electrical division in Calcutta manufactures switchgears, transformers and unitised sub-stations among other items. The division had become unviable in the absence of investments to upgrade its technology even as it failed to match up to the stiff competition in the market. Last month, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote a letter to Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan in which he listed the number of central PSUs which are either scaling back operations in Bengal or in the process of relocating out of the state in the wake of a decision by Steel Authority of India to dismantle the raw material division based in Calcutta. SAIL went ahead with the decision amid protests but none of the RMD employees got the sack. The closure of the Yule division was not publicly known then and understandably was not mentioned in the letter. Sanjoy Bhattacharya, who took charge as the chairman and managing director of Andrew Yule less than a year ago, did not respond in spite of repeated attempts. However, the latest annual report of the company published in November 2020 did lay bare the PSU’s outlook on the electrical division which was referred to as the “bleeding organ”. The Calcutta operation of the company has been incurring continuous losses for many years as the products  lost their viability because of the changed demand and technology scenario, Andrew Yule observed in its annual report of 2019-20. The average loss of the unit was almost touching Rs 20 crore per year, including  Rs 16 crore incurred for employee benefits. The management felt the unit can at best clock a turnover of Rs 40-42 crore, subject to the availability of necessary working capital, way short of a turnover of around Rs 120 crore needed to make the unit viable. The report concluded that such a scenario “is no way possible due to the aforesaid non-viability of the product”. “As such, this unit has become a continuous bleeding organ for AYCL, which is pulling down the overall profitability and liquidity of the company,” the board’s report to the shareholders noted. The electrical division in Calcutta posted a turnover of Rs 22.20 crore in the financial year 2020-21 and a pre tax loss of Rs 10.97 crore. In the previous fiscal, it recorded a pre-tax loss of Rs 19.34 crore over a turnover of Rs 20.67 crore. Workers deployed at the division have disagreed with the management view that the unit could not be turned around. “There is a good market for the products that are being made in these units under the electrical division. But the management is not serious in pursuing the business or modernise the plants," said Khokan Majumdar, president of the Citu unions at the two units of the electrical division in Calcutta. The unions plan to submit a memorandum to the management voicing their concern this week. Glorious past Set up by Scottish entrepreneur Andrew Yule in 1865 as a managing agency in Calcutta, the then second most important city in the British empire after London and the capital of India, the group reached its zenith of prosperity at the time of the country’s Independence when it had 57 companies under management, employing 86,000 people. On a turnover of Rs 23 crore in 1947, it paid a tax of Rs 1.8 crore which accounted for one-sixth of the then government’s current revenue, the Andrew Yule website claimed. After the abolition of the managing agency system in 1969, the fortunes of Andrew Yule ebbed and it subsequently became a public sector unit in 1979. Several companies were nationalised and merged with Andrew Yule over the course of the next decade by acts of Parliament. One of the units of the electrical division came under the Yule fold in this manner too. The undertaking of Brentford Electric (India) Ltd, was nationalised vide Brentford Electric (India) Ltd Act, 1987 with effect from 1st April, 1986 and all the rights, titles and interest in relation to the said undertaking was vested with the company through a gazette notification dated 14th November, 1987. The Modi government subsequently repealed the Act in 2017. The decision to wind up the division comes at a time the Centre brought the ministry of heavy industry, the administrative ministry of AYCL, under the finance department. Many of the companies are based out of Bengal and sick and are said to be potential divestment candidates. Andrew Yule posted a net profit of Rs 21.19 crore on an income from operation of Rs 328.38 crore in the last fiscal compared with a loss of Rs 21.25 crore on an income of Rs 297.07 crore in 2019-20. On a consolidated basis, it made a profit of Rs 35.15 core in the last fiscal. While the engineering division based in Kalyani, Bengal and the electrical division at Chennai also made losses, the profit from the tea division covered them up fully. The company has 15 gardens in Darjeeling, Dooars and Assam, capable of producing 15 million kg a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Swift recovery expected due to limited impact of lockdown on economy: CII survey||India’s economy is expected to see a swift recovery from the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 as lockdowns were largely designed to limit social gatherings and did not affect economic activities much, a CII survey said. About 60 per cent of the CEOs participating in the survey expect that the recovery in sales of their companies would be better than that in the first wave of the pandemic. “A CII CEO poll of 119 top corporates indicate swifter economic recovery from the impact of the second wave. The deadly second wave has not affected much of the economic activities as lockdowns were largely designed to limit social gathering and this has helped limit the impact of the second wave on economic growth when compared to the first wave,” CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said. The survey added that vaccination holds the key to mitigating the impact of the second wave on economic activity and boosting consumer sentiment. Over 60 per cent of the corporate leaders confirmed that their firms were compelled to scale back operations during the second wave, it added. About 81 per cent of the respondents expected that the second wave in India would not have an adverse impact on the exports for their sectors in the first half of the current year over the comparable period of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Twitter appoints resident grievance officer, publishes first compliance report under IT rules||Amid tensions with the government, Twitter has appointed a resident grievance officer, days after it designated a chief compliance officer, as it also released its first India Transparency Report to meet the new IT rules. The US social media giant’s website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedure for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms. Twitter had previously appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force on May 26. However, Chatur stepped down within weeks of taking over the key role. California-based Jeremy Kessel was named as India’s grievance redressal officer, on the platform’s website — although the appointment did not meet the requirements of IT rules that clearly mandate that the key officers — grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer — to be residents of India. Twitter’s website on Sunday showed Vinay Prakash as the resident grievance officer. “Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042,” the page further said. Prakash’s name appears along with Kessel, who is the global legal policy director, and is based in the US. Twitter did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer. Compliance report Twitter has also published its maiden compliance report. In its India Transparency Report: User Grievances and Proactive Monitoring July 2021 report, Twitter said it had received 94 grievances and “actioned” 133 URLs between May 26 and June 25, 2021. Twitter said the complaints received during the period included defamation (20), abuse/harassment (6), sensitive adult content (4), impersonation and privacy infringement (3 each), IP-related infringement (1), and misinformation and manipulated media (1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Luxury car makers witness surge in sales in first half of 2021||Luxury car makers have witnessed an uptick in sales in the first half of 2021. Mercedes-Benz India sold 4,857 units in the January-June period, up 65 per cent over the same period last year when it sold 2,948 units. Swedish luxury car maker Volvo clocked sales of 713 units, a 52 per cent growth over 469 cars sold in the year-ago period. “The June 2021 retail in particular signifies first signs of a strong recovery in customer sentiments influenced by factors such as a new product portfolio and gradual unlocking of markets leading to an uptick in economic activities,” said a Mercedes-Benz India spokesperson. However, the company did not reveal the monthly figures. The company is seeing a strong demand for top-end cars such as GLS Maybach 600, the new S-Class along with the AMGs. However, the biggest seller is the LWB E-Class followed by the GLE luxury SUV. Volvo’s dynamic mid-sized luxury SUV XC60 was the highest selling model in the first half of 2021. Jyoti Malhotra, managing director of Volvo Car India, said, “A 52 per cent growth in the high-end luxury mobility segment during a highly depressed consumer sentiment phase and major Covid-related restrictions in the marketplace shows the confidence that the Indian consumer has in brand Volvo. Despite the uncertain conditions, it has been a good first half for the company, giving us a strong base as we move forward in the year and bring new products to our consumers.” Audi and BMW do not reveal quarterly or half-yearly sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Think long-term and stash up on mutual funds, says financial experts||Investors who feel they missed the bus because they failed to shovel their money into stocks and mutual funds last year need to stop wringing their hands over a missed opportunity. There is still a lot of room left on the upside. That is the verdict of financial experts such as Deepak Jain, Head of Sales at Edelweiss Asset Management Company (AMC), and Shibu Das, director of Fine Advice Pvt Ltd, who specialises in helping investors negotiate the risky shoals of investment. “In April last year, the Sensex sank from the highs of 50000 to almost 27000 — an almost 44-45 per cent fall... But in the collective view of the market, April 2020 was the worst phase,” says Jain. The market reckoned that everything from here on could only get better. “And that’s pretty much how it has all played,” the Edelweiss honcho said at a recent webinar held under the auspices of ABP Virtual Insight. Jain believes there are several reasons why the market has run ahead of a still-stuttering economy, anticipating gains as companies start to recover from a dire, once-in-a-century kind of crisis brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. Firstly, investors should never look at cash flows in a business — the fundamental basis that underpins equity valuations — from a one-year perspective. “Businesses are in here for perpetuity. You would like to evaluate the cash flows of a business over a 10-, 20- or a 25-year period,” says Jain. If you take the longer perspective, a crisis recedes into a mild kerfuffle. The markets bounced back within a year after the global financial meltdown in 2008; it’s happened this time as well. “The market bet positively on the future and it has really worked well for people who invested (during the downturn),” adds Jain. Jain adduces another reason why investors ought to take the longer view. Central banks around the world have slashed interest rates — and liquidity is sloshing around in every conceivable market. “When you value any business, interest rates are very important,” he adds. “So, from a higher level of 6-8 per cent on a 10-year basis, the rates have tumbled. The overnight fund rate is way below 4 per cent —and that means there is a lot of cheap money available.” Shibu Das amplifies on how falling interest rates have badly crimped returns in competing asset classes — bank fixed deposits for instance — triggering a shift towards mutual funds. “People are looking at various options to de-risk their portfolio. Earlier, investors in India were only looking at fixed-return instruments like bank deposits, and the safer schemes in the mutual fund industry. Slowly, the retail investors started investing in equity funds. Now, they want a portfolio that includes a global fund,” he says. Jain tosses in a data point that buttresses this shift towards mutual funds. “We now have more than 5.5 crore demat account holders in India. Compared with May 2020, the registrations have grown four times,” he says. “Equity markets were also bolstered by the so-called TINA (there is no alternative) factor of lower interest rates,” Jain believes. Das says the shift towards mutual funds all boils down to practical considerations. “Fixed deposit rates have come down to around 5 per cent. Throw in the 30 per cent tax element (levied in the highest bracket) and your return automatically falls to 3.5 per cent. Inflation is around 7-8 per cent. So, people know that putting money in a bank — which is supposed to be safe — is actually not safe,” he says. People need to stay invested in  mutual fund for the long term. People who invested in mutual fund schemes 25 years ago have seen the net asset value of the Rs 10 unit balloon to Rs 1,700 “which is a 170 times growth in 25 years that translates into a 20 plus CAGR (compound annual growth rate),” Das claims. “Even if you don’t see that kind of return (in future), who stops us from expecting a return of 12 per cent CAGR over the next 20 years? That is possible,” asserts Das, arguing that taxation queers the pitch even further. “The simple trade-off is between a bank fixed deposit that offers a 5 per cent return and is taxable at 30 per cent against a mutual fund that could give you a 12 per cent return with a 10 per cent long-term capital gains tax.” “The arbitrage between these two instruments is so high that it has led to a natural shift from bank deposits towards mutual funds. It is happening — slowly but it is happening,” Das adds. The pandemic has made investors — who have cut back sharply on discretionary spending and parcelled out their resultant savings between banks deposits, small savings schemes and mutual funds — only too keenly aware of the need for an emergency fund to tide over the hard times brought on by a crisis. “The great learning in this pandemic is that we need to plan for an unforeseen event... maybe not for three months but a little longer...perhaps 15 to 18 months,” adds Das. Both experts believe that investors should exercise discipline in financial planning — and resist the overpowering urge to dump their investments at the first sign of trouble. The webinar, which is posted on Facebook, weighs in on a variety of investment and has already racked up over 1 lakh views. If you haven’t caught it yet, you can watch it at: https://www.facebook.com/ABP-Virtual-Insights-with-Edelweiss-MF-108414431470574||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Be dynamic while making investment plans||Stock markets globally and in India have been supported by liquidity unleashed by the global central banks. As a result, Indian and global equity markets are steadily marching to new highs and are trading at steep valuations. Liquidity support coupled with near-zero cost of capital in most parts of the world have played a big role in ensuring that equity markets remain resilient. The Indian business cycle is attractive given that corporate houses have deleveraged, credit growth is very low, the capex cycle is yet to revive and the profit-to-GDP ratio too is low. Economic recovery seems to have been delayed because of the second wave of the pandemic, but we believe the recovery is well on track given the fairly resilient domestic economic indicators, favourable macro environment, government policies and supportive RBI measures. On the other hand, US corporate profit-to-GDP ratio is high and the country has pursued extremely aggressive fiscal and monetary policies. So, the risk of a global business cycle contraction exists but the Indian business cycle is in its initial stages. After the 2018 market fall, the market rally was concentrated and led by growth stocks. However, after October 2020, we have seen a broader based rally and going forward we expect this rally to continue as the economy further opens up. From a macro perspective, inflation should not be seen as a major risk. We believe going forward inflation is likely to be stable. Historically, it has been observed that when inflation is at manageable levels, it gives a boost to economic activity. During such times, businesses are able to sell goods at a faster pace and the recent uptick in real estate sales is a case in point. In terms of sectors, we are optimistic about select private sector banks, power, telecom, metals and software. The IT sector has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the work from home culture during the pandemic. As a result, the sector has gone through substantial valuation re-rating. Commodity companies are another pocket we are positive about as this space has witnessed significant under-investment over the past several years. Supply may not be able to catch up with demand, thus driving metal prices higher. This thesis on the metal played out very well in FY2020-21 and this trend is likely to continue in the near term. More caution than last year Investing at an all-time high requires much more caution than what was required while investing in March 2020, a time when the market was steadily correcting. When considering the previous all-time highs of the market seen during 1999, 2007 and 2017, the common feature is that investors fail to practice asset allocation, which means investing across debt, equity and other asset classes. An investor today can opt for balanced advantage or dynamically managed asset allocation schemes to achieve this objective. In such a fund, the corpus is deployed across equity and debt asset classes based on their relative attractiveness. While equity provides the growth element, the debt allocation cushions the impact of high volatility in equities. Given the active management of asset allocation, such a scheme can be a part of one’s core portfolio. The other mistake that investors make is to go for stocks where sizeable gains are being made. In 1999, the investor favourite theme was TMT —technology, media and telecom stocks, while in 2007, it was infrastructure and in 2017, it was smallcap. This challenge can be addressed by investing across a diverse set of stocks through mutual fund categories such as the flexicap. Here, the fund manager has the flexibility to invest across large, mid and small cap names. This approach will help mitigate the risks associated with investing in a narrow set of stocks. For those opting to invest in an equity oriented scheme can consider investing from a long-term perspective through the SIP route. Risk factors to watch out for The US Fed rate hike is likely to be the biggest risks for the domestic market over the next two years. While Fed chairman Jerome Powell lowered rate hike concerns, he acknowledged that the Fed was considering tapering its bond-buying $120 billion a month programme, which includes $80 billion in treasury securities and $40 billion in mortgage-backed debt. This development has the potential to derail the global and US markets. As we live in a world which is much more intertwined than earlier, a global development of this magnitude is sure to impact domestic market as well. Needless to say, this could keep volatility at elevated levels as and when it plays out. Another source of uncertainty for the market is the evolving pandemic situation in the light of new Delta variant. The writer is ED and CIO, ICICI Prudential AMC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Buybacks of employee stock option plans finds favour||Buybacks of employee stock option plans (Esop) remain in vogue in 2021 as start-ups find in it the twin benefit of rewarding employees during the Covid pandemic and prevent equity dilution. Esop is an employee benefit plan that allows companies to offer ownership interest in the organisation. Under Esop buybacks, employers can repurchase the vested shares of the employees. While start-ups often reward their employees with Esops to retain talent and incentivise them, buyback of Esops is a relatively newer trend that was kicked off in 2018 by e-commerce major Flipkart. Since then, more than 20 start-ups have gone for Esop buybacks, with some announcing multiple rounds as well. According to industry estimates, employees were rewarded over Rs 500 crore through Esop buyback in 2020, a year marked by the Covid pandemic and economic slowdown. The trend has continued in 2021 with Cred, Razorpay, Cashify, Zetwork, Wakefit.co and Whatfix among the firms that have reportedly gone for such buybacks. “Esop buybacks can be used to remunerate employees for their contribution in building the company. Even early employees can get an exit so that they are able to create wealth. For the employers, this creates a pool of available Esops, without diluting equity,” said Archit Gupta, founder and CEO, ClearTax. “Start-ups go for Esop buyback under specific conditions, like when they want to secure a huge chunk of share for future negotiations, or if the founders want to replenish their Esop pool and they do not want to dilute the start-up any further. It really depends on the situation and the strategy of the start-up to grow further,” said Fahim Alam, CEO at The Better Co. Companies, however, have to pay a 20 per cent tax on distributed income on buyback of its shares under section 115QA of the Income Tax Act. However, any income arising for shareholders on account of share buybacks is excluded from total income, according to subsection 34A of Section 10 of the Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Multinational companies tax shift unlikely until 2022, says US treasury secretary Janet Yellen||US treasury secretary Janet Yellen on Sunday said that a newly endorsed mechanism to allow more countries to tax large, highly profitable multinational companies may not be ready for consideration by lawmakers until spring 2022. Yellen told a news conference after a G20 finance leaders meeting in Venice, Italy, that the OECD reallocation of taxing rights was on a “slightly slower track” than a global corporate tax of at least 15 per cent as part of a tax deal among 132 countries. G20 finance ministers and central bank governors endorsed the deal over the weekend, but questions remain over the ability of US President Joe Biden’s administration to persuade a deeply divided Congress to ratify the changes. Yellen’s comments suggest a two-step process for implementing the OECD tax deal, with the global minimum tax moving first. She said she hoped to include provisions to implement the so-called “Pillar 2” minimum tax into a budget “reconciliation” bill this year that Congress could approve with a simple majority, potentially without Republican support. The “Pillar 1” portion of the agreement would end unilateral taxes on digital services in exchange for a new mechanism that would allow large profitable companies to be taxed in part by countries where they sell products and services, rather than just those hosting their headquarters or intellectual property. “Pillar 1 will be on a slightly slower track. We’ll work with Congress,” Yellen said, when asked whether a two-thirds majority would be needed in the US Senate, which is normally the requirement for international treaties. “It may be in ready in the spring of 2022 and we’ll try to determine at that point what’s necessary for its implementation,” Yellen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh remark on cops sparks political backlash||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav's comment appearing to raise doubts about the arrest of two terrorists in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a political backlash in poll season. "I cannot trust the UP police and especially the BJP government," Akhilesh Yadav told reporters on Sunday. However, his party alleges that an edited clip is being circulated to create a wrong impression and that the former Chief Minister spoke at a time nothing was known about the arrests, least of all that the terrorists are believed to be linked to global terror outfit Al Qaeda. According to NDTV report, the UP government said on Sunday that two terrorists of the Al Qaeda-supported Ansar Ghazwatul Hind had been arrested by its Anti-Terror Squad from the outskirts of Lucknow on Sunday. They were planning explosions, including using "human bombs", at several places in Uttar Pradesh, according to the police. Minhaz Ahmed and Maseeruddin were arrested and a huge amount of explosives was also seized from their homes in Lucknow, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar was quoted by news agency PTI as saying. According to Mr Kumar, the two were planning to "unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities including Lucknow". He also said Ahmed and Maseeruddin were acting on the instructions of Umar Halmandi, the head of the Uttar Pradesh branch of the Al-Qaeda. "They were planning explosions at important places, memorials and crowded places, and also to use human bombs. For this, they were collecting weapons and explosives," Mr Kumar said. According to the police officer, Maulana Asim Umar, who headed the Al-Qaeda in the sub-continent and was killed in 2019, had links with Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh. As political sparring intensifies ahead of the UP polls next year, BJP leaders shared Akhilesh Yadav's comments on social media, along with their recriminations. "It is shocking to see former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav declare that he does not trust UP Police and BJP Government. This is the same dynast who claimed that he doesn't trust BJP Vaccine. Whom does he trust? Pakistan Government and its Terrorists?" tweeted BJP leader CT Ravi. The party's Amit Malviya wrote: "Akhilesh Yadav first had doubts about the vaccine, now says can't trust Uttar Pradesh police's action against terrorists. If he does not trust anybody, neither the state nor the administration, then why does he want to become Chief Minister? Let him sit at home."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||BJP MPs to introduce population control bills in Parliament monsoon session||BJP MPs will introduce private members' bills on population control and uniform civil code in the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament, according to information from the secretariats of both Houses. The private members' bill on population control comes close on the heels of the law commission of BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country, putting up a draft bill on the issue on its website, inviting suggestions from the public till July 19. BJP Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh Ravi Kishan and Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan Kirori Lal Meena are scheduled to introduce the private members' bills on population control and uniform civil code respectively in the very first week of the Parliament session which is starting from July 19. A bill introduced by a member other than a minister is known as a private member's bill and there is little possibility of it becoming a law without the government's support. The proposed legislations on population control and uniform civil code, issues that usually trigger heated polemics in the country, are in line with the BJP's ideological agenda. Opposition parties have criticised the BJP's moves in this regard, claiming that they are aimed at targeting one specific community, while the BJP has accused them of pursuing appeasement politics. According to the details available with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, Kishan and Meena will get an opportunity to introduce their respective private members' bills on July 24, which was decided through the lottery system. A notice for a similar bill on population control has also been given by BJP MP in Rajya Sabha Rakesh Sinha. The proposed legislations on population control emphasise on deincentivising couples having more than two children, by making them ineligible for government jobs and subsidies on various facilities and goods given by the government. The draft UP population control bill says people having more than two children will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. Similar legislation is under discussion in another BJP-ruled state Assam. Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad, a member of the ruling BJP's ideological family, has objected to the one-child policy norm of the draft population control bill in UP, saying it is likely to further increase the imbalance between different communities and contract the population as well. "The preamble of the bill states that this is a bill, inter alia, to stabilise the population and promote the two-child norm. The Vishva Hindu Parishad agrees with both objects," the organisation's working president, Alok Kumar, said in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSCL) on Monday. However, Sections 5, 6(2) and 7 of the bill, which incentivise public servants and others to have only one child in the family, go "well beyond the said objects", he said. Asked about the bill he intends to introduce, Sinha said population growth has been ringing an "alarm bell" for the country and asserted that a central law is "most required" as it will be applicable across the nation. The unchecked population growth needs to be regulated, he said. Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a critical intervention in the debate over the issue during his speech on August 15, Sinha said that Modi had called for a balance between resources and population. The discourse over the issue should not be seen through caste and religious angles, Sinha said. According to PRS Legislative, no private members' bills have been passed by Parliament since 1970. A total of 14 such bills have received Parliament's nod.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||In Parliament, Congress to target Centre on inflation, fuel prices||Stating that the issue of inflation and the rise in fuel prices will dominate the Parliament session beginning July 19, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday alleged the Centre had collected Rs 25 lakh crore through fuel tax but it is neither using this fund for the welfare of people nor giving it to state governments. Addressing a press conference here, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said the Narendra Modi government had made the lives of ordinary people “miserable” in the last seven years. “Prices of fuel, LPG, edible oil are at an all-time high. The Centre has collected Rs 25 lakh crore as tax on fuel but it is not being used for people’s welfare or being given to state governments,” Kharge alleged. He said the Modi government had raised prices of fuel “326 times including 38 times in the last two months”. “The Central tax on fuel during the UPA rule was Rs 9.48 (per litre) which is now Rs 32.90 (per litre). During the tenure of the UPA, the rate of crude oil was Rs 111 per barrel and the petrol price was Rs 71 (per litre). Contrary to this, when the rate of crude oil is 44 USD per barrel the price of petrol is Rs 107 per litre now,” he said. He said while the Union government has “collected Rs 25 lakh crore in the fuel tax” and the rate of LPG cylinder has reached Rs 834 the subsidy has also been withdrawn. “The prime minister had said direct benefit transfer (DBT) would ensure savings of Rs 15,000 crore, which means the government has saved almost Rs one lakh crore this way. But the Modi government is not using this money for the welfare of people and also not providing it to state governments,” Kharge said. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had suggested that Rs 6,000 be transferred in bank accounts of the poor, but that idea was rubbished. “During the UPA rule, 27.1 per cent people were lifted above the below poverty line whereas 23 crore people were below the poverty line (BPL) as of last year. Due to the wrong policies of the Modi government, the income of 97 per cent of families had reduced,” Kharge said. He said 1.33 lakh people lost their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic while the per capita income fell by Rs 10,000 and GDP dipped by 9 to10 per cent. Kharge said Maharashtra is yet to receive Rs 32,000 crore in GST refund from the Centre. The Congress is one of the ruling constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising the Shiv Sena and the NCP. Retail inflation remained above the RBI’s comfort level for the second consecutive month despite slipping slightly to 6.26 per cent in June while the factory output recorded a growth of 29.3 per cent in May, mainly on account of the base effect, the government data showed. The marginal slippage in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was noticed despite little firmness witnessed in the food inflation which inched up to 5.15 per cent in June from 5.01 per cent a month ago. Retail inflation based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) was 6.3 per cent in May 2021 and 6.23 per cent in June 2020. As regards the factory output, the Index of Industrial Production rose sharply by 29.3 per cent in May against a decline of 33.4 per cent in the corresponding month of 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on June CPI, the inflation on annual basis in the ‘oils and fats’ segment was 34.78 per cent in June. The manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- grew 34.5 per cent in May this year, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Monday. The mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May while power generation increased 7.5 per cent during the same month. In May 2021, the IIP stood at 116.6 points compared to 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019 as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Commenting on the CPI data, Suresh Nagpal, Chairman of Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade (COOIT), an apex association of edible oil, said internationally, the prices of edible oil started correcting in the second fortnight of June. “The Government of India has also reduced duty and has lifted restriction on imports of certain edible oils for the next few months. As a result, the prices of edible oils have softened in both wholesale and retail market since mid of June. We expect prices to remain at the current level over the next few months,” he said. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said the softer-than-expected CPI inflation comes as a relief after a shockingly high May reading. While the headline inflation still remains elevated and risks remain, the high frequency mandi data shows further moderation in food prices in July signalling towards a return of sub-6 per cent readings going ahead, she said. “We continue to expect the MPC to retain its current policy guidance in the August policy in favour of growth. However, towards the end of the year gradual policy normalization will be underway,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Dominica court grants bail to fugitive jeweller Mehul Choksi on medical grounds||The Dominica High Court has granted bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, allowing him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda for treatment of his neurological condition, local media there reported.  The high court has granted a consent order permitting Choksi to go to Antigua, where he has been staying as a citizen since 2018 after he left India, after depositing Eastern Caribbean Dollars 10,000 (approximately Rs 2.75 lakh as per exchange rate) as bail money, Antigua Breaking News reported.  The court has also stayed the ongoing trial before a magistrate for his alleged illegal entry into Dominica on May 23, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra's daily case tally falls to 7603, less than 500 new infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra reported 7,603 new coronavirus case and 53 fresh fatalities on Monday, taking the tally of infections to 61,65,402 and the death toll to 1,26,024, a health department official said.  The state reported a decrease in the daily COVID-19 cases and the fatalities as compared to Sunday, when it had registered 8,535 infections and 156 deaths.  The official said as many as 15,277 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered cases to 59,27,756.  The state now has 1,08,343 active COVID-19 cases.  Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate is 96.15 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  According to the official, out of 4,41,86,449 COVID-19 tests done so far, 1,75,899 tests were conducted on Friday, indicating an overall positivity rate of 13.95 per cent.  The official said currently 5,82,476 people are in home quarantine and 4,654 people in institutional quarantine across the state.  Out of 1,08,343 active COVID-19 cases across the state, the highest - 16,925 - are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 16488 and 11106, respectively.  According to the health department, of the total 5927756 recovered patients, the highest number of 1034523 are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 699119 and 558631, respectively.  The official said Mumbai recorded 496 new COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 728190, while the death toll increased to 15636 with nine fresh fatalities.  He said 207 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 498510, while the death toll remained unchanged at 8548 as no fresh fatality was reported in the city.  According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 46, 204, 28, 12 and eight new COVID-19 cases, respectively.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 61,65,402; new cases 7603; total deaths 126024; recoveries 5927756; active cases 108343; total tests so far 4,41,86,449. Mumbai reported 478 new coronavirus cases and nine fresh fatalities on Monday, while 701 patients recovered from the infection, the city civic body said.  According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) updated data, with the addition of 478 cases, the COVID-19 tally rose to 7,28,174, while the death toll increased to 15,636.  This is the third time since the beginning of July that Mumbai has reported less than 500 COVID-19 cases and under 10 fatalities for the second time.  On July 5 and 6, the city had reported 489 and 453 new COVID-19 cases, respectively, and nine fatalities on July 7.  Generally, the city reports a lesser number of new infections at the start of week as the number of tests conducted on weekends goes drops as compared to other days.  The civic body said in the last 24 hours, a total of 27,827 tests, the lowest in July so far, were conducted for detecting coronavirus, taking their cumulative number to 75,62,401.  Since the start of July, the daily number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the city has been over 30,000. On July 9, as many as 39,000 tests were carried out in the city.  According to the BMC, the number of discharged patients outnumbered the new cases on Monday. With 701 patients discharged from hospitals during the day, the number of recovered cases climbed to 7,03,077.  Mumbai has COVID-19 recovery rate of 96 per cent, BMC officials, adding the city has 7120 active cases.  According to the officials, Mumbai's average doubling rate of COVID-19 cases has reached 926 days, while the average growth rate of cases between July 5 and July 11 was 0.07 per cent.  The count of containment zones in slums and chawls has reduced to just five, while the number of sealed buildings is 63, the civic body said.  The financial capital of the county had reported the highest-ever 11,163 COVID-19 cases on April 4, while the most deaths in a day during the second wave - at 90 - were recorded on May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||Delhi runs out of Covishield, some jab centres to remain closed on Tuesday||Delhi has run out of Covishield stock and some Covid vaccination centres are likely to be closed on Tuesday, officials said on Monday. The national capital had 19,000 doses of Covishield and 2,39,000 doses of Covaxin on Monday morning, according to a bulletin. Raising the issue of shortage of Covid vaccines in the city, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, "Vaccines have run out in Delhi again. The central government gives vaccines for a day or two, then we have to keep the vaccine centres closed for several days." "Why is our country's vaccine programme faltering even after so many days?" he added. A total of 36,238 vaccine doses were administered on Monday, taking the total number of jabs given so far to 89,37,904, the bulletin stated. Government vaccination centres in the city were shut on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
12-07-2021||India||For Priyanka's son photography is the pivot||His life path is still uncharted and he doesn't know quite where it will take him but Raihan Vadra, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's son, is certain photography will be pivotal in whatever he does in the future. The 20-year-old, born to politics some would say as a scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family, says he would like to use his lens to connect with people and forward his own understanding of life. “I would never say yes or no to anything. But photography is going to be definitely one of the things that I would like to do for a long time,” said the young Vadra, the son of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Robert Vadra. He has begun charting the course of what was a hobby and is now a full-time passion and maybe profession with his debut exhibition of photographs titled Dark Perception - an exposition of space, light and time". On exhibit are over 40 photographs -- from wildlife to old architecture and buildings to abstract. "I do not know where life will take me in the future. What I know is that I want to concentrate fully on photography right now," Raihan told PTI on the sidelines of the exhibition. Born in Delhi and educated in Delhi, Dehradun and London, Raihan said he would like to focus on people through his photography. To a question on whether he was trained in photography, the young man said he does not have any formal grounding in the art except for some tips from his mother when he was a child and a two-week course in New York "I started out with photography as a 10-year-old. The jungle has always fascinated me and my initial frames depicted the forest and the wildlife," he said. "Later, as I moved to London for my education and found it difficult to visit the forest, the nature of my pictures also changed and I ventured into a myriad range, including street photography, event photography and photography of life itself. "My mom gave me some tips when I was a kid. I did a two-week course at the International Centre of Photography in New York, but I have been basically self-trained. I may be looking at a Masters in photography," he said. Commenting on the title of his exhibition, Raihan said darkness offers a full perspective on issues. "In the dark there is no judgement and you are free to evolve your thoughts darkness is freedom and perception is the prison." "I am just trying to mirror the world as I see in my photographs, I inhabit a world in which light, space and time constantly realign themselves and give way to imagination and freedom," he said. Raihan has already started as a professional, curating an Instagram page as well as accepting commercial photography assignments on interior design, food, brands and products and architecture. He said his biggest inspiration when it comes to photography is showing life and his subjects from multiple perspectives. "One of the things I would like to add to my work is people. The next time I display my work, you would see more work on people. Portraits and crowds are some of the stuff that I would be working on," he said. Raihan, who uses different cameras, including his iPhone, spends about four hours a day on his passion. "Proud of my boy for finding his own path and working hard towards his goals, Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. The exhibition, Dark Perception - an exposition of space, light and time", started on Sunday and is on till July 17 at New Delhi's Bikaner House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||NEET postponed to September 12 from August 1||Medical entrance exam NEET, which was earlier scheduled for August 1, will now be conducted on September 12, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced Monday. "The NEET-UG 2021, will be held on 12th September across the country following Covid-19 protocols. The application process will begin from 5 pm tomorrow through the NTA website," Pradhan said in a series of tweets. "To ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols, face mask will be provided to all candidates at the centre. Staggered time slots during entry and exit, contactless registration, proper sanitisation, seating with social distancing etc. will also be ensured," he said. The Education minister further said that in order to ensure social distancing norms, the number of cities where examination will be conducted has been increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from 3,862 used in the previous exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Centre, HP govt working in sync to deal with Himachal floods, says Anurag Thakur||As a cloudburst in Dharamshala triggered a flash flood in Himachal Pradesh Union minister Anurag Thakur Monday announced that the Centre and the Himachal Pradesh government are working together to deal with the ‘fierce’ With the flashflood affecting lives, he urged people not to leave their houses unnecessarily and be careful. Thakur, who recently took charge of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry as well as of the Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry, hails from Himachal Pradesh. “The Central and State Governments are working with better coordination to deal with the fierce form of natural calamity in Devbhoomi Himachal. There is an appeal to all the tourists and the general public to take full care, do not leave the houses unnecessarily and do not go towards the water sources,” he tweeted. Flashfloods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh while bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Dharamshala. The Dharamshala district administration also instructed tourists to postpone their visit to Dharamsala in view of the heavy rains. A drain near Bhagsu Nag in upper Dharamsala adjoining Mecleodganj changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away four cars and several bikes, video clips showed. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that the situation caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh is being closely monitored with central authorities working in coordination with the state government. “The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Third wave inevitable; pilgrimage and travel can wait||Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed concern on Monday over governments and people being complacent and engaging in mass gatherings without following Covid-19 protocols, saying these events are potential super spreaders for a third wave of the pandemic. Stressing that tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour are needed, but can wait for a few more months, IMA, in a statement, said global evidence and the history of any pandemic suggest that “the third wave is inevitable and imminent”. “However, it is painful to note that in this crucial time, when everyone needs to work for the mitigation of the third wave, in many parts of the country, both governments and the public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols. Tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour, all are needed, but can wait for a few more months. “Opening up these rituals and enabling people without vaccination to go scot-free in these mass gatherings are potential super spreaders for the Covid third wave,” the IMA said. The statement by the doctors’ comes on a day when the annual Rath Yatra began in Puri and amid talks of allowing the “Kanwar Yatra” in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The IMA appealed to all the states to control mass gatherings. Based on the experience of the last one-and-a-half years of the war with the virus and the emerging evidence, it is obvious that by making the universal vaccination drive reach the maximum number of people and strictly following Covid-appropriate behaviour, people can face the third wave with confidence and mitigate its impact, the doctors' body said. “The consequences of treating a patient with Covid in a hospital and its impacts on the economy will be much better than the economic loss we suffer by avoiding such mass gatherings. It is the duty and responsibility of everyone at this moment to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour for minimum three more months and ensure that everyone near our houses is getting vaccinated,” the statement said. With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent, the data updated at 8 am today. But that doesn’t call for a complacent behaviour maintained the doctor’s body. It called for every individual to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid a medical crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||How To Take Care of Your Fashion Accessories in Monsoon||intense heat, the monsoon comes as a relief. The rainy season has a lovely aura, pleasant vibes, and unique happiness pervading everyone’s heart. From a fashion standpoint, rain might sometimes hinder us from wearing what we want and damage our ensembles. But it does not have to be that way all the time. The idea is to choose clothing and accessories that can be worn in the rain. Apart from having an umbrella, a raincoat, and rain boots, the following are some tips to take care of your fashion accessories in the monsoon. Taking Care of Jewelry Rain may offer enormous delight, but it is not a good indication for jewelry. When gold jewelry is placed in humid environments, it quickly attracts dust and filth. As a result, during the monsoon, gold ornaments must be cleaned with warm soapy water. When it comes to jewelry like pearls, corals, or amber, it is best to preserve them in separate boxes. They should not be mixed with other jewels because scratches are unavoidable. Pearls are also sensitive to fragrances and sprays. So, after you have used these pearls, it is better to put them in soft pouches or plastic wraps to protect them from friction. Silver jewelry can be harmed by excessive exposure to air and humidity. It should be kept in individual, airtight bags made of paper with anti-tarnish properties. These bags reduce air exposure, thus keeping the jewelry new for a long time. Silver is also prone to oxidation and requires extra attention to prevent it from corrosion. One way to clean the silver jewelry is by using toothpaste along with a soft cotton cloth. The other effective option is to take it to a jeweler for a ‘silver dip’ to regain its luster. Protecting Canvas Bags and Shoes To protect your canvas accessories, get some translucent candles from any local store, rub them all over your shoes and bags, run a hot air blower over them until the wax melts into the fabric. Now your items are ready to be used during the monsoon. Also, most canvas shoes have white edges; to keep them clean during the monsoon. Use toothpaste and then clean it with wet wipes or a moist towel to clean the fringes. Mobile phones are an integral part of everyone’s life, and they have become a fashion statement now. To protect your smartphone from rain, use a waterproof case. There are numerous mobile cases available in the market that come in various colors and styles. Though iPhone 12 Pro is a water-resistant smartphone, still a dent or crack on the outer casing can damage the phone so go for an iPhone 12 Pro Cover. However, iPhone 12 is also a water-resistant mobile. It has a 30 minutes submersion rating in the water of up to 6 meters depth, but it is better to get it covered with an iPhone 12 Cover. Preserving Leather Accessories The monsoon season is difficult; moisture from the air can collect in the leather, increasing the risk of fungus that eats away the leather, causing irreparable damage. Try not to use leather items during monsoon season. However, if you can’t do without it, follow the given instructions. Keep your leather accessories dry to avoid fungus. As soon as you return home, dry your shoes with a cloth and insert newspaper or toilet paper in them to absorb moisture. Also, if you’ve walked through muddy waters, make sure to clean your shoes before storing them. Your leather accessories might be damaged by direct sunlight and high temperatures. Never dry your leather bag or shoes in bright sunlight or near a heater. For your shoes, use a wax-based polish and a waterproofing compound for bags and belts. This is the most effective method for maintaining the condition of your leather accessories. Just like your skin, leather needs some ventilation to prevent mildew and decay. The leather allows air to pass through, permitting moisture to evaporate. But that won’t be possible if your leather is completely sealed. The longer you wait to treat your leather accessories, the more difficult it will be to clean them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Himachal cloudburst: Home Minister calls CM, assures of all help||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday to take stock of the situation arising due to the floods in several districts of the state and assured him all possible help from the Centre. He also conveyed to the chief minister that teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are reaching the affected areas for rescue and relief work. “I have spoken to the Chief Minister Shri @jairamthakurbjp ji regarding the natural calamity caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh. NDRF teams are reaching there soon for relief work. The Ministry of Home Affairs is continuously monitoring the situation. Himachal Pradesh will be given all possible help from the Centre,” Shah tweeted in Hindi. According to reports, heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh crippled the normal life and triggered a flood-like situation in several districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Priyanka holds strategy meet with UP Congress leaders ||AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Monday brainstormed with senior Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh on the preparations for the next year's assembly polls, as the party resolved to hit the streets against the BJP government over issues such as unemployment, price rise and law and order. With the Congress seeking to intensify organisational activities in the run up to the polls, Priyanka Gandhi held a virtual meeting with the party's advisory council to the general secretary and the working group on strategy and planning for the state. They discussed the rising prices, the coronavirus situation, the recently held panchayat elections in the state and organisational training camps, sources said. The Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh noted during the meeting that people are troubled by soaring inflation with prices of petrol, diesel, mustard oil, fruits and vegetables "sky high". She also pointed out that though input costs of farmers had doubled, their income had come down. Priyanka Gandhi also flagged the violence during the panchayat polls and alleged that BJP workers indulged in stone-pelting and firing. The Congress leaders who participated in the meeting denounced the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, saying it had failed on all counts. It was resolved at the meeting that the Congress will take the fight against the BJP government to the streets over issues such as rising prices, unemployment and the "jungle raj" prevailing in the state, the party sources said. Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Rajiv Shukla, Pramod Tiwari and Rashid Alvi, among others, participated in the meeting. The meeting comes a day after Priyanka Gandhi met Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who the sources said is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls with a focus on strategising and booth management. Last week, Lallu had expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either the SP or the BSP and form the next government on its own. His remarks had come days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Lallu had also said the Congress would fight the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||All Covid protocols will be followed during Monsoon Session, says Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla Monday said all Covid-related protocols will be followed during the Monsoon Session of parliament scheduled to begin from July 19. He said those who have not been vaccinated against coronavirus will be requested to undergo an RT-PCR test before entering the parliament premises during the session. Addressing a press conference in the parliament complex, Birla said 323 MPs have been fully vaccinated against the virus, while 23 have not been able to take their first jab due to some medical reasons. Birla said both the Houses will sit simultaneously and proceedings will start from 11 am. The Monsoon Session of parliament will begin from July 19 and conclude on August 13. Since the pandemic began, three sessions of Parliament were curtailed while the winter session last year had to be cancelled. The Monsoon Session, which usually starts in July, had begun in September last year owing to the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Delhi's Janpath Market shut for Covid norm violation||The Delhi government Monday ordered the closure of Janpath Market here for the violation of Covid protocols and for not following the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), according to an order. "The Janpath market is, hereby, closed till further orders for violation of DDMA order and for not following COVID appropriate behaviour norms. The Director (Enforcement), NDMC and SHO, Connaught Place are hereby directed to enforce the order with immediate effect and submit a compliance report," the Delhi government said in the order. Delhi was under a lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Markets were allowed to open from June 7 under a phased reopening plan of the city government. Markets in Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar and Karol Bagh were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of COVID-19 norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Govt data shows dip in average daily vaccination since June 21||A decline in average daily vaccination against the coronavirus has been seen since June 21, when the new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination commenced, government data showed. According to data available on CoWIN platform, an average of 61.14 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered daily in the week from June 21-27 which dropped to 41.92 lakh doses daily in the subsequent week from June 28-July 4. In the week from July 5 to July 11, the daily average vaccine doses number further dipped to 34.32 lakh doses. Among states, however, a mixed trend has emerged with some states and UTs reporting a sinusoidal trend of vaccination while others a dip. States such as Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh showed a decline in average daily vaccinations since the week of June 21-27 while a sinusoidal trend in administration of daily doses of COVID-19 was seen in states and UTs like Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Jammu and Kashmir, according to CoWIN data. In the states of Assam and Tripura which recently reported a rise in fresh COVID-19 cases, a declining trend in administration of average daily vaccine doses can be seen. Even then the daily average vaccination remained higher than the previous phase of COVID-19 vaccination. In the week from June 14-20, just 33.97 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered daily on an average. On Monday, the Health Ministry said over 1.54 crore balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered. The cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.73 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India on Monday recorded over 37,000 fresh Covid cases, pushing the total tally to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases declined to 4,50,899 and comprised 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate increased to 97.22 per cent. A decrease of 3,219 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
12-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth disbands 'Mandram' designed for political entry||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday announced disbanding the Rajini Makkal Mandram, launched for his political entry and reiterated that he has no intention of involving himself in politics in future. Hours after he flagged questions among fans and Mandram functionaries as to "whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," the actor, following discussions with office-bearers said he would not join politics. Due to circumstances, "what we thought did not materialise," he said apparently referring to his previoulsy proposed political entry which he subsequently dropped. "I have no intention of involving myself in politics in future," he asserted in a statement. Hence the RMM is disbanded and the functionaries would as before work under the Rajinikanth Fans Forum (Rajinikanth Rasigar Narpani Mandram) which is aimed at carrying out activities for people's welfare, he said. After he announced last year that he would not take the political plunge, it was his duty to clarify on the status of the Mandram which was created as a precursor body to facilitate the launch of a political party, he added. The fans forum, an apolitical welfare body, was converted into RMM and this new outift was launched in 2018. Office-bearers were appointed in both districts and at the state-level while separate wings were also formed to support the launch of political party. Before meeting the functionaries at a marriage hall owned by him here, the actor, speaking to reporters referred to questions being raised on Mandram and 'whether or not' he would be in politics, which led to a flutter of excitement among his fans till he came out with a statement reiterating his 'no to politics' stand. While fans were briefly excited, others on social media wondered why the actor was revisiting this matter as he had himself, last year, given a quietus to the over two-decade old political entry debate. The actor, who returned from USA days ago after a health check-up told reporters: "Should the Makkal Mandram be continued and if so, what will be its functions and these are questions among the functionaries and fans. "There are also questions as to whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," he said, adding he would consult Mandram functionaries and then spell out the outcome of the deliberations. On 3 December, 2020, the actor had said that he would launch his party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. However, during the last week of December last year, he did a u-turn and announced that he would not join politics. Since then, several functionaries had joined political parties including the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu appears before court in R-day violence case||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day, appeared before a Delhi court on Monday. Sidhu and several other accused appeared before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar through video conferencing. One Mohinder Singh Khalsa moved an exemption application on medical grounds, which was allowed by the court. The chief metropolitan magistrate directed the police to supply chargesheet to all the accused and listed the matter for further hearing on July 22. Last month, the court had taken cognizance of the chargesheet in the case and summoned all the accused to appear before it on July 12. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against the Centre's three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. According to the Delhi Police, they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Eleven dead, many injured in lightning strike in Jaipur||Tragedy struck in the form of a lightning strike in front of the 12th century Amer Palace near Jaipur, leaving eleven people dead and many injured. The incident took place when people were taking selfies at a watch tower amid rain in the Rajasthan capital, NDTV.com reported. According to reports, dozens of people were present at the watch tower when the lightning struck. A number of them jumped off the watch tower in panic and sustained injuries. Twenty-seven people were reported to have been on the watch tower and the fort wall when the incident happened. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has announced a compensation of ₹ 5 lakh for the families of those killed. Apart from the incident at Amer Palace, nine more casualties by lightning were reported from across the state on Sunday - One death each in Baran and Jhalawar, four deaths in Kota and three in Dholpur districts. Seven of those killed were children. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed pain at the loss of lives in various parts of the country due to lightning and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. In a tweet quoting Modi, the PMO said, "Saddened by the loss of lives due to lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh. The State Government will provide all possible assistance to the affected. From the PMNRF, Rs. 2 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured: PM Modi." The prime minister also expressed anguish at the deaths caused by lightning in two other states and announced similar relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth says he will 'consult' Mandram functionaries on 'political' entry||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday said he would consult his Rajini Makkal Mandram functionaries on whether or not to join politics in future, six months after he opted out of politics. Indicating a fresh start to the topic of if or not he would enter politics, that was debated for over two decades in Tamil Nadu, the actor said 'questions' lingered among the Mandram functionaries on the forum's future. RMM was previously considered a launch vehicle for the actor's political entry. However, last December the actor said he would not join politics and had cited factors like his health condition, him undergoing kidney transplant in 2016. The actor, who returned from America days ago after a health check-up told reporters: "Should the Makkal Mandram be continued and if so, what will be its functions and these are questions among the functionaries and fans. "There are also questions as to whether or not I am going to come to politics in future," he said, adding he would consult Mandram functionaries and then spell out the outcome of the deliberations. On 3 December, 2020, the actor had said that he would launch his party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. However, during the last week of December last year, he did a u-turn and announced that he would not join politics. Since then, several functionaries had joined political parties including the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||India logs over 37,000 fresh Covid cases, 724 casualties in a day||With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 3,219 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,32,343 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,23,17,813, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.32 per cent, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,14,713 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.73 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Rath yatra commences with curfew in Gujarat amid Covid concerns||The 144th annual rath yatra of Lord Jagannath began in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city on Monday morning, but it was devoid of the usual festive fervour and crowds due to the curfew imposed on its route to bar people from taking part in it in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead of the usual cavalcade of around 100 trucks, decked up elephants, akhadas and singing troupes, this year's procession consisted of only three chariots, pulled by nearly 100 youths from the Khalasi community, and four to five other vehicles. To prevent people from gathering on roads for a glimpse of the deities, a curfew has been imposed on the entire 19-km route of the procession from early morning till afternoon, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja told reporters. The journey of the chariots of Lord Jagannath, his brother Balbhadra and sister Subhadra began from the 400-year-old Jagannath temple in Jamalpur area here around 7 am, after Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy CM Nitin Patel performed 'Pahind Vidhi'- a symbolic ritual of cleaning the way for the 'raths' (chariots). Before the idols of the deities were placed on the chariots, Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited the temple at around 4 am and took part in the 'mangla aarti'. According to the city police, around 23,000 armed personnel, including nine companies of the Central Armed Police Forces, have been deployed along the route to prevent any unwarranted situation, as the procession passes through some communally sensitive areas also. Although the rath yatra would cover the entire 19-km route, the procession this time would be a shorter affair in terms of duration as the authorities have planned to conclude it in four to five hours as against the usual time of around 12 hours. Before the COVID-19 outbreak last year, lakhs of people used to gather along the route on 'Ashadhi Beej' every year to catch a glimpse of the decorated elephants and tableaux moving around in some 100 trucks. The procession used to come back to the Lord Jagannath temple after covering a distance of 19 km in about 12 hours, which included an hour-long lunch break at Saraspur. However, this time, authorities have ensured there is no large gathering in Saraspur. Since people from other districts and those living in western parts of the city also flock the route to watch the procession, police are regulating the traffic movement on all bridges to stop people from reaching near the route. The government also appealed to people to watch the live telecast of the rath yatra on television. Last year, only a symbolic rath yatra was organised in the premises of the Lord Jagannath temple here after the Gujarat High Court denied permission for the usual public procession due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive light rain today||Light rain is likely in the city on Monday with the weather department saying conditions are favourable for advance of the monsoon over the national capital. The long-delayed monsoon missed yet another date with Delhi on Sunday. The city woke up to a humid morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 37 degrees Celsius, it said. "Conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest Monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan today," the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 74 per cent at 8.30 am. The arrival of the monsoon will be announced in Monday's midday bulletin based on observations at 8.30 am on July 12, IMD scientist Sunitha Devi had said on Sunday. According to the standard operating procedure, the monsoon onset is declared based on the rainfall reported during the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 am, she explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Woman jumps in front of train with two-year old daughter in Maharashtra||A 28-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide along with her two-year-old daughter by jumping in front of a speeding train here in Maharashtra, police said. The incident took place at Asangaon railway station on Saturday night, they said. The woman jumped to death along with her daughter before the Tapovan Express which was heading towards neighbouring Mumbai, the official from Kalyan railway police station said on Sunday. The reason behind the extreme step was not yet known, he said. The bodies were sent for postmortem and the police registered a case of accidental death, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Sewage surveillance may help predict future surges||A nationwide research consortium has signalled plans to sample sewage water from select cities amid mounting evidence that regular wastewater surveillance combined with genome sequencing may help predict surges in Covid-19 days to weeks in advance. The Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium, an initiative funded by the Union science and technology and health ministries, hopes to expand sewage surveillance for Covid-19 in the country, scientists with the consortium said while declining for now to provide details. “Regular sewage wastewater surveillance could inform us about a possible surge well in advance,” said Chaitanya Joshi, director of the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Council (GBRC), Gandhinagar, one of the 28 labs nationwide that make up the consortium. Joshi and his colleagues have found genetic signatures of the highly transmissible Delta coronavirus variant in Ahmedabad’s wastewater, collected in February 2021, a month before the city’s first Delta case. The finding demonstrates the importance of wastewater sampling as an early indicator of the circulating variants. Researchers have known for more than a year through observations in several countries that the genetic residues of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can show up in wastewater shed by people who may or may not know that they are infected. The GBRC team collected two samples each from Ahmedabad’s wastewater streams in September 2020, November 2020 and February 2021, sequenced the genetic residues in the samples and found the Delta variant in the February samples. “The wastewater sample can also tell us how prevalent a variant might be in the local population,” Joshi told The Telegraph. The analysis has suggested that the Delta variant accounted for about 57 per cent of the circulating coronaviruses in the city a month before health authorities detected the first Ahmedabad patient infected by the strain in March 2021. The early detection in wastewater samples is not surprising, Joshi said. About 80 per cent of patients infected by the coronavirus have mild or no symptoms at all and a large fraction of such patients do not seek a diagnostic test but shed the virus while they are infected. In such circumstances, Joshi said, the viruses circulating in a locality are likely to enter the local wastewater streams before they are picked up through diagnostic tests on patients. The Ahmedabad study points to the silent circulation of the Delta variant in early February, a period when scientists had not yet fully appreciated the speed at which the variant was spreading, scientists with the consortium who were not associated with the study said. A document on the consortium released by the science ministry’s department of biotechnology on June 23 mentions sewage surveillance among its objectives, but a senior consortium scientist declined to discuss details of the sampling plans or timeline. “I won’t shy away from saying that I’m disappointed at the pace of wastewater surveillance in the country,” said Manish Kumar, an assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, who collaborated with the GBRC in the study. Kumar said other countries such as Britain had already initiated wastewater surveillance efforts to monitor coronavirus variants circulating in specific localities. “Wastewater surveillance along with sequencing would be a cost effective means of keeping track of the variants in our cities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||UP block parmukh polls: Opposition alleges violence by the BJP||Several videos and statements have emerged from Uttar Pradesh where the Opposition has alleged violence by the BJP during voting and counting for Saturday’s block pramukh polls, and accused government officials of acting like ruling party cadres. ⚫ Videos purportedly show Unnao chief development officer (CDO) Divyanshu Patel catch a video journalist, Krishna Tiwari, by the ear and thrash him at the Miyanganj block office. Fallout: Tiwari, who described Patel as a “goonda” before journalists on Saturday and confirmed the assault, prompting a media dharna before the district magistrate’s office, on Sunday released a video saying he was withdrawing the police complaint. He said Patel had not recognised him — contradicting what Tiwari had said on Saturday — and had later called him twice to apologise. ⚫ A senior police officer in Etawah has been filmed complaining over the phone, apparently to a superior, on Saturday that a BJP member slapped him and that a BJP MLA and district unit chief were moving about with supporters who were carrying bombs. Fallout: Vimal Bhadauria, a local BJP leader, has been booked on the charge of assaulting the officer and attempting to murder cops by opening fire at the Badpur block office. ⚫ Dharmendra Singh, the newly elected Independent block pramukh of Miyanganj, has said one couldn’t tell “who was a government officer and who a BJP worker” during the counting. He said that even after his son was assaulted by the police, he had kept quiet for fear of being killed. Tiwari, video journalist for a regional news channel, had told reporters late on Saturday evening: “I was filming some BJP members arguing with a block development council (BDC) member. The CDO, who was in a black T-shirt and a helmet, shouted that I shouldn’t record the scene. “When I ignored him and continued doing my job, the CDO caught me by the ear and dragged me away. While I was trying to free myself from his grip and protect my video camera, he started thrashing me like a goonda and hurling abuses at me.” The video clips show a man in a black T-shirt and another in a white kurta beat a man with a camera. Tiwari had displayed bruises on his hands and neck and said: “My camera was on when the CDO started beating me. The CDO knows me very well. Some BJP workers also beat me.” But on Sunday, a video surfaced purportedly showing him saying: “I am Krishna Tiwari. I had gone to the Miyanganj block office yesterday for election coverage. Some workers suddenly came. At that time the CDO somehow got into a dhakka mukki (pushing and shoving) with me. “He had taken charge only six days earlier and didn’t recognise me. He called me late in the night and apologised. He has also tendered apologies to his senior officers. This morning too he called me and said he had committed a mistake.... I am satisfied with whatever he said and am withdrawing my complaint.” Tiwari’s number was switched off. Patel refused to talk to reporters. On Saturday, Tiwari had also said some people wearing saffron scarves had attacked him an hour before the incident with the CDO. “I had come to know that some policemen and BJP workers were beating a BDC member near Sarambha Bridge, 2km from the block office. However, the attackers and the victim had left by the time I arrived there with Raja Rajput, a fellow journalist, on his motorcycle,” he said. “On our way back to the block office, we were intercepted by two SUVs. Five or six youths with saffron scarves around their neck attacked both of us and broke my mobile phone.” Later, journalists sat on a dharna at the district collectorate till 1am, leaving only after district magistrate Ravindra Kumar promised to have a case registered for the double assault on Tiwari. However, on Sunday morning, Ravindra merely said an “inquiry was on”. SP Anand Kulkarni said: “We have identified one of the attackers as Ankit Yadav. We are interrogating him to find out which party he belongs to.” Dharmendra Singh, the newly elected Independent block pramukh of Miyanganj, said on Sunday: “It was difficult to identify during voting and counting who was a government officer and who was a BJP worker.” He added: “The police baton-charged my son Abhay Singh in the afternoon and left him injured. His friends took him to a doctor but we remained silent because counting was on and the police, officials and BJP workers were very aggressive. They could have killed us.” Cop’s complaint In a video purportedly showing Etawah additional superintendent of police Prashant Kumar Prasad talking over the phone, with people milling around, the audio goes: “They were pelting us with stones, Sir. Sir, a BJP member slapped me. The BJP members are carrying bombs; the MLA and district president too. Vimal Bhadauria was with them.” The local BJP MLA is Sarita Bhadauria (no relation to Vimal) and the district BJP president is Anil Dhakre. Both are seen in the video, shot apparently by a journalist near the Badpura block office on Saturday. Badpura police station-in-charge Jitendra Kumar Sharma’s complaint says Vimal and 125 supporters had fired to terrorise the police and public and attacked Prasad. Prasad didn’t answer calls. Superintendent of police Brijesh Kumar Singh told reporters on Sunday: “We have booked the BJP leader (Vimal) and 125 others on several charges including rioting with deadly weapons and attempt to murder. The accused will soon be arrested.” A call to Sarita’s number in the afternoon was taken by a woman who said the MLA would call back. She had not till late in the evening. Earlier, Sarita had told reporters the police had caned her supporters and booked them in false cases. She accepted that she and Dhakre were at the trouble spot near the block office. Adityanath “declared” the results of the block pramukh elections early on Saturday evening, pre-empting the state election commission by hours. He has claimed the BJP has won 635 of the 825 seats. The pramukh election is not held on party symbols, and the poll panel does not give party-wise breakups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
12-07-2021||India||How Bodh Gaya averted an Ayodhya||The dispute over Ram’s birthplace in Ayodhya may have helped bring the BJP to power but a similar problem was resolved amicably in Bihar’s Bodh Gaya without violence or social-political turmoil despite the involvement of devotees from several countries. What helped shape the peaceful solution was support from a galaxy of Indian stalwarts of the time, from Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi to Swami Vivekananda, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajendra Prasad. The history of the dispute over the Mahabodhi temple in Bodh Gaya has been told vividly in a new book by Jairam Ramesh who has compared it with the Ayodhya issue, recalling how the Babri Masjid was demolished by rampaging mobs on December 6, 1992, after a long legal and political battle. The Bodh Gaya dispute too took 67 years to resolve but the two sides — Buddhists and Hindus — have been living in peaceful coexistence since an agreement was worked out in a truly democratic spirit. Ramesh’s book, The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined the Buddha, is mainly a tribute to Sir Edwin Arnold, author of the much celebrated The Light of Asia, a narrative poem published in 1879 that shaped the larger world’s understanding of the Buddha. Ramesh himself describes his book as a biography of the original book, seen as a milestone in the 19th-century rediscovery of the Buddha. It was Arnold who had first raised the issue of the Mahabodhi Temple, starting a campaign in 1886 to restore to Buddhists the ownership of the site, which had been in the control of Hindus since the 18th century. Bodh Gaya was where Siddhartha Gautama attained enlightenment under the sacred tree and became Gautama Buddha. It was Emperor Ashoka who built a temple there first, in the third century BC. Ramesh writes: “Sometime in the last decade of the 16th century, a wandering Sivaite sanyasi established his abode close to the ruins of the temple.” “In August 1727, a Mughal prince gave the Sivaites a deed to establish ownership rights in the area. The Sivaites took control of the temple and its surroundings following the grant of the deed and from then on, both Hindus and Buddhists had access to it.” Arnold, anguished by the plight of the temple, started writing about it. A monk from Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), Anagarika Dharmapala, who later founded the Mahabodhi Society, launched the struggle to regain Buddhist control over Bodh Gaya. Arnold was clear that Bodh Gaya (he called it Buddh-Gya) was to the Buddhists what Jerusalem is to Christians, Mecca to Muslims and Varanasi to Hindus. What lent credence and force to his campaign was the explicit support from personalities like Tagore, Vivekananda, Gandhi and others who were all fascinated by his book, The Light of Asia. In January 1922, Ramesh wrote, Tagore visited Bodh Gaya and issued a statement: “I am sure it will be admitted by all Hindus who are true to their own ideals, that it is an intolerable wrong to allow the temple raised on the spot where Lord Buddha attained his enlightenment to remain under the control of a rival sect which can neither have the intimate knowledge of or sympathy for the Buddhist religion and its rites of worship. I consider it to be a sacred duty for all individuals believing in freedom and justice this great historical site to the community of people who still reverently carry on that particular current of history in their own living faith.” Tagore’s friend Okakura Kakuzo, an artist from Japan, too had visited Bodh Gaya with Vivekananda. He wanted to buy land adjacent to the temple to erect a rest house for Japanese pilgrims. The Hindu mahant agreed as this was a deviation from the Mahabodhi Society’s insistence on total control of the premises. Okakura must have had the backing of Vivekananda as the local address he gave for the purchase of the land was that of Belur Math. But Vivekananda’s sudden passing derailed the proposal. The trajectory of the dispute had several similarities with the Ayodhya issue. Much like the Ram idol that was placed inside the mosque, Dharmapala had placed a Buddha statue he had got from Japan in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. The Hindu priests got it thrown out, compelling Dharmapala to file a case. The Hindus too filed a case and hearing began in Calcutta High Court. In 1922, when the Congress was holding its session in Gaya, Buddhists pleaded with Gandhi to resolve the issue. Gandhi asked Rajendra Prasad to tackle it. The dispute was lingering without any solution in sight. Ramesh’s book says: “Jawaharlal Nehru organised an Inter-Asian Relations Conference in New Delhi between 23 March and 2 April 1947, even before India attained her freedom. Leaders from 30 countries participated in the conclave, which was also addressed by Gandhi. “On 31 March, while this assembly was in session, an All-Asia Buddhist Convention was also held in the city with representatives from Ceylon, Siam, Burma and Tibet attending along with leading Indian Buddhists as well.” The book explains that Nehru met a delegation of this Convention, whose most pressing demand was that the management of the Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya be with Buddhists. Nehru promised them “all support for the restoration of Buddha-Gya to the Buddhists”. A year later, a bill was introduced in the Bihar Legislative Assembly proposing joint management of the site through a committee made up of both Hindus and Buddhists. Nehru suggested that an advisory committee including members from countries where Buddhists reside be attached to the management committee. Nehru was very mindful of the role that the Mahabodhi Society had played in the restoration of a number of sites associated with the Buddha, most notably Sarnath. The bill was passed by the Bihar Assembly on June 19, 1949, and the transfer of ownership from the mahant to the management committee took place on May 28, 1953. The Mahabodhi Temple was declared a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2002. Ambedkarite Buddhists demanded full control of the Mahabodhi Temple after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 but their campaign never took off. Asked whether an amicable solution was possible only because there was no political party to hijack the issue, Ramesh said: “Remember that the dispute was in an era of non-competitive politics. Also everybody of note — Tagore, Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, Nehru, Rajendra Prasad — were very great admirers of the Buddha and were very sensitive to Buddhist concerns regarding control over the Mahabodhi Temple. But the agitation took (more than) 65 years to resolve.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Puri Rath Yatra without devotees||Only 500 servitors will pull each of the three gigantic 45ft-high wooden chariots of the 12th-century Puri Jagannath temple deities on Rath Yatra on Monday. Last year also, 500 servitors had pulled each of the three chariots on Rath Yatra. Supreme Court guidelines allow up to 500 servitors to pull each of the three chariots. The apex court has allowed the conduct of the Rath Yatra without devotees like last year. The Shree Jagannath Temple administration has listed names of 3,000 servitors for various tasks connected with the yatra, the biggest religious festival of Odisha. While 1,500 servitors will pull the three chariots, the rest will be used as reserve and engaged in other sevas like carrying the massive idols of the deities, each around 7ft tall with arms, from the temple’s sanctum sanctorum to install them on the chariots. The East Coast Railway’s engineering department has estimated the weight of each of the three chariots between 200 and 300 tonnes. The chariots become heavier and all the more difficult to pull when devotees crowd their decks as they are pulled along the 2.5km Grand Road. The chariot of Lord Jagannath, popularly known as Nandigosh, is the heaviest among the three. “We do follow a systematic method to calculate the weight. We put 12 jacks to lift Nandigosh, the chariot of Lord Jagannath, two to three feet above the ground for jobs like repairing the axel and wheels. Each jack is capable of lifting 25 tonnes. So, roughly the chariot of Lord Jagannath weighs around 280 tonnes to 300 tonnes. “The weight of the chariot of Lord Balabhadra (Taladwaja) is around 250 tonnes as we use 10 jacks to lift it. The chariot of Goddess Subhadra (Darpadalan) is around 200 tonnes and eight jacks are used to lift it. I can’t tell you how servitors pull such gigantic chariots without the help of machines or elephants. It is nothing short of a miracle,” East Coast Railway engineering department’s senior section engineer, Puri Coaching Depot, Chidananda Acharya, told The Telegraph. Nearly 10,000 cubic feet of wood is used in the making of the three chariots. Heavy iron pieces are fitted into them at different points for support and strength. Jagannath Swain Mohapatra aka Jaguni, the 70-year-old daitapati (servitor), who had performed a puja at the residence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on February 26, feels that the love and devotion of servitors for the deities makes the chariots roll on during the Rath Yatra. The senior servitor told this newspaper, “It’s the faith of servitors that does the miracle. Though we servitors generally have a good physique, which is important to be able to serve Lord Jagannath and his siblings properly, it is pure love for him and His blessings that make the wheels of the chariots move.” Mohapatra who walks for an hour daily to keep himself fit during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Mysore language institute gets a regular director after five years||The Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysore, has got a regular director after five years with the government appointing linguist Shailendra Mohan. Prof. Mohan is currently associated with the department of linguistics, Deccan College, Pune. He has been appointed as CIIL director for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier, a government notification issued on Friday said. Prof. Awadesh Kumar Mishra, the last regular CIIL director, retired in August 2016. Since then, an in-charge director had been helming the institution. The director’s post had been advertised twice. Prof. Mohan was selected through an interview in December 2020. However, it took six months to finalise his appointment. The CIIL, set up in 1969, trains schoolteachers in second languages, helps in research on Indian languages, maps and revitalises minor languages and also translates books written in different Indian languages. What has further hobbled the CIIL’s functioning has been the education ministry’s inordinate delay in clearing the proposed revision of recruitment rules for the autonomous institution. The CIIL had submitted the proposal in 2016. Without a regular director and in the absence of revised recruitment rules, the CIIL has not been able to fill up nearly 100 faculty positions. This has affected the institution’s key functions such as mapping of minor languages and recording and revitalising their vocabulary and grammar. “Work has been going on at the usual speed. Had a regular director been appointed and the vacant posts filled up, the activities could have gathered pace,” a CIIL official said. The ministry last year prepared the National Education Policy that advocates teaching of schoolchildren in the mother tongue up to Class V. The CIIL has been verbally sounded out on mapping all the mother tongues and preparing learning materials, sources said. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has not had a regular director since November 15, 2020, when Prof. Hrushikesh Senapati’s term ended. The education ministry has assigned to the NCERT several activities under the NEP, such as the preparation of a National Curriculum Framework and textbooks for school students. “A regular director takes ownership of tasks and monitors and implements them. An in-charge director does not feel encouraged to take new initiatives,” an NCERT faculty member said. Another institution that has not had a regular head is the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), which frames policies on teacher education and gives approval to teacher education institutions. Since 2015, bureaucrats, not academics, have been holding the post of NCTE chairperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||Covid: Faulty journal report on jabs gets four lakh readers ||A scientific report published on June 24 this year in a renowned international journal, Vaccines, was accessed online by over 400,000 readers by July 2. That comes to well over 40,000 readers per day. The study was carried out by three scientists from institutions in Poland, Germany and the Netherlands. However, four days after its publication, the journal issued an “expression of concern” to alert readers to significant concerns regarding the paper. The journal initiated a probe and agreed to “provide an update following the conclusion of our investigation”. What followed was dramatic. The journal retracted the publication on July 2, because the editorial investigation had revealed that there was “misrepresentation of the Covid-19 vaccination efforts and misrepresentation of the data”. The drama had started immediately after the paper was published. One after another, scientists who were associate or section editors of the journal had begun to resign. I have never seen such a phenomenon in my scientific career, spanning over four decades. Vaccines is a respectable journal from a well-known publisher — the Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute, Switzerland. What was this paper all about and what were the issues? The paper had claimed: “Covid-19 vaccines have had expedited reviews without sufficient safety data. We wanted to compare risks and benefits.” Usually, it takes a long time to assess the various aspects of a new vaccine — most importantly that of safety for the individual recipients of the vaccine, based on data collected from a large number of people administered with the vaccine — before it is launched. During the pandemic, the new vaccines were rolled out in a hurry with some assessment of their safety and efficacy, but not in as much detail as would have been done under normal circumstances. The authors used two large data sets (Israeli and Dutch) and concluded: “For three deaths prevented by vaccination we have to accept two inflicted by vaccination. This lack of clear benefit should cause governments to rethink their vaccination policy.” Scientists went ballistic on reading this. Of course, if the data supported this conclusion, there was cause for worry. But the data did not. The study was flawed because, among other reasons, the authors had assumed that every death that occurred after vaccination was because of the vaccination. This is obviously not true, especially because many vaccine recipients are likely to be aged or have co-morbidities. This episode is both to be decried and to be celebrated. Decried because the authors did not use the critical methods of modern science for their conclusions. Celebrated because science is self-correcting, even if through the use of drastic measures by scientist peers, as in this instance. Incorrect conclusions drawn by scientists can impact civil society adversely. Vaccine hesitancy is a major problem in controlling the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Vaccines are a sure way of preventing the spread of the coronavirus. If a substantial proportion of a population is vaccine hesitant, the coronavirus will continue to circulate in the population. The more it circulates, the greater the chance it will change its character and become more ferocious, as we are seeing with the Delta variant. Vaccine hesitancy arises primarily from fear and misinformation. Much has been written about vaccine hesitancy in India. The proportion of hesitant people varies across populations and can be as high as 20 per cent. Incorrect conclusions expressed in studies by scientists can fuel vaccine hesitancy. In India, such incorrect conclusions can be a double whammy. There is already a dearth of vaccine doses in our country, and any addition to vaccine hesitancy will further increase the circulation of the coronavirus. Fortunately, the self-correcting nature of science prevents the spread of incorrect information, as in the case of the present retraction. Partha Majumder is the National Science Chair, Govt of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||India||BTech courses to be offered in eight Indian languages ||India’s technical education regulator is set to allow engineering colleges to offer BTech courses in eight Indian languages, including Bengali, from the upcoming academic session. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Thursday advocated the teaching of technical courses in Indian languages while interacting with heads of the IITs and other centrally funded technical institutions. “PM added that we need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages,” a release from the Press Information Bureau, the central government’s publicity arm, said. All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe told The Telegraph that translating first-year engineering textbooks from English into Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati and Malayalam was almost complete. He said 14 colleges had already come forward to offer BTech courses in Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi or Gujarati. Some of the premier engineering colleges like the IITs, NITs and the IIEST Shibpur are not affiliated to the AICTE and will not be offering the vernacular option, at least during the 2021-22 session. Sahasrabudhe said the AICTE would translate textbooks also into Odia, Punjabi and Assamese soon. “We have almost completed translating the first-year textbooks. The technical terms have been kept as they are,” he said. “Since the material is ready, colleges can be allowed to offer courses in the vernacular medium.” Sahasrabudhe added that the translation of second and third-year textbooks was going on. Linguist and former director of the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Awadesh Kumar Mishra, welcomed the move but warned that retaining all the English technical terms in the vernacular textbooks would “weaken the Indian languages”. Some terms, such as “oxygen” and “oxide”, can be retained but words such as “pressure”, “temperature”, “volume” and “refraction” should be translated into the Indian languages, he said. Sahasrabudhe had not clarified which English terms would be retained in the vernacular textbooks. Bengali school textbooks already use vernacular equivalents for words like “pressure” and “refraction” — even “photosynthesis” — while retaining the English “oxygen” or “nitrogen”. “Use of the entire range of English technical terms in Indian-language textbooks would weaken the Indian languages. A language is strengthened by its own words and syntax. Each word or term has an association with the culture of the speakers of the language. Such words do not naturally fit into different languages,” Mishra said. He said the objective of having textbooks in Indian languages was, ideally, to reduce the dependency on English, and the use of English terms would run counter to that purpose. “If words like ‘photosynthesis’ or ‘coefficient’ are directly implanted in Hindi books, the students will struggle,” Mishra said. He said the Commission of Scientific and Technical Terminology had prepared glossaries of English technical terms translated into Indian languages. Besides, the National Translation Mission under the CIIL has developed lists of equivalent words in many areas, he said, adding that the AICTE should collaborate with these organisations to use their Indian technical terms and develop more of these if necessary. Mishra, however, expressed concern about the employability of vernacular-medium technical graduates. “They may not find jobs outside their states unless they improve their English-language skills,” he said. The AICTE had in 2011 set up a committee under former IIT Delhi director R.K. Shevgaonkar to study the possibility of teaching engineering subjects in the regional languages. The committee advised against the idea citing a lack of material, Indian equivalents for technical terms, and teacher-training for the purpose. Last November, then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had told the IIT directors that the government intended to offer technical courses in Indian languages from the 2021-22 academic session. Under the proposal, each IIT was to create 50 supernumerary seats for students seeking to pursue engineering courses in the regional language of the state where the institute was located. The plan appears to have been shelved, at least for this year. Sourav Pal, director of the Indian Institute of Science Education Research, Calcutta, said teaching technical courses in Indian languages would benefit large segments of students from rural areas and disadvantaged sections of society. “It will allow the students to conceptualise in their vernacular language. But they should have sufficient knowledge of English to be able to understand the content of journals,” Pal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
12-07-2021||West Bengal||The Park a regular party zone during Covid times, say police  ||Calcutta Police believe that violation of Covid protocols is a regular affair at The Park from where over 30 people were arrested early on Sunday for holding a midnight party on the corridors of one of its floors. The  detective department has asked the hotel administration to submit CCTV footage from all the floors of the hotel of the last one month to help probe the violation. Police have also sought records of bookings, including  names and number of persons who stayed at the hotel in the same period. “It appears that such acts of revelry are now common at the hotel which puts the lives of people at risk, in the current pandemic situation. If other such events were also held at the venue, we will have to find out those involved. They are not only breaking the law but putting to risk lives of many people in the community,” said a police officer. The Park,  in a statement released  earlier, had admitted that its premises were being used a “weekend getaway.” “Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis,” the statement read. Late on Saturday night,  police had raided the hotel on Park Street and arrested 37 people for defying Covid-19 protocols. Some of those arrested also got involved in resisting and manhandling the cops. The police had information for at least 10 days that people were booking two or three rooms, even during weekdays, and partying. Maintaining Covid restrictions, the hotel has kept its bar and restaurants shut. Guests staying at the hotel, including the 37 arrested on Sunday, had been arranging for their own booze. Among the items seized from the rooms rented on the third floor of the hotel, in the corridor of which the party with loud music played by a DJ was held, were four liquor bottles and four glasses. The police have also seized two Pioneer DJ consoles, one amplifier, two sound boxes, one DJ light, three hookahs, one pouch of marijuana and 38 mobile phones. “The revellers ignored the hotel staff request to call off the party and continued till well past midnight. When we reached the hotel, it was around 1am. The loudspeakers were blaring, and voices were drowned in the noise. None of the accused stopped even after we identified ourselves,” said a police officer. Some of the accused had pushed and manhandled the police with choicest abuses when they were told to stop the party. “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of Covid-19 protocols.  Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis. We are complying with all rules and regulations and would continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities,” read the statement issued by The Park authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rising diesel price and dip in hilsa catch worry fishermen||Rising diesel price and a dip in the hilsa catch for the second year on the trot have left fishermen and the government worried because livelihoods of around 30,000 people are at stake. Because of the low yield, many fishermen are not taking their trawlers to the sea after one or two trips as diesel price has crossed Rs 90 a litre. “Affording fuel cost,  the main investment to catch hilsa, is tough. Many trawler owners like me have stopped sailing our boats temporarily as the expense-and-profit ratio is not viable. The cost towards fuel increased by 22 per cent compared to last year and production of hilsa reduced by 35 per cent. It is a survival challenge,” said Satinath Patra, secretary of the Sunderban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union, an association of sea-fishermen. Sources said a trawler carries around 2,400 litres of diesel in barrels to trawl the sea for five days. Diesel on Thursday sold for Rs 92.50 a litre in Calcutta. “One of my trawlers came back with hilsa worth Rs 1.5 lakh only. I could not recover my fuel cost. This isn’t only my story but of everyone in this trade,” said Patra, adding they would write to central and state governments seeking subsidised diesel for fishing. “The situation is the worst this year with low hilsa catch and high diesel price,” said Shyamsundar Das, secretary of the Digha Fishermen’s Association. Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries in South 24-Parganas, said hilsa production is down by more than half compared to last year. Since the hilsa fishing season is yet to be over, the fishermen are keeping their fingers crossed, expecting to recover the loss in their next trips to the sea. But, the rising riverbed level due to siltation, trapping of juvenile fish and excessive harvesting by some fishermen are possible reasons why the hilsa is elusive. According to experts, the Hooghly river meets the Bay of Bengal close to the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, and the confluence is the favourite place for the hilsa, which move from the ocean to the river stream around this season. Till Tuesday around 2,000 boats that went to catch hilsa on June 15, after the expiry of the government-mandated gap from April 15 to June 14 to promote hilsa breeding, from Namkhana, Kakdwip, Raidighi in South 24-Parganas and from Digha, Shankarpur and Contai in East Midnapore have returned with their catch. But, the quantity of the fish was so meagre that the fishermen were reluctant to disclose the figure. According to the members of the fishermen’ welfare outfit in Namkhana, till Tuesday the total hilsa catch has not reached even 100 tonnes, less than a quarter of the projected catch during June-July every year. “Hope the situation improves,” said Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Asansol Durgapur Development Authorities allotted DPL land to various agencies during Left regime||The Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) authorities have found that nearly 950 acres owned by it had been, without its approval, allotted to various agencies by the Asansol Durgapur Development Authorities (ADDA) during the Left Front regime. This came to light after the power utility started taking stock of its 3,759 acres, as the Trinamul government decided to either sell off or lease out the unused land of the loss-making company as part of its restructuring plan. Sources in the DPL said the land “occupied” by the ADDA was located at the Bidhannagar and Fuljhore mouzas of Durgapur town, where private schools, colleges and a hospital have come up in the past decades. “We have put up our boards on the land occupied by the ADDA, stating that the land belongs to the DPL. We have also informed the government,” said a DPL official. DPL officials, however, said it was not possible to demolish the schools, colleges and the hospital to free their land as these have been around for years. “We can claim an amount from the ADDA or the price they received from agencies during allocation of the land. We are estimating the value and working on it,” said a DPL official. The DPL has earmarked around 50 acres of land in Bidhannagar, where the Left Front government had proposed an IT park. “Two IT companies have come up on 8 acres while the remaining 22 acres are still vacant after the company to which the ADDA had allotted the land returned it to them for economic reasons. We have put up boards saying the land is ours,” said a DPL official. Large tracts are already occupied by illegal settlers. Now, these allocations could cause further trouble for the state government in selling off or leasing out unused land, said sources. It is still not clear how the state would go about the “irregular” hand-over of plots done by a government agency. Former chairman of ADDA Bansagopal Chowdhury, during whose tenure the land was allotted to various agencies, asked why the DPL was raking up the issue after so many years.“Why did the DPL not raise the issue earlier? I did not steal the land for my personal reason, everything was done publicly. What was the DPL doing at that time?” he asked, adding both the DPL and ADDA are government organisations and the matter could be resolved. “The matter can be easily solved by the government, as both the organisations are under it,” added Chowdhury. Sources in the land department said that the entire land in Durgapur and its adjoining areas, excluding the privately owned plots, belonged to the Durgapur Development Authority (DDA) or the Industrial Board during the 1950s. The DDA transformed into the ADDA later. “The land that the DPL now claims was either of the DDA or of the Industrial Board. The land might have been transferred to the DPL during its formation in 1961, but perhaps the record was not updated properly and there was maybe a communication gap,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rainfall and Bengal govt’s timely intervention save Yaas-flooded fields in three coastal districts||Bengal’s kharif paddy-sowing area will not reduce as the salt content of the 1.43 lakh hectares in three coastal districts that had remained under water for weeks in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas in May has been washed away by heavy rain, internal reports of the agriculture department have stated. Till a couple of weeks ago, there were fears that farming on plots with salt deposits on the top soil would not be possible during the kharif season. But good rainfall at the start of the monsoon and timely intervention from Nabanna have saved the day, said a senior bureaucrat. Bengal’s self-reliance in rice ran the risk of being compromised in the saline flooding. While the rain helped wash away the salt deposits, timely initiatives of the agriculture department also played a crucial role, said a source. As soon as water receded from fields in South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, the agriculture department sent scientists for surveys. The scientists said salt deposited on 1.43 lakh hectares of land could be leached out by two heavy spells of rain. In the meantime, agriculture department officials convinced farmers to make seed beds in upper areas where saline water did not reach. Heavy rain did occur. And now, seed beds are almost ready, an official said. “Farmers can soon sow saplings on their plots,” said an official. Farmers were convinced to prepare community seed beds in the upper areas as not all of them owned land in those areas, he added. Another official said that Bengal’s annual consumption requirement of rice was around 160 lakh tonnes. The state produces around 168 lakh tonnes. “In such a tricky situation (after coastal farmlands were flooded with saline water), had we failed to cultivate 1.43 lakh hectares out of a total of 44 lakh hectares in the state, we could have fallen short of our consumption requirement,” the official said. The state government also worked hard to ensure compensation for affected farmers, said another official. “A total of Rs 230 crore has been sent to the bank accounts of affected farmers,” he said. This also gave the farmers confidence about cultivating plots, even those under saline water, as the agriculture department simultaneously explained to them that farming was possible on the affected plots this kharif season, he explained. The farmers’ confidence increased when chief minister Mamata Banerjee enhanced the annual financial assistance under the Krishak Bandhu scheme to Rs 10,000. “The first allotment of the enhanced assistance has already been sent to the accounts of 62 lakh farmers. The farmers now know that the state government would be by their side if a disaster takes place. So they did not hesitate when the department asked them to prepare seed beds,” said another official. The agriculture department had also sent salt-tolerant paddy seeds to farmers in case their fields had excess salt deposits, a source said. “But those won’t be required. Plots are ready for normal farming,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total number of active cases fewer than 15,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged the 21st straight day of a dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 403 to touch 14,901. The number of active cases is below 15,000 again after June 9, 32 days ago. The state reported 1,314 recoveries, 924 new infections and 13 deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported two deaths. Bengal now has 3.31 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. The state’s recovery rate rose to 97.83 per cent. The national rate is 97.17. Active cases in all had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 at the peak of the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before falling again by over 35 per cent over these three weeks. “Getting back to below 15,000 active cases again is a memorable achievement in the wake of the devastating second wave. Our next goal is to get to below 10,000 in a matter of weeks,” said a minister. With Calcutta logging 82 new infections and North 24-Parganas 94, Sunday was the fourth day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a daily three-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures and six others single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Sunday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 13 deaths, two each were reported from the city and North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Jalpaiguri, Howrah and Hooghly reported just one. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent now. Bengal now has a total of over 15.12 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.79 lakh recoveries and 17,916 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Rs 400 crore tea subsidy held up for years: North Bengal planters||An association of tea planters in north Bengal has sent a letter to the Tea Board of India on the sector’s plight as subsidy to the tune of Rs 400 crore that has been held up for “years”. “For the past few years, the Tea Board has stopped disbursing subsidies to tea estates of our region. Time and again, we have tried to draw the attention of the authorities but to no avail. According to our estimates, the gardens that have applied for subsidy will in all receive around Rs 400 crore. If the disbursement is delayed further, it would adversely affect the sustenance of a number of tea companies which have made major investments in their gardens,” said M.P. Bansal, the chairman of the Terai Indian Planters’ Association (Tipa). The tea board normally pays subsidies to tea gardens to carry out certain activities such as replantation and rejuvenation of bushes, field mechanisation, as well as upgrade of factories and allied infrastructure associated with tea production. “There have been some disbursements for the gardens in Assam. But the subsidy dues of the gardens in north Bengal still remain unpaid. The problem has been aggravated since 2014. We have highlighted this innumerable times. This is clear step-motherly treatment towards the tea estates of north Bengal by continuing with the disproportionate and inadequate fund allocation policy,” Bansal, who recently wrote to the Tea Board, said. In several cases, where subsidy was sanctioned around 10 years, people are still waiting for them, the Tipa chairman added. Tea planters have also said that after the 2017 political agitation in the Darjeeling hills that led to a 104-day-long strike, the tea sector had taken a beating. The Centre had announced a relief package of Rs 100 crore for the hill tea industry, but “nothing concrete has been witnessed yet”, said a planter in Siliguri. He added: “The central government puts emphasis on Atmanirbhar Bharat but there is a steady rise in the import of teas in violation of the rules of the tea board and the FSSAI over the years. So far, no effective step has been witnessed to control such indiscriminate import.” North Bengal produces over 400 million kilos of tea, around 30 per cent of the country’s total tea production. A Tea Board official in Calcutta, when contacted, said they were aware of the situation. “Once we receive funds and approval from necessary quarters, subsidies would be disbursed according to rule,” he said. The Tea Association of India (TAI), with member gardens in north Bengal and Assam, has sought a financial package from the Bengal government in the form of incentives on working capital loan and for capital expenditure. “From January to June 2021, there is a shortfall of around 50 million kilos in production. We are not making enough money this year. On the other hand, from January this year, the daily wage rate has increased to Rs 202 from Rs 176. In such a situation, a package from the state’s side can largely help the industry,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, the secretary-general of TAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Trawler owner arrested for juvenile hilsa catch in Kakdwip||Kakdwip police jointly with the state fisheries department and a local fishermen’s association arrested the owner of a trawler for “bottom trawling” hilsa spawn, a practice strictly prohibited by the state government. Bottom trawling means scooping with nets the “bottom” of the sea to catch juvenile hilsa. At least seven other boat owners and two truck drivers were also nabbed by the fisheries department and detained for interrogations. Police seized over a tonne of juvenile fish from Kakdwip that was being transported for sale. “We have been trying our best to create awareness among the fishermen against catching juvenile fish. But it made little impact. So such an action is being taken for the first time to convey a message,” a senior official of the fisheries department in Calcutta said. Under the guidelines of the West Bengal Fisheries Department, catching, selling and buying hilsa fish weighing below 500 grams is strictly prohibited and is a cognisable offence for penal action. According to a senior official of the state fisheries department, the hilsa fish takes at least two years to age sufficiently and be ready for market. With a life expectancy of about four years, a mature hilsa weighs up to 2 to 2.5 kg. However, such large hilsas are hardly found in the market reportedly owing to premature catching. “Today (Sunday), we got a tip-off that a boat named MV Sankha Pradeep had arrived in the Kakdwip fishing harbour with huge quantities of juvenile fish and was transporting it to city markets. We informed the police and a joint raid was conducted where over one tonne of juvenile hilsa were found,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Jayanta Pradhan. “Hilsa about 23cm long and weighing below 100 grams are also found. That’s really unfortunate. Despite our best efforts to create awareness about not catching juvenile fish, a section of fishermen have remained adamant,” added Pradhan. Superintendent of police of the Sunderbans police district Bhaskar Mukherjee said a probe has started based on Pradhan’s complaint. “One person has been arrested. The consignment of confiscated fish was handed over to the fisheries department for disposal,” he said. Many fishermen have expressed their concern over the increasing trend of “bottom trawling” to catch juvenile fish. “This is a dangerous method which will eventually exterminate the hilsa,” Bijan Maity, joint secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen’s association said. The organisation demanded that the boat owners and fishermen involved in bottom trawling be arrested and their permits for fishing be cancelled permanently. “There are around 11,000 registered fishing ships in the Sunderbans area, of which around 200 ship owners allegedly bottom-trawl,” added Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Northeast Frontier Railway to open archive on Dilip Kumar’s hill link||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) will build an exclusive archive at the Tindharia railway station of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) in memory of actor Dilip Kumar. The actor, who passed away on July 7, had a special connect with the hills. He shot for many films in the region and played the main character in Tapan Sinha’s cult movie Sagina Mahato that was extensively shot in Tindharia, near the railway station and on the premises of the century-old railway workshop of the tiny hill town. “Dilip Kumar was a legend of the film industry. We are fortunate that he had not only visited the places of Darjeeling hills on several occasions, but also did a movie on the premises of the railway property that is a World Heritage Site now. We would like to keep his memory alive with an exclusive archive of the late film actor at the railway museum in Tindharia,” said Subhanan Chanda, the chief public relations officer of the NFR. Back in 1915, when the workshop for DHR locomotives, carriages and wagons was established at Tindharia. In 1999, the DHR toy train service, which runs between Siliguri and Darjeeling, was declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco. “We are collecting old photographs from the time of the Sagina Mahato shooting. We are also approaching people here and asking them if they can provide us with any memorabilia associated with Dilip Kumar,” the official added. Those associated with the tourism industry in the region have welcomed this unique initiative. “The archive will emerge as yet another attraction for tourists. There are many interesting stories associated with Dilip Kumar. Those, if brought to people creatively, can be a big draw,” said Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry.  Basu narrated one such interesting anecdote. “When the film director and Dilip Kumar met the DHR officials to book the workshop for the shoot, they did not have the money as security deposit. The on-duty railway official deposited the cash.” In another development, the NFR has launched a dedicated website nfrdhrbooking.in so that film production houses can obtain permission online for shooting on DHR properties. “Time and again, films have been shot in toy trains and in other properties of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway. This website has been launched so that they can obtain the permission online for using an area or for chartering a toy train,” Chanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||West Bengal||Unidentified miscreants hurl bombs at Trinamul Congress meeting in North 24-Parganas ||A Trinamul coordinator escaped an attempt on his life after a group of unidentified miscreants hurled bombs targeting him at a party meeting in North 24-Parganas on Saturday night. Police sources said Jayanta Das, Trinamul coordinator from Panihati municipality, and other party workers escaped unhurt amid the cascade of a dozen-odd explosions at the party office in Bibibagan under ward-13. “A group of six miscreants arrived on two motorcycles in front of the party office around 9.45pm and started hurling bombs targeting the room where Das was holding a meeting,” said a police source. A police probe into the incident began on Sunday, following a complaint lodged by Das at Khardah police station.  “I have asked the police to find out the persons behind the attack,” said Das, a former councillor of the party. Trinamul activist and eyewitness Dipankar Das said it was a planned attack on the coordinator. “The miscreants knew that he was in the meeting at this particular party office. But it is not clear who is behind the attack.… A few months ago, a similar attack was carried out by unidentified miscreants targeting the party office during Das’s presence,” he added. Residents have blamed infighting in the party behind the successive incidents of violence in the area. “It is basically a clash of interest among two factions of the ruling party who have become desperate to ensure their dominance in the area. We have appraised senior leadership of the party as well as the administration but none appeared to be interested to intervene,” said a local resident. The police said they were trying to identify those behind the attack by examining CCTV footage from adjoining properties. However, no one was arrested till Sunday afternoon. An official of Barrackpore police commissionerate added, “Local police have been instructed to find out the details of the gang. We have made it clear that any sort of disturbance and disruption of peace should be dealt with strongly”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
12-07-2021||North East||Nearly 1,800 hectares of Assam land encroached by Mizoram people, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||People of neighbouring Mizoram have encroached on nearly 1,800 hectares of Assam land spread across three districts, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said in the assembly on Monday.  The chief minister's statement came in the backdrop of tension between the two Northeastern states following alleged encroachment of land in Cachar district by the people of Mizoram.  In a written reply to a query by All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA Suzam Uddin Laskar, Sarma said that a total of 1,777.58 hectares of land in Barak Valley region have been taken over by encroachers from Mizoram.  Out of this, the largest area of 1,000 hectares have been encroached in Hailakandi district, followed by 400 hectares in Cachar and 377.58 hectares in Karimganj, he added.  Sarma, who also holds the Home portfolio, said that various preventive measures like patrolling and area domination have been taken by the Assam Police in order to free the encroached land and protect the people living on the Assam side.  "Altogether nine Border Out Posts (BOP) have been established in Hailakandi, Karimganj and Cachar districts sharing border along Assam-Mizoram. Out of the nine BOPs, six are in Hailakandi, two are in Karimganj and one is in Cachar," he added.  In Karimganj, two temporary camps have been set up at Choto Bhubirbond under Ratabari police station and Medhlicherra under Bazaricherra police station to counter any attempted encroachment of land belonging to Assam.  Besides, two permanent CRPF camps have been set up at Khulicherra and Lailapur under Dholai police station in Cachar, the chief minister said.  "The district administration of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi are maintaining regular liaison and contact with their counterpart districts, mainly Kolasib and Mamit," Sarma said.  He further said that several meetings at different levels between the two state governments have been held to ensure sanctity of the Constitutional boundary.  "Lately, on 09/07/2021, a chief secretary level meeting was held between the State of Assam and Mizoram in New Delhi at the behest of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. All lawful steps are being taken to prevent encroachment in the Assam-Mizoram inter-state border," Sarma said.  Mizoram shares about 164.6 km long border with Assam.  The hill state was part of Assam until 1972 when it was carved out as a Union Territory.  It became the 23rd state of India on 20 February 1987 following the historic Mizoram Accord between the erstwhile underground Mizo National Front (MNF) and the Centre, ending 20 years of insurgency in the state.  In a separate reply to a query by the Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia, Sarma said that a total of 209 instances of encroachment of Assam land have taken place since 2016 when the BJP came to power in the state for the first time.  These encroachments were carried out by people from Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya, he added.  The Assam government has registered 127 cases and arrested three persons for encroachment, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
12-07-2021||North East||Assam government creates new department for tribal affairs||The Assam government on Saturday announced the creation of a new department of indigenous faith and culture, the objective of which will be to preserve and promote the faith and culture of the state’s tribal population. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced the decision after a cabinet meeting held here on completion of two months of his government. Assam has become the second state after neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh to have such a department in the Northeast. The BJP-led Arunachal Pradesh government had created the department of indigenous faiths and cultural affairs in 2017. “We have a lot of tribes like Rabha, Boro, Mising, Moran and Mutack. They have their own faith, customs, rituals and culture. This rich heritage needs to be preserved and promoted. This independent department will do that, not build roads and houses, for which we have the department for welfare of plain tribes and backward classes,” Sarma said. The new department will take the number of state government departments to 55. Sarma added: “The cabinet has requested the finance minister to allot substantial funds to the new department in the budget to be presented on July 16 so that it can carry out its mandate effectively.” The WPT & BC is the nodal department for formulation and implementation of policies and programmes for welfare and development of the Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and other backward classes in the state. The ST population make up for over 12.4 per cent of the state’s population of about 3.2 crore while the SC population is about 7.15 per cent. There are 14 recognised plains tribes, 15 hills tribes and 16 SC communities in the state. “Though details of the new Assam department are yet to be announced, it will be more or less along the lines of the Arunachal Pradesh department. After all, the BJP is committed to the welfare of the indigenous communities who have voted overwhelmingly for it since 2014,” a source said. Besides creation of the new department, Sarma also announced major financial and administrative reforms to end red tape to speed up approval of funds for implementation of development projects. More power has been given to commissioner and chief secretary in financial matters. “It is a major step which will save time and give us more time to monitor implementation of the schemes,” he said. Sarma also said the government will pilot the cow protection bill in the budget session starting July 12. “We will also announce big measures on the population control front like voluntary sterilisation in the budget,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
12-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Worrying script||Reminders are useful to bring facts back into focus. Such a reminder was recently issued by the Uttarakhand High Court to the state government when the latter contended that the live-streaming of the prayers and rituals at Char Dham is not permitted by the shastras. Rejecting the contention, the high court informed Uttarakhand’s advocate general that India is a democratic country governed not by scriptures but by the rule of law. There is context to this terse exchange of views. Last month, the high court had stayed the state cabinet’s decision to let local people visit the Char Dham shrines, saying that such allowances would be akin to “inviting a calamity” at a time when there are fears of a third wave and the rapid spread of the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The judiciary’s warning is not unwarranted. There is substantial data to indicate that public functions have the potential to be superspreader events. In fact, the World Health Organization linked the surge in India’s Covid-19 cases to religious and political gatherings in the country. In contrast to the cautionary approach of the judiciary, the Uttarakhand government has been bullish about its reluctance to live-stream rituals. Equally worrying is that neighbouring Uttar Pradesh has given its nod to the Kanwar Yatra from July 25. These are perplexing developments. Several religious occasions, including Ganesh Chaturthi, have been observed online since the pandemic began. Why then should the Char Dham and the Kanwar Yatra be exceptions to this ‘new normal’? The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has assured that Covid-19 protocols would be observed during the yatra; however, there is precedent to suggest that it would not be unreasonable to expect widespread flouting of these rules. During the Kumbh Mela, several thousand devotees desisted from wearing masks or maintaining social distancing norms, adding to India’s Covid-19 burden significantly. This breach is suggestive of a complicity between indifferent citizens and an irresponsible State. The flagrant disregard for public health — the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s endorsement of the anti-scientific ethic is another manifestation of this malaise — can be attributed to the eagerness to reap political dividends. But as the death and suffering during the second wave of the pandemic showed, there is, inevitably, a heavy price to pay for this collective myopia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: World Population Day, Covid-19 third wave||Growth matters Sir — Yesterday was World Population Day. Within the next decade, India will be the world’s most populous country, overtaking China. India will then be blessed with a young population — half of India’s population is already under 29 years of age — which can drive economic growth and social progress. There are many theories when it comes to population growth. Some of them are true, some false. But what can be said for certain is that for sustainable development, we should aim for national well-being, not endless growth. Minimizing excess growth in human population is a small, but essential, part of the solution. The Indian youth must not only be healthy, knowledgeable and skilled but also be provided with rights and choices to develop their fullest potential, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. Knowing how to prevent unintended pregnancies or giving birth at a hospital or with the help of a skilled birth attendant is key in the battle against overpopulation. More important, equal opportunities have to be provided to the youth. For instance, it is crucial that adolescent girls should have access to the same level of education, skills and opportunities for employment as their male counterparts. Only then can India achieve true development and modernization. Uzair Ahmed,Muzaffarnagar Battle stations Sir — A report released by the State Bank of India predicts that the third wave of coronavirus infections in India. There are suspicions that it could be as intense as the second wave, and last around three months. But India should not be caught unawares again. The impact of the possible third wave can be minimized by prioritizing two things — improving the health infrastructure, including in rural pockets, and vaccinating as many people as possible from all age groups. Vaccines are the most potent tool against the virus right now. Even though no concrete data are available on the level of protection offered by the various vaccines against the newer mutant strains, all wisdom points to carrying out the inoculation of the population as swiftly as possible. Present trends indicate that India does not have the capacity to produce vaccines fast enough to vaccinate the entire population within the next few months. Therefore, scaling up vaccine production will be key to fighting the third wave. Besides vaccination, we should also aim to enhance the surveillance systems with regard to identification of cases by increasing the level of testing and enforcing stricter isolation mechanisms. Moreover, India also needs to institutionalize the process of ensuring strict adherence to the three ‘social vaccines’ — wearing masks, constant hand-washing with soap, and physical distancing. All of these must be continued relentlessly till our country achieves vaccination coverage of more than 80 percent. People must not forget the lessons taught by the second wave of the pandemic. That would disrupt lives and livelihood further. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Familiar pattern Sir — A male tiger at the Panna Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh is rewriting the laws of nature by taking care of its cubs, who lost their mother recently. While the tiger can change its stripes, humans clearly cannot. Reports show that 173 additional hours of childcare fell on women last year compared to just 59 hours for men. Since lockdowns ensured many more fathers were earning their daily bread — a popular excuse when it comes to shirking childcare responsibilities — from home, why could they not keep an eye on the young ones? P. Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Two faces||Hard times call for tough decisions in the realm of economic policy. It is better not to be ideologically inflexible and a supple, pragmatic approach is warranted. The battered Indian economy requires policies to alleviate suffering and facilitate a quick recovery. The pandemic affected the supply side of production and logistics through lockdowns and restrictions on movements. It has also severely affected consumption and investment demand through loss of incomes and jobs. Both sides of the market require policy support. The big question is which side should be tackled first to achieve the best outcomes. In the last two budgets of the Union government as well as in the special packages announced in several tranches, the thrust of the measures has been on the supply side through soft loans, moratorium on loan repayments and guaranteed credit. Businesses require credit for two reasons: working capital and investment expenditure. The former is needed to sustain production levels while the latter adds to productive capacity. If demand is uncertain, then most enterprises would not want to sustain even the existing levels of production fearing the accumulation of unsold inventories. Businesses would certainly not like to add to capacity in such an economic environment. Hence supply-side strategies would not work as has indeed been the case in India, except for industries supplying necessities. The persistence with this strategy reflects the conservative thinking that supply creates its own demand. Contrastingly, the budgetary strategy adopted by states like West Bengal has concentrated on the demand side of markets for the following reason. If people have more cash to spend, they would start buying more goods. Businesses would then realize that demand for their products is increasing and step up production. This, in turn, would lead to an increased demand for working capital and, in many cases, capital expenditures. With increased production, employment and incomes would rise too. This would have a virtuous cyclical effect on economic growth and the impasse of low demand and low production would be broken. Cash transfers to the poor and the unemployed may appear to be populist but they make sense. The West Bengal government’s resources are limited compared to those of the Centre. However, its budget signals, in a small way, the correct direction of policy in times of economic hardship. The strategy does not increase the debt-burden of the needy, provides immediate relief for consumption requirements, and kick-starts growth.  There has to be a critical mass for this economic push. In that context, the Centre is much better placed than a state to provide the adequate impetus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Go glocal: Sustainable Development Goals||Times are not just difficult but also alarming for every sphere of our existence. At first glance, it might appear that the raging pandemic has temporarily paused climate action and initiatives related to other environmental issues. Sustainability, it appears, may have taken a back-seat too. However, with a decade left for the end of ‘Agenda 2030’, achieving sustainable development has become even more important. A significant feature of the raging pandemic is that it has disrupted the hyper-interconnected world characterized by globalization. Supply chains are badly affected and global markets are under severe stress. Evidently, the virus has laid bare the vulnerabilities and risks of a globalized world order. In fact, it has put under scanner not just globalization but also the Sustainable Development Goals. Nevertheless, this could be a turning point for the international community to unlearn and revamp its basic conduct on global governance and make it more inclusive in nature. Besides, the pandemic has also thrown open an opportunity to give impetus to a glocalized framework of global governance to protect the ‘global commons’ in the light of the broader debate on sustainability. The 1990s, characterized by the advent of globalization, transformed every bit of our lives. It not only resulted in an intricately interconnected world but also facilitated economic growth for several countries, including India. It offered new avenues for developing economies to experiment and innovate in such areas as technology, employability, investments and so on. Although globalization appeared glossy in the beginning, it started developing fissures in 2008 in the form of a massive economic recession. Over a decade later, it has been gobsmacked, once again, this time by the Covid-19 pandemic. These recurrent episodes offer stark evidence that globalization has failed to build resilient systems; this is a trait shared by both developed and developing economies. New formula This is where glocalization can fill the gap. Simply put, glocalization refers to the interpretation, representation and replication of the global elements at the local level. The term, glocalization, is used quite frequently in business parlance but it has begun to gain momentum in cultural, social and political arenas too. Utilizing it appropriately in the environmental domain is the need of the hour. Covid-19 has brought about the necessity of refining and revising globalization. This can be done by integrating glocal elements to achieve global good, be it sustainable development or climate action, by roping in local actors, such as subnational agencies, grassroots bodies, non-governmental organizations and other relevant non-State actors in the discussion on sustainability. Localizing economies would provide leverage to the development targets of those like India. This can help attain the much-needed balance between ecological equity and economic growth. Additionally, it is hard to overlook the expertise and knowledge offered by local populations that are located at ground zero and are in tune with ground realities. This kind of resource efficiency could prove to be useful in operationalizing the potential glocal elements of global governance. Factors like accountability, transparency and trust-building among the State and non-State actors are also vital in this context. Considering the changes in modern living, starting from working remotely to radically cutting down on carbon footprints, glocalization could turn out to be a viable alternative to globalization, thereby creating innovative pathways for sustainable development in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
12-07-2021||Opinion||Those mysterious electricity bills||Maharashtra and West Bengal are the two costliest states in respect to electricity tariff for all categories of domestic consumption. Up to 400-1000 units of monthly consumption are common for middle-class consumers who are charged Rs 8.44 and Rs 9.42 per unit, respectively, in Bengal and an even higher rate of Rs 9.34 and Rs 11.86, respectively, in Maharashtra. The high tariffs are not charged by private operators but by the state-owned West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited and the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited. The average all-India tariff for the two categories comes to about Rs 5.76 and Rs 6.76, respectively. Maharashtra charges between Rs 6.97 and Rs 9.93 and West Bengal between Rs 7.59 and Rs 9.38 per unit for the industrial consumption range between 1,500 and 8,760,000 units per month. The domestic use of electricity in West Bengal and Maharashtra incurs higher charges than industrial use in contrast to most other states. For agricultural purpose, the all-India average flat rate amounts to Rs 2.89 per unit, whereas Maharashtra charges Rs 3.40 (Reliance Power, a private utility, charges Rs 5.37 in Mumbai); the figure is Rs 4.87 per unit in Bengal, which appears to be the third most expensive state after Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Energy shortage in India has come down from 8.10 per cent to 0.3 per cent and peak energy shortage has dropped from 11.30 per cent to 0.4 per cent. But this has not translated into lower tariffs. The Electricity Act of 2003 paved the way to frame the national tariff policy and empowered the Central and state regulatory commissions to fix tariffs under their own jurisdictions. These commissions follow a cost-plus approach, which should be within +/-20 per cent of the average cost of supply as per the tariff policy of 2006. The loading to the cost, it was pledged, would be eliminated within the next five years. But in 2016, at the time of its review, the regulatory commissions were asked to find out a suitable methodology for the proposed elimination, thereby continuing with the same loading parameter. State government utilities suffer from operational inefficiency due to power theft, tariff dues and accumulated debt. As of February 2021, nearly 54 per cent of transmission capacity remains under state government utilities, 39 per cent under the Central government-owned Power Grid Corporation and 7 per cent under private operators. The high Aggregate Technical & Commercial losses compel state distribution utilities to resort to short-term loans to meet power purchase requirements, resulting in the accumulation of debt. In November 2015, the Centre announced the Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana, a bail-out scheme for distressed state utilities. On joining the scheme, states had to take over 75 per cent of debt (as on September 30, 2015) over two years (50 per cent in the first year and 25 per cent in the second year). West Bengal, Odisha and Nagaland did not join the scheme then. UDAY had a mandate for states to reduce AT&C losses to 15 per cent by 2018-19. West Bengal has AT&C losses as high as 23 per cent whereas Maharashtra has managed to keep it just below the mandate at 14.73 per cent. Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan have losses even higher than those of Bengal. Private distribution companies operating in Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Calcutta enjoy operational profitability. In West Bengal, the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation enjoys an absolute monopoly in power distribution, catering to 2.90 million consumers in the metropolitan area of Calcutta as well as in substantial urban areas of Howrah, Hooghly and the North 24 Parganas. The India Power Corporation Limited serves the Asansol area. Both of them offer cheaper tariff rates than the WBSEDCL for all categories. In Mumbai, Tata Power, Reliance Infrastructure and BEST, an autonomous body under the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai, charge lower tariffs than the state-owned MSEDCL. Is it not ironical that people living in smaller towns and villages in Bengal and Maharashtra have to pay higher rates to state distribution utilities for electricity than city-dwellers who avail of the same services from private utilities?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
12-07-2021||Opinion||Telling tales||Great nations thrive by constantly refreshing two great reservoirs of knowledge. The first contains the knowledge from the stories we tell about ourselves. This is the knowledge of who we are as a people, how we got here, what long conflicts bind us together, what we find admirable and dishonourable, what kind of world we hope to build together. This kind of knowledge isn’t merely factual knowledge. It is a moral framework from which to see the world. Homer taught the ancient Greeks how to perceive their reality. Exodus teaches the Jews how to interpret their struggles and their journey. For America, the dominant story has been filled with resonant characters — Irving Berlin and Woody Guthrie, Aaron Burr and Cesar Chavez, Sojourner Truth and Robert Gould Shaw. This national experience invited Americans to share Walt Whitman’s passion to contain the whole vast carnival of stories, to see themselves in its themes, and to feel themselves within this story. This emotional and moral knowledge should give us a sense of identity, a sense of ideals to live up to and an appreciation of the values that matter most to us — equality or prosperity or freedom. Finally, these are shared stories; this shared knowledge should help us discover a shared destiny and our shared affection for one another. The second reservoir of knowledge is propositional knowledge. This is the kind of knowledge we acquire through reason, logical proof and tight analysis. Some of this knowledge is empirical knowledge that can be established by using evidence carefully. No, the 2020 election was not stolen. Some of this knowledge is contained in powerful ideas that can be debated: “The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.” As Jonathan Rauch brilliantly writes in his book, The Constitution of Knowledge, the acquisition of this kind of knowledge is also a collective process. It’s not just a group of people commenting on each other’s internet posts. It’s a network of institutions — universities, courts, publishers, professional societies, media outlets — that have set up an interlocking set of procedures to hunt for error, weigh evidence and determine which propositions pass muster. These are the same principles as those of the scientific method. An individual may be dumb, Rauch notes, but the whole network is brilliant, so long as everybody in it adheres to certain rules: no one gets the final say (every proposition might be wrong); no claim to personal authority (who you are doesn’t determine the truth of what you say, the evidence does); no retreat to safety (you can’t ban an idea just because it makes you feel unsafe). Today many of us feel that America is suffering an epistemic crisis. We don’t see the same reality. People say that they often assume the problem is intellectual. Our system of producing propositional knowledge is breaking down. Why can’t those people fact-check themselves? But Donald Trump doesn’t get away with lies because his followers flunked Epistemology 101. He gets away with his lies because he tells stories of dispossession that feel true to many of them. Some students at elite schools aren’t censorious and intolerant because they lack analytic skills. They feel entrapped by moral order that feels unsafe and unjust. The collapse of trust, the rise of animosity — these are emotional, not intellectual problems. The real problem is in our system of producing shared stories. If a country can’t tell narratives in which everybody finds an honourable place, then righteous rage will drive people toward tribal narratives that tear it apart. Part of the blame goes to conservatives who try to whitewash history. Part goes to progressives who tell such a negative version of history that it destroys patriotism. But the core problem is our failure to understand what education is. “Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions,” David Hume wrote. Once you realize that people are primarily desiring creatures, not rational creatures, you realize that one of the great projects of schooling and culture is to educate the passions. It is to help people learn to feel the proper kind of outrage at injustice, the proper form of reverence before sacrifice, the proper swelling of civic pride, the proper affection for our fellows. This knowledge is conveyed not through facts but through emotional experiences — stories. Over the past decades, we cut education in half. We focused on reason and critical thinking skills — the core of the second reservoir of knowledge. The ability to tell complex stories about ourselves has atrophied. This is the ability to tell stories in which opposing characters can each possess pieces of the truth, stories in which all characters are embedded in time, at one point in their process of growth, stories rooted in the complexity of real life and not the dogma of ideological abstraction. Now as we watch state legislatures trying to enforce what history gets taught and not taught, as we watch partisans introduce ideological curriculums, we see how debauched and brutalized our historical storytelling skills have become. It is unfashionable to say so, but America has the greatest story to tell about itself, if we have the maturity to tell it honestly. The Fourth of July weekend was a decent time to start. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's lone generic medicine shop offers 85% discount||Patients from economically weaker section facing difficulty in treatment due to high cost of medicines have reasons for some relief as Jivan Rekha Trust, operator of Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Memorial Super Speciality Hospital of Dhanbad, has launched a generic medicine shop, Dawai Ghar as part of its welfare activity at City Centre market complex on Monday. The shop, jointly inaugurated by Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, MLA Raj Sinha and general secretary of Jivan Rekha Trust, Rajiv Sharma is first among the series of 15 generic medicine shops to be launched by Jivan Rekha Trust in a phase wise manner. Sharma said that they will offer 85% discount on purchase of medicines as the trust operates on a no profit and no loss basis. Talking to media at the sidelines of the inaugural function, Sharma said, “The initiative to launch the generic medicine shop is to help such people who could not carry out treatment properly as they could not purchase the medicine due to high costs.” “We have plans to launch 15 such shops across the district  in phase wise manner out of which one will be launched next month at Govindpur,” said Sharma. “We have also plans to launch the OPD service at these generic medicines shops where the patients can avail the medical consultation service at the registration cost of only Rs 10,” said Sharma and added that they would simultaneously appeal to all doctors of the district to prescribe cheaper medicine for the patients. Dhanbad MP, PN Singh while lauding the initiative of the trust  said, “Due to higher cost of medicines and medical treatment many patients face a lot of difficulty and more  private health care providers operating in Dhanbad should follow the trend set by the Jivan Rekha Trust to help the common people” Notably, the City Centre based generic medicine shop, launched today is the lone generic medicine shop offering a discount of over 85% on generic medicines as the generic medicine shop of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital inaugurated way back on September 3, 2012 is now lying closed since over an year due to lack of medicines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crackdown on against unauthorised vendors ||Steel city civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) with the help of police has launched a drive penalising unauthorised vendors and shopkeepers even as the district health officials resumed Covid-19 test at Sakchi on Monday over the threat of a third wave. A health department's team began Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for all those entering the market. Notably, among all markets Sakchi witnesses a huge rush of shoppers. The footfall of people coming to the market has increased ever since relaxations in lockdown rules last month. On Monday, JNAC officials went around the market penalising unauthorised vendors and even those shopkeepers found encroaching the footpath. A fine of Rs 500 was imposed on such shopkeepers. Cops also deflated the bikes and other two-wheelers parked in an unauthorised manner at the market posing inconvenience for movement of people. ADM (Law and Order) N.K. Lal said such a drive would continue in Sakchi. "We will carry out similar drive in other markets, "he said. The Covid-19 test was also carried out in Kadma market on Monday. Scanning and RTPCR test of passengers arriving from different states at the Tatanagar railway station by train also resumed in Monday after a brief break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Patient alleges rape by hospital staff in coal town||A 25-year-old mentally challenged woman admitted at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital since June 26 was allegedly raped by an ambulance driver on Sunday night. The incident has put a question mark over the security of common persons at the hospital, which serves to address the medical care needs of patients of several adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebganj, Pakur, Dumka, Ramgarh, Bokaro etc besides Dhanbad. The incident came to light at around 11.30 pm on Sunday when some other patients of the female ward informed the hospital management about the missing woman after which a search was launched in the hospital. They informed the police that an ambulance driver, Sanjay Das, had come to  the ward along with a friend and took her out on the pretext of enquiring something from her. The woman was finally recovered at around 11.45 pm when the hospital staff and other patients sighted her loitering in the hospital campus. They also caught a local tea stall owner suspecting his role in the rape of the woman. The police however left the tea stall owner after preliminary enquiry and launched a search for the accused ambulance driver Sanjay Kumar Das. The woman was admitted to the hospital by unidentified persons on June 26 and had mentioned the wrong address in the hospital register. Arun Kumar Chaudhay, Superintendent of SNMMCH said, “We came to know about the incident last night from some patients and the hospital administration has launched the search in the hospital after which the woman was found.” “We have informed the police about the incident and at the same time enquiring from our staff, how the woman went out of the medicine ward,” said Chaudhary. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said, “The incident is a blatant example of  deteriorating law and order situation in the state where even patients are not safe in the hospital.” He said that there is no provision for checking the credentials of anyone in the hospital before entry on the campus and hundreds of tea, snacks stalls have mushroomed on the campus while auto drivers and other people can be spotted loitering in the campus aimlessly. “There should have been provision for keeping the records of every visitor in  the hospital to avoid such incidents,” said the MLA. Contacted, officer in-charge of Saraidhela Police station, said ‘Though we have questioned a tea stall owner in connection with the incident but have not received any formal complaint in this regard and the medical examination of the victim would be conducted only after receiving the formal complaint.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Rath Yatra celebrations in steel city||The steel city saw a low-profile Rath Yatra (chariot festival) celebration for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its 14th year, the Jamshedpur unit of Iskcon put off the grand procession organised as a part of Rath Yatra celebration for the second year in a row. The Iskcon Temple at Cable Town in Golmuri only organised the necessary rituals attached with the festival on its premises. The rituals were performed on a decked up chariot but the traditional procession with thousands of devotees pulling the three chariots of  Lord Jagannath, Subhadra and Balaram was not taken out. Iskcon in association with various socio-religious outfits used to organise the city's biggest Rath Yatra. Three chariots carrying the deities used to begin their journey from Ram Mandir in Bistupur. The grand procession covering 6km used to culminate at the Dhalbhum Club in Sakchi. But, for the second consecutive year Jamshedpur missed the celebration. Naga Mandir near Beldih Golf Course in Bistupur, which holds the city's oldest Rath Yatra also kept the celebration low-profile. Rituals were performed on a chariot with few devotees attending it. Very few devotees turned up to witness the rituals performed by the priests at  Utkal Association in Sakchi. Similar low- profile Rath Yatra celebration  was also organised at Baradwari, several other places in the city and adjoining Seraikela. Earlier, on June 25 the annual bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother  Balaram and sister Subhadra were held  at the Iskcon Temple and other places amid small gatherings. The celebration will end nine days later with Bahuda Yatra or the return journey of the three deities to their temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hungry and abandoned German Shepherd rescued by dog lovers in Daltonganj||A sick, hungry and abandoned German Shepherd in Daltonganj has been rescued by a young girl Saloni Singh and her team who rescue and rehabilitate animals in distress. Saloni Singh and her group has set up an organisation called Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Plants and on an average two to three such cases of animals in distress are rescued and taken care of by this group. Saloni, daughter of a renowned surgeon Dr G.P. Singh, said she loves to take care of the animals in distress. She further said her mother and father do sometimes feel bad for her extreme attachment to animals but she has her way around them. She has teamed with Karan and three more boys and girls who remain on the lookout for any animal in distress. The dog had more maggots in his body than his teeth and was unable to eat and walk. “We got information about this German Shepherd languishing in a heap of garbage near the SBI branch in the campus of the GLA college in Daltonganj,” said Karan. He said Saloni and others reached the spot only to find the dog in a miserable condition. He was hungry and feeble. Karan said the team first pulled out dozens of maggots from his body and gave him food and water. The German Shepherd ate and drank as if he were hungry for days. It is not yet known as to how he stands abandoned, said Karan. “It is just our guess that the family which had this animal, abandoned him to die a slow death or it is also possible that this German Shepherd just got too far away from his master's house and now is unable to reach the master's house,” said Karan. Sources said this group of young boys and girls take care of animals and plants with their own petty savings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Komalika Bari makes it to World Youth Archery Championship||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari will not leave any stone unturned when she lines up to shoot at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland from August 9 to 15. The 19-year-old, a cadet of Tata Archery Academy, has secured a berth in India’s junior women's recurve squad for the Poland event. Komalika is in prime form after claiming team gold with fellow archers Deepika Kumari and Ankita Bhakat at the recently concluded World CupStage 3 in Paris. An integral part of the women’s recurve squad, the bespectacled Komalika had also kissed a gold at the World Cup Stage 1 held at Guatemala earlier this year. She was selected in the Indian squad after the recently concluded selection trials at Sonepat, Haryana. The teen archer is still in Sonepat, undergoing training with the Poland-bound national squad. Hailing from Jamshedpur’s Birsanagar, she rose to fame when she won a gold medal at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. Despite Komalika being talented, her rise was not that easy. She has worked very hard to be regarded as one of the top women archers in the country. Dharmendra Tiwary, her mentor at Tata’s archery cradle, believes that his disciple is expected to clinch the top slot in Poland. “She (Komalika) is currently in top form and the rhythm should continue. She is also high in confidence, especially after the stupendous show in Paris,” the Dronacharya awardee who has worked with top archers, including Deepika and Ankita, added. He maintained that the archer is a fine talent who is set to make impressive progress. “I am very confident that Komalika will win more laurels for the country and Jharkhand,” said the veteran coach about the junior archer who is now also a regular in the national senior recurve side. Despite not qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics, she has all the qualities of making it to the world’s biggest sporting event, maintained her coach. “Age is on Komalika’s side and she has a long way to go. I’m very optimistic about her future,” Tiwary added. Komalika comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while her mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three criminals from shooter Aman Singh's gang arrested||Three dreaded criminals were arrested by a joint team of Dhanbad and Bokaro police on Sunday. The trio were part of shooter Aman Singh's gang and were involved in various incidents of extortion demand, violence in colliery and threat calls to businessman, colliery officers and private mining company operators of Dhanbad. The arrested persons- Rajesh Kumar Badhawan (34), a resident of Nawadih in Dhanbad, Bijay Kumar Sinha (42) a resident of Khukhra area of Giridih and Vishal Kumar (21), a resident of Bhuli in Dhanbad- were being hunted by police in connection with two different incidents, one regarding the hurling of bombs at a house of Katras resident businessman Sanjay Loyalka on July 27 and a firing that took place at Damoda Colliery of Damoda area of Bokaro of June 29. Police also seized a motorcycle besides a leaflet left by the criminals at Damoda Colliery on of June 29 demanding extortion from the private coal excavators. Talking to the media at his office today, newly appointed Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad Sanjeev Kumar said, "All the three persons arrested in the case accepted their involvement in the incidents. They also admitted that they were operating for Aman Singh, a Uttar Pradesh based shooter involved in Niraj Singh murder case of March 2017 who is presently lodged in Hotwar Jail of Ranchi." Dhanbad police in association with Bokaro police constituted a joint team under the leadership of Baghmara DSP Nisha Murmu and Bermo DSP Satishchandra Jha which worked on inputs and arrested the three persons. Notably, Aman Singh, arrested from Mirzapur on May 3,2017 as the first shooter of the Niraj Singh murder case was brought to Dhanbad jail from Mirzapur on May 9,2017. Due to receiving several complaints of extortion call and conspiracy in Dhanbad jail, he was shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi by the police but his extortion calls and threat calls to businessman continued from the jail and police had taken him on remand on February 10. Aman Singh's gang was recently also in news in connection with the murder of Wasseypur based property dealer and private school operator, Asharaful Hasan Alias Lala Khan who was killed on May 12 when he was returning home in Wasseypur. Singh’s name later also figured in name of extortion demand from a Govidpur based property dealer, Manzoor Alam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets 2.57 lakh Covishield doses, but enough only for a week ||Jharkhand received 2.57 lakh doses of Covishield  from the Centre on Monday afternoon to tide over an acute crisis of vaccines and prevent the immunisation drive against Covid-19 from coming to a standstill, health officials said. However, the vaccines provided on Monday may only last for a week or even less, and the state may have to deal with a shortage again in the last week of July, officials spearheading the vaccination drive in Jharkhand said. The Centre was yet to release the schedule for vaccine supplies in the second half of the month, making it difficult to predict how many vaccines Jharkhand may receive after July 15 if the entire stock of about 3 lakh vaccines is saturated, officials added. “We received 6 lakh Covishield doses on July 2 and today’s (Monday's) supply of 2.5 lakh doses takes the total count of Covishield doses supplied to the state to 8.5 lakh this month,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, special officer on duty for Covid-19 vaccination in Jharkhand, adding that the state has received about 1 lakh doses of Covaxin and was expecting more. The 2,57,790 Covishield doses delivered on Monday were distributed among all the 24 districts as per the demand, and Ranchi got the highest share of 22,200 doses, a report shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 21,190 doses were sent to Dhanbad, 16,500 to East Singhbhum and 16,400 to Bokaro. At least 15,200 doses were allotted to Palamau and 11,800 to West Singhbhum. The immunisation drive in Jharkhand lost momentum due to shortage of vaccines in the past couple of days. The state vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents daily from July 2 to July 7, but had to slow down the campaign from July 8. On Sunday, the state managed to administer Covid-19 vaccines to only about 18,000 beneficiaries, the least in a day this month. An official actively involved in the vaccination drive in Jharkhand said that the available stock of vaccines may not last for more than five to six days even if the state administers fewer vaccines than its capacity. As per government data, there are 3,377 vaccination sites in Jharkhand and the state can vaccinate more than 3 lakh residents every day if the Centre ensures sufficient supplies on time, the official added. Jharkhand has so far vaccinated over 76 lakh residents, about one-fourth of the state’s total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Outgoing Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu bids farewell ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||No Rath Yatra in Jharkhand this year due to Covid situation, announces Hemant Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has requested people in the state to worship Lord Jagannath at their homes as Rath Yatra will not be taken out this year due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Hemant said that Rath Yatra could not be allowed for the second consecutive year as the coronavirus threat is still looming large in the state. "It pains me to not allow Rath Yatra but many stern steps have to be taken to secure our tomorrow. Celebration of many festivals had to be subdued due to COVID-19. Seek blessings of Lord Jagannath from the safety of your homes," the chief minister said in a statement issued late on Sunday night. Jharkhand's coronavirus tally stands at 3,46,279, of which 423 are active cases, while 3,40,737 people have recovered from the disease and 5,119 patients have succumbed to the infection to date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||DMC to organise camps to realize rent from shops||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has decided to organize camps for rent realization of its shops situated in different parts of the district. The move is intended at mopping up revenue realization through a wide range of activities, including through incentive offers for rent payment, The series of camps beginning with the camp scheduled at Park Market Hirapur on July 15 is being organized in association with different local units of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce including the Park Market Chamber of Commerce and Sindri Chamber of Commerce are aimed at collecting the long pending rent by offering concession of five percent on full payment  of pending rent before July 31. The notice issued by Satynedra Kumar, Municipal Commissioner also announced a five percent concession on advance payment of annual rent for the financial year, 2021-22. While the rent realization camp at Park Market and Hirapur Hatia will  be organized on July 15 and 16 respectively, the camp for rent realization of DMC shops at Sindri will be organized on July 17. Notably, around 250 shops of DMC are situated in Park Market and Hirapur Hatia while around 300 shops are situated in different parts of Sindri including at Saharpura Market of Sindri and Jaihind More of Sindri. Welcoming the move, Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of Park Market Chamber of Commerce, said, “we are cooperating with the civic body in organizing the camp and have informed all the shop keepers of Hirpur Hatia and Park Market in advance about the camps scheduled at respective places on July 15  and 16 respectively.” “The camp will help the shopkeepers avoid unnecessary harassment of making rounds of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation office for paying their due rents,” said Chourasia. Echoing sentiments, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “The camp scheduled at NAC Market complex of Sindri on July 17 will prove a golden opportunity for shop keepers of Sindri to pay their pending dues in hassle free manner and enjoy concessions and at the same time. The activity will also help the DMC realize the rent in bulk manner including the rent of some of the shopkeepers lying since several years.” “The trade body is all out to extend support to the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation but we at same time will also use the opportunity to draw the attention of civic body authorities to address the long pending issue of water logging in Saharpura market due to pending construction of around 500 meter of drain,” Dipu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand amid vaccine crisis, barely 20,000 get their doses on Sunday||Jharkhand on Sunday managed to vaccinate less than 20,000 residents against Covid-19 and only 359 vaccination sites remained operational  across the state owing to a shortage of vaccines, as per late-night provisional data released by the health department . The state has at least 3,377 session sites for the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 and only about 10 per cent of those opened their doors on Sunday. The state may have to manage with less than 50,000 doses of vaccines in stock until fresh supplies arrive, officials said. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to 12,548 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,563 beneficiaries. Over 12,000 beneficiaries who got jabbed on the day were younger than 45 years. Jharkhand, as per government data, has received 76,54,340 doses of vaccines from the Centre so far and utilised 76,54,583 of them. The state had 49,690 doses of vaccines in stock by Sunday evening. The figure, officials said, may further drop as different centres make entries on the Co-Win portal till midnight. As per calculations done by the health department, the vaccines available in stock may last for half a day (0.6) only. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 continued to dip in Jharkhand as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Sunday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 61 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day against 49 people testing positive for Coronavirus, and the active caseload dropped to 411. At least 10 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, NHM data highlighted. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a double-digit-spike on Sunday. With eight cases, Hazaribag reported the highest spike among the districts. At least 12 recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 57, while East Singhbhum reported 12 recoveries against six cases and the active caseload there dropped to 59. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day. Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of 38,868 residents and 0.12 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus, which has claimed at least 5117 lives in the state. So far, 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 98.40 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy's custodial death unites anti-BJP forces in Jharkhand||The death of Father Stan Swamy in custody has brought together and galvanised anti-BJP parties and social organisations in Jharkhand. A day after they met at Bagaicha, the organisation founded by Fr Stan at Namkum in Ranchi, for a condolence meeting, leaders and representatives of these parties assembled again on July 9 under the banner of the Father Stan Swamy Nyay Manch. The meeting, held at the local CPIML office, discussed plans to march to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on July 15 with the pledge of “Akrosh ko anjaam tak pahunchayenge (We will take this anger to its end)”. They also decided to strengthen their demand for scrapping of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and release of all political leaders and social workers held under the UAPA. “Not only the country but the whole world considers it a State-sponsored murder,” CPIML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, who chaired the meeting, said about the death of the octogenarian Jesuit priest in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail. “To teach all agitators a lesson, the Modi government displaced and put under trial a person who had fought for undertrial prisoners and displaced persons all his life,” he added. “Jharkhand should take the lead in giving voice and a political direction to the protests that are being held across the country,” Bhattacharya said, adding that the UAPA should be scrapped and all non-BJP governments of the country bear “the responsibility of treating the undertrials well”. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya too described Fr Stan’s death as State-sponsored murder and added that “the Modi government wants to run the country as a monarchy by treating the citizens as its subjects and doesn’t want them to raise their voice”. CPIML MLA Vinod Singh, Prakash Viplab of the CPM, Mahendra Pathak of the CPI and Rajesh Yadav of the RJD too spoke at the meeting, as did some other political and cultural activists such as Dayamani Barla, Xavier Kujur and Premchand Murmu. They sought justice for Fr Stan and demanded an independent probe into his death to fix accountability. They also demanded that the use of the UAPA against those who protest government policies be stopped and all political leaders and social workers held under the law acquitted. “The treatment meted out to Fr Stan that culminated in his unfortunate death has moved everybody who knew about him or his work,” said Nadeem Khan of the All India People’s Forum, adding that many people from rural areas are expected to join the march to the Raj Bhavan on July 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
