13-07-2021||Calcutta||Seasonal flu strikes in city amid Covid pandemic||Fever is almost at every home in Calcutta as the seasonal flu has struck in the middle of the Covid season. Hospital outpatient departments and clinics are swamped with people running high temperatures and having chest congestions. Doctors said the symptoms are often similar to Covid but the test reports are mostly negative. Some of the private hospitals said they have detected types of influenza virus in many swab samples collected from people suffering from fever. Doctors said although the fever is going away in three to five days, some of the elderly people with comorbidities are getting admitted to hospital. The number of tests, which had dipped from the first week of July at hospitals and diagnostic centres, have increased again because of the outbreak of the flu, said health department officials. On Monday, 45, 287 samples were tested and the positivity rate was 1.95 per cent, according to the state health department. On July 5, 40,388 samples were tested with a 2.19 per cent  rate of positivity in Bengal. Doctors said Covid cases could have dropped as many people are vaccinated, still they are not taking chances and asking anyone with fever lasting for two to three days, to get themselves tested. At the fever clinic of Peerless Hospital, in May during the peak of the Covid pandemic, 275 people would turn up on an average with running temperature. “Results of about 60 percent of those samples tested would be positive. As the number of cases dipped, we would have around 35 people everyday at the fever clinic out of whom barely five percent would test positive for Covid,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. However, in the last one week, the number of footfall at the hospital's fever clinic has gone upto around 70 everyday, said Mitra. “But less than two per cent are testing positive for Covid. We have detected H3N3, a type of influenza virus in some of the samples tested for flu,” he said. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, during the peak of the pandemic there would be more than 200 people with fever and 60 percent were testing positive. Now, around 15 people are coming everyday at the fever clinic of the hospital but around three percent are detected with Covid, said R. Venkatesh, director of Narayana Health which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, tropical medicine and infectious diseases specialist at Peerless Hospital, said the flu is causing fever that usually lasts between three and five days. "It's starting with running nose and then there is high grade fever along with cough and after that most people are getting cured. The clinical presentations are similar to that of Covid but tests are generally coming negative.” However, two elderly patients with co-morbidites, were admitted under him at the hospital on Monday. Both patients had fever and have tested negative for Covid. "This category of people are still at risk from flu even if they don't have Covid. At Belle Vue Clinic too, there has been a steady decline in the Covid cases and now it is less than two percent of the samples tested. “There has been an increase in acute respiratory illness since last week of June. These cases were tested to be Influenza A,” said Anuradha Agarwal, head, clinical microbiology and hospital infection control at Belle Vue. She said the quadrivalent flu vaccine can protect people from this. “The vaccine is safe and should be taken by all with co-morbidities and those above 65,” said Agarwal. Doctors said although most of the symptoms of influenza virus were similar to Covid, some like diarrhoea and lack of sense of smell are not there. “But still it is important to get everyone tested because the pandemic is not completely over,” said physician Amitabha Saha. "Now, we have three categories of fever patients, those who have taken two doses of Covid vaccine, others with a single dose and a third section without being vaccinated," said Saha. "The second wave showed that young people also can get severe Covid infection. A large section of the young people are still not vaccinated and so we cannot take chances," he said. The young people who have to go out for work can also spread Covid again even if they are asymptomatic. "So, we are asking everyone with fever to get tested," said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Police seek CCTV footage of revelry from The Park||Police have sought CCTV footage of the second and third-floor corridors of The Park from where 37 people were arrested early on Sunday for partying in violation of Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Some of those arrested were allegedly involved in a scuffle with the police when asked to stop the revelry. The Park issued a statement: “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of the Covid-19 protocols. We are complying with all rules and regulations and will continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities.” Park Street police station has drawn up an FIR under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. The FIR names some officials of The Park, senior police officers at Lalbazar said. On Monday, officers of the detective department said they would want to know when on Saturday night the party began and whether such late-night parties were often held at the Park Street hotel in violation of curbs Across the second and third floor of the hotel, four rooms were booked for several weeks and several guests would come and go through the day, investigators said they had learnt. The statements of the seven accused who were remanded in police custody on Sunday will be cross-checked with CCTV footage from the hotel. Two other accused were remanded in judicial custody while the rest were released on bail. “We want to know the number of people who attended the rally. That will be compared with the number of people our team came across when they reached the spot on Sunday,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta recalls students facing connectivity issues to attend online classes||IIM Calcutta has allowed students from small towns and tier-III cities facing connectivity issues to return to the campus and use the Internet facility available in hostels to attend online classes. As part of this, 25 per cent from the first-year and second-year MBA programme put together has been allowed entry. The first lot of students started arriving from Sunday, said an official of the institute. Even as classes started from June, many of those from the two-year MBA programme were encountering hassles in attending classes over online platforms because of the digital divide. “Twenty five per cent of the 960 students from the first-year and second-year batch so far have been allowed to come. These students are from the small towns and muffasil areas who are encountering connectivity issues, posing hindrances in attending online classes. Upon arrival they will be quarantined for 10 days in an isolation facility, before allowing entry to the hostels,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid-19 taskforce. Students have complained about unstable connectivity and steep charges on account of datapacks. The second lot of students from the pool of 25 per cent will start arriving from July 21. In mid April, the Joka institute had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels because of the developing Covid-19 situation on the campus. As many as 70 students had tested positive between late March and mid April. An official of the institute said the hostels in between have been sanitised. The issue regarding the connectivity woes coming in the way of attending the online classes was flagged in June last year by the then office bearer of the institute’s student council. Hunar Gandhi, the student council president, had on June 13 in a letter to then director Anju Seth written: “Would it be possible to allow some students, who may be facing connectivity issues or other constraints at home, to return to campus and utilise campus infrastructure even when classes are online? Can this process begin from now onwards as there is still a month before the classes begin? Students are apprehensive about the quality of learning through the online mode.” Decision on arrival of the remaining batch of students and those from the one-year MBA executive programme would be taken later. “Since several cases were reported during the stay of students at the hostel in April, we are treading cautiously on recalling the students,” said an official. He said they were planning to set up hybrid classes with contributions from the batch of “92’ so that students could attend online classes much more effectively. In hybrid classes, lectures are live-streamed for some students, while others attend them in person.The concept has gained popularity in campuses across the globe amid the pandemic because this helps in maintaining physical distance. The institute's students’ council in a letter on IT infrastructure woes addressed to the former director Anju Seth on February 16 had stated: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes.” The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has demanded that the students who are facing resource constraints and not being able to attend online classes be called back to the campus at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Rain exposes poor drainage system in Mukundapur and New Garia||Large parts of Mukundapur and New Garia go under water several times every monsoon and civic officials blame it on the lack of a proper drainage network in the area. There is no underground drainage network in many parts on the south-eastern fringes of Calcutta that have some of the city’s largest private hospitals, where thousands of patients turn up every day. The place, with a population of around 50,000, is also dotted with large housing complexes, apartment blocks and standalone buildings. Rainwater from the area flows into kuccha drains, said a civic official. The drainage system of Mukundapur and New Garia is dependent on canals flowing through the area, he said. The water from the kuccha drains is supposed to be drained out into the canals. But the official said that the plinth of houses and the kuccha drains are either at the same level as the canals or at a lower height. As a result, the rainwater does not easily flow into the canals. An underground drainage network with pumps fitted to drain out water is required in the area. However, civic officials said there is no plan yet to build any new underground sewer infrastructure. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has approved building plans for many housing complexes and standalone buildings without ensuring proper drainage infrastructure for them. Residents allege they have got an unfair deal. “We pay taxes to the CMC but are treated like second-class citizens. The drinking water supply is poor, roads are bad and waterlogging is a perennial problem. I have been living here for over a decade. The situation has only worsened over the years,” said Boby Banerjee, a resident of Nayabad. “When we started living here, there were many vacant plots. The rainwater would flow down into those plots. But as new buildings were built there, the water has no place to go and roads get waterlogged,” she said. The neighbourhood has hospitals like the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, AMRI Mukundapur, Medica Superspecialty Hospital and Peerless Hospital, among others. Large housing complexes like Upohar, Utalika and Avidipta are located in the area. New housing complexes of similar scale are coming up. But all this without ramping up the drainage infrastructure of the place. “The main problem of Mukundapur is that the level of the canals that drain out water from the area are at a higher or the same level as many of the plots. When there is waterlogging, the water in the drains is pushed towards the canals. Once the level of accumulated water comes down, the force decreases and the rest of the water in the drains does not flow into the canals,” said a senior CMC engineer. “This water gets evaporated or absorbed underground over days, which is why the place remains waterlogged for many hours even after it stops raining,” said a civic official. Residents of the area also alleged that unscientific and indiscriminate road construction have aggravated the problem. “The CMC has laid layers of bitumen over previously laid layers to fix potholes and craters. The old layers were never scraped off. As a result, the level of the road has become higher than the ground floor of many homes and water enters the ground-floor rooms of these houses even after a small and intense spell of rain,” said a resident. The CMC had built underground drainage in a part of the area about a decade back. No more underground sewer lines have been laid since. When the underground drainage was laid more than a decade back, the civic body had also built a pumping station for the network. The pump covers only about 50 per cent of the area and the rest still depends on open drains for their drainage. The sewage going to the drainage pumping station is drained out into the canals using pumps. “Over the last 10 years, no new sewer infrastructure has been built in the area. There is no plan right now to expand the underground sewer network in Mukundapur either,” said a senior CMC official. Civic officials said there are two ways of allowing construction of buildings in a place that is rapidly urbanising — either the government decides to build all necessary infrastructure and then allows buildings to be constructed or sets up infrastructure as new buildings come up. “In the case of Mukundapur and adjoining areas, the state government and the civic authorities decided that it will build infrastructure as more people start living here. They did not want to invest crores of rupees before people moved in,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Crutch clue leads to murder accused, arrested after body found on road||A man in his 30s was found throttled to death at the crossing of Zakaria Street and Balai Dutta Lane, in the heart of central Calcutta, on Sunday night. Police said CCTV footage obtained from near the spot showed at least three men running away. “One of them was with a crutch and that gave away his identity within a few hours of the offence,” an officer said. The three men — Haru Karmakar, 38, from Sonarpur; Mohammad Samir, 19, from Jorasanko; and Firoz Khan, 36, from Balai Dutta Street — have been arrested and charged with murder. The victim, Ranjeet, was a van-puller in the neighbourhood. “Mohammad Samir, the youngest of the three accused, walks with the support of a crutch. A few years ago, he had jumped off a building while trying to flee apparently after committing a theft. He fractured his leg and has been limping since,” said an officer of Jorasanko police station. Cops have come to know from a preliminary inquiry that the four were eating and drinking together when a dispute arose over Rs 100. “That led to the alleged strangulation of the van-puller,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy inaugurates new wing with updated technology||An annexe of the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy with updated technology was inaugurated on Monday. The two-storey building at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama in Narendrapur has smart classrooms, a multipurpose hall, space for judo, a visitor’s room and more. “We will use technology to teach our students Braille. There will be large screens for those with poor eyesight and recorded books and other devices to make learning more up to date,” said Biswajit Ghosh, the principal of the academy. The project was initiated about two years back but got delayed because of the Covid pandemic and a lack of funds, said Swami Sarvalokananda, secretary, Ramkrishna Mission Ashrama. “Now that the building is complete, we plan to use it fully and we are grateful to all those who made it happen.” Principal Ghosh said: “The pandemic had hampered some of the work in the project but we are happy to inaugurate it today, though it must be said that we missed our students today.” The building also has classrooms for BEd in special education under Calcutta University. The annexe has been completed with financial assistance from the department of mass education of Bengal, the MPLAD fund of C.M. Jatua, SBI Capital Ltd, Joy Foundation and others. The Blind Boys’ Academy was established in 1957. Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission who delivered the inaugural address virtually, said the academy started the higher secondary course in 2012. The institute has been providing the highest level of education and skill to visually impaired students, he said. The academy has a Braille press attached to it. Swami Sarvalokananda said Bhabani Prasad Chanda, a visually challenged student at a students’ home in north Calcutta’s Pathuriaghata (RKM Students’ Home, Pathuriaghata), had requested Swami Lokeshwarananda — the then secretary of the home and later, the founder of the Narendrapur ashrama — to be allowed to stay in the hostel so he could study at Presidency College. The student went on to become the first principal of the academy when it came up in Narendrapur. The annexe was inaugurated by Prasanta Kumar Giri, the president of the managing committee of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-07-2021||Business||Boeing will cut 787 production after identifying new structural defect ||Boeing Co said on Tuesday it will cut its 787 production rate as it works through a new structural defect in its troubled twin-aisle airliner program in another obstacle to recovery from the coronavirus pandemic's impact. The company now forecasts delivering fewer than half of the lingering 100 or so 787s in its inventory this year - instead of the“vast majority” it had expected - as it continues forensic inspections and costly repairs to address quality flaws in the aircraft. Boeing did not disclose a new production rate for the 787 program, but said it would shift temporarily below the already-slow current rate of five jets per month. ”To us this is more significant than the cut to the delivery forecast, as it ripples down through the supply chain,” Vertical Research Partners analyst Robert Stallard said in a client note. ”The supply chain cannot just be turned on and off like a switch,” Stallard added. Boeing shares were down 3.7% in midday trading. For the year so far, the company has delivered 156 jets of all types, compared with 157 for all of 2020, Boeing said. The latest production-related flaw, first reported by Reuters on Monday, involved unacceptable gaps around the forward pressure bulkhead, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said. The FAA said late on Monday that Boeing, which spotted the problem, would fix it before the planes are delivered. The US planemaker's 737 MAX and 787 have been afflicted by electrical defects and other issues since late last year. Boeing halted deliveries of the jet in May, the second pause after it initially stopped handing over the jet in late 2020. ”We will continue to take the necessary time to ensure Boeing airplanes meet the highest quality prior to delivery,” Boeing said, adding that the new issue poses no immediate threat to flight safety. The FAA said it will review data to“determine whether similar modifications should be made on 787s already in commercial service.” In June, Boeing booked 146 jet orders. That net figure takes into account instances in which the buyer converted an order to another model or canceled it entirely, including 71 737 MAX jets, the company said. Its backlog increased from 4,121 to 4,166 aircraft, Boeing said. Boeing handed over 45 planes to customers in June, its highest monthly total since March 2019, when the second of two fatal 737 MAX crashes occurred. Its June delivery tally includes 10 widebody aircraft, one of which was a 787-9 for Turkish Airlines, Boeing said. It also delivered 35 737s, including 33 737 MAXs and two P-8 maritime patrol aircraft to the U.S. Navy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Ryan Zimmerman Reveals The Unique Approach That Makes Arzee Stand Out From The Crowd||Ryan Zimmerman is the founder and CEO of Arzee and Buckleband. Founded in 2016, Arzee is an apparel manufacturer that works with national brands, high-end designers, as well as smaller startups. Buckleband launched more recently, in March 2021, and is the first premium resistance band with a buckle, designed for both the advanced athlete and the occasional exerciser, and even highly suitable for those in physical therapy or with mobility concerns. As a man with two companies under his belt, Zimmerman had to find a way to stand out from the competitors. Arzee is known for its top-notch quality, but that is not enough. "There are many premium players in the market, so offering quality products is not something that will make you stand out from the competition. Now, that has become an imperative for success," Zimmerman says. However, he was able to figure out a few strategies that helped his brands stand out from all the rest. 1.    Connect With Your Customers What makes Arzee stand out from other apparel manufacturers is its unique approach and dedication to each customer. "The majority of other companies don't bother to connect with their customers. They have an intake meeting, followed by design meetings, and then they don't communicate until the customer gets the final product," Zimmerman says. "Arzee uses a different approach. If you're working with us, we're always working with you. Even if that includes countless phone calls and numerous reviews, or just an opinion on a color or a shape, we're there for you, and you won't find this type of personal touch anywhere else." 2.    Consistent Branding Zimmerman believes that high-quality, consistent branding is essential for every company that wants to stand out from the crowd. "Your brand should have a memorable logo, slogan, company colors, and you need to use the same branding on all of your channels—website, social media, as well as ads. It is also beneficial if your branding appeals to multiple audiences," Zimmerman says. 3.    Make the Most of Social Media "If you have a company and you're not on social media, you have to change that immediately," Zimmerman says. "Social media is the best and most affordable way to reach your target audience, advertise your product, promote your brand, and boost your sales." Arzee is an excellent example of how all businesses supplied can benefit from having a social media presence regardless of what they do. Even if they are an apparel manufacturer, Arzee posts content that their target audience finds attractive, such as the latest products or behind-the-scenes videos of how everything is made. Zimmerman's last but most fundamental piece of advice for all business owners is to never be afraid to ask for help. "No one sitting at the head of a company, a successful entrepreneur, any titan of industry, ever got to the place they are alone,” Zimmerman says. “They had mentors, friends, or acquaintances in similar positions. When you don't know something, ask. Don't be afraid to reach out to those that have been down the path before you."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Robin Janssens on innovation, passion, success and more||Most people want to start and grow a business, but only a few understand what it takes. In building any business, it is essential to have a good network with other key players in the industry, from the supplier to its target audience. Robin Janssens, one of the leading entrepreneurs best known for creating modern and innovative ecosystems, stresses why it’s crucial to leverage the business ecosystem. From a young age, Robin was passionate and determined to become an entrepreneur, and after his studies, he felt he would not be as good working under someone as opposed to working for himself. Together with his partner Hamza, they have over 100 employees and have scaled more than 10 companies to millions. He is a successful entrepreneur in different industries, including a marketing agency and an accounting agency. According to Robin Janssens, ecosystems diversify the business by improving innovation; together with his team, he has created a one-of-a-kind methodology that any business can use. He says in order to come up with a perfect ecosystem, one should ensure it fits well with your goal and vision as a company. His ecosystem has so far helped grow hundreds of businesses. By creating an ecosystem, you facilitate collaboration and also a learning process. When you get to collaborate with other organizations, it’s a way of growing your business since clients of the other organizations will get to know your business. Robin says the ecosystem is one of the fastest ways to grow a business because even as you collaborate with other sectors, you get to learn a thing or two and expand on your capabilities. When you partner with dominant parties in the industry, it gives you an edge over your competitors, which is why, according to Robin, before entering an industry, you should be well conversant with the market and know your competitors and dominant players. Coming up with a product that will complement the chief player links you to their customer base, which will help grow your business. An ecosystem paints a better picture of the customer, enabling the businesses to get an understanding of his tastes and preferences. Since there’s that good relationship between companies, they work together to ensure customer satisfaction by understanding the customer better. Adhering to and leveraging existing ecosystems for the growth of your business is important. Plug into existing ecosystems as Robin Janssens recommends and grow in a space that is conducive for your business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Vibhor Varshney Shares His Expertise in Stock Market||Most Indians treat money as a taboo topic and the ambition to earn more of being greedy. Hence, people do not often discuss Finance and Investment. However, as time is changing, many have started finding other sources to increase their revenue and one such medium is the Stock market. Stock Market, which was once considered evil and non-profitable, has gained recognition and popularity in recent years. Vibhor Varshney is a Stock Market expert and he teaches people how to invest in the right way. Vibhor Varshney, with his far-sightedness, astounds his students. Unlike others he believes in the power of making unexpected investment moves. He attained this understanding because of his expanded life as a stock marketer and a renowned research analyst. Vibhor is the creator and CEO of Vighnahara Investment Solutions, a one-stop destination for all your financial requirements. Vibhor Varshney's experience speaks volumes to his YouTube and Telegram audience. He is one of the youngest to acquire a SEBI licence. Many known organizations including NIFM, Spider India and others invited him to give guest lectures on the step-by-step method of investing and then nurturing those investments. However, all these achievements  did not happen overnight. Years of trial and error went into acquiring his diverse portfolio and ensuring that it would survive the test of time. Vibhor, a bright student from elementary school, has always taken the money and the importance of proper financing seriously. His MBA in finance and banking has solidified his business skills through mentoring people who have attested to his greatness. Vibhor Varshney is a well-known name in the financial market nowadays. His organization, Vighnahara Investing Solutions, is also making tremendous strides because of its practical and client-focused approach in managing investment challenges. These challenges include a thorough assessment of an individual's risk profile, investment potential and wealth ambitions. Vibhor Varshney wants to broaden and transform the financial paradigm of Indians. He uses various social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, Telegram, and Twitter to change the investment mindset in India. He advises that copying others does not work in any field, especially Stock Market. He says that one should do his market research and analysis before investing. According to Vibhor, you can never be sure how your investment will turn out but you can decrease the risk of damage by doing proper research. Profit and loss are a part of stock market and if you want to make money, you must also learn to deal with losses. It is to say, only take chances that you can afford to lose. Vibhor says to Interviewer PR, “When you take your money seriously, a time will come when money will take you seriously.” Stock Market has the potential to be an added benefit in your daily life if used properly. People must stop running away from decisions that involve risks rather they should be careful of the degree of risk they are willing to take.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 397 points at 52,769.73||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 397 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid positive domestic as well as global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 397.04 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 52,769.73, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.76 per cent to 15,812.35. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging nearly 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, NTPC and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Dr Reddy's, Maruti and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. "Following favourable economic outcome and positive Asian markets, domestic bourses traded positive," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Though June CPI inflation continued to remain above RBI's tolerance level, it eased to 6.26 per cent from 6.30 per cent in the previous month giving some relief to the market, he said, adding that industrial production (IIP) for May grew 29.3 per cent YoY essentially due to a lower base. Asian shares sparked a rally after better-than-expected Chinese economic data and a bounce back in Chinese tech stocks, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.56 per cent to USD 75.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 228 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,600.69 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.50 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,762.10. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC, PowerGrid, M&M, Axis Bank, L&T and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and HUL were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 13.50 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 52,372.69, while the Nifty inched 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent higher to 15,692.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 745.97 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, the domestic market looks to be good as of now. "IIP data for May witnessed strong over 29 per cent growth on base effects, while second wave impact made it to see 14 per cent contraction compared to May 2019. Hence, policy support is still much needed to spur economic activities in coming months, and we believe RBI will continue to maintain its accommodative policy in the medium term," he said. Additionally, investors were upbeat as US equities recovered from earlier losses and all three key indices ended with record highs as expectations of robust June quarter earnings lifted sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.23 per cent to USD 75.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||SC dismisses Birla petition against Harsh Vardhan Lodha||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to take up a special leave petition filed by Birla family members challenging a division bench order of the Calcutta High Court that had paved the way for Harsh Vardhan Lodha to continue at the helm of MP Birla Group. The apex court also set a deadline for Calcutta High Court to dispose of all outstanding appeals and cross appeals over Lodha holding office as a director in the MP Birla Group of companies by March 31, 2022. “Having heard the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the contesting parties, we are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition at the present stage, particularly because the main appeals are pending before Calcutta High Court,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice Hrishikesh Roy said in the order. “However, we request the HC to take up the appeals for expeditious disposal and conclude the proceedings by March 31, 2022,” the order read. The Lodha camp claimed that with Monday’s order, the Supreme Court had put its stamp of approval on Lodha’s continuation as a director. “Monday’s Supreme Court verdict demolishes the charges of contempt of court brought against Lodha for not stepping down as the chairman. The verdict vindicates our faith in the judiciary as we continue to neutralise repeated attempts to disrupt the functioning of MP Birla Group of companies,” a statement from Lodha’s counsel Fox & Mandal said. However, the Birla family termed the order as a “win-win”. “It is a win-win situation for both parties as the Birlas would derive the benefit from the early conclusive disposal of the pending appeals and Lodha would derive the benefit of continuing to be in control of the manufacturing companies till disposal of the said appeals,” a statement from the Birlas noted. The appeals and cross-appeals emanated from a single-bench order of the HC on September 18 which had ordered Lodha to step down as the director of MP Birla firms such as Birla Corporation, Birla Cable, Universal Cables and Vindhya Telelinks. On October 1, a division bench of Calcutta High Court comprising the then chief justice T.B. Radhakrishnan declined to stay the order of Justice Shahidullah Munshi but added that the restriction on Lodha would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla)”. Lodha claimed victory on the basis of the order and continued to attend board meetings prompting the Birla family to file contempt petitions. The same HC bench on April 22 dismissed the petition, observing that Lodha could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL Committee and the promoter and promoter groups and persons acting in concert. The Birlas moved SC to challenge the HC order on the ground that Lodha could not possibly be on the board on the strength of public shareholders. The Birlas were represented by a battery of lawyers such as Kapil Sibal, P. Chidambaram, Janak Dwarkadas and K.V. Vishwanathan. Lodha was represented by Darius Khambata, Shyam Diwan and Abhrajit Mitra among others. During the argument, Khambata said Lodha remained chairman of all MP Birla Group companies and chaired all board meetings even in the face of contempt petitions filed against him because he was reappointed in all with a vast majority of at least 97.98 per cent of the votes cast in his favour. The two sides have been sparring ever since late Priyamvada bequeathed her estate to late Rajendra Lodha, father of Harsh Lodha, in 2004. Fresh escalation in the legal battle began in 2019 when the committee of administrator pendente lite appointed to oversee the estate of Priyamvada started taking decisions based on majority. The committee had instructed promoter group firms to vote against the appointment of Lodha in the manufacturing firms during their AGMs. A Birla family member approached the high court seeking to enforce the decisions of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel records speed of over 1 Gigabit per second during 5G field trial ||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel recorded a speed of over 1 Gigabit per second during a 5G field trial in Mumbai using Finnish firm Nokia’s network gear, according to sources. The company is running a live 5G trial in Mumbai’s Phoenix Mall in Lower Parel. A Nokia spokesperson confirmed the development. “Airtel is conducting the trial in the 3,500MHz band using 5G gear from Nokia under DoT guidelines. The trials have delivered speeds of over 1 Gbps with ultra-low latency,” one of the sources said. 1 Gbps is 1,000 Mbps (Megabits per second). The department of telecom (DoT) had recently allotted 5G trial spectrum to Airtel in the 3,500MHz, 28GHz and 700MHz bands in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore to develop India-relevant use cases on the next generation fast wireless broadband technology. Earlier this year, Airtel became the first telecom operator to test 5G over a live network in Hyderabad using liberalised spectrum in 1800MHz band. “Airtel and Nokia plan to soon begin 5G trials in Calcutta,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Rupee continues to feel  the heat of rising commodity prices||The rupee continues to feel the heat of rising commodity prices, particularly crude oil, and India’s widening trade deficit. The declining trend in the rupee prompted Standard Chartered and RBL Bank Ltd to forecast that the currency would depreciate to 76 per dollar by year-end. Deutsche Bank AG has a slightly less pessimistic projection of 75. On Monday, the Indian currency closed at 74.58, higher by 6 paise over its last close. On Friday, the rupee had settled at 74.64 against the dollar. The surge in crude oil, which leads to more demand for dollars, have heightened apprehensions over a further slide in the rupee. Though rising crude oil prices are a deterrent, they can be countered by foreign inflows and the sale of dollars by the RBI, which will provide support to the currency, analysts said. They said funds infusion such as the $3.6 billion pumped into Flipkart by marquee names such as Softbank and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board will prop up the dollar. On the portfolio front, the Zomato IPO is set to open for subscription on July 14. One97 Communications, the parent of digital payment firm Paytm, is also set to file its draft prospectus shortly. “The higher oil price is not sufficient to take the US dollar higher. The dollar rupee value is driven by capital flows be it portfolio flows or FDI. Over the short term, these flows have the biggest impact on the pair. Inflows are likely to remain robust and these would continue to support the rupee,’’ Anindya Banerjee, DVP, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives at Kotak Securities, told The Telegraph. Banerjee feels the rupee is likely to move in a range of 74.20-75.00 over the near term. Moreover, India’s foreign exchange reserves now stand at a record high of $610 billion. This could provide another comfort to the rupee as the RBI could step in should the currency depreciate sharply. Meanwhile, oil prices fell on Monday as concerns about slowing global growth outweighed the prospect of tightening supply. Brent crude for September fell 45 cents, or 0.6 per cent, to $75.10 a barrel by 12:08 pm. US West Texas Intermediate crude for August was at $74.07 a barrel, down 49 cents, or 0.7 per cent. Both benchmarks fell about 1 per cent last week but remained close to highs not seen since October 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India raises prices of Swift and CNG variants of other models ||Maruti Suzuki India on Monday said it has raised the prices of its hatchback Swift and the CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000. Sources said the price of Swift has been increased by Rs 15,000 (ex showroom Delhi), while the other models will be costlier by Rs 10,000. The company has informed the stock exchanges that it is planning to raise the prices of other models too and a formal intimation would be made accordingly. The hike in various input costs has prompted the price revision, Maruti said in a regulatory filing. The new prices will be effective from Monday. Before the hike, the Swift was available at a price range of Rs 5.73 lakh to Rs 8.27 lakh (ex showroom Delhi) across variants.Maruti Suzuki sells CNG variants of the Alto, Celerio, S-Presso, WagonR, Eeco and Ertiga with prices ranging from Rs 4.43 lakh to Rs 9.36 lakh. “Steel prices have gone up by 80 per cent compared with May last year and prices of precious metals such as rhodium and palladium have increased 250 per cent. So, the price increase could be substantial compared with the January and April price hikes,” Shashank Srivastava, executive director (sales and marketing), Maruti Suzuki India, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Industrial output surges 29.3 per cent in May||Industrial output surged 29.3 per cent in May, backed by a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power, but remained below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — grew 34.5 per cent in May, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May, while power generation increased 7.5 per cent. In May 2021, IIP stood at 116.6 points compared with 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019. The data showed that industrial production has recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. The IIP had contracted 33.4 per cent in May 2020. Madan Sabhavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “The IIP growth at 29.3 per cent is lower than our forecast of 47.8 per cent. It has been driven by base effects and this will get diluted over a few months, especially in July. Within manufacturing only pharma has shown negative growth because of the high base effect. PMI-manufacturing does not bode well for IIP growth in June as it was below 50.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Retail inflation fell marginally to 6.26 per cent in June||Retail inflation fell marginally to 6.26 per cent in June but stayed above the RBI’s tolerance range for the second straight month because of soaring fuel prices and costlier items in the food basket. It was 6.3 per cent in May. Food inflation in June accelerated to 5.15 per cent from 5.01 per cent in May. Food inflation rose on the back of higher inflation in eggs (up to 19.4 per cent in June from 15.2 per cent in May) and  pulses (up to 10 per cent from 9.4 per cent) even as cereal prices fell by 1.9 per cent in June against a fall of 1.4 per cent in May. A marginal decline in retail inflation in June 2021 came from unexpected quarters — health (down to 7.7 per cent in June from 8.4 per cent in May), transport and communication (11.6 per cent from 12.4 per cent), recreation (5 per cent from 6.1 per cent) and personal care (4.8 per cent from 7.4 per cent). Inflation in the “fuel and light” category stayed high at 12.68 per cent during the month against 11.58 per cent in the previous month. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said: “Retail inflation is likely to remain in the 4.5-6.0 per cent range during the rest of FY22. Elevated commodity prices have and will continue to be a risk to inflation.” Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Emkay Global Financial Services, said: “We remain watchful of pass through of impending cost push pressures in core goods inflation, while the demand revival in select contact-sensitive household services could put pressure on core services inflation. “However, MPC may still choose to look through the spike in inflation in the near term, with the monetary reaction function currently hinging more on growth revival becoming sustainable.” “We expect inflation forecasts to be revised upwards in the next MPC review, amid a status quo in the rates and stance, albeit with an underlying tone of uneasiness in the commentary. The tussle between supporting the nascent, incomplete revival in growth and preserving the anchoring of inflationary expectations will continue. If inflation remains above 6 per cent in the next two prints (July-August), rate normalisation may be done earlier,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said: “Even if inflation remained elevated, the RBI would be under no immediate pressure to act: the headline rate would need to remain above 6 per cent for more than three successive quarters before the RBI would be deemed to have missed its target.... policy rates will be left on hold at the MPC meeting in August, and we don’t expect any hikes to materialise until late next year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sebi in a spot over PNB Housing Finance||Is Sebi asking regulated entities not to  follow its own rules? This was one of the questions that came up on Monday as PNB Housing Finance concluded its argument against the market regulator’s direction that it should not proceed with the transaction with Carlyle till a valuation is done by an independent valuer. Last month, PNB Housing had filed an appeal with the Securities Appellate Tribunal. During Monday’s hearing, senior counsel for the company, Janak Dwarkadas, cited the Companies Act to conclude that listed firms should follow Sebi’s guidelines on pricing for preferential issues. He quoted section 62(1)(c) of the Companies Act read with the Companies (Share capital and Debenture Rules) to say that in the case of a preferential issue by a listed firm, the pricing shall not be required to be determined by a registered valuer. Dwarkadas went on to add that listed firms have to follow the pricing formula under the Sebi’s ICDR regulations. Sebi had in its June order asked PNB Housing Finance to put on hold the Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle saying it was ultra-vires of the articles of association (AoA) of the housing finance firm. It said the company should undertake valuation of shares as prescribed under 19(2) of its AOA, for purpose of preferential allotment. This was also questioned by Dwarkadas. According to a Bloomberg Quint report, the lead counsel said he did not understand how Sebi was asking the company to follow its AoA instead of complying with its regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Shareholders' approval for Rs 16,600-crore Paytm public offer||Paytm on Monday received shareholders’ approval for its Rs 16,600-crore public offer, according to a source aware of the EGM decisions. “The shareholders have approved the proposal to raise capital and the fresh issue of shares of up to Rs 12,000 crore during the IPO at the extraordinary general meeting. The secondary raise will bring the total to Rs 16,600 crore,” the source said. An email query sent to Paytm did not elicit any reply. The shareholders approved a proposal permitting Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma to shake off the promoter tag. He will, however, continue as chairman, managing director and chief executive officer of the company. “According to Sebi rules, Paytm is a professionally managed company. No shareholder can have ‘special rights’. That is just how listed companies need to be in India,” the source said. Coal India had come up with the biggest IPO issue of around Rs 15,500 crore, which was listed in the last quarter of 2010. According to the source, the valuation of Paytm is likely to be in the range of Rs 1.78 lakh crore to Rs 2.2 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
13-07-2021||Business||Flipkart raises $3.6 billion (Rs 26,845 crore) in fresh funding round||Flipkart has raised $3.6 billion (Rs 26,845 crore) in a fresh funding round, valuing the e-tailer at $37.6 billion (Rs 2.81 lakh crore). The infusion saw the participation of Walmart and others, including SoftBank. The funding will give Flipkart more teeth to fight against JioMart and Amazon in the domestic market. The pandemic has seen more people buying online and this is one of the reasons that has prompted SoftBank to re-enter Flipkart. The Japanese conglomerate had invested in Flipkart in 2017 and then sold its stake a year later to Walmart. After this round, Flipkart is ranked among the top 10 global e-commerce companies in terms of market cap along with entities such as Amazon, Alibaba and Shopify. The funding round was led by financial investors GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPP Investments), SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and Walmart, along with investments from sovereign funds DisruptAD, Qatar Investment Authority and Khazanah Nasional Berhad. Marquee investors such as Tencent, Willoughby Capital, Antara Capital, Franklin Templeton and Tiger Global also participated. The details of the individual investments made by these entities were not disclosed, but it is learnt that CPP Investments brought in about $800 million, while SoftBank has invested around $500 million. “This (latest) investment by leading global investors reflects the promise of digital commerce in India and their belief in Flipkart’s capabilities to maximise this potential for all stakeholders. We will focus on accelerating growth for millions of small and medium Indian businesses, including kiranas,’’ Flipkart group CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
13-07-2021||Business||Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs approves Life Insurance Corporation IPO||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given its in-principle approval to the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation, with the listing of the shares expected by the end of this fiscal. Officials said the CCEA at its meeting last week cleared the proposal for the mega IPO. A group of ministers headed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would now decide on the amount of stake sale by the Centre and the timing of the issue. They said the government was preparing a timeline that envisages listing by March next year. At present, the government owns a 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to be one of the leading companies by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The LIC is working on embedded value, internal efficiency and product restructuring. The actuarial advisers are likely to arrive at the embedded value of LIC by August-end. The Union budget had proposed 27 amendments to LIC Act, 1956 that was incorporated in Finance Act 2021 with the government gazette notifying the changes. This paved the way for the 65-year old corporation with over Rs 35 lakh crore assets to corporatise and list its shares on domestic stock exchanges. Officials said the bids from merchant bankers were likely to be called later in July and regulatory approvals received by November end. The Centre has picked SBI Capital Markets and Deloitte as the pre-IPO advisers. The Department of Public Asset Management (Dipam) in January had appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP to assess the embedded value of LIC . The amendments to LIC Act include putting in place a board with independent directors in line with the listing obligations, increasing the authorised capital to Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each. Amendments have also been done to ensure that Centre will hold at least a 75 per cent stake in LIC for the next five years after listing and at least 51 per cent after that period. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. IDBI stake sale The government has extended the deadline for transaction and legal advisers to bid for managing the IDBI Bank strategic sale by nine days till July 22. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) had on June 22 invited bids from merchant bankers and law firms for managing and giving legal advice for the sale process. The last date to put in bids was July 13. “The competent authority has decided to extend the bid submission date of the… tender by nine days. The last date of bid submission will now be July 22, 2021,” the Dipam said in a notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
13-07-2021||India||Mahakumbh Covid testing scam: 60,000 phone numbers verified, SIT close to 1st arrest||The committee probing alleged fake Covid-19 tests conducted during Mahakumbh in Haridwar told Hindustan Times that it had completed verification of about 60,000 phone numbers of visitors, who the laboratories under scanner claimed to have tested for the infection during the mega religious event earlier this year. Meanwhile the Uttarakhand Police, which is also investigating the alleged scam, said it was about to make its first arrest in the case in the next couple of days. The probe committee led by chief development officer (CDO) of Haridwar, Saurabh Gaharwar, told Hindustan Times that another 35,000 phone numbers remained to be verified and the process was likely to take 10 more days to complete. However, he refused to reveal any detail from the investigations conducted so far. Gaharwar led committee earlier questioned the representatives of the agency named Max Corporate Services which had subcontracted testing to two laboratories — Nalwa Laboratories and Dr Lal Chandani Laboratories. The labs claimed to have conducted about 1.50 lakh tests but have been marred by allegations that they had made up the figures by including fake and fudged data such as contact numbers and Aadhaar card numbers. The Gaharwar committee is examining the phone numbers in its investigation to find out the number of actual fake tests conducted. “We had to verify about one lakh phone numbers mentioned in the tests. Of that, we have completed verifying 60,000 phone numbers while about 35,000 are still left,” CDO Gaharwar told Hindustan Times. He added that the verification would take at least 10 days to complete. Meanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) of the Haridwar district police, which is also probing the case, told Hindustan Times that it was likely to make the first arrest in the next few days. “The SIT has gathered many details after questioning the accused involved and examining the documents. With to the findings so far, it is somewhat sure that a scam had happened in the Covid-19 tests to siphon off money from the administration by the testing laboratories in a fraudulent manner,” said one of the officers in the SIT, who was privy to the probe details but didn’t wish to be quoted. “The SIT would soon make its first arrest in the next few days with the accused from one of the testing laboratories,” said the official. Haridwar’s senior superintendent of police Senthil Avoodai K Raj refused to confirm anything, but said, “The SIT is probing all the angles of the alleged scam by questioning different people. It will soon be completed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
13-07-2021||India||Covid: PM concerned over big crowds without masks in hill stations, markets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over people crowding at hill stations and markets without wearing masks or observing social distancing norms, as he urged all to guard against complacency to prevent a third wave of the coronavirus spread. He asked the people to shun the argument that they "want to enjoy before the third wave of coronavirus" and stressed that there should be no compromise in following Covid-19 protocols. "It is true that tourism, trade and business have been greatly affected due to the coronavirus. But today I will say with great emphasis that having huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks and not following Covid protocols is a matter of concern and is not right," Modi said during an interaction with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states through video conferencing. The third wave can be prevented by remaining cautious and strictly following all protocols, he said and emphasised that the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped. Modi said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome in some districts of the Northeastern region and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check the further spread of the virus. The health ministry has also flagged concerns over a surge in coronavirus cases in the Northeast states in the past few days and central teams have been deputed to seven states from that region -- Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura -- to support them in Covid-19 management. The prime minister said stricter steps were needed at the micro-level to check the virus spread and called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones. During the interaction, the chief ministers discussed the issue of vaccine hesitancy and measures being taken to overcome it. While Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told Prime Minister Modi that his government is trying to increase the vaccination rate in the tea garden areas of the state, which have witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu sought an increase in the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the state. The CMs gave an assurance of taking timely action to bring down the positivity rate as well as the number of cases in their respective states. Prime Minister Modi will interact with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala on July 16 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in these states. These are among the states where the infection numbers have seen an increase in several districts or have not in general seen a dip, unlike most other states. Noting the fast mutating nature of the coronavirus, Modi advised strict monitoring of the changes and keeping track of all variants. Experts are studying the mutations and their impact and in such a scenario, prevention and treatment are critical, he said. Modi emphasised that the utility of physical distancing, masks, vaccines is clear and the path of testing, tracking and treatment is a proven strategy. "Kai baar hum ye tark sunte hain aur kuch log toh bada sina taan ke bolte hain 'arey bhai teesri leher aane se pehle hum enjoy karna chahte hain' ( Many times we hear the argument and some say it with great assertion that 'we want to enjoy before the third wave comes'). "It is important to make people understand that the third wave will not come on its own)," Modi said. The main question in our mind should be how to prevent the third wave and implement the COVID protocol strictly, he said. Experts are repeatedly warning against carelessness and crowding as that can lead to a massive surge in cases, Modi said. The prime minister strongly advocated preventing avoidable gatherings. "If we remain cautious and take precautions we will be able to prevent the third wave...there should be no compromise in this," he said. The virtual meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, as also by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, among others. The chief ministers thanked the prime minister for timely action in handling the COVID-19 pandemic and appreciated his special care and concern for the Northeast. In his remarks, the prime minister said that in the 'vaccine for all-free for all' campaign of the central government, the Northeast also has the same importance, as he stressed the need to keep accelerating the vaccination process. To deal with the myths about vaccination and for mobilising people, Modi asked the chief ministers to enlist the help of social, educational institutes, celebrities and also religious organisations. He called for accelerating the vaccination drive in areas where the spread of the virus is expected. Referring to the recent Cabinet approval of a Rs 23,000 crore package for improving the infrastructure for testing and treatment, the prime minister said that it will help in strengthening the health infrastructure of the Northeast. This package will expedite testing, diagnostics and genome sequencing in the Northeast, he said. Modi also stressed the need for rapidly increasing the number of beds, oxygen facilities and paediatric care infrastructure in the Northeast. The prime minister said that hundreds of oxygen plants are being established in the country through the PM-CARES fund and the Northeast also has got about 150 plants. He urged the chief ministers to complete the process of establishing these plants quickly. Modi underlined the need to establish temporary hospitals due to the geographical situation of the Northeast. Modi also called for preparing trained manpower as oxygen plants, ICU wards and new machines that are reaching block level hospitals will need this. He assured all help from the central government. Noting the capacity of 20 lakh tests per day in the country, the prime minister highlighted the need to augment the testing infrastructure in the affected districts on priority. He called for aggressive testing along with random testing. The prime minister also expressed the hope that with collective efforts "we will surely be able to "contain the spread" of coronavirus. Modi lauded the people, health workers and the governments of the Northeast for their hard work in the fight against the pandemic and creating infrastructure for testing, treatment and vaccination despite the difficult terrain of the states. Union Home Minister Shah talked about the reduction in the overall daily number of cases but forewarned that this should not lead to one becoming lax and letting one's guard down. He said that some areas of the country are witnessing high positivity rates and emphasised the importance of testing, tracing, tracking and vaccination. The Union Health Secretary gave an overview of the COVID-19 cases in the country and discussed the high positivity rate in some Northeastern states. He also briefed about the steps taken to boost the supply of medical oxygen and also gave an overview of the progress of vaccination, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office. While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the COVID-19 numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend, experts have noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
13-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Samyukt Kisan Morcha to press opposition parties to address demands in Parliament||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday said that it will press the opposition parties to ensure that the farmers' demands on the three new agriculture laws and MSP are addressed in Parliament before any other business is transacted during the upcoming Monsoon session. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the agitation for the scrapping of the central agriclture laws said the preparation for their planned protests at the Parliament from July 22 is in full swing. "Farmers and leaders from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and even from distant states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka are arriving at the borders of Delhi to participate in the protest. "As planned by SKM, the protest will be planned and executed methodically and peacefully, with 200 farmers participating in the protest every day," it said. The SKM said that any attempt to stop the farmers from protesting "will be illegal and unconstitutional". The amalgam said it will issue letters to all the opposition MPs of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on July 17 as a precursor to the protest on July 22, "demanding that they raise the demands of the farmers in Parliament and ensure that these demands are discussed and met before any other business is transacted in Parliament," it said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over seven months. They are demanding a rollback of the three contentious agriculture laws and also seeking a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). Most of the opposition parties have openly supported the farmers' agitation. The three laws - The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - were passed by Parliament in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||We may seek India’s military assistance if Taliban talks fail: Afghanistan ambassador ||The government of Afghanistan may, at some future point, seek India's military assistance if talks with the Taliban fail amid a withdrawal of US troops from there, the country's Ambassador to India told NDTV. He, however, made it clear that the aid sought would not involve sending troops but could be in areas like training and technical support. Representatives of the Taliban and the Afghanistan government have been holding talks amid the insurgents’ increasing control over the country even as the US looks to wind up its almost two-decade war there by the end of August. However, the peace talks supposedly taking place in Doha have largely fizzled out, and the Taliban now appear set on a complete military victory, AFP reported on Tuesday. “Should we not get to a stage in the peace process with the Taliban, then maybe a time (will come) where we would be seeking India’s military assistance, more military assistance in the years ahead,” Farid Mamundzay, Afghanistan's Ambassador to India, told NDTV. “We are not seeking India's assistance with sending troops to Afghanistan. Their footprint in Afghanistan to fight our war would not be needed at this stage,” he clarified. He explained how, for instance, how the Air Force is an area where his country would require assistance in and that more opportunities could be explored on this front. The envoy cited pilot training, for which India is “naturally a place” it would want involvement from. “India has also, again, helped us with two key components, one was to help with providing us military training (and) scholarships for our cadets,” Mamundzay said. On the civilian front, he listed the 1,000 annual scholarships India provides, the 20,000-odd Afghan students studying here now, the building of the new Afghan parliament, and the construction of dams, besides other infrastructure projects. The current situation in Afghanistan is “very dire” and “very problematic”, with the government forces actively fighting the Taliban in around 150 of the 376 districts, the Ambassador said. “So one-third of the country is in active fight… Over two lakh people have been displaced internally in the country since April 2021 alone, with close to 4,000 killed,” he said. The insurgents have swept through much of northern Afghanistan in recent weeks and the government now holds little more than a constellation of provincial capitals that must largely be reinforced and resupplied by air, AFP reported on Tuesday. The Taliban have, however, said they do not want to battle government forces inside cities. Referring to the recent killing of 22 government forces personnel, Mr Mamundzay said: “This happened in the province of Faryab last month where 22 of our special forces were brutally murdered by Taliban at a time when they were surrendering.” “We were under the assumption that Taliban would take the peace process seriously and they would negotiate a lasting and dignified peace with the Afghan government, yet they chose the path of violence.” On Sunday, India evacuated diplomats and security personnel from its Kandahar consulate in the wake of intense fighting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Future of IT new normal in 2021 : Tushar Kamble||2020 has been quite a year. Hijacked by a global pandemic and exposed to major disruption, the world has experienced a lot of heartache and even more uncertainty. But as a result of all this chaos, Organizations across the globe are accelerating their digital transformation initiatives at breakneck speeds in a bid to reset and survive. For better or worse, we can all agree, this year will be memorable. So, as 2020 draws to a close and we enter 2021, here are some of the technologies that are expected to come around and define this next normal. Cloud's reign continues Even before the events of 2020, cloud had already established its value for many businesses by providing  cost efficiencies across all industries. This year, however, the technology is helping add a layer of resilience to many organisations by making the sudden shift in working habits less disruptive. This has sealed cloud's place as an essential piece of enterprise tech. In the next five years, the cloud computing industry is expected to huge revenue. Next year specifically, businesses will focus more on managing their cloud costs better and look to unify their different cloud environments. In the face of increased competition due to greater prevalence, cloud providers will need to focus on enhancing and integrating security, compliance, and privacy with firewall securities and surveillance our data privacy. Cloud will also grow in popularity as the ideal execution venue for new and emerging technologies such as blockchain, and edge computing and SAAS. Thus, making it integral to the digital transformation journey many more businesses are now on. Intelligent networks are the new normal The COVID-19 pandemic is forcing businesses to innovate reactively and creatively in order to make work pattern shifts that they thought would take years. While it might have been a necessity that got them there, the results of this mass experiment have been eye-opening. Despite many preconceptions, remote working has largely been a success where cloud solutions helps with budget cost. Some 95% of remote workers say their productivity has increased this year, which is great for employers and employee’s as well. This new normal will put new pressures on companies, as there will be an increasing need for networks capable of supporting virtual architectures - be it cloud, on premises, or edge computing. As a result, more organisations will start seeking intelligent and intent-based networks that offer integrated security - such as SD-WAN for the WAN with SASE and Zero Trust security or virtual networks for multicloud - to deal with the increased cybersecurity threat of their new perimeter-less ecosystem. Being able to offer platform stability, ease of use, and personalisation, while maintaining a human touch, will only grow in importance. More onus will be placed on digital trust. Businesses capable of ensuring the safety of customers' identity, data, and transactions, as well as employee data and transactions, will be rewarded with customer loyalty. IoT will play a greater role in securing and analysing data . So competition, more companies will start focusing on data analytics technology capable of securely handling information as well as analysing and deriving greater insights from their mostly unused operational data. For instance, many of the COVID-19 restrictions are expected to be lifted by end of 2021, However, the ability to offer enhanced experiences by using data better will likely still be a strong deciding factor for many organizations. So, in all of this, IoT is expected to play a pivotal role - helping to automate processes and make more information readily available to enterprises. And as IoT becomes increasingly intertwined with AI, and more deeply embedded in organisational structures and transformation programmes, devices will become increasingly 'smart' and capable of driving greater intelligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand cancels Kanwar Yatra in view of possible third wave||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday cancelled the Kanwar Yatra in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19, sources said. It is for the second consecutive year that the yatra is not being held due to the pandemic. The Indian Medical Association had also written to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami recently asking him to not allow the yatra to go ahead in the interest of the people of the state and the country. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had said that though Kanwar Yatra is part of Sanatan culture, saving lives in the time of the pandemic was paramount. "Kanwar is part of the Sanatan culture but saving lives is paramount. Government's focus is to ensure that Covid does not spread," Dhami said addressing a meeting of all morchas (wings) of the state BJP In Dehradun. Dhami, who met central leaders in Delhi including the Prime Minister to discuss a range of issues, had been saying repeatedly that saving human lives is important. The fortnight-long yatra which begins with the onset of the month of Shravan by the Hindu calendar goes on till the first week of August and sees a large gathering of Kanwariyas in Haridwar from neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect the holy waters of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi hails struggles of Indian athletes of Olympics||Back stories of struggle, sacrifices and grit dominated Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with India's Olympic-bound sportspersons during which he urged them to forget expectations and focus only on giving their best in Tokyo. Among others, the PM spoke to iconic boxer M C Mary Kom, badminton ace PV Sindhu, talented shooters Saurabh Chaudhary, Elavenil Valarivan and veteran table tennis player A Sharath Kamal during a virtual interactive session. Well aware of their preparations and formative years, Modi's conversations touched upon the making of their success stories and also some fun queries like the one posed to world champion P V Sindhu. "There was a ban on eating ice creams on you during the 2016 Olympics, has another ban been imposed for Tokyo," he asked to a grinning Sindhu, who would be aiming to better the silver she won five years ago. "Sir, I have to be careful of my diet," she responded. Modi called the athletes a reflection of new India said they look bold and confident ahead of the Games. He said all possible help has been extended to them through the government's target Olympic Podium Scheme. "Don't be bogged down by expectations, just give your best," Modi said in the interaction. "I would have been happier to meet you in person, I always look forward to that. But I promise to spend time with you after you come back," he said. "I am happy that country is cheering for you. I wish all the luck to you. The whole country's emotions are attached to you. "I find a few things common among you all, you are bold, confident and positive. That's a common factor along with, discipline, dedication and determination. As the athletes are giving their all for India, Modi said the country should stand by them at all cost. Modi started the session by asking the athletes about their ambitions and challenges ahead of the sporting extravaganza. He asked Olympic bronze medallist and six-time world champion M C Mary Kom about her favourite athlete and favourite shot, and her reply was Muhammad Ali and the hook. Then he went to Rio Olympics silver medallist and reigning world champion Sindhu and her parents and praised them for the sacrifices they have made during the journey. To begin with, Modi spoke to archers Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav and asked them not to feel the pressure of expectations at home. Modi told Deepika the nation is talking about her following her gold in the World Cup in Paris. "You're world number 1 now. Your journey is very special," he said. "My journey has been good from the beginning, I started with bamboo bow and then moved to modern bow gradually," Deepika said. "There are expectations, but one expects the most from oneself. So, I am focusing on my practice and the way in which I will perform." Offering his personal touch, Modi also spoke to the parents of Sindhu and lauded them for backing their daughter during her journey to success. The Olympics, in which on-site spectators will not be allowed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, are scheduled to be held in the Japanese capital from July 23 to August 8. Newly-appointed union sports minister Anurag Thakur and his deputy Nisith Pramanik, law minister Kiren Rijiju, who was succeeded by Thakur, were also present during the interactive session. The PM said the people of India are cheering for their athletes to do well at the Olympics. Modi also praised the role played by the government's Khelo India initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||NEET-PG to be held on September 11, says Mansukh Mandaviya||The NEET Postgraduate exam will be held on September 11, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Tuesday. "We have decided to conduct the #NEET Postgraduate exam on 11th September 2021. My best wishes to young medical aspirants," he tweeted. In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET)-PG which was scheduled to be held on April 18 was postponed. The decision was taken keeping the wellbeing of young medical students in mind. On Monday, the Centre announced that the NEET (UG) 2021 will be held on September 12, 2021 across the country while following the Covid-19 protocol. The application process will begin from 5pm on Tuesday on the National Testing Agency (NTA) website, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau had said. Last week, the NTA had announced that the remaining two rounds of the Joint Entrance Examination-Main to select students for admission to BTech courses in NITs would be held from July 20. The third session has been scheduled from July 20 to July 25 while the fourth round will be held from July 27 to August 2. Both the rounds were scheduled in April and May. The NTA has already held two rounds. A student can appear in all four rounds and the best performance will be considered for selection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||AAP always recognised my work for Punjab, says Sidhu amid Congress tussle||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday targeted the Aam Aadmi Party saying even the main opposition party has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. Sidhu's remarks came a day after AAP Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann took a dig at him and asked him to tweet about the "funds" allegedly accepted by the ruling Congress from private power companies in the state. The cricketer-turned-politician also shared on Twitter old videos of senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh praising him for raising his voice on several issues including the drug mafia and corruption during the previous SAD-BJP regime and Mann himself calling him as a "damn honest" person. Sidhu's tweets come amid attempts by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's Punjab unit and speculation that he may be appointed as the state unit president. "Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present "Punjab Model" It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," Sidhu said in a series of tweets. He said, "If the Opposition dares to question me, yet they can't escape my Pro-People Agenda ... This means they have resigned to their fate!!" "Our Opposition singing about me and other loyal Congressmen:- tum agar AAP mein aaoge to koi baat nahin tum agar Congress mein rahoge to mushkil hogi (if you join AAP then there is no issue if you stay in Congress, then there will be a problem)," he added. On Monday, AAP leader Mann had alleged that the Punjab government was not scrapping the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government as the ruling Congress had accepted "funds" from the three private companies that have set up thermal plants in the state. He asked Sidhu to tweet on this issue. "@sherryontopp Saab, If not anything else, we hope you could bother to at least tweet on the issue as you are used to," he said in a tweet. Sidhu, who has been raising power supply-related issues through social media, had demanded that a white paper on PPAs signed during the previous SAD-BJP regime be released to make the Badals "accountable" to the people for these "corrupt agreements". A few days ago, Sidhu had attacked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government over its petition in the Supreme Court seeking the closure of 10 coal-fired power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The petition was later withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Govt notes gross violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour across country||People are talking about the third wave of coronavirus as casually as a "weather update", the government said on Tuesday, noting that "gross violations" of Covid-appropriate behaviour being seen in several parts of the country can nullify the gains made so far in pandemic management. Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation in the country NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said globally, the third wave of Covid-19 is being seen and called on people to make efforts to ensure that it does not hit India. "The world is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19. We have to join hands to ensure that the third wave doesn't hit India," he said. "We talk about the 'third wave' as casually as a weather update. This isn't like one plans that we should go somewhere before monsoon, it is virus versus human being and it is a continuous battle. "More than the environment, it is our behaviour that can cause the third wave. What we fail to understand is that adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour or the lack of it is what will prevent or cause any future waves," he said. Referring to scenes in hill stations and markets like Sadar Bazaar and Janpath market in Delhi, Ranganathan street in Chennai, Vilaripatti in Tamil Nadu, Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh and Bhushi Dam in Maharashtra, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said "gross violations" of Covid-appropriate behaviour are being seen "which can nullify the gains" made so far in the management of the pandemic. Earlier, too, the government had warned from the same platform against thronging and crowding hill stations and markets, saying the second wave was not yet over. Agarwal said even though active cases and daily new cases are declining, recovery rate is increasing and cases are restricted to a limited geography, there is no room for complacency. "A surge in cases is being reported globally which remains a cause of concern," he said, citing examples of the UK, Russia, Bangladesh and Indonesia. He said in India, too, a rise in cases is being seen in states of Manipur, Mizoram Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. "We have to be vigilant," Paul stressed. Agarwal said approximately 73.4 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported so far in July are from Kerala (30.3 per cent), Maharashtra (20.8 per cent), Tamil Nadu (8.5 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (7.3 per cent) and Odisha (6.5 per cent). In the last few days, central teams have been deputed to 11 states to help their governments in Covid-19 management, he said. Besides seven northeastern states, the teams have been sent to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Odisha, where a high case growth trajectory was seen or high positivity was noted, he said. "On a continuous basis, we monitor the evolving situation in states of concern and discussions are held to ascertain how Covid can be tackled," Agarwal said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi also held a review meeting with the chief ministers of northeastern states and asserted that it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 on Tuesday with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data while 31,443 new coronavirus cases pushed the infection tally to 3,09,05,819, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Elgaar case had national secturity implications, NIA tells Bombay HC||The NIA told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that the Centre suo motu (on its own) decided to transfer the probe into the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case from Pune police to the central agency as it had implications on national security. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) also said its credibility is being questioned, while it is fighting for the prevention of unlawful and terrorist activities in the country, in which "Naxal plague" has caused destruction at many levels. It further claimed that while considerable autonomy and functional prerogatives have been accorded to state governments, greater powers and prerogatives over a complex range of all-encompassing subjects are vested with the Union government. The central agency submitted its affidavit in the HC in response to a petition filed by human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and activist Surendra Dhawale, arrested in the case, challenging the January 2020 decision of the Union government to transfer the probe into the case from the Pune police in Maharashtra to the NIA. The petition, filed through advocate S B Talekar in 2020, alleged that the case was transferred by the central government after the BJP lost power in Maharashtra and hence, the decision was politically motivated. On Tuesday, Talekar told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the probe into the case was transferred to the NIA two years after the FIR was registered. He submitted to the court that the NIA had filed an affidavit in the case, but the Centre and the Maharashtra government were yet to file their affidavits. However, NIA's counsel Sandesh Patil said he was not aware of the affidavit filed by the probe agency. The earlier advocate appearing for the NIA must have filed it. I will have to check. Give me a week's time to put our house in order, Patil said. The bench then posted the petition for further hearing on July 19. The NIA in its affidavit said considering the gravity of the offence and its "inter-state link and implications on national security", the Centre suo motu directed the NIA to take up the investigation into the case. The present petition is malafide and vexatious as it is a desperate attempt by the petitioner to thwart the investigation into the case related to the Elgar Parishad, the affidavit said. It further said the petitioners were questioning the credibility of the agency which is fighting towards prevention of unlawful and terrorist activities in the country, in which the Naxal plague has caused destruction at many levels. The affidavit said the NIA was probing the case against the petitioners and other co-accused in a responsible and impartial manner and it had no personal agenda against them. After the NIA took over the probe into the case, a Pune court transferred the case to the special NIA court in Mumbai, it added. The NIA in its affidavit also said the continuous preservation and promotion of national security is the first and final sovereign function of a country". It claimed that while considerable autonomy and functional prerogatives have been accorded to state governments, greater powers and prerogatives over a complex range of all-encompassing subjects are vested with the Union government. A contextual construction of the provisions of the Constitution of India would show that the sovereign function of maintenance of national security is squarely vested with the Union (government), it said. The affidavit further said the primary objective to establish the NIA was to better tackle cross-border crimes with inter-state and international originations and ramifications. Apart from Gadling and Dhawale, several other activists Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen - have been arrested in the case. They are accused of being active members of the CPI (Maoist) and propagating Maoist ideology and inciting violence. The activists have been booked under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), apart from various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy was also arrested in the case. The 84-year-old tribal rights activist died in a Mumbai hospital last week in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Rahul Gandhi amid Punjab crisis||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday met senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi, amid a crisis in the Punjab government involving Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and rebel leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. According to a report by ndtv.com, the meeting is underway with the Punjab agenda on the cards, and Kishor, who has held a series of political meetings in the past few weeks, was seen arriving at Rahul Gandhi's home for the meeting. Rahul had last collaborated with Kishor in the Congress's failed campaign for the Uttar Pradesh election in 2017. Meanwhile, Prashant Kishor had last month met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar in New Delhi multiple times, fuelling speculations about the possibility of opposition parties coming together to form a third front against the BJP. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls, had met Pawar over lunch at his residence in Mumbai on June 11. He again called on the NCP chief at his residence in Delhi on June 21 and 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
13-07-2021||India||UIDAI, Centre’s response sought on procedure to allow existing card holders get new Aadhaar number||Apart from seeking a direction to Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to issue fresh Aadhaar number for Arora, the petition also seeks directions from court for protection of the fundamental right of privacy and prevention of further breach and damages. Advocate Zoheb Hossain, appearing for UIDAI, submitted that the moment an Aadhaar number is issued, the person concerned and the number are locked together for life. The court, however, responded that had that been the case, power would not have been given to UIDAI under Section 23(n) of the Aadhaar (Targeted delivery of Financial and other subsidies, benefits and services) Act of 2016 to lay down conditions and procedure for issuance of new Aadhaar number for existing holders. “You have the power. It can't be read in such a pragmatic manner (if it can't be changed) then the rule has to go. It can be exercised in some manner,” the court said. The court added that it nonetheless agreed that an Aadhaar number could not be changed at the whims and fancies of a user. In the petition filed through advocates Sonal Anand and Surabhi Singh, the petitioner informed the court that his Aadhaar number was found to be linked with certain overseas entities unknown to him. Thereafter, he requested UIDAI to issue him a new Aadhaar number in light of a serious threat to his identity, the plea said adding that UIDAI took a stand that no resident could have a duplicate Aadhaar number and that there was no process for issuance of a new Aadhaar number to any citizen. It is further stated in the petition that although there is a provision under the Aadhaar Act for issuance of new Aadhaar number to the existing users, yet UIDAI is not inclined to issue a new number to him. The petitioner said he is facing difficulties in his business on account of the exiting Aadhaar being linked to the overseas entity. The matter would be heard next on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Maharashtra government submits medical records of Stan Swamy to HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday submitted to the Bombay High Court the medical records of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an 84-yar-old accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case who died in a hospital in Mumbai while being in judicial custody last week awaiting a medical bail. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that the state had submitted "a compilation of Swamy's complete medical records" since the time he was lodged in the Taloja prison as an undertrial. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) from Ranchi in October 2020. He was interrogated at the time of his arrest by the NIA but the central agency never sought his custody. Suffering from Parkinson's disease and a host of other medical ailments, Swamy, who was then 83-year-old, was remanded to judicial custody following his arrest. He was then admitted to the Taloja prison hospital in Navi Mumbai. After informing the high court about Swamy's death on July 5 this year, senior counsel Mihir Desai, who had represented the tribal rights activist in the HC, had told the court that Swamy's death was a result of negligence on part of the NIA and the Maharashtra prison authorities who had failed to provide him timely and adequate medical aid. Desai had also urged the HC at the time to keep Swamy's plea for medical bail and his plea challenging the bar on grant of bail under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act pending. He had also urged the HC to call for Swamy's medical records. On Desai's request, the high court had passed an order calling for the medical records to ascertain the veracity of the allegations made against authorities. On Tuesday, Pai submitted that the "Taloja prison authority had placed on record a 300-page long compilation of documents including medical reports from the time Stan Swamy was brought to Taloja Jail till his postmortem report". Besides the state government, the private Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai, where Swamy died during treatment, also submitted the late activist's medical records and the treatment provided to him. The high court took all the documents on record. The bench also said that since Swamy died in judicial custody, a magisterial inquiry into his death, as mandated by section 176 of the CrPC, will be conducted. "Whatever inquiry or investigation by the magistrate under 176 (CrPC) takes place, someone will have to participate in it now," the high court told Desai. Desai said he had some submissions to make on such inquiry and he will do so on the next date of hearing. The HC will hear Desai and all other parties on July 19. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh Cabinet to provide additional pension to those widowed by Bhopal gas tragedy||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday decided to provide an additional pension of Rs 1,000 per month to widows of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. "This is in addition to the social security pension for the surviving widows of the Bhopal gas leak victims," Mishra, who is also the government's spokesperson, told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The decision was taken despite the finance department's objections to the proposal of providing additional Rs 1,000 to these women, he said. Mishra said the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government had stopped the additional pension in 2019. He said the earlier BJP government started this pension in 2013 and now, the present ruling dispensation decided to resume it. Welcoming the decision, Rachna Dhingra of NGO Bhopal Group for Information and Action said, "Several announcements have been made in the last one year, but these widows are yet to receive a single rupee into their account." She claimed the widows of the gas leak victims have not received their pension since December 2019, and said the arrears need to be paid immediately. Dhingra also said there is no clarity in the Gas Relief Department's policy due to lack of understanding on the needs of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims. Over 15,000 people were killed after methyl isocyanate leaked on the intervening night of December 2-3, 1984 from the pesticide plant of Union Carbide India Limited, then located on the outskirts of the state capital Bhopal. More than five lakh people were affected due to the toxic leak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Serum Institute to manufacture Sputnik V shots from September||Serum Institute of India (SII) will start production of Sputnik vaccine at the company's facilities in September, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Tuesday. As per the agreement between RDIF and SII, the parties intend to produce over 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year. "The first batch of Sputnik vaccine is expected to be produced at SII's facilities in September," RDIF said in a statement. "As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from the Gamaleya Center. With their import approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun," it added. RDIF has earlier reached agreements with a number of pharmaceutical companies in India such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for the production of the Russian vaccine, the statement said. "India is the leading production hub for the production of the Sputnik vaccine," it added. "RDIF is delighted to cooperate with Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer. This strategic partnership is a major step to substantially increase our production capabilities demonstrating a perfect example of joining forces and expertise to save lives both in India and around the world," RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said. With technology transfer underway, "we expect the first batches of the vaccine to be produced jointly with SII in coming months," he added. As of now Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 67 countries globally, RDIF said. "We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in the month of September," Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said. "With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world," he added. Efficacy of Sputnik V is 97.6 per cent based on the analysis of data on the coronavirus infection rate among those in Russia vaccinated with both components of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020, to March 31, 2021, RDIF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Monsoon brings in relief and woes in north India||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India|| Crowds without masks at hill stations, markets cause of concern, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing. During an interaction with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states through video conferencing, the prime minister also said the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to combat the third wave of the pandemic. The virtual meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, as also by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, among others. Modi urged people not to compromise on Covid protocols to prevent a third wave of coronavirus. "It is true that tourism and business have been greatly affected due to Corona. But today I will say with great emphasis that it is not right to have huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks," Modi said. "We all need to work together to stop the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic," he said. Emphasizing the need to keep an eye on every variant of the coronavirus, he said experts are constantly studying how troubling the virus could be after mutations, but in such a dynamic situation, prevention and treatment are very important. "We have to move forward by improving the infrastructure related to testing and treatment. For this, recently the cabinet has also approved a new package of Rs 23,000 crore. Every state in the North East can take help from this package to strengthen its health infrastructure," Modi said. The prime minister said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome in some districts of North-East and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check the further spread of the virus. The PM said stricter steps were needed at the micro-level to check the virus spread and called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones. "We need to continue accelerating our vaccination drive," he added. While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the Covid-19 numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend, experts have noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Interfaith marriage called off in Nashik after social media protests||Buckling under pressure from their Hindu community members, parents of a 28-year-old woman in Maharashtra's Nashik district have called off her marriage ceremony with a Muslim man, sources said. In a letter to the community body, the woman's father, a jeweller, said they decided not to go ahead with the July 18 wedding ceremony due to the present situation', referring to the protests on social media after the wedding invitation card went viral. He said his daughter and the man had a registered marriage in May. "However, due to the present situation, I can't say if they will stay together," he said, adding his daughter is staying with her parents since the marriage registration. The woman was scheduled to tie the nuptial knot as per Hindu rituals. The online protesters had described the upcoming wedding ceremony as a case of 'love jihad'. A member of the woman's community said the man was her private tutor a few years ago and that was how they got to know each other. The registered marriage did not evoke any harsh reaction within the community but the family came under a lot of pressure after the invitation card of the wedding ceremony went viral on social media, a community member said. Social media posts and messages related to the marriage ceremony were widely circulated on WhatsApp groups and the woman's family members also received telephonic threats, he said. The woman's father, who is an office-bearer of the community body, consulted family members after the stiff opposition on social media and decided to call off the wedding ceremony, he said. The woman's father has informed us through a letter that he is calling off the marriage ceremony of his daughter due to certain circumstances, said Sunil Mahalkar, president of Sant Narhari Maharaj Lad Suvarnakar Sanstha, Nashik. The decision to call off the wedding ceremony was also circulated on WhatsApp, with community members thanking various suvarnakar' (jewellers) community organisations and also the OBC Andolan Samiti, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and Hindu Ekta Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court asks activist to remove tweets against Hardeep Puri, his ex-diplomat wife||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to immediately delete alleged defamatory tweets against Lakshmi Murdeshwar Puri and restrained him from posting "scandalous" tweets against her and her husband, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. In an interim order, Justice C Hari Shankar also said if Gokhale fails to comply with the directions within 24 hours of the order, Twitter shall take down the tweets. The court asked Puri, a former Assistant Secretary-General at the United Nations, to also implead Twitter like a party to the proceedings. Gokhale, in his tweets on June 13 and 26 made reference to certain property purchased by Puri in Switzerland and also referred to her husband. The court passed the order on a defamation suit filed by Lakshmi Puri seeking Rs 5 crore damages from Gokhale and a direction that he deletes the tweets. In her suit, filed through Karanjawala and Company, she alleged that in the tweets, Gokhale has made false and factually incorrect, per-se defamatory, slanderous and libelous statements/ imputations against her and her family. The court, while pronouncing the order, said: "The defendant (Gokhale) is directed to immediately delete from his Twitter account all tweets against the plaintiff (Puri) which the present plaint makes reference, as well as all connected tweets, which form part of the trail of tweets by the defendant against the plaintiff." "The defendant is restrained, pending further orders of this court, from posting any defamatory, scandalous, or factually incorrect tweets on his Twitter account against the plaintiff or her husband." The court also issued summons to Gokhale on the main suit and directed him to file his written statement within four weeks and listed the case before the Joint Registrar on September 10. It also said the observations made in the order are prima facie and made to decide the application for the interim relief. The high court on July 8, had questioned Gokhale for putting out alleged defamatory tweets against Puri, without verifying the facts from her or approaching any government authority. Observing that the right to reputation is recognised as a fundamental right, it had asked Gokhale, also a freelance journalist, as to how he could vilify people, particularly when the tweets put out by him were prima facie incorrect. "So according to your understanding of the law, any Tom, Dick and Harry can write anything against anyone on the Internet irrespective of the fact that it destroys and damages the reputation of a person," the judge had remarked. The court had asked him as to what exercise he had carried out with public authorities before putting out the tweets on social media. During the arguments, senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing Puri, had contended that the tweets were defamatory, malicious and based on false information and that Gokhale was nobody to put questions to her. He had said Puri does not hold any public office for these details to be put in the public domain and if he was putting her name in public, he should have the minimum civility to ask her before he publishes this which was deliberately ignored. Advocate Sarim Naved, representing Gokhale, had said as a citizen, he has the right to go into the assets of public functionaries. He had also said Puri's husband is a Union minister and that assets of such persons along with spouse should be in the public domain but in this case, the money received from their daughter is not in the public domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon covers entire country after delay of five days||The Southwest Monsoon covered the entire country on Tuesday after a delay of five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Southwest Monsoon usually covers the entire country on July 8. The monsoon covered its last outposts - the desert town of Jaisalmer and Ganganagar in Rajasthan - on Monday but evaded Delhi. On Tuesday, several parts of the NCR received rainfall following which the IMD declared monsoon's arrival in Delhi. In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since past four days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into remaining parts of the country including Delhi, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan," the IMD said. The Southwest Monsoon has covered entire country on July 13, against the normal date of July 8, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||Chidambaram hits out at Centre's national  vaccination programme||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday hit out at the government's Covid-19 vaccination programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast". He said the states of Odisha and Delhi are facing vaccine shortage and asked the Union health minister to spell out his plans to ensure regular and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to states. "Vaccine shortage is a fact. Vaccine production is exaggerated. Vaccine import is a mystery. Vaccinating the entire adult population by December 2021 is an empty boast," he said. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tell the nation the truth about the vaccination programme," he asked. In a series of tweets, he said after Odisha, Delhi has run out of vaccines. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya please tell us how he plans to ensure regular, adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to the States," he said. The former union minister said Odisha has reported that 24 out of 30 districts have run out of vaccines. "Odisha is governed by the BJD, an ally of the BJP.What has the central government that dismissed complaints of vaccine shortage got to say now," Chidambaram asked. The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
13-07-2021||India||India's Covid toll sees big jump after Madhya Pradesh reconciles fatality data||India's COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data, while 31,443 new coronavirus cases were reported, the lowest in 118 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases mounted to 3,09,05,819. The active cases have declined to 4,31,315 and comprise 1.40 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,40,325 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,40,58,138. The daily positivity rate has decliend to 1.81 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate stands at 2.28 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,63,720 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.14 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik V soft-launched in over 50 Indian cities, says Dr Reddy's||Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd, which soft-launched Russia's COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V here on May 14 has expanded the pilot project to over 50 other cities and towns in the country. In a tweet on Monday night, the city-based drug maker said it will strengthen the commercial rollout of Sputnik V in the coming weeks. "Starting initially in Hyderabad today, the soft launch rollout of Sputnik V has scaled up speedily and reached cities and towns all over India- including but not limited to Hyderabad, Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik it said in the tweet. Recently, Dr Reddy's received nearly three million doses of Sputnik V from Russian Direct Investment Fund with whichit has a pact to sell 125 million people doses (250 million vials) in India. The Indian drug regulator has granted permission for restricted emergency use of SputnikV, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddys has partnered with major hospitals across the country for this purpose all of whom have successfully administered Sputnik V in India including ongoing commercial rollouts to the public, the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Government rejigs Cabinet Committees||Days after a major reshuffle of the Modi ministry, the government reconstituted the powerful cabinet committees, bringing in Union ministers Smriti Irani, Bhupender Yadav and Sarbananda Sonowal as the new members of the Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs headed by the prime minister. Union ministers Arjun Munda, Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju and Anurag Thakur have been included in the rejigged Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, according to a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat last night. However, there has been no change in the composition of the country's highest decision-making body on security affairs -- the Cabinet Committee on Security -- and the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, which takes call on all important government appointments in the rank of joint secretary and above. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Security are Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar. The two-member Appointments Committee of the Cabinet comprises the prime minister and the home minister. The reconstituted Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs comprises the prime minister, and Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Sarbananda Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mansukh Mandaviya and Bhupender Yadav. Irani, Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mandaviya and Yadav are the additions while former ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Harsh Vardhan are no longer part of it following their exclusion from the ministry. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has nine members: PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, S Jaishankar, Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan, according to the notification. Earlier, former ministers D V Sadananda Gowda and Ravi Shankar Prasad were also part of this committee. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs are: Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Arjun Munda, Pralhad Joshi, Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju and Anurag Thakur. Union Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan are special invitees to the committe. Earlier, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar were also part of it. The rejigged Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth comprises PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw. Rane, Scindia and Vaishnaw are the new members. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development are: PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Hardeep Singh Puri and Bhupender Yadav. The special invitees in this committee are: Nitin Gadkari, RCP Singh and G Kishan Reddy. Ashwini Vaishnaw and Bhupender Yadav are the new members while RCP Singh and G Kishan Reddy are new special invitees. Earlier, former union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and Santosh Kumar Gangwar and union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey were members of this committee while Smriti Irani and Prahalad Singh Patel were special invitees. The members of the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation are Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Hardeep Singh Puri while Jitendra Singh is a special invitee. Earlier, Puri was a special invitee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Monsoon lands in Delhi 16 days behind schedule, brings rain||The Southwest Monsoon finally reached the capital on Tuesday, 16 days behind the usual date of onset, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In 2002, monsoon had covered Delhi on July 19. "The monsoon has arrived in Delhi," senior IMD scientist K Jenamani confirmed after a spell of rains drenched parts of South Delhi Tuesday morning. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27. It covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The weather department had a tough time forecasting the advancement of monsoon over Delhi this year. After several wayward forecasts, the IMD acknowledged Monday that "such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon over the capital is rare and uncommon". The IMD had earlier said monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, which would have been 12 days early, but the wind system entered a "break" phase. In early June, the Met office said the conditions will become favourable for the monsoon to advance to Delhi and other parts of northwest India by July 7. Later, it said Delhi will get its first monsoon rains around July 10. The weather department revised the forecast yet again on Saturday, saying the monsoon may reach the capital in the next 24 hours. But the wind system kept the city waiting on Sunday and there was hardly any rainfall on Monday too. As monsoon played truant in the region, Central Delhi is now the most rain-deficient district in the country, receiving only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 132 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. It has recorded a shortfall of 94 per cent. Overall, Delhi has so far received 67 per cent less rainfall than normal, putting it in the category of "large deficient" states. The IMD said it is continuously monitoring the further progress of monsoon into the remaining parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Appeal challenging constitutional validity of sedition law to be heard by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court will on July 27 hear an appeal challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law, on a joint petition by two journalists who have argued it is increasingly being used to silence the central and state governments’ critics. The Centre had earlier on Monday sought two weeks’ time from the Supreme Court to submit its views on the petition that seeks the quashing of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional. Journalists Kishore Chandra Wangkhemcha from Manipur and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla from Chhattisgarh have filed the petition. Both face sedition charges in their states. Wangkhemcha spent 210 days in custody before obtaining bail, while Shukla had obtained anticipatory bail. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi posted the matter to July 27 after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, both representing the Centre, sought two weeks’ time. The top court had issued notices to the Union government on the petition in April. The petition seeks reconsideration of the 1962 Supreme Court judgment in the Kedar Nath Singh case that upheld the constitutional validity of the colonial-era sedition law, ruling that the restrictions it imposes on freedom of speech and expression are reasonable. “The central tenet of the petitioners’ argument is that while the Hon’ble Supreme Court may have been correct in its finding nearly 60 years ago, Section 124A no longer passes constitutional muster today,” the petition says. A total of 149 cases of sedition have been registered over “critical” or “derogatory” remarks against the Prime Minister and 144 cases over remarks against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister since 2010, the petitioners have said quoting a database prepared by the online portal Article 14.com. The petition argues that the sedition law, which can lead to a life term, had been invoked by the British raj to silence dissent and suppress the freedom movement, and was no longer required in a free and democratic India. “Highlighting a failure of government falls squarely within one’s democratic rights; given the importance of the media in ensuring the accountability of government to the electorate, such action should not attract sedition charges,” it said. The petitioners have underlined that outspoken and responsible journalists have been charged with sedition for questioning their state governments or the Centre — and sometimes for sharing comments or cartoons on social media. Wangkhemcha said one of the FIRs registered against him since 2018 relates to his criticism of the government in a Facebook post over a crisis at Manipur University, where students were agitating against the vice-chancellor over charges of corruption and high-handedness. An FIR for sedition was registered against Shukla in Chhattisgarh on April 28, 2018, after he shared cartoons on Facebook. He says it was the state government’s revenge against him over his work as a human rights activist and journalist. “These FIRs have an unacceptable ‘chilling’ effect on the petitioners as well as on other journalists and threaten their work and their right to freedom of expression,” the petition says. Section 124A says: “Whoever, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.” It explains that “disaffection” includes disloyalty and all feelings of enmity and that criticism of the government “without inciting or attempting to incite hatred, contempt or disaffection do not constitute an offence under this section”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||LAC: China builds concrete towers with CCTV cameras to watch India ||China has erected concrete watchtowers with CCTV cameras atop them inside India-claimed lines in Ladakh to monitor Indian troop deployment, sources in the security establishment told The Telegraph on Monday. The Indian Army has in a “tit for tat” put up wooden poles fitted with digital cameras to watch Chinese movements, the sources added. The episode comes at a time military veterans have been saying the Indian government’s serial capitulations on the talks table have emboldened the Chinese to get more aggressive by the day instead of adhering to the terms of the disengagement agreements. The sources said the Chinese observational posts were among various military structures, including camps, that the People’s Liberation Army was continuing to build at the remaining friction points of Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra besides deploying more soldiers and tanks. “The watchtowers and posts erected by the Chinese overlook areas held by the Indian Army. It’s a matter of extreme concern,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He said Chinese deployment of men and machines too was continuing along the Line of Actual Control between altitudes of 14,000 and 15,000 feet. “The Indian patrols at these friction points are outnumbered by the Chinese,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. He said there had been an unwritten understanding over decades that the two armies would not build permanent (concrete) or semi-permanent (makeshift) structures within 10-15km of the LAC on either side. However, the Chinese watchtowers — manned by armed guards — clearly count as permanent structures, he said. “In a tit for tat, the Indian Army too is erecting poles fitted out with digital cameras to monitor Chinese movements inside their occupied zones,” the IB official said. Military veterans have attributed China’s aggressive strategies amid the disengagement talks to what they see as India’s unwarranted concessions. The retired generals have in particular questioned New Delhi’s agreement to having “buffer zones” in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake where there has been partial disengagement. Under the formula, troops of both sides moved back by an equal distance, meaning the Chinese still remained within India-claimed lines while the Indian Army stepped back further. To the veterans, this amounts to “ceding further Indian territory” to the Chinese. They have also criticised India’s failure to push for the restoration of status quo ante instead of continuing to negotiate only piecemeal matters. It’s these shows of “softness” that the veterans believe have encouraged China to go back on assurances given at previous disengagement talks. “The disengagement process agreed upon between the two sides seems to have hit a dead end now. The Chinese are in no mood to retreat from India-claimed lines,” a former lieutenant general said. Another veteran said: “The problem is also that the Indian government has so far been very economical with the truth on the Chinese incursions on multiple fronts. The government talks about disengagement of the Chinese but has not revealed officially how far they have entered inside Indian territory.” On June 19 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts, prompting Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held. Defence ministry sources said the political leadership had been informed about the ground situation. “Recently, the military brass apprised the political leadership on the ground situation at the China frontier,” a defence ministry official said. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May last year. China had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra in July last year but continues to hold its positions inside India-claimed lines. Eleven rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough since June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Nitish Kumar criticises Adityanath’s draft population bill||Bihar chief minister and BJP ally Nitish Kumar on Monday appeared critical of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath’s draft population bill and asserted that making laws to curb population growth would not work. Nitish rooted for women’s education as the best alternative to bring down the fertility rate and check population growth. “A state can do whatever it wants to, but my opinion is crystal clear. It is not possible to control population by making laws. Take a look at China or any other country,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of his Janata Darbar (public interaction) here. “If women are properly educated then there is so much awakening and consciousness that fertility rate goes down on its own. We researched and surveyed on this aspect and found it was true. It was an Eureka moment for us.” Total fertility rate is the average number of children that would be born to a woman by the time she ends childbearing. Its ideal figure is 2.1, also known as the replacement rate. “The fertility rate in Bihar was over 4, but it has now come down to around 3. If this is implemented wholly, I am sure that population growth will stop by 2040 and then start declining,” Nitish said. “We believe in how to bring a decline in the fertility rate. It will affect everybody, irrespective of any community. If women are educated, fertility rates are low across communities,” Nitish added. Asked about the judiciary favouring a uniform civil code for the country, Nitish said: “Uniform civil code is at number 44 among the Directive Principles of State Policy. So why not pay attention to number 47, which talks about implementing prohibition,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||NEET to be held on September 12 instead of August 1||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to select students for MBBS and BDS courses will be held on September 12 instead of August 1 in view of Covid-19 cases that are still very high in many states. The application process will begin from 5pm on Tuesday on the National Testing Agency (NTA) website, a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau said. Face masks will be provided to all candidates at the exam centre and there will be staggered time slots for entry and exit. The NEET will be held in 198 cities against 155 cities last year. Nearly 14 lakh students appear for the test for around 80,000 MBBS seats and 32,000 BDS seats in the country. Last week, the NTA had announced that the remaining two rounds of the Joint Entrance Examination-Main to select students for admission to BTech courses in NITs would be held from July 20. The third session has been scheduled from July 20 to July 25 while the fourth round will be held from July 27 to August 2. Both the rounds were scheduled in April and May. The NTA has already held two rounds. A student can appear in all four rounds and the best performance will be considered for selection. The top 2.5 lakh scorers are allowed to take the JEE-Advanced test for admission into IITs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Covid cloud on India's tuberculosis eradication drive||A 25 per cent fall in India’s counts of new tuberculosis patients during the first half of 2021 compared with the corresponding period in 2019 indicates trouble with the country’s efforts to juggle its resources for Covid-19 and TB, health experts have said. The national TB control programme had registered 995,639 patients from the government and private sector between January 1 and July 12 this year, about 25 per cent of the 1.33 million notified in the same period in 2019, or the pre-Covid-19 era. The fall in notifications has stirred concerns among public health experts that many TB patients could remain undiagnosed and untreated, which could cause their illness to worsen while posing the threat of infection to the people around them. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic had reduced India’s TB notifications last year, too. But doctors and public health experts had hoped that special efforts and guidelines to manage both Covid-19 and TB circulated in August last year would have increased notifications this year. The guidelines from the Union health ministry had recommended “bi-directional screening” — testing for TB in all Covid-19 patients who also have symptoms of tuberculosis (cough or fever for two weeks or longer, weight loss and night sweats) and testing all TB patients for Covid-19. “Bi-directional screening could turn a challenge into an opportunity — if done well, it would help increase TB detection and notifications. But the data so far and ground reports suggest that implementation has been frightfully low,” said a health expert who requested anonymity. The number of new TB cases notified so far this year is slightly lower than the 1,000,580 cases notified between January 1 and July 12 in 2020. After sharp falls in registrations during the early months of the pandemic last year, the numbers had increased. India had detected around 174,000 new TB cases in December 2020, close to around 179,000 patients registered in December 2019. But as Covid-19 counts began to rise after mid-February this year, doctors say, diagnostic services for TB patients weakened again. “Many private clinics closed down, and people would also have had difficulty with finding transport to reach diagnostic centres,” Nita Jha, a Patna-based public health expert with the non-government World Health Partners, who is tracking access to TB care in Bihar, told The Telegraph. Jha and other experts said the diversion of staff and diagnostic equipment for Covid-19 has also likely contributed to the fall in notifications. During April and May this year, the country registered around 206,000 TB patients, a 53 per cent decline from over 443,000 patients in April-May 2019. The Covid-19 crisis and its consequences may “derail” India’s target to eliminate TB by 2025, Digambar Behera, a pulmonary medicine specialist had cautioned in a commentary earlier this year in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The TB elimination target seeks to reduce India’s incidence of the disease from 217 per 100,000 population in 2015 to below 77 per 100,000 by 2025 and reduce deaths from tuberculosis from 32 per 100,000 in 2015 to less than 3 per 100,000 by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir:  Woman loses job to state's latest crackdown||Raziyah Sultan of Anantnag lost her father 25 years ago to an attack by gunmen who were never identified. Now, the Jammu and Kashmir government’s latest crackdown that allows it to sack any employee without citing a reason has cost her the job she had got on compassionate grounds. Raziyah, the head teacher of a school in Anantnag, was among 11 government employees whose services were terminated on Saturday. The termination letter she received from the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha mentions a “case” and “information” on her “activities”. Raziyah, in her late-40s, said she had no clue what case the letter, which also mentions “security of the State”, was referring to and alleged she had been sacked over “baseless and imaginary allegations”. She said she had never been involved in any “undesirable or unlawful activities” The latest set of terminations is part of a government crackdown initiated in April this year against employees the administration thinks are involved in anti-national activities. The administration is invoking a provision in Article 311 of the Constitution that allows the President or the governor to dismiss a government servant without an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State”. Many in Kashmir believe the government’s latest action is aimed at weeding out employees it believes have separatist connections, even the relatives of deceased separatists. Raziyah’s father Mohammad Sultan Bhat had been a member of the Jamaat-e-Islami, which during his time was involved in the democratic process but later joined the ranks of the separatists. Bhat, a lawyer turned politician, had contested the 1987 Assembly elections on a Muslim United Front (MUF) ticket and was killed in 1996 by unknown gunmen. Bhat, a graduate from Aligarh Muslim University, had sided with the MUF, which had challenged the National Conference-Congress alliance, and lost by around 100 votes. The elections, it was widely believed, were rigged and became one of the reasons for the rise of militancy a year or two later. Raziyah had got the job on compassionate grounds under provisions of a law that empowers the government to offer employment to a close relative of a victim of militancy-related violence. The termination order says: “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied that after considering the facts of the case and based on information available that the activities of Raziyah Sultan, a head teacher in the government middle school (at) Khiram, Anantnag, are such as to warrant her dismissal from services.” No details of her alleged activities or the case were mentioned. “Whereas the Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Ms Raziyah Sultan. Accordingly, the Lieutenant Governor hereby dismisses Ms Raziyah Sultan, head teacher in the government middle school (at) Khiram, Anantnag, from service, with immediate effect,” the order added. Raziyah said the government’s decision had come as a shock to her as she was never involved in any “undesirable or unlawful activity during my entire life”. “These are baseless and imaginary accusations…. Provide me the details as I know absolutely nothing about the case,” she said. Raziyah had been in government service for two decades. The other terminated employees include Syed Shakeel Yousuf, a health worker at a government hospital, and Syed Shahid Yousuf, an employee in the agriculture department, both sons of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief commander Syed Salahuddin. Shakeel and Shahid were arrested by the NIA in 2018 in a terror-funding case and remain in custody. The family has denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
13-07-2021||India||Covid:  Sputnik V rollout hits second dose hurdle||India’s full rollout of the Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 will have to be put on hold until the Russian producer provides equal quantities of its two differing doses, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd said on Monday. Dr Reddy’s had received about 3 million first doses by June 1 and about 360,000 second doses by early this month, the company and the Indian government have said. “As a matter of responsibility, we would not like to announce a full-fledged commercial launch until we have an equivalent quantity (of the second dose),” Dr Reddy’s said in an email to Reuters. Dr Reddy’s, which originally planned a full rollout in mid-June, is currently running a pilot programme under which more than 195,000 doses have been administered at hospitals across the country. “It is our commitment to ensure the supply of component 2 in equal quantity and on time to all partner hospitals to whom we have supplied dose 1,” the company said, declining to share more details ahead of its financial results. India has approved a gap of 21 days between the two doses. The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which markets the vaccine abroad, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Indian government expects 100 million locally produced and imported Sputnik V doses to be available in the country between August and December. India is expected to be one of the biggest manufacturing hubs of the vaccine. India has administered more than 375 million vaccine doses, the world’s most after China, inoculating 32 per cent of its estimated 944 million adults with at least one dose. It is mainly relying on the AstraZeneca shot and one developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. Daily vaccinations hit a national record of 9.2 million doses on June 21 but have dropped to around 4 million per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||Kerala HC seeks response on grant of parole to convicts in nun murder||Kerala High Court on Monday issued notice to the state government seeking its response on the grant of parole to convicts serving life terms for murdering a nun in 1992. The division bench of Justices Ziyad Rahman A.A. and K. Vinod Chandran issued the order after hearing a plea by rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal who had sought a stay on the parole granted to the convicts, both clergy, who have spent just five months in prison. Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Stephy were sentenced to life imprisonment in December 24, 2020, for murdering 19-year-old Sister Abhaya by attacking her with an axe and dumping her in a well in the compound of the St Pious X Convent hostel in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. But the state had released the two convicts on May 11 and 12, respectively, along with several others to decongest prisons amid the second wave of Covid. The move drew criticism since the two had been in jail for only five months, that too 28 years after the grisly murder. The Supreme Court had authorised a high-powered committee to release prisoners who meet certain criteria on parole considering the pandemic. “But I found that the committee had not allowed convicts serving life terms to be released on parole,” Puthenpurackal told The Telegraph on Monday. He had pursued the Abhaya case by forming a citizens’ action council. The Kerala State Legal Services Authority had in June clarified to Puthenpurackal that the clergy had not been released under the relaxation allowed by the committee. “So I approached the court to cancel their parole and know why the government allowed the relief to them,” he said. A CBI special court had found Kottoor and Stephy guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, who had seen them in a compromising position around 4am on the day of her murder. They then hit her with an axe and strangled her before dumping her in a well while she was still alive. Abhaya was a Class XII student at BCM College in Kottayam and a pupil of Kottoor. Although the police wrote it off as a case of suicide, sustained pressure from locals, including Puthenpurackal who formed the Sister Abhaya Action Council, had forced the state government to hand over the case to the CBI. It was the eyewitness account of a thief named Adakka Raju, who had entered the convent compound to steal copper strips from a lightning arrester, that proved to be the clincher in the case. Raju stood by his statement that he had seen two men, one of them Kottoor, in the convent meant for nuns, throughout the case in spite of alleged police torture, false theft cases, threats and offer of money and property. The special CBI court had in December convicted the clergy based on his account and forensic evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||Cong anger at Patole for posturing on alliance with Shiv Sena, NCP||The majority of Congress leaders disagree with their Maharashtra chief Nana Patole’s hostile posturing on the alliance with the Shiv Sena and the NCP, arguing that the very purpose of weakening the BJP would be defeated if the incumbent Uddhav Thackeray government was destabilised. While Maharashtra leaders are livid and have conveyed their sentiment to the high command, even central leaders have rejected Patole’s provocative statements, insisting that the task of strengthening the party organisation can be accomplished without getting into conflict with the government. They say there is no plan to break away from the coalition government and Patole may have overreached himself by talking about contesting elections alone at this stage. The relations of senior Maharashtra Congress leaders with Patole, who came from the BJP in 2018 and was appointed state unit chief in 2021, have got strained and most of them have started blaming Rahul Gandhi for “picking the wrong person”. They say Patole had failed to internalise the Congress culture and is making statements without evolving consensus within the organisation or getting approval from the central leadership. A senior leader told The Telegraph from Mumbai: “We don’t support his contention of going alone. Sonia Gandhi took the difficult decision of joining a coalition that had the Shiv Sena in it after a thorough analysis of the pros and cons. The overriding objective was to weaken the BJP. Loss of government in Maharashtra was a severe jolt to Narendra Modi. This experiment will be rendered meaningless if we disturb the coalition now and allow the BJP to regain power. It is shocking that the tremors are being caused by us, not the Sena.” While the Sena has accepted a secular agenda of governance and has done nothing to create any ideological crisis, the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government has generated much unease within the BJP. Those who left the NCP and the Congress to join the BJP before the Assembly elections are desperate to return and the only factor that has prevented a major exodus from the BJP is the frequent doubts created about the stability of the Uddhav government. Senior Congress leaders wonder why should there be any attempt to strengthen the BJP before the 2024 elections in Maharashtra, which sends 48 members to Parliament. “With huge losses expected in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh due to the farmers’ agitation and some setbacks in Rajasthan and Bihar, there is no way the BJP can come to power in 2024. But their return to power in Maharashtra can trigger a turnaround, placing the BJP on a path to recovery. Why Nana Patole doesn’t understand this is a mystery,” another Congress leader said. Sources in the Maharashtra Congress said former chief minister Ashok Chavan and ex-state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat were angry with Patole’s posturing. “Thorat once rebuked him (Patole) when he wanted to call a meeting of MLAs. Patole was bluntly told he cannot call a legislature party meeting and he should restrict himself to party affairs. What is worse, Patole’s conduct has generated distrust about Rahul Gandhi,” a source said. NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has intervened to send out a message of discomfort with Patole’s statements. Pawar on Sunday said: “I don’t want to get into this duel. They are small people, why should I comment on them? If Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said something, I would have commented on it.” At a Congress meeting on Saturday, Patole had said he was firm on his view that the party should fight future elections alone. “Even chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has told Sena workers and leaders to prepare for polls on their own strength,” Patole had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||India||J.P. Nadda looks to fill vacancies in the party organisation||BJP president J.P. Nadda is looking to fill vacancies in the party organisation, with several of the ministers dropped during the cabinet shuffle expected to be handed key responsibilities. Party insiders said it was Nadda who had called senior ministers ahead of the cabinet rejig and asked them to put in their papers. Now he has been ringing up some of them again to ask them to get ready to handle important party assignments. Twelve ministers — including seven cabinet ministers — were sacked ahead of last Wednesday’s cabinet shuffle. Of the 12, Thaawar Chand Gehlot had a day earlier been appointed Karnataka governor. Not all the rest are expected to be accommodated in the party organisation. However, axed senior ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad (who held the law and IT portfolios) and Prakash Javadekar (who held information and broadcasting, and environment) are tipped to receive key assignments, probably relating to the poll-bound states, sources said. Prasad, who has been sulking silently, is learnt to have received a phone call from Nadda’s office. There’s talk of his filling the vacancy left by general secretary Bhupender Yadav’s shift to the government. Yadav was general secretary in charge of Gujarat and Bihar. Gujarat votes late next year. Ramesh Pokhriyal, dropped as education minister, and Sadananda Gowda, axed as chemical and fertilisers minister, are being considered for party assignments too. Some of those sacked —such as Santosh Gangwar, who was labour minister —could be appointed state governors. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have been systematically edging out leaders older than 70 years by shifting them to the Raj Bhavans. Gangwar, an eight-term MP, falls in this age bracket. The most important vacancies are in the BJP parliamentary board, the party’s highest decision-making body. It has five vacancies, created by the deaths of Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj and Ananth Kumar, the elevation of M. Venkaiah Naidu as Vice-President, and the appointment of Gehlot as Karnataka governor. The parliamentary board, headed by party chief Nadda, now has Modi, Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh as its members. With most of the old guard having been sidelined or sent to the Raj Bhavans, the selections for the five vacancies will be keenly watched since these will reflect who has the blessings of the Modi-Shah duopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
13-07-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal post-poll violence: NHRC submits report to Calcutta HC||An NHRC committee investigating alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal on Tuesday submitted five sets of report in sealed covers before the Calcutta High Court, which ordered DNA matching of the body of a BJP labour wing leader for identification. A five-judge bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal noted that the second post-mortem examination of the body of Abhijit Sarkar, vice-president of Bharatiya Mazdoor Trade Union Council in Kolkata, has been carried out at the Command Hospital as per its earlier direction and that the report was being prepared. Sarkar was allegedly killed in post-poll violence in Kolkata. His family demanded a second autopsy, which was not acceded to by the police and the administration. The high court on July 2 ordered a second autopsy at the Command Hospital, a military facility. The committee, constituted by the NHRC on the order of the high court to probe alleged human rights violations during post-poll violence, submitted five sets of report in separate sealed covers and was taken on record by the bench. The bench directed that copies of the report be supplied by the counsel for the NHRC to the advocate general, counsel for the petitioners, the counsel for the Election Commission of India and also to the additional solicitor general of India. The panel had on June 30 submitted an initial report before the court and had sought further time to submit a comprehensive report, which had been granted by the bench. Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted on Tuesday that Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of the deceased, expressed his inability to identify the body on account of its bad condition, following which the bench ordered a DNA matching with the sibling. The ASG submitted that sample for DNA analysis of the deceased has been taken to confirm the identity of the body and that if the matching is allowed with the DNA of his brother, the issue may be resolved. Mahesh Jethmalani, senior counsel appearing for Biswajit Sarkar, said that he is ready to give his sample for DNA matching with the deceased. The court directed that samples for DNA analysis of his brother Biswajit Sarkar be taken at the Command Hospital on July 15. The bench refused a prayer by Kishore Dutta, Advocate General of West Bengal, that the investigating officer in the case be allowed to be present at the time of taking the sample of Biswajit Sarkar at the Command Hospital to which serious objection was raised by Jethmalani. "We don't consider that presence of investigating officer is required as sample of Biswajit Sarkar has to be taken in the Command Hospital," the bench said. The court directed that the samples of both Sarkar and the deceased be sent to the director of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Kolkata for analysis. "Director, CFSL, Kolkata is directed to conduct DNA analysis of both the samples at the earliest on priority basis and submit a report to this Court in a sealed cover within one week," the bench ordered. It also directed that the body of the deceased be shifted back to the hospital mortuary from where it was taken to the Command Hospital and it should be retained in safe condition until further order is passed by the court. The high court on July 2 ordered a second autopsy of the BJP labour wing leader at the Command Hospital here and issuance of a show cause notice to a deputy commissioner of Kolkata Police as to why contempt proceedings would not be initiated against him for violating its order. An affidavit filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police, south suburban division, Rashid Munir Khan was taken on record by the bench on Tuesday. The interim report of the NHRC panel had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee was obstructed from discharging his duty when he and his team members were attacked by goons on June 29 in Jadavpur area which falls under the city police's South Suburban Division. The five-judge bench also comprising justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar adjourned hearing of the PILs alleging post-poll violence in West Bengal till July 22. A bunch of PILs filed before the high court had alleged displacement of people from their residences, physical assault, destruction of property and ransacking of places of business owing to post-poll violence in the state. The high court had on June 18 directed the NHRC chairperson to constitute a committee to examine all cases with regard to alleged human rights violations in post-poll violence in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu meets Dhankhar over Mukul's appointment as PAC chairman||Leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar seeking his intervention in MLA Mukul Roy's appointment as the chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC), maintaining that norms were not followed. Adhikari stated that Roy, who switched over to the ruling TMC after winning the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, should no longer be considered a member of the saffron camp, and his elevation as PAC chairman defies the well-established norm of appointing an Opposition leader to the post. Claiming that the TMC wants to be its own judge, Adhikari alleged that the ruling party has ensured that its member gets chosen as the chief of PAC a panel that keeps a tab on government expenses to hide "questionable" pursuits. "We met the governor and sought his intervention as he is the custodian of the Constitution," Adhikari, who led a delegation of BJP MLAs to Raj Bhavan, told reporters. Earlier in the day, eight BJP MLAs resigned as heads of Assembly panels in protest against Roy's appointment. The leader of opposition further said that his party wishes to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and submit memoranda "describing how democracy is being throttled by the TMC in West Bengal with post-poll violence and unfair practices in the assembly". He pointed out that Roy's name did not figure in the list of six MLAs given by the BJP for the PAC chairman's post. The BJP had been seeking disqualification of Roy as a legislator under the anti-defection law, arguing that he changes sides after his election to the assembly. Adhikari said that the hearing of the BJP's application for Roy's disqualification is scheduled to be held before the Speaker on July 16. Claiming that the by-polls should not be conducted in the state until the process of vaccination is over, the BJP leader said the TMC, however, is "worried" as Mamata needs to get elected to the Assembly to retain the CM's chair. Adhikari defeated Mamata in Nandigram by 1,956 votes, according to the Election Commission. Mamata has moved a petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging Adhikari's win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Forces planning to bifurcate Bengal will be defeated, says Speaker||Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Tuesday asserted that forces plotting to bifurcate the state will be defeated. Addressing a programme of the Gorkha community in Calcutta, he said that the entire north Bengal region including the Darjeeling Hills is and will remain an integral part of the state. "Some forces are at work to separate north Bengal from our state. They will be defeated. Bifurcation of West Bengal will never be allowed," he said. The speaker also dwelt on how Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was working towards inclusive development of all regions of the state. A section of BJP leaders including Alipurduar MP and central minister John Barla had recently advocated carving out a Union territory comprising north Bengal districts, alleging lack of development in the region for years. d off a sharp reaction with the ruling TMC with party Supremo Mamata Banerjee stating she would not allow any part of Bengal to lose its freedom and be dependant on New Delhi. At a closed-door meeting at the residence of BJP MP for Alipurduar John Barla at Lakhipara Tea Garden, the demand for a separate Union Territory was raised and discussed in mid-June. Barla told PTI in a telephonic conversation later, "I made the demand there have been movements here for a separate Kamtapuri, a greater Cooch Behar and for Gorkhaland. My belief is that North Bengal should be detached and made into a separate union territory." BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh and other leaders dissociated themselves from Barla's statements and said that the party does not support any demand for bifurcation or division of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal receives 26,000 applications for student credit card scheme||The Bengal government has so far received over 26,000 applications for the student credit card scheme under which loans of up to Rs 10 lakh will be disbursed for higher studies, a senior official said on Tuesday. The scheme was launched by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee last month to help needy students pursue higher studies. Of the over 26,000 applications received till last week, nearly 6,059 are from students who hail from Bengal but are studying outside the state, he said, adding around 16,800 applicants are males and 9,700 are females. "It seems that the scheme has become quite a hit among students. We hope to receive more applications in the coming days," the official said. A student can apply for the education loan for a course for which he/she will be applying but not for one for which he/she has already paid to an institution, he said. Mamata had on June 30 launched the scheme under which pupils from class 10 onwards can apply for loans up to Rs 10 lakh as per their requirement. Students can apply for the loan even while pursuing professional courses like MBBS, BTech, or diploma courses to enhance their skills. They will not be required to provide any surety for the loan as the state government will be the surety. The interest rate will be 4 per cent and it may be reduced further if repayment is done within the study period. Besides pursuing higher studies, students can apply for the loan even to purchase laptops, books or to pay tuition fees and boarding charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: high court orders DNA test to identify body of BJP worker ||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered a DNA test to identify the corpse of Abhijeet Sarkar, a BJP worker from Beliaghata, killed during the post-poll violence allegedly unleashed by members of the ruling party after the publication of the election results on May 2. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani told a five-judge bench of the high court that his client, Biswajit Sarkar, was unable to identify whether the corpse was indeed that of his brother since it was mutilated. “Since the brother cannot recognise the body, he wants a DNA test to be conducted. He must know whether the body is that of his brother or not,” Jethamalani told the court. The court has ordered a sample to be collected from the corpse of the brother at Command Hospital and then sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta. The Director of CFSL has been instructed to submit the report to the court in a week’s time. State advocate general Kishor Datta argued for the sample to be collected in the presence of an investigator from the city police, which was opposed by Jethmalani. “This will be against the SC order. The state and police have shown urgency only after the SC notice,” Jethmalani argued. The family members of Sarkar have moved the apex court seeking a CBI probe into the matter. The Supreme Court has issued notices to the Centre, the Trinamul Congress government and the Election Commission of India . Datta said the SC had only issued notices to the centre and the state, and not given a stay on the probe. “The Supreme Court may or may not transfer the investigation. Till then the state police is probing the matter. Let someone from police be present while samples are collected.” The advocate general also accused the complainants of not cooperating with the police. “There have been 11 attempts to take statements from Sarkar and family. They were asked eight times and notices served under sections 91 and 161 of the CrPC. The statements under section 164 have not been taken,” Datta said. The counsel for the petitioner informed the court the mother was scared of talking to the police as her signature was earlier taken and used for some other purpose. The National Human Rights Commission is scheduled to  submit its final report on the post-poll violence in Bengal to the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday. The court had held that the allegations of post-poll violence that has been repeatedly rejected by chief minister Mamata Banerjee were established on the basis of an interim report submitted by NHRC. Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, representing the state government and police, demanded that copies of the interim and final report should be provided to the state government to give a reply. The court has asked the NHRC to give a copy of the final report to the state and the petitioners. Advocate and BJP nominee in the Assembly polls Priyanka Tibrewal alleged the victims were being charged Rs 600 for recording their section 164 statements.  The court asked who was being paid and if any receipt was available. The matter would come up for hearing again on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea workers attack panchayat pradhan's house, police station demanding release of garden owner ||A section of tea workers attacked the house of a panchayat pradhan and a police station demanding the release of a garden owner here on Monday night. Sources said Omprakash Upadhyaya, former owner of Kohinoor tea estate located in Alipurduar-II block, was arrested on Monday for violating a court order. “There was a dispute over the ownership of the garden. Recently, Calcutta High Court ordered that one Keshab Sinha will run the estate. Upadhyaya, however, was not ready to leave the garden, which is why he was arrested,” said a source. Later, the workers torched two bikes and other belongings of Nilam Mandal, the pradhan of the BJP-run Kohinoor gram panchayat and demonstrated at Samuktala police station demanding Upadhyaya’s release. They threw stones and bricks at the police. The cops had to burst teargas shells to disperse the crowd. Four persons have been arrested in this connection. The workers said they want Upadhyaya to run the garden. There are 888 workers in the Kohinoor tea estate. The police said the arrested quartet had been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Manoj Oraon, the BJP MLA of Alipurduar, has accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack at the pradhan’s house. Trinamul leaders of the block, however, have denied the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s new active cases drop below 900 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported the 22nd day on the trot of a dip in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 370 to reach 14,531. On Monday, the state reported 1,244 recoveries, 885 new infections and 11 deaths. The total of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 37 per cent again over these 22 days. Bengal now has 3.4 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most active cases. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Monday, indicating the shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.85 per cent, with the national rate at 97.25. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.18, while that of the nation was 1.32 per cent. Sixteen Bengal districts, including North-24 Parganas, reported zero deaths on Monday. Jalpaiguri, Nadia and Calcutta reported just one. Calcutta logged 65 new infections and North 24-Parganas 90. Monday was also the fifth successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures while North and South Dinajpur, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal now has a total of over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes over 14.8 lakh recoveries and 17,927 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||New Bengal link spotted on Rath Yatra in Puri ||The Rath Yatra in Puri rolled out on Monday amid several pandemic curbs. But a new Bengal link was spotted on the pious occasion. Several servitors of the Jagannath temple in Puri were seen using the gamchhas from Biswa Bangla, a brand of Bengal handloom weavers. “The idea of Biswa Bangla was conceived by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Now, it is clear that it is getting popular. The servitors of Puri traditionally use the best quality of handloom gamchha during the rathyatra, which are produced in Odisha. The state government (of Bengal) is happy that the Biswa Bangla gamchha has met their standard,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||State CID starts probe into unnatural death of Suvendu’s security guard||The state CID has started a probe into the unnatural death of a security guard of Suvendu Adhikari in 2018, based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife. On Monday, the CID team went to Mahishadal in East Midnapore, hometown of deceased Subhabrata Chakraborty, spoke to his wife Suparna and said they would question his colleagues and close aides to piece together the exact sequence of events on October 13, 2018, when he suffered the bullet injury at the barracks near BJP leader Adhikari’s home. Adhikari left Trinamul for the BJP in December 2020 and defeated Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee by a slender margin from Nandigram. Last week, in her complaint, Suparna alleged deliberate delay by Adhikari and his associates in arranging an ambulance to take Chakraborty to a Calcutta hospital, where he died the next day. BJP leaders in East Midnapore have claimed a “political conspiracy” against Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Double vaccination certificate, Covid-negative tag must to book hotel at beach resorts ||Tourists must furnish a negative RTPCR or RAT report for Covid-19 not older than 48 hours, or a double vaccination certificate, in order to be able to book a hotel at the beach resorts of Digha, Mandarmani, Sankarpur and Tajpur. The Contai (East Midnapore) subdivision’s decision to allow at tourist spots only fully vaccinated visitors or those with a negative RTPCR/ RAT report is a first in Bengal. The local administration was forced to impose the condition from Monday “to prevent the spread of the Covid virus and to arrest the positivity rate” after the beaches registered a turnout of around half a lakh tourists last weekend alone. “Failure to comply with the aforementioned directions shall attract action under the relevant sections of law,” read a notice issued by the Contai subdivisional office. East Midnapore has seen one of the steepest spikes in new infections over the past few days. According to the state health department, the district recorded 87 cases of new Covid infections on Sunday and 75 on Monday, second only to North 24-Parganas. Even Calcutta recorded fewer new infections on those two days. Tourists swarming the beaches during the weekends have become a major concern for the district administration. Sources in the district magistrate’s office said that since pandemic-induced curbs on bus services were lifted, the frequency of tourists increased. “The decision was taken in order to ensure that the number of Covid-19 cases in the district does not skyrocket because of the tourists,” said Sudipta Porel, additional district magistrate of East Midnapore who is in charge of tourism. Hotels, lodges and stay-cottages have been informed to keep separate records of tourist documents. They have also been asked to put up posters on Covid-19 awareness at every floor, corridor, hall, dining area, reception, lawn, among others, on their premises. Police must carry out “surprise visits” to ensure hotels are complying with the directive. The Digha Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association has called a July 17 meeting to discuss the new rules and the practical challenges that these could pose in the form of dwindling footfall or asymptomatic but infected tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||New judge Shampa Sarkar assigned for CM’s Assembly poll challenge||Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday assigned Justice Shampa Sarkar of Calcutta High Court to hear the petition filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging the victory of Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the Assembly polls. Mamata, who lost the Assembly seat to the BJP’s Adhikari by 1,956 votes, has alleged in her petition that the Election Commission official who was in charge of counting for the constituency had initially declared her as the winner on May 2 but the result was reversed in favour of her rival later the same day. The acting Chief Justice had assigned the case to Justice Kaushik Chanda but Mamata had sought a transfer to another bench, fearing she might not get fair judgment from him as he had “close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with the BJP and as a lawyer had represented the party in legal matters. The petition argued that Justice Chanda had earlier been made an additional solicitor by the Narendra Modi government. Hearing the plea, Justice Chanda last week excused himself from hearing the petition on “personal ground” but imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on the chief minister for “such calculative, psychological and offensive attempt to seek recusal.” Justice Chanda directed that the amount be deposited to the Bar Council of Bengal within two weeks. Mamata’s lawyers have said they would contest the penalty in the Supreme Court. The next date of the hearing of the case has not yet been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Three armed burglars open fire at gold loan office, youth hurt||A youth suffered a bullet injury when three armed burglars open fired while escaping after a failed robbery at the office of a gold loan agency in Birbhum’s Suri on Monday morning. Sources said the robbers had opened fire at Mubarak Khan, 30, when he tried to catch one of them. The bullet hit Khan in his right leg and he has been admitted to Suri district hospital. Doctors said he was stable. Police said five robbers held five security persons of the private agency at gunpoint and asked them to unlock the office gate around 9am. “While lifting the shutter, the automated alarm system got activated which panicked the criminals and they started to flee. The burglars were carrying arms and had their faces covered with masks. They were speaking in Hindi,” said Mithun Mondal, one of the security persons. The police said the robbers had come on two motorbikes but left behind one on the premises of the agency office while escaping. While three fled on a bike, two began to run through the narrow roads with people chasing them. “Fearing that they would get caught, the robbers opened fire and a bullet hit Khan,” said an officer. Police sources said the bike left behind by the goons was found to be a stolen one. “It appears that the gang hailed from neighbouring Jharkhand,” said a police source. Nagendranath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief, said: “A search is on to nab the gang.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Nadia kid gives up studies to help family survive economic hardships||Rabi Rajput, 13, has a box full of candies but not to himself. He has to peddle the sweetmeat through the day in the gruelling summer heat to put food on the table for his family of four that the pandemic has robbed of basic sustenance. Rabi, a Class V student at Krishnagar in Nadia, is the sole breadwinner of his family, his mother left bereft of her domestic help’s job after she had left her abusive and alcoholic husband. The little boy’s plight has once again swivelled the spotlight on the cruel economic fallout of the pandemic, hitting the most vulnerable sections of the society the hardest and also threatening to upend the gains made in fighting child labour. The resident of Bacchu Pally who studies at Krishnanagar Sankar Mission School leaves home at 10am every day, but not for school. Hurled into the thankless and unforgiving job of a salesman at such a tender age, Rabi has a stiff target at hand. The boy carries a container with 100 lollipops, determined to sell all and earn Rs 150 on his investment that will buy food for his mother and two siblings, including his differently abled elder brother. This has been Rabi’s routine for the past 15 months, when the pandemic rendered his mother jobless. She used to be a domestic help and make about Rs 3,000 a month. The lollipops are a recent change in commodity. Rabi has had a more humble beginning, selling kochu, an edible root, which he gathered on his own. “It was very difficult when the pandemic robbed my mother of her job. Our foremost concern was the house rent of Rs 2,000. Most of her income went towards the rent. With whatever little was left, she somehow kept us alive…. The pandemic changed everything,” he said. Two years ago, Rabi’s mother Gita separated from her husband, an alcoholic e-rickshaw operator prone to domestic abuse. She left her in-laws’ home in Nabadwip to Krishnagar with her two sons and a three-year-old daughter, taking up a rented home in Bacchu Pally and working as a domestic help. “I began a new life despite odds. But the pandemic broke my back. I don’t know what would have happened to us had Rabi not taken up this challenge to keep us alive,” said Gita. “He began by selling kochu, but since the income was negligible he started selling fried flattened rice in markets once the unlock process began. A kind man, admiring his resolve, gave Rabi Rs 1,000 to start his own small business. With the advice of elders, he began selling lollipops,” the mother added. Rabi said the switch to selling lollipops a few months ago had increased his income. “With the Rs 1,000, I bought lollipops. A full container of 100 helps me make a profit of Rs 150. I try to sell 100 pieces daily, at Rs 5 each. I try to do this, daily,” he said. Rabi sells the candies at the Krishnagar bus stand and adjacent areas between 10am and 3pm. He then goes home for a meal of boiled rice and potato, before leaving for tuition from a woman who teaches him for free. Rabi again sells the lollipops at High Street till 9pm. After that, he returns home to resume his studies and teach his sister, a kindergarten student. “I dream of becoming an engineer,” he smiled. Biswambhar Mandal, a teacher at Kalyani University, said: “Rabi is not an exception. There are lakhs like him right now, compelled to work… many giving up their studies to help their families survive the dire economic hardships.” Mandal said child labour had somewhat reduced before the pandemic. But the trend had reversed over the past 15 months or so. “A recent ILO study indicates around 6 crore people are expected to slip into poverty because of the pandemic. A joint report of the ILO and Unicef estimates that a 1 percentage point rise in poverty leads to at least a 0.7 percentage point increase in child labour,” he said. “The unplanned lockdown last year by the Narendra Modi government caused a lot of damage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||West Bengal||Assam decision spread cheer among Gorkha community members in north Bengal||The Assam government’s decision to change the nomenclature of “Nepali cultivators and graziers” to “Gorkhas” on the list of the protected class living in certain tribal blocks and belts of the state has spread cheer among community members in north Bengal. The decision of the Assam government is being viewed as the first step towards establishing a distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas, who are generally referred to as Nepali because of their language. The issue of identity has been simmering in north Bengal hills for decades and several proponents of astate of Gorkhaland have justified the demand as a means to separate the identity of the Indian Gorkhas from the citizens of Nepal, among other reasons. That’s why the Assam government’s cabinet decision, though this is just a change in nomenclature in government parlance, is being hailed by various apolitical Gorkha outfits in India. Munish Tamang, working president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh, an outfit that identifies itself as apolitical, said the notification could be seen as a “landmark”. “The notification is a landmark in the sense that it will be a marker of the progress in the integration (of Gorkhas) as indigenous people in Assam, though the protected class status has been in place since the British days,” Tamang said over phone from Delhi. Nepali cultivators and graziers were recognised as a protected class by the British government in Assam under the provisions of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886. The same nomenclature was used when this regulation was revised by the Assam government on December 5, 1947. Earlier, the term Gorkha had been used by the government while setting up the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council in Bengal and the Gorkha Development Council in Assam. The Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution also records Nepali/Gorkha as a recognised language. However, the Assam government’s notification recognises Gorkhas in place of Nepali. Last Friday, Ranoj Pegu, education and welfare of plain tribes and backward classes minister in Assam, announced the change in nomenclature: “Under the provisions of chapter X of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886, the cabinet approved to include Gorkhas as a protected class in the tribal belts and blocks in the districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri who are residing there before 2003, that is, when the districts came under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution.” The four fall under the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
13-07-2021||North East||BJP-led Assam government tables bill to ban cow slaughter||The BJP-led Assam government on Monday tabled a bill in the Assembly that imposes restrictions on the sale of beef and the transport of cattle, sharply increases the punishment for cattle slaughter without a permit and appears to suggest that no permit will be given to slaughter cows. Assam, which has a 34 per cent Muslim population, is the first northeastern state to propose such restrictions. Beef is widely consumed in the region, which has a large Christian population. Although cow protection is a pet project of the BJP and the wider Sangh family across India, it was not part of the party’s vision document that was released before the March-April Assembly polls. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, increases the jail term for unauthorised slaughter and transport of cattle and the sale of beef from six months to up to eight years and the fine from Rs 1,000 to up to Rs 5 lakh. Beef and beef products will no longer be permitted to be sold in specified areas, it says. Sale will not be allowed in areas predominantly inhabited by Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and other non-beef-eating communities or within 5km of a temple, satra or other religious institutions belonging to the Hindu religion or any other institution or area as may be prescribed by the competent authority. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who tabled the bill that was approved by the cabinet last week, said there was an “imperative” to enact a legislation to include sufficient legal provisions to “regulate the slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle” by repealing the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. The 1950 law allowed the slaughter of cattle on certain conditions, such as that the animal is over 14 years of age or is permanently incapacitated. A fit-for-slaughter certificate issued by the competent authority was required. While these conditions for cattle slaughter remain in the bill, the reference to cattle is followed by the words “not being a cow” or “not being a cow or heifer or calf”. The suggestion appears to be that a blanket ban is being imposed on the slaughter of all cows. The Opposition parties in Assam said they were going through the bill and that there was scope for a lot of amendments. Cattle meant for slaughter will not be allowed to be transported without a valid permit to and from Assam or to pass through the state. A specific mention is made of transport of cattle from Assam to states where slaughter is not regulated. This could cast a cloud on the cattle imports of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland. Beef is widely consumed in these three Christian-dominated states that also buy cattle from Assam and elsewhere for agricultural purposes. The Meghalaya government has said it will take the matter up with Assam and the Centre if its supplies are affected. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma had said two days ago that the transit of cattle from states like Bengal, Bihar and Telangana should not be hampered because of the proposed Assam law. Those violating the bill’s Sections 5 (prohibition of slaughter of cattle without certificate from competent authority), 6 (prohibition of slaughter of cattle in places other than a slaughterhouse) and 7 (restrictions on transport of cattle) shall be jailed for periods ranging between three and eight years, and/or fined amounts between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 5 lakh. However, a trial court will have the authority to impose a punishment lighter than the minimum jail sentence. Repeat offenders will have to undergo “double” the prescribed punishment for the first offence. The offences under the bill will be cognisable and non-bailable. Offences under the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, were bailable. Photographs of absconding offenders will be put up at prominent places in the areas where they live and also other public places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
13-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Imbalanced||The balancing act eludes the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The new population policy unveiled by the Yogi Adityanath government — it claims to usher in ‘balance among communities’ and lower the total fertility rate — could well turn out to be a recipe for severe imbalances. The need for this intervention remains unclear; even suspicious. The draft population (control, stabilization and welfare) bill intends to reduce the state’s TFR to 1.9 by 2030 by enforcing a two-child norm. Perhaps Mr Adityanath is unaware that UP has made significant progress — the state’s TFR declined to 2.7 in 2015-16 from 3.8 10 years ago — without radical meddling in the lives of the people on the part of the State. Such socio-economic and demographic transitions as rising literacy, reduced infant mortality, migration and so on would propel further reductions in UP’s TFR: instead of being tempted to experiment with discredited models of population control, the government needs to serve as a facilitator to augment investments in education and empowerment. The irony of the State couching this unnecessary and potentially disruptive mediation in the rhetoric of personal autonomy cannot be starker. The draft population policy bares two significant and perpetual failures in the imagination of the Indian State when it comes to addressing the population challenge. First, it is evident that governments remain enchanted with a top-down approach instead of addressing the structural deficiencies that prevent citizens from making informed choices. That explains the implosions — on bodies and the body politic — that inevitably accompany the implementation of draconian programmes by a sterile bureaucratic corps. Second, the State remains indifferent to its criminal enthusiasm for linking welfare to exclusion. The denial of rights to people with large families, as is proposed in the draft, cannot be condoned because the State has been historically complicit in a failure that is collective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Richard Branson in space, Uttarakhand against live streaming rituals ||Wrong timing Sir — It seems that Richard Branson now has a leg-up in the race of billionaires trying to break into space tourism. He successfully flew to the edge of space and back in his Virgin Galactic passenger rocket plane, days ahead of a rival launch by Jeff Bezos. This could have been lauded as pathbreaking at some other time. But in the midst of a pandemic — each seat would cost hundreds of thousands of dollars — this is an abject waste of resources. Pinaki Sengupta,Calcutta Shameful conduct Sir — It was quite shocking to hear the advocate general of Uttarakhand arguing against live streaming rituals from the Char Dham by insisting that the act is prohibited in the shastras (“Worrying script”, July 12). Last month, the Uttarakhand High Court stayed the state cabinet’s decision to open the Char Dham shrines for a limited number of local people and ordered the live streaming of rituals. Earlier in May, when the second wave of the coronavirus swept through the country, the high court had rebuked the government for failing to ensure Covid-19 protocols during the Kumbh Mela and, once again, at the beginning of the Char Dham yatras this year. The high court has rightly observed that it is more important to save everyone from the Delta variant of the coronavirus rather than being considerate towards the feelings of a few. The shrines were closed last summer as well, owing to the national lockdown. It is shameful that certain sections of the population continue to disregard public health and well-being. The government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court order staying the Char Dham yatras. Hopefully, the apex court will not entertain the whims of the government and uphold the ruling in view of the third wave of Covid-19 and will also ask the government to gear up for the future. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is astounding how the Uttarakhand government continues to insist on holding religious gatherings in spite of its massive blunder with the Kumbh Mela earlier this year. The Kumbh Mela was one of the primary reasons behind the spread of the coronavirus to the remote villages of India. The insistence of the advocate general of Uttarakhand that live streaming is forbidden in the shastras is not only illogical but also shows how little the government cares about the well-being of the people. Janaki Patil,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tricky exit||Cairn Energy is a minnow in the world of oil and gas. The $400 million Edinburgh-based entity has been trying to get out of India after selling a controlling stake in its profitable Indian operations to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group back in 2012. Its exit from the country has been stymied by a dispute that erupted in 2014 when the Government of India slapped it with a tax demand for Rs 102.47 billion arising from an assumption of capital gains relating to the reorganization of its Indian operations in 2006. The retrospective tax demand made eight years after the event — an obvious afterthought and drawing on the taxing power embedded in a sinister provision that Pranab Mukherjee had dreamed up after losing the Vodafone case in the Supreme Court — was tossed out last December by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Instead, the tribunal awarded damages worth $1.2 billion with interest and costs to the London-listed entity. The Centre has stubbornly resisted Cairn Energy’s attempt to force the Narendra Modi government to respect the arbitral award and pay up. After negotiations failed, Cairn launched a flurry of court cases around the world seeking to grab control of Indian-owned assets in the United States of America, Europe, Mauritius and Singapore — countries that have ratified the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards and are, therefore, obliged to help successful disputants to recover their dues. Recently, a French court — Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris — froze 20 residential properties owned by India that were worth over 20 million euros, setting in motion a tortuous process of recovery that can only bring acute embarrassment to the Centre. Foreign investors waiting to come to India will be looking at these developments with interest. The Indian government’s dogged refusal to respect international arbitral awards will only serve to dim the country’s prospects of attracting foreign direct investment. Cairn has based its claim to damages on the terms of the UK-India bilateral investment treaty, a stand that India contests. A repudiation of treaty provisions — a position that India has adopted in other arbitral disputes including the one involving Vodafone — only besmirches New Delhi’s record of fair and equitable treatment of foreign investors who no longer have the appetite to do business in this country. Drawing on the legend from the Mahabharata, the former chief economic adviser, Arvind Subramanian, had devoted an entire chapter in the Economic Survey of 2015-16 to what he termed the “Chakravyuha Challenge” of the Indian economy. Mr Subramanian argued that a market economy requires unrestricted entry of new firms but must also permit easy exit. He had lamented that post liberalization, India has moved from socialism with restricted entry to a form of “marketism” without exit that would have seriously adverse consequences. The Cairn Energy case is a litmus test to determine how far down the road of liberalization India has really traversed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||On a toxic diet||Some years ago, amidst my struggles as a freelancer, I had an argument with a senior journalist who insisted that the only sustainable pattern of work was employment with media organizations. “Show me another viable model,’’ he snapped. I didn’t have any. I hadn’t thought of that because for me the comfort in pursuing professions like those of the media and the arts is that you have room to think with your heart. I am okay with the data crunchers cornering space in the media. In the islands of alternative content providing relief for brain awash in data, I am happy to eke out my sustenance. Among the major differences between an employed journalist and a freelancer is income. Freelancers’ earnings are tiny and irregular. If an aside is permitted, may I say it makes freelancers more sensitive to inflation. During the second innings of the Manmohan Singh government, I was months ahead of my employed colleagues in sensing inflation because I lived on a small income. They wrote of it when prices rose high enough to trouble their superior salaries. During my self-funded travels, I live in cheap hotel rooms. At times, it has been the stuff of bed, claustrophobia, a ventilator for sunshine, a fan and a TV. The TV offers you free-to-air channels, some of them dressed in the attire of news. I say dressed because quite frankly I don’t consider Indian television news, with its accompanying music, suspense and drama, the stuff of news. Surfing channels for something watchable, I found that the news channels on offer were mostly right-wing. It meant that if you wanted coverage of content that is neutral or left-of-centre, the hotel owner had to subscribe to a costlier bundle. As a guest, I would have to be wealthy and capable of affording costlier rooms serviced that way. The liberal media is typically neutral to slightly left-of-centre. It felt strange that such an editorial tilt should be expensive to afford. I would call the formula conservative for you are valuing business model more than bringing engaging content to viewers. Of additional concern to me was that many respectable print publications of the liberal sort were going behind paywalls in their internet avatars. In the long run, a high-priced liberal media would result in a less informed, less sophisticated public. In turn, that will lead to less enjoyable, potentially hostile, social spaces. Free-to-air has relevance. The problem in persisting with this argument is that since free-to-air is less business and more charity, it points to an eventual situation of professionals working for less. This provokes the question: shouldn’t journalists also earn? That’s a touchy issue. Nonetheless, deep down I have this belief that going ahead, good journalism may be forced to abandon its equation with big money because nothing reinvents itself at high cost. Change entails risk; our appetite for risk is less when operating costs are high. Another challenge involves the pitfalls in revenue sources like advertising. To extract maximum bang for the buck, advertisers are known to influence editorial decisions. How then will you argue against paid subscription as a safer source of revenue? All I can say is media organizations haven’t pushed their marketing teams enough to source advertisements. The discussion mentioned here happened well before the last general election, which returned the right-wing to power. We found no relief from right-wing politics despite warnings from beyond the fence by the liberal media. When times get tough, as they have been in recent years, we end up living frugally. Free-to-air right-wing propaganda will stay our diet unless the liberal media has a change of heart and suspends that fence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Different kinds of schooling||The closure of schools, online teaching, the digital divide and loss of learning have figured as key concerns in the news reports on the effects of the raging pandemic on school education. Several responses have focused on seizing the opportunity to make the most of the pandemic, ushering in examination reforms and digital pedagogy. Here, we use the pandemic experience to examine the pressure to conform to middle-class notions of childhood and the contrasting imaginations of a teacher at work. The idea of childhood, as it emerged in middle-class families in seventeenth-century Europe, is intertwined with the idea of innocence and dependence of the child, segregation from adults of the community, and protection. A child not dependent on adults — economically, socially and morally — is one ‘without childhood’ and causes social anxiety. In a historical twist, marking both colonial imprint and difference, the child in India bears the burden of contemporary middle-class obsession to make a mark in the competitive capitalist world through individual merit. The pandemic has been characterized by heightened monitoring, hovercraft parenting and regimentation of what children should do and what adult roles they should prepare for and how. The middle-class adult gaze has intensified to bring both the child and the private school teacher under surveillance to mimic the customer-service provider relationship. Private schools purchased new products, trained teachers and reduced vacation to provide uninterrupted learning, akin to a good service provider attuned to the pulse of the market. These schools claim that their teachers teach well, engage children and bring creativity whether in synchronous or asynchronous mode. They respond to and find affirmation in middle-class parents’ insistence that learning must go on no matter what the crisis may be. Multiple facets of the relationship between the private school and the parent community are emerging at a time when the ‘inequality virus’ has exacerbated existing disparities in education. First, both school and parents have reached an ideological consensus that the fee paid has to be well-earned. Second, private school officials have deplored the State regulation to not increase the fee or not charge a part of the fee during the pandemic and blamed the government for encouraging ‘delinquent parents’. Third, teachers have begun to mimic the school officials’ rhetoric that they ‘enjoy performing their role as teachers’ and do not desire ‘regular vacation time’ from work. This display of responsibility, investment and professional commitment articulated through the teachers’ agency simultaneously signals erasures as well as highlights the obfuscation of the wider context — the looming threat of unemployment and salary cuts. Fourth, the navigation of the new dimensions of design and transaction through the digital mode, pushed by the State and the corporations with an uncritical celebration of technology, obliterates the context of the teacher and the child. Teaching-learning now unfolds in a context-free situation with an imagination of uninterrupted, silent learning spaces in cramped urban homes of teachers and children. We have come to inhabit sanitized social bubbles guarded by middle-class boundaries that maintain a studied silence or, at best, make token concessions to the larger world of children in government schools. Fifth, schools, teachers and middle-class parents operate with a narrow conception of education reduced to learning. This is concomitant to the shift evident in the contemporary policy discourse, ranging from the World Bank to NGOs engaged in public-private partnerships at national and local levels. Policies and practitioners argue in favour of ‘embedding social and emotional learning in the curriculum’, whereas learning is embedded in life itself. In a democratic society, learning unfolds when children participate in social life with an idea of purpose. Learning is not limited to PowerPoint presentations, quizzes, microworlds, lectures or to labouring to increase national productivity or the wealth of corporations. Rather, learning is in situ, for life’s own purpose, its joys, engagement, lived experiences and practice. Before the pandemic, government schoolteachers were portrayed with derision in various media reports. During the pandemic, contrary to the popular perception, government schoolteachers returned to the workplace to be available to the community. They organized learning groups, sent worksheets home and called on each child, performed ‘Covid Warrior’ duties, reached out to the community and distributed rations. Contrastingly, private school teachers navigated the classroom and adopted the ‘culture of blended and virtual training’ to keep the children busy. This narrative is punctuated with several omissions. The hierarchy within private schools is glossed over. There are concerns about the sustainability of low-fee private schools but not the destruction of livelihoods by the pandemic and the State’s policy responses. An eerie silence envelops the issue of government schoolteachers performing civic responsibilities as functionaries of the State even though these responsibilities not only impinge on their role and the time available for teaching but have also led to the loss of lives. Middle-class children’s experience of the ‘margins’ to learn ‘social responsibility’ and ‘community outreach’ by liaising with orphanages, widow-shelters and old-age homes recedes when a crisis comes knocking. Yet, autonomy is invoked to claim differences with government schools whose curriculum suffers implosions. But the show must go on for private schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||After the fire||On one chunk of a wall still standing in what used to be the ministry of information and broadcasting, someone has made a large portrait of the old Jesuit priest who was killed by the Orange Regime. It’s quite a large portrait, drawn with something like chalk, and the white lines stand out quite sharply against the reddish stone even in the pall of smoke and dust. It’s on the tip of my tongue but I can’t actually remember the old man’s name; it is something with S. The way they got him was to arrest him under one of those crazy ‘anti-terror’ laws they had, one of those acronym laws set up by the bunch who were in power earlier which was then refined to its logical extreme by the Orangists. The law meant they could pick up the old guy who, they alleged, was connected to some completely trumped up conspiracy which had its imaginary locus in another part of the country, arrest him despite his failing health, and put him away in jail, resisting all attempts for bail. The others they had picked up for this supposed conspiracy were kept in jail for years, but the priest they could only torment for a few months because his health couldn’t survive the treatment in jail. The guy had Parkinson’s, could barely even write his name, but they called him a ‘flight risk’ and the courts actually went along with this rigmarole. Then they fought tooth and nail — the cops, the jailers and the government lawyers — to deny the old man a cup and a sipper straw. That sipper eventually cost them: it became a graphic symbol of the casual cruelty the Regime was capable of and you can see stencils of it all over the country along with various protest graffiti. In fact, there was a big one sprayed on a decapitated statue of one of the Regime’s historic heroes on one of the nearby roundabouts. There are other pictures too, on other walls — of people murdered more directly by the Regime’s mobs, of girls raped by the Regime’s legislators, and lists scrawled in red paint or black of all the underhand deals, the slaughtered ecologies, the destroyed futures. I walk away from the portrait of the priest and carry on exploring the shell of the gutted building. One has to be careful walking around here, because the piles of rubble are deceptive; there are huge underground parking lots below all the blocks and, sometimes, the shards of steel and masonry give way and send people right down into the lower depths of this hell. Just the other day, two scavengers were apparently buried alive in the railway ministry block. Obviously no emergency services are operational right now, but someone raised the alarm and people helped to pull them out; one of them was dead but they managed to save the other man. For me, the dead man was yet another victim of the Orange Regime, no matter that the deadly rule has been over for some time. This is what people often don’t understand. As things became worse under the Orange Regime, and people began to pray to be released from its disastrous yoke, they imagined that things would immediately become all right once these rulers went. Life just doesn’t work like that. I remember when whatshername was assassinated, her son had justified the revenge pogroms by saying ‘[when] a great tree falls, the surrounding ground is bound to shake.’ Well, when a large cesspit hidden under a thin layer of ground collapses, it will suck in many victims before its action comes to a halt. At the zenith of the Orangistas’ power, many people knew the Regime would leave behind the wreckage of multiple interconnected disasters; they knew the longer the Regime lasted, the greater would be the devastation it left as a parting gift to the people of this country. And here we now are, wandering around the hollowed-out former capital, sending reports and images, trying to tot up what’s completely gone and what one is able to salvage. The carnage and destruction across the land are, of course, far greater, far more widespread, than what laid low this city, but standing here amidst the smouldering ruins of the megalomaniacal dream you can ‘see’ things in a way you perhaps can’t from elsewhere. For instance, it’s a miracle of sorts that the old imperial buildings have survived almost unscathed; the big governor’s palace, the two flanking blocks, and down the ‘royal’ stretch of road the arch and even the untenanted chhatri are all as they were before the more recent building spree began in the middle of the plague ten years ago. The old royal palaces are also intact somehow, partly because of sheer luck. By the time push came to shove, about half the new ministries were already abandoned because of the prevailing circumstances despite some bureaucrats being ordered to ‘hold their positions’ by the demented orders of a rapidly disintegrating political command. As the whole world knew, the city itself had been almost abandoned by the population following the conditions created by ecological and social meltdowns. The Orange Regime had jumped ship, of course, before the environmental disasters and political devastations fully hit home, but not before it ensured these calamities became inevitable. But here in the gutted shells of their monumental hubris you can see the whole trajectory of their rule mapped on the shards of walls and pillars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) collaborates with Coal India Limited||Dhanbad-based technical institute, IIT (ISM) joined hands with Coal India Limited (CIL) for exchange of technology and resources for environmentally safe, economical, sustainable, efficient and smart coal mining. A memorandum of agreement (MoA) in this regard was signed during a virtual meet which was attended by Director of IIT (ISM) Rajiv Shekhar and Director (Technical) of Coal India Limited, Binay Dayal in presence of Chairman of Coal India Limited, Pramod Agarwal and a host of Coal India Limited’s officials. Several Head of Department of Mining Engineering of IIT (ISM), AK Mishra were also present. Sharing the details of the association, Dhiraj Kumar, professor of Mining Engineering department, who is also the dean (International relation) and alumni affairs of IIT (ISM) said, “MoA will help us to set up a CIL Innovation and Incubation Centre at IIT (ISM) to engage budding technocrats and community at large in innovation and entrepreneurial activities. It will also support start-ups specialising in core business areas of CIL.” The centre that will operate under the aegis of Dean (Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship) will promote research and development aimed at solving the technological problem of CIL in mining activity through provision of indigenous technology. “With changing times coal companies are facing the problem of deep seated deposits of mineral resources. There is a need to establish balance between the mining activity and observing environmental norms,” elaborated Kumar. He added, “As part of the initiative CIL will provide financial support to IIT (ISM) to establish the centre; providing a conducive environment, infrastructural facilities and other value-added services in an equitable fashion to accelerate the growth and spread of innovation in the country.” The CII Centre is also being established with the objective of nurturing innovators who can ideate in the domain of Technology Innovation and Community Skill Development. It also aims at providing opportunities to innovate and design unique and incentivized solutions for the immediate beneficiaries like local community peoples, contract workers of CIL, students & employees of the institute, industry, society and nation as a whole. The centre will organize events like workshops, seminars, tech fests and publish quarterly or half-yearly newsletter to promote and encourage stakeholders with latest technological advancement and then applicability in the mining sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin burglaries make Bistupur cops swing into action ||Jamshedpur: Separate criminal gangs decamped with cell phones and cash worth over Rs 10 lakhs from a mobile phone shop in Bistupur market and a temple at Ranikuda area in the intervening night of Tuesday. The thieves took away the Kali temple’s donation box by breaking open the temple’s lock. While those raiding the mobile shop, dismantled its tin-roof and false ceiling to break into the shop. The shop owner, Sandeep Barwalia said, “I had closed the shop at 8 pm last night, but when I opened the shop at about 9 am today, I found the shop’s roof torn apart. Soon I saw things lying scattered on the floor and the new stocks of mobile phones as well as the old ones missing from shelves. Rs 8,000 which was kept in the cash-box was also missing,” said the shop-owner while talking to this website. Barwalia said he had to suffer a loss of over Rs 10 lakhs due to the burglary at his shop. On getting information Bistupur thana OC, Vishnu Rawat visited the spot. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Animesh Gupta also inspected the burgled shop. “The burglary must have been committed in the small hours of Tuesday. We are trying to detect the case by taking the CCTV footage from the adjoining shops,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also confirmed the burglary at the Kali temple. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Around 60 illegal settlements, including makeshift houses and huts built on the land belonging to the railway were razed by East Central Railway administration during its anti-encroachment drive, which was conducted at Patherdih’s Traffic colony, which falls under the Sudamdih police station area of Dhanbad. The drive was conducted under the joint supervision of BK Pandey, Assistant Divisional Engineer of East Central Railway and Shyamlal Manjhi, Jharia Circle inspector. The drive began around 11 am today, but the officials had been appealing before the residents to vacate the government land for the past four days. The eviction drive is part of a Rs 30 crore station re-modelling project of Patherdih railway station of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway. Talking to the media, one of the encroachers while requesting anonymity said, “We had received formal notice from the railway administration ahead of the pandemic in February, 2020 and but as our income has been affected because of Covid-19 we could not shift.” Mahendra Sharma, another protestor, “We are not averse to the drive. We are ready to shift but the selective approach of demolition has left us aghast.” BK Pandey, assistant divisional engineer of railway, however, refuted all charges. (Praduman Choubey) A female Sambar deer died at Jawaharlal Nehru Biological (JNB) Park on Tuesday. This is the second death reported within a span of 65 days at JNB popularly known as Bokaro Zoo. “I have assessed and confirmed that Sambar died of heat stroke. He was five-and-a-half-year-old," said Mukesh Kumar, a government vet who conducted the post-mortem. During this hot and humid season, the Sambar seems to have lacked proper care, which led to its death. The right medication, glucose, and water could help it survive. A zoo officer said, “The Sambar had dashed the iron nets of its enclosure and escaped on the very next day of arrival from Ranchi zoo. It was found near a canal with a head injury. The wound was treated and it recovered. However, on July 11, the animal showed extreme weakness. Zoo vets administered lifesaving drugs to the animal but it died.” (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Left Front leaders demand probe into Stan Swamy’s death||Over 50 activists affiliated to different Left Parties in Jharkhand staged a massive demonstration at Dhanbad’s Randhir Verma Chowk, near the district headquarters demanding a high level probe into the death of the Jesuit priest and tribal right activist, Stan Swamy. The demonstrators were led by Hari Prasad Pappu, district president of Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC). They were seen holding banners and posters. They also raised slogans against the central government while demanding the immediate release of all political prisoners lodged at different jails across the country. The agitators accused the central government of misusing Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) to target activists fighting for the rights of the underprivileged, oppressed and the marginalized. The hour-long demonstration which began at around 11am and continued till around 12 noon witnessed active participation from leaders of different Left Parties including CPI, CPI (M), CPI (ML), MCC, Forward Bloc and Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist). Talking to The Telegraph Online at the demonstration site, Pappu, said, “This demonstration was part of the nationwide protest - Pratiwad Diwas (Potest Day) which has been called by the Left Parties to raise voice against the death of the octogenarian activist, Stan Swamy who had been implicated in the Bhima Koregaon violence case of 2012, as part of conspiracy” “He was subjected to atrocities during his jail term and put in Corona Ward. He was even denied the basic medical facilities despite his ill health and that eventually led to his death,” added Pappu. His death in judicial custody diminishes the highest institution of the judicial system. “We are demanding a comprehensive independent probe covering all aspects, right from his implication in a case of violence to his arrest, injustice against him in jail and his subsequent death in judicial custody” Echoing similar sentiments, Suresh Prasad Gupta, district secretary of CPI (M) Suresh Prasad Gupta said, “The 84-year-old activist was at no fault other than working among the tribal, oppressed, marginalized, deprived by visiting in the remote villages of Jharkhand. He has been victimized as part of a political conspiracy through the misuse of UAPA leading to his death.” “His death in judicial custody is an attempt to gag the voice of ground level activists working for the poor,” further added Suresh Gupta. He maintained that the activist’s death would not go in vain and would rather spark off a nationwide protest compelling the government to respond on the misuse of UAPA to victimize its opponents. Feroz Raza, town president of CPI said “Stan Swamy’s death in not a natural death but rather a murder which needs to investigated and culprits must be booked.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Nabbed: Ambulance driver accused of raping mentally challenged woman||Sanjay Kumar Das, the ambulance driver, accused of raping a mentally challenged woman patient of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, was arrested today. Das was nabbed from his friend’s residence in Bhuli area, where he had taken refuge. However, the police on the basis of mobile tower location combed the area to arrest him in the wee hours. According to sources, Das had tried fleeing from the site by driving away the ambulance on spotting the police, only to be nabbed and produced before the court. Earlier, the victim during the interaction with a counselor of the Mahila Kosang, Lopa Mudra Chakraborty, had narrated the incident of rape, following which the police formed a team to conduct raids. Meanwhile, taking strong note of the incident, a high level team of both the district administration and police led by Kumar Tarachand, Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order), and others including the likes of, Surendra Kumar-Sub Divisional Officer and Manoj Swargiyar, Additional Superintendent of Police visited the site and reviewed the security arrangement and gave necessary instruction to the hospital administration. The team, which held a marathon meeting with the hospital administration led by superintendent, Arun Kumar Chaudhary and Principal, Dr Shailendra Kumar took details of existing security arrangement of home guard personnel’s deputation and also sought reasons for allowing private ambulances to be parked inside the hospital campus and details like number of eateries and tea stalls operating inside the hospital and more. The team also instructed the hospital administration to immediately repair the broken boundary wall of the hospital to prevent the unauthorized entry of outsiders. They even asked them to have a system in place to ensure registration of all visitors. Addressing the media, after the security review Kumar Tarachand said, “We have conducted a comprehensive review of the security arrangement of the hospital as per the instruction of Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar in the wake of yesterday’s heinous incident and will submit a report.” He added, “We will strengthen the security arrangement in light of discussions held today with the hospital administration as per the instruction of Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar.” Sub-divisional officer, Dhanbad, Surendra Kumar, said, “We have taken into account all aspects of security issues including the presence of tea stalls and eateries inside the campus and parking of private ambulances parked inside the hospital campus, during the meeting and will improve the present state of affairs soon.” Meanwhile, R Ramkumar, City SP of Dhanbad confirmed the arrest of ambulance driver, Sanjay Kumar Das in connection with the rape and said that the accused has been sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Former cyclist  Avtar Singh is secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association||Avtar Singh, a former international cyclist and veteran coach of intellectually impaired, has been elected as secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA). Seventy-one-year-old Singh was elected during the 20th annual general meeting and election which was held virtually on Monday. Two representatives each from 24 districts of the state attended the meeting under the supervision of returning officer and Patna High Court lawyer Madhu Srivastava. Besides Jamshedpur-based Singh, others who were elected include Shashi Ranjan Prasad Singh (president), Baijnath Sharma, Usha Manaki (vice-presidents), Deepa Choudhary (joint secretary), Sugandh Narayan Prasad (treasurer) and Niranjan Kumar Mandal (member). The elected office bearers have promised to take JPSA to new heights by working at the grassroots in village, panchayat, block, district and state level to promote the challenged and help them win medals in national and international competitions. Expressing happiness, Singh, a resident of Jamshedpur’s Sonari area and a seven- time national cycling champion, said, “I will utilise my vast experience in promoting the challenged in Jharkhand and also try to bring them to the social mainstream,” he added. The septuagenarian captained the Indian cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. He has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia. He is the only trainer from Asia to be invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. He has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. He was honoured with the Eunice Kennedy Shriver Award in lifetime category by Samarpan and Bihar Disabled Sports Academy. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life to the cause of special athletes. He has been training and channelising the lives of the special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). Singh runs Jeevika, an NGO involved in promotion of the mentally challenged, with his wife Sukhdeep Kaur. “We use the NGO to bring our students to the social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and are leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distancing, greet people with namaste and to regularly wash their hands,” the seasoned mentor signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils plan to plant trees across vacant government land||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday directed the forest department to roll out plantation drives on all unused and vacant government land to boost the state’s green lungs and conserve the ecology. Speaking at the formal launch of the 72nd Van Mahotsav, a month-long tree plantation drive organsied by the department at Gandhigram near Getalsud dam in Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon, Hemant stressed that planting trees and safeguarding them must be the job of every individual. “While we celebrate yet another Van Mahotsav this year we must take a vow to restore our jal, jungle and jameen (water, forest and land) which our ancestors have conserved for future generations. Now, it is time to do our bid for our next generation. Forests are our state’s identity. If they are lost, we will lose everything,” he said. For this year's Van Mahotsav, the forest department has set a target of planting 1.67 crore saplings. In Ranchi, over a lakh saplings will be planted, said officials. Hemant said, “I have directed officials to convert all unused and vacant government land into green lungs on priority basis. It will not just enhance the greenery and local ecology of the area but will also offer people avenues to spend time in the lap of nature.” He added that the government was already running a plantation scheme titled CM Van Jan Bhumi Yojana under which anyone can begin plantation of fruit-bearing trees on private (raiyati) lands. “the government is providing incentive and assistance of up to 75% of the total cost of plantation. The person on whose land plantation is done will continue to be the owner of those plants/trees,” he explained. Expressing concern over issues such as global warming, melting of glaciers, drying up of rivers, choking of dams and the like, Hemant said that only by everyone’s cooperation, humanity can be saved from the vagaries of such calamities. “Concrete jungles in the form of infrastructure and development are certainly leading to declining of natural forests. We have to decide if we will be able to sustain development at the cost of nature and the environment without replenishing it,” he stressed, appealing to people to play their part. Among those present at Tuesday's programme were Rajya Sabha MP Dhiraj Sahu, Khijri MLA Rajesh Kachchap and officials from the forest department. In a symbolic gesture, the chief minister also provided saplings to five van-samitis and planted a sapling at Getalsud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets 40,000 Covaxin doses, total stocks now enough for a week||At least 40,000 doses of Covaxin were delivered to the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi by an Indigo aircraft on Tuesday morning and subsequently sent to the National Health Mission (NHM) store at Namkum from where the 4000 vials were distributed among districts as per demand. Jharkhand received over 2.57 lakh Covishield doses on Monday and the 40,000 Covaxin doses delivered on Tuesday take the total stock of vaccines in the state to over 4 lakh, enough to step up the immunisation drive for at least five to six days, health officials said. Ranchi got the highest share of 3,400 Covaxin doses from Tuesday's fresh stocks, while 2,900 doses were sent to Dhanbad and 2,600 to East Singhbhum. Giridih received 2,700 doses, while 2,200 doses were sent to Palamau, data shared by the NHM highlighted. Pakur and Ramgarh got 1,100 doses each, while 1,000 doses were sent to each of Lohardaga, Latehar, Jamtara and Simdega districts. “The vaccination campaign will regain momentum now as we have sufficient vaccines in stock to administer shots to over 75,000 beneficiaries every day for about a week,” said an official involved in Covid-19 vaccination drive, adding that the state will receive fresh supplies once the Centre finalises the schedule for the second half of July. The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 hit a new low on Monday as the state managed to vaccinate only 14,000-odd residents owing to an acute shortage of vaccines. Even though Jharkhand received a supply of 2.57 lakh Covishield doses on Monday, the availability of vaccines in stock did not boost the vaccination drive as the vaccines arrived in the afternoon and were distributed among the districts till midnight, officials involved in vaccine logistics said. Jharkhand has received close to 9 lakh Covishield doses and almost 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses from the Centre this month. The state administered vaccines to over 1 lakh beneficiaries daily from July 3 to July 7 after 6 lakh Covishield doses were supplied to Jharkhand on July 2. However, the vaccination drive could not regain the same momentum since July 7 due to vaccine crisis, officials said. As per government data, Jharkhand has administered 76,75,389 doses of vaccines to eligible beneficiaries since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. The state has so far received over 14 lakh Covaxin and more than 63 lakh Covishield doses in total. Besides, some Sputnik V doses were also administered at private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sniffer dog dies, jawan seriously hurt in IED blast in Jharkhand||A sniffer dog was killed and a jawan of the 203 Cobra battalion seriously injured following an IED blast in the Marwa forests under Kurumgarh police station of Gumla district on Tuesday during an anti-Naxalite operation. Jharkhand police spokesperson and IG A. V. Homkar told reporters that the injured jawan, Vishwajeet Kumbkar, was airlifted from the spot of the incident and admitted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital. The jawan sustained injuries in his hand, legs and face and is said to be serious. Tuesday’s operation was jointly rolled out by CRPF, Cobra and district police in the dense forested and mountainous zone of Gumla after a tip-off about the presence of armed rebels in the area. The injured jawan was the handler of the sniffer dog. “During the course of the operation, the dog zeroed on the IED but had stepped on it. The handler (Vishwajeet) was at a few distance away from it. The dog halted at a site after spotting the IED. As the handler approached it to take a closer look, the IED exploded even before the bomb disposal squad could be activated,” said a Gumla police officer. A statement from the state police headquarters in the afternoon maintained that the operation was still underway after evacuation of the injured jawan. “Rebels have laid vast traps of IEDs in the entire vicinity. In the past, a few villagers had died while grazing cattle in similar blasts of  IEDs laid by rebels in the forests," said a  statement from police headquarters, adding that in May this year, security forces had neutralized a rebel in an encounter in the same forest and recovered a stolen police pistol, .303 rifle, 63 live cartridges and 24 can-bombs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three more black fungus deaths in Ranchi  ||At least three more Jharkhand residents died of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Monday, taking the black fungus toll in the state to 29, while three more confirmed cases of the fungal infection took the tally to 98, figures compiled by the health department revealed. All the three casualties, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), were reported in Ranchi, the district which has so far seen 11 black fungus deaths – the highest in Jharkhand. As per government data, at least five residents of East Singhbhum have died of Mucormycosis so far, while the toll in Ramgarh was three. Dhanbad and Godda have reported two casualties each. So far, the state has reported 98 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis. At least 78 patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand, IDSP data highlights. The Jharkhand government notified mMucormycosis as an epidemic last month and directed all districts to report all data related to the disease to the IDSP every day. Mucormycosis is a rare but lethal fungal infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The disease has an average fatality rate of 50 per cent and Covid patients who were administered high dosage of steroids, especially those suffering from diabetes, were more prone to this infection, say doctors. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive against Covid-19 hit a new low on Monday as the state managed to administer vaccine jabs to only about 14,000 residents, the lowest in a day this month. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the first jab was administered to 10,372 residents, while the second dose was administered to 3,749 beneficiaries only. More than 9,000 residents below the age of 45 years got the Covid-19 jabs. As per a bulletin from NHM, at least 13 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 390 in Jharkhand on Monday as the state reported at least 64 Covid recoveries against 43 cases of infection, NHM data highlighted. While no Covid casualties occurred in the state on Monday, East Singhbhum was the only district to report a double-digit-spike. At least 10 cases against nine recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 60, while eight cases against zero recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 65. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by SARS-CoV-2 so far and 98.40 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients have died. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 5044.22 days on Monday against the national average of 708.51 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Civil society organisations, trade unions, and political parties seek probe on Stan death||Members of trade unions, non-BJP parties and civil society organisations will jointly submit a memorandum to Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on July 15 demanding a judicial probe into the alleged “medical negligence” at Taloja Central Jail that led to Father Stan Swamy’s death. Fr Stan, 84, died in judicial custody on July 5 while awaiting bail in Mumbai. The Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist was an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. The trade unions, non-BJP political parties and civil society organisations will take out a silent march to the Raj Bhavan on July 15 under the banner of the newly formed outfit, Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha. “We formed this front on July 11 and are coordinating with trade unions, student unions, farmer unions, non-BJP political parties and civil society groups for the joint peace march on July 15. We will demand a judicial probe into the cause of death of Father Stan Swamy in custody. We will also attach reports of medical negligence faced by the 84-year-old man suffering from Parkinson’s disease and having other ailments, and not being sent for treatment despite showing Covid symptoms and finally testing positive at the hospital,” said Praful Linda, CPM leader and president of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity. The Samity was formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the Centre’s new farm laws. Fr Stan had sought bail four times citing his failing health and the poor medical facilities at the Taloja jail, where he had been kept since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency. “Fr Stan was not even treated by an MBBS doctor in the jail. We have been told that an Ayurveda doctor was looking after him. He was even administered the vaccine despite showing Covid symptoms and eventually tested positive at the Holy Family Hospital. Fr Stan was not taken for an RT-PCR test despite several jail inmates testing positive for Covid in May. All these things led to the deterioration of his health. We would want all these things to come out in an independent judicial probe so that the guilty are punished,” said Linda. Leaders of the Aituc, Intuc and Citu and those from the JMM, Congress, RJD, CPM and the CPI, along with several social organisations, have shown keenness to take part in the rally. Aloka Kujur, another member of the Morcha, said the outfit would also seek “martyr” status for Fr Stan from Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren when he visits Bagaicha to pay his last respects on July 15. Father Jerome Cutinha, Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province, confirmed that Soren would pay his last respects to Fr Stan on July 15. “The ashes will be kept at Bagaicha on July 15 morning for the masses to pay their last respects to Fr Stan. We have got confirmation that chief minister Hemant Soren will also be coming to pay his last respects on that day. Some of our members too will take part in the march on July 15,” said Fr Cutinha. Fr Stan’s ashes will be interred in the first week of August in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
