14-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals fight vaccine shortage in city||At least one private hospital stopped Covid vaccination on Tuesday. Another is administering only second doses of Covishield and a third has stocks that will last barely a couple of days. Covid vaccines have again become scarce at many private hospitals in Calcutta and several of them have stopped or restricted the vaccination drive. Most hospitals have Sputnik V and Covaxin doses but officials there said the maximum demand is for Covishield. All these hospitals placed orders with the manufacturers through the CoWIN portal and made payments by Friday. But till Tuesday night, there was no word when fresh doses would come. Last month, the state government had told private vaccination centres that it would help them procure Covishield and Covaxin doses. The private centres were provided with a link to place orders through the National Health Authority and told to pay the manufacturers directly. However, in the last week of June, the state government had informed the private centres that the process was cancelled because of a new tax component that would be added from July. The payments would be returned to the private vaccination centres and they were told to submit fresh demands through CoWIN. Placing the order through the portal would help the Centre monitor the distribution system. But many private hospitals said such complications had delayed the procurement process and stocks were getting exhausted before the arrival of fresh doses. Charnock Hospital stopped the vaccination drive on Tuesday as its stocks had exhausted. “We were rationing Co-vaxin doses for the last few days. On Monday, we vaccinated only 20 persons,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital. “The Covishield stocks had been exhausted more than a month back.” The hospital has placed fresh orders for 6,000 doses of Covishield and around 1,000 doses of Covaxin. But there is no clarity yet on when they will come. Peerless Hospital has not been administering the first dose of Covishield since Monday. “Only the second dose of Covishield is being administered. We have 1,800 doses and that will last for barely a week,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The number of vaccinations has come down from around 600 every day to less than 400. “We are administering a few doses of Sputnik V and Covaxin. Around 80 per cent of the people want Covishield,” he said. The hospital has placed orders for 35,000 doses of Covishield and 7,000 doses of Covaxin. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has stocks of Covishield for barely two days. “We have 1,000 doses left and every day around 500 people are getting vaccinated. We have placed orders through CoWIN for 35,000 doses of Covishield and made payments last Friday, but till now there is no response from the manufacturer,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has reduced vaccination at all three units and also at off-site camps. “We have stocks for at most a week. The number of people being vaccinated daily at our three units has dropped from around 3,000 to 1,500. Off-site vaccinations have gone down from around 5,000 daily to around 2,000,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. The group has placed demands for 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield and 30,000 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation health clinics see sharp drop in Covid shots||Several clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation that were vaccinating about 300 people daily in April are now administering around 150 jabs, a sharp drop that civic officials are attributing to unavailability of doses. The civic body had targeted to vaccinate 50,000 people daily from its centres, a feat it had achieved earlier. But over the past fortnight, the ward health clinics and other Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC have been able to administer only about 30,000 doses a day, said officials. “We have the capacity to vaccinate up to one lakh people from our centres daily. Earlier, we had performed 50,000 vaccinations in a day from our centres. A fast vaccination is the only way to prevent a third wave of Covid,” a CMC doctor said. “But in the last fortnight we have not been able to vaccinate more than 30,000 people daily. The number may seem high but if one considers that we run 190 centres, this is not a figure we can be happy about. We have the ability to vaccinate far more people,” the doctor said. CMC doctors said some of their clinics had vaccinated 300 or more people daily in April. “We had inoculated around 300 people on several days in April. The figure stood at 250 on many other days,” said a doctor in charge of a clinic in Garia. “Nowadays, we are vaccinating between 100 and 150 people daily.” Doctors attached to several other CMC clinics spoke about a similar drop in the vaccination numbers. The shortage of doses has crippled vaccination across the state, said a health department official. For all 23 districts of Bengal, there were only about 12 lakh vaccine doses in stock. “The doses will last for only four days. We are expecting fresh supplies in the second half of July. If enough doses come, we will scale up vaccination,” the official said. The daily vaccination numbers have come down from a peak of 5 lakh to about 2.5 lakh. The shortage has prompted the CMC and the state health department to give priority to second dose recipients. Xavier’s camp St Xavier’s Collegiate School organised a vaccination camp for the families of students who attend their night school on Tuesday. The free drive on the primary school campus was in association with the CMC and Alumnorum Societas (Alsoc — St Xavier’s School Old Boys’ Association). Around 380 parents, most of whom work as hawkers and house help, received Covishield doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to start undergraduate classes over digital platforms from August 9 ||St Xavier’s University, New Town, will start its undergraduate classes from August 9 over digital platforms. The university conducted online tests for admission to commerce, management, economics, English and mass communication between July 10 and 12. Vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said, “Students encountering connectivity problems or are unable to afford datapacks can come to the campus and use the university’s connectivity facilities to attend classes.” St Xavier’s is a private university. At a meeting between education minister Bratya Basu and vice-chancellors of state universities last week, it was decided that these universities would accept the application forms between August 2 and 20 and start undergraduate classes from October 1. At St Xavier’s University, Father Felix Raj said, results of the admission test would be announced on July 16. Admissions will start thereafter and continue till July 31. “Admission will be given on the basis of the tests. However, the student must pass a plus-II examination conducted by a recognised board/council in India and obtain a minimum of 55 per cent marks in the aggregate and also minimum 45 per cent marks in each of the four subjects as mentioned in the eligibility criteria. If it is found that a candidate has been selected on the basis of an admission test but has failed to fulfil the minimum marks criteria then the admission will be cancelled,” he told The Telegraph. CBSE board and the ICSE council would declare the Class-XII results on or before July 31. The state higher secondary council is going to publish results on July 22. An official of the university said an early start of the classes would enable the university to cover the syllabus and conduct the semester exam on time. “This year we are being able to start classes early as the university is enrolling students through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams,” he said. Since the board exams could not be held this year because of a surge in the number of Covid cases, the university conducted admission tests hoping that this would bring out the potential of an aspirant to study the programme and give a level playing field to all applicants. Father Felix said: “The prolonged run of the pandemic has caused severe financial distress among the families. There could be students who are not in a position to buy a gadget or afford the cost of datapacks. They can stay at the hostels and use the computer facilities on the campus to attend the classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal higher secondary results from 4pm on July 22||The Bengal higher secondary results will be announced on July 22. The websites where results can be accessed include http://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametc.com, www.results.shiksha, www.westbengal.shiksha, http://abpananda.abplive.in/ and abpeducation.com. Candidates have to submit their registration numbers to know the results online after 4pm on July 22. Mark sheets will be distributed from July 23. To know the results through text messaging, students have to type WB12 roll number and send the message to 56070, 5676750 or 56263. The candidates can register their roll numbers and mobile numbers on www.exametc.com to know the results through SMS for free. The students can also download a mobile app from www.results.shiksha to view the results. “The registration numbers that were provided to the candidates when they were in Class XI will have to be submitted to know the results through websites. The council will not publish any merit list this year. When the candidates visit their schools on July 23 to collect mark sheets, they will be given admit cards and certificates as well,” said Mahua Das, the president of the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education. The HS exams were not held this year because of Covid. The HS council has given 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the total was then added to 30-mark practical (for lab-based subjects) or 20-mark project (for non-lab subjects) to arrive at the final marks of an HS candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||State excise department bars The Park from serving alcohol||The state excise department has barred The Park, from where 37 people were arrested early on Sunday for allegedly partying in violation of Covid norms, from serving alcohol in all its 10 bars and rooms till further notice. A written order handed to the management of the Park Street hotel on Tuesday afternoon mentioned that the department had learnt that liquor had been served on Saturday night beyond the stipulated time of 8pm, in violation of the state government’s order under the Disaster Management Act. Hence, the hotel had been barred from serving liquor. “The FIR drawn up by police says that during the Saturday night party, liquor was served in the hotel’s corridor. When we asked the hotel authorities whether liquor served to the revelers was from their bar or from other sources, they couldn’t give any satisfactory reply,” said an official of the excise department. A case has been lodged under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code with Park Street police station. On Sunday, the excise department, which is responsible for licensing outlets serving or selling alcohol, questioned some hotel officials after going through details of the FIR. Officials of the department said they found out that liquor had been served to guests at the Saturday night party in the corridor adjoining rooms. “Had the guests been drinking in their rooms, we would have no role to play. But that wasn’t the case with this particular party,” an official of the department said. “The state government’s order related to Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut by 8pm.” The detective department of Calcutta police, which is probing the case, has asked a few officials of the hotel, including the floor manager and the food and beverage manager, to appear for a round of questioning at Lalbazar on Wednesday. “The FIR has the name of the hotel. We would like to know who had arranged for the DJ and the console sets for the Saturday night party and whether the revelry was restricted to the guests who had booked rooms or there were guests from outside,” an officer of the detective department said. Among the 37 persons arrested, seven were remanded in police custody and two in judicial custody. The rest were released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Trafficking survivors struggle to keep trade afloat||The pandemic has left in tatters the dream of hundreds of trafficking survivors to earn financial independence, key to sustainable rehabilitation and a life of dignity. Over 250 trafficking survivors in North and South 24-Parganas, members of self-help groups engaged in small business ventures, have been struggling to keep their trade afloat because of the Covid-19 curbs. The business ventures include trading in readymade garments, imitation jewellery and other stationeries. Some have set up tailoring units and some others have started pisciculture. The membership of self-help groups meant easy access to low-interest loans from banks, crucial in starting their own ventures. Most of these self-help groups were benefited by the Anandadhara scheme, launched by the state government to empower rural women in 2012. A 26-year-old woman who lives in a village near the Maina police check post in Barasat in North 24-Parganas, around 15km from the heart of Calcutta, has been running a tailoring business for over three years. She had started from scratch but by March 2020, she had around a dozen people working for her on a contractual basis. She got bulk orders, many from Calcutta, for embroidery work on saris and salwar suits. The 2020 lockdown had hit her hard but she had recovered and was earning “over Rs 10,000 every month” even after paying the contractual workers. But the curbs of 2021 — absence of adequate transport options and suspension of local trains — have again crippled her business. “The orders from the city have stopped. I have to depend on a handful of retail customers in the village. I earn barely Rs 2,000 a month,” she said. Her husband, a daily wage earner at construction sites, is out of work as well because of the pandemic. The woman, who was trafficked to Pune when she was a minor and rescued from a brothel in the Budhwar Peth area during a police raid in 2010, had received a stitching machine from the local administration as part of a rehabilitation scheme. She also received business loans through the self-help group. Another woman in Canning I block in South 24-Parganas, 60km from the heart of Calcutta, had started trading in imitation jewellery, trinkets, hairbands and clips. She procured her stock from Burrabazar and sold it at her village and a couple of neighbouring villages. “I am not being able to pick up new stock because local trains are suspended. But there is no point in procuring fresh clothes because I am left with unsold stock worth Rs 5,000,” said the woman, in her 20s. The number of customers has nosedived because tens of thousands of people in rural areas have lost their income because of the pandemic. The purchasing power of the local population has gone down sharply. A handful of customers are willing to buy from her but on credit. Many customers still owe her “a lot of money”. Her father, who used to work as a daily wage earner at a tannery in Tangra, has also been out of work since May. The woman, who escaped from the clutches of traffickers on a Delhi-bound train in 2015, became a member of a self-help group a couple of years ago and got a loan of Rs 10,000. She has faltered on repayment for the past two months. Most of the women this newspaper spoke to said they were struggling to repay the monthly instalments in the absence of fresh orders and rolling cash. Some of these survivors have received victim compensations from the state. Some others are engaged in the long and cumbersome legal battle to get compensation. But many survivors have not been able to seek legal recourse for want of resources and fear of stigma. Rights activists working with the survivors said the self-help groups were a step in the right direction but the pandemic took them back several years. They listed some cruel fallouts of the pandemic that were hurting the survivors, apart from the lack of transport options: ⚫ In most of the survivors’ families, other earning members have also lost their income ⚫ Most of these families are yet to receive even one dose of a Covid vaccine. They feel unprotected and are weary to step out for work ⚫ The crisis has forced them to turn to money lenders who charge steep interest rates. Being financially vulnerable, the women can fall prey to traffickers once again, warn activists. “The survivors showed a lot of courage to start their own ventures. Once they started earning, they realised that financial independence held the key to a life of dignity. Now, a virus is threatening to rob them of that dignity once again,” said Sambhu Nanda of Partners for Anti-Trafficking (PAT), a network of eight organisations working in North 24-Parganas that helps in rescue and rehabilitation of trafficking survivors. The network helped in setting up 10 self-help groups across North 24-Parganas that engaged around 130 survivors. Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a network of organisations in South 24-Parganas, said she was flooded with requests for help almost every day by survivors. The Goranbose network supports around 15 self-help groups that engage around 150 survivors. Most of them are dependent on ration from the administration and NGOs, she said. “The women refused to give up even after taking a massive hit during the lockdown imposed last year. But the renewed curbs are threatening to deliver a knockout punch,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Several parking rackets thrive across New Town||Parking rackets are fleecing owners of four-wheelers and two-wheelers at a time many men and women are avoiding getting on public transport as a precaution against Covid-19. Parking “agents” in several parking zones in New Town — including the ones in front of Axis Mall, near Central Mall and on the Ring Road of Eco Park — are collecting exorbitant fees. The parking zones in front of Axis Mall and on the Ring Road are run by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) employees, while a private agency has been hired to collect parking fees from vehicles in front of Central Mall. Apart from that, a group of “agents” has set up unauthorised parking zones on roads leading to Axis Mall and Central Mall. The parked cars constrict the carriageways, triggering bottlenecks. The parking rates fixed by the NKDA are Rs 10 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 an hour for two-wheelers. People who are commuting to New Town as well as residents of the township said the rate chart was hardly followed. The Telegraph drove around New Town on Tuesday and saw parking “agents” take anything from Rs 20 to Rs 50 an hour for cars and between Rs 10 and Rs 20 an hour for two-wheelers. After driving through nearly all major thoroughfares and visiting at least five such “parking lots”, a board announcing the parking charges was spotted opposite Axis Mall's main gate in Action Area I. But the part where the rates for four-wheelers were written was covered by black paint. This newspaper also asked several “agents” to show their identity cards but none had any. “This weekend I was forced to cough up Rs 30 although I had parked my car for barely 45 minutes in front of Axis Mall,” said Sudhakshina Sinha. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said: "We will look into this immediately.” An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they too would look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Business||PNB moves court seeking restoration of assets of Nirav Modi's firms confiscated by ED||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Wednesday moved multiple applications before a special PMLA court here, seeking restoration of the assets of two firms owned by fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is accused of duping the bank.  The bank submitted the applications before special judge V C Barde under the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had earlier confiscated assets worth over Rs 329.66 crore of Nirav Modi under the fugitive economic offenders law. The confisticated property includes assets of Firestar Diamond International Private Limited and Firestar International Limited, firms owned by Modi.  Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over USD 2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai.  The court has asked the ED to file its reply on July 28.  Nirav Modi (49) was declared a fugitive economic offender by the PMLA court in December 2019. Following that, the court had authorised the ED to confiscate the assets under the provisions of the Act. He is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March, 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Zomato's $1.3 bn IPO fully subscribed on Day One||Giant food-delivery startup Zomato was fully subscribed by investors on the first day of its blockbuster $1.3-billion initial public offering, giving a big confidence boost to a string of other Indian unicorn start-ups waiting in the wings to list on Dalal Street. Investor enthusiasm for the the IPO of Zomato, which is backed by Chinese billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group, bodes well for the looming mega-IPO of unicorn fintech startup Paytm, analysts say. “Over a dozen companies are planning IPOs now, so this is only the start,” says Pranav Pai, founding partner of the VC firm 3one4 Capital. Zomato is the country’s first online food delivery company to go public in India’s blistering IPO market. The first-day sellout showed investors are willing to buy into Indian start-ups still haemorrhaging cash and what analysts called -- in Zomato’s case -- its pricey $9-billion valuation. Financial institutions and retail investors on Wednesday bid for 749 million shares of Zomato against the 719 million shares on offer, making the IPO 104 per cent oversubscribed. “On the back of Zomato's success, we should see some of the other IPOs also go through,” says Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence and an advisor to financial institutions and corporate law firms. Zomato’s IPO to raise Rs 9,375 crore is the country’s biggest this year and the latest in a string of public listings planned by the country’s fast-multiplying unicorns -- startups that have a value of at least $1 billion. (According to Bloomberg, India is spawning unicorns at the rate of three a month). In fact, while many businesses hit rock-bottom during the devastating Covid-19 second wave, India added 11 new unicorns, bringing its total to 48. “A combination of rapid total addressable market expansion, increased consumer awareness and demand shifting to digital, and a bottom-up emergence of talented founders with domain expertise to craft meaningful solutions has resulted in India becoming the third-largest startup ecosystem after the US and China,” says Pai. Online companies have become increasingly popular with investors as the pandemic has shifted more consumers onto the Internet. “Over 2020 and 2021, record-setting amounts of global capital has also entered to capture this opportunity. With a dozen start-up IPOs planned over the next few quarters, this exit cycle will also lend more optimism and should support additional reinvestments back into the ecosystem,” says Pai. Analysts also say that the stretch between company launches and IPOs is getting shorter as India’s start-up ecosystem matures.  “The accumulation of larger amounts of dry powder in VC funds every year clearly demonstrates the many significant steps forward taken by the ecosystem. We expect Indian VC to become a mainstay asset class for allocators in India, as well as top-tier global allocators. Our estimates indicate that Indian start-ups should raise between $15 billion to $20 billion, on average, every year this decade,” says Pai. If all goes well and the shares sell at the top of the Rs 72-Rs 76 price range (the IPO closes on Friday), Zomato will be worth Rs 64,365 crore or $8.6 billion -- not bad for a company that lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. Those losses, though, were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to improved efficiency. Analysts have been keeping a close eye on the fate of Zomato’s listing with the expected IPO of digital payment startup Paytm that’s also backed by Ant Group that’s expected to seek to raise as much as $3 billion.  Shareholders include Japan’s SoftBank and Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway have reportedly approved a plan to sell Rs 120 billion. Another company Mobikwik has also issued the draft red herring prospectus for an IPO. Paytm which is also losing money, posting a consolidated loss of Rs 17 billion for the 2020-21 financial year. But the pandemic which has made many more consumers carry out their buying, banking and other transactions online has made Internet-based consumer companies a must-have in many investor portfolios. Still, though, “how Indian institutional investors take to the IPOs of Zomato and Paytm, given their massive losses alongside hyper-growth, will be interesting to see and probably crucial for other B2C (business-to-customer) online services companies lining up for domestic IPOs, says Natarajan. The Indian public markets have seen successful listings of pure-play Internet and mobile companies like Info Edge, Matrimony, JustDial and IndiaMART, but these were mature ventures from the 2000 era and had a track record of profitability, points out Natarajan.  Still, Zomato co-founder Gaurav Gupta is brimming with confidence about the company’s prospects: “There’s a large opportunity to build out,” Gupta told ET Now. “If Zomato was a movie, you have only watched the trailer, the movie hasn’t even started” he said. The pandemic has given 13-year-old Zomato’s operations a big boost with Indians stuck at home and now, even with Covid curbs easing, hesitant to eat out. Zomato delivered some Rs 40 crore worth of meals last year. Still, Zomato recognises the pandemic “bump” may not last forever, warning in its prospectus “the accelerated growth of our business stemming from the effects of the Covid-19-pandemic may not continue in the future. And there’s growing competition. Amazon is going for growth in its delivery food activities and Zomato’s battling rival Swiggy for customers. Swiggy is reportedly in advanced stages of talks with SoftBank for an investment of up to $450 million into food delivery startup, which will peg its valuation at $5 billion. But even with strong competition, on the bright side, analysts believes that the Indian food delivery market is still vastly underpenetrated (it comprises just 6-8 per cent of the overall food services market). The Indian online food delivery industry is projected to grow at a staggering compound annual growth rate of 28.84 per cent to $21.41 billion by 2026, according to one estimate. Zomato fattened itself before the pandemic by acquiring Uber Eats India (Uber now holds a close to 10 per cent stake in Zomato as a result). It’s already been a blockbuster year -- in fact the busiest in 12 years -- for IPO listings on Indian exchanges with $5.6 billion raised so far from investors in the red-hot Indian share market that has defied gravity throughout the pandemic. Analysts project that the total capital raised this year from IPOs could be close to $10 billion. And for investors in IPOs this year, they’re smiling all the way to the bank with their shares up by an average of 62 per cent, according to Bloomberg. Still, analysts are wary of what they call the “punchy valuations” of Zomato while it still has to earn a profit. Brokerage KR Choksey says it’s not at ease with what it calls Zomato’s “sky-high valuation.” Other analysts say Zomato is a “longterm growth story” and is best for investors with “long-term investment horizons. Zomato was valued at $5.4 billion after its last fundraising round in February 2021 from marquee investors that also include Tiger Global Management and Glade Brook Capital Partners. RPG Group chairman Harsh Goenka has been even more outspoken on Zomato’s valuation. “Can anyone explain to me - Two top hotels including global Indian brands - total market cap Rs 44,0000 crore. Top 6 QSR chains serving millions of customers - total market cap - 60,000 crores; Zomato - continuing huge losses. Hold my vadapav! Market cap - 60,000 crores???” he tweeted. It’s definitely a case of “watch this space.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank bars Mastercard from adding new clients from July 22||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday barred Mastercard Asia Pacific from onboarding new credit, debit and prepaid card customers with effect from July 22 as it failed to comply with data storage norms. The supervisory action will not impact existing customers of Mastercard, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. Taking action against Mastercard, RBI said, "notwithstanding lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities being given, the entity has been found to be non-compliant with the directions on Storage of Payment System Data". According to RBI, the directions will not impact existing customers of Mastercard. "Mastercard shall advise all card issuing banks and non-banks to conform to these directions". In terms of its circular on Storage of Payment System Data on April 6, 2018, all system providers were directed to ensure that within a period of six months the entire data relating to payment systems is stored only in India, as per the central bank. Mastercard becomes the third major Payment System Operator on which restrictions have been imposed for non-compliance with RBI's direction on Storage of Payment System Data. Earlier, RBI had restricted American Express Banking Corp and Diners Club International Ltd from onboarding new domestic customers on to their card networks from May 1 for violating data storage norms. In April 6, 2018, the RBI had directed all Payment System Providers to ensure that within a period of six months the entire data (full end-to-end transaction details / information collected / carried / processed as part of the message / payment instruction) relating to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system only in India. They were also required to report compliance to RBI and submit a board-approved System Audit Report conducted by a CERT-In empanelled auditor within specified timelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises 134 points to close at 52,904||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 134 points on Wednesday, tracking gains mainly in IT stocks, despite weak global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 134.32 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 52,904.05, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 41.60 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,853.95. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Infosys, L&T, Tata Steel and ITC. On the other hand, Maruti, HUL, Nestle India and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. "Dropping institutional participation rates have contributed in part to a 20 per cent drop in daily market volumes however, market breadth and retail participation in futures segment continue to remain robust and underpinning strength in ongoing broad market rally," said S Hariharan, Head- Sales Trading, Emkay Global Financial Services. Further, he noted that strong investor interest in new issuances like Zomato, Tatva Chintan and Clean Science have also contributed to some extent to reduced flows into the secondary segment, and a loaded pipeline of issues in the coming few months would be expected to play a similar role. "July has seasonally been the lowest volatility month for headline indices in the last 15 years, and we expect similarly subdued index moves this year too. The ongoing results season can be expected to see strong numbers from IT, chemicals and real estate businesses, while numbers would be relatively weaker for autos and financials names, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.82 per cent to USD 75.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Centre hikes Dearness Allowance of employees, pensioners from 17 per cent to 28 per cent||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to restore Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) for central government employees and pensioners from July 1, 2021 while increasing the rate of allowance to 28 per cent. The increase in the DA and DR will impose an additional annual burden of Rs 34,401 crore on the exchequer, Minister of Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur told reporters after the cabinet meeting. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Government had frozen the three additional instalments of the DA and DR which were due from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. The move, Thakur said, will benefit about 48.34 lakh central employees and 65.26 pensioners. "The government has decided to increase DA to central government employees and DR to pensioners with effect from July 1, 2021 representing an increase of 11 per cent over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the basic pay/pension," said a release. "#Cabinet approves restoring of three instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief with effect from 01.07.2021 representing an increase of 11% over the existing rate of 17% of the Basic Pay/Pension. No arrears for the period from 01.01.2020 till 30.06.2021 shall be paid," the official handle of PIB tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation eases to 12.07 percent in June||The wholesale price-based inflation eased marginally to 12.07 per cent in June as crude oil and food items witnessed some softening in prices. However, WPI inflation remained in double-digit for the third consecutive month in June, mainly due to a low base of last year. WPI inflation was (-) 1.81 per cent, in June 2020. Snapping the five straight months of uptick, the wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation in June softened as prices of food articles and crude oil eased, even though manufactured products hardened. "The annual rate of inflation is 12.07 per cent for the month of June, 2021 (over June, 2020) as compared to 1.81 per cent in June 2020. "The high rate of inflation in June 2021, is primarily due to low base effect and rise in prices of mineral oils viz petrol, diesel (HSD), naphtha, ATF, furnace oil etc, and manufactured products like basic metal, food products, chemical products etc as compared the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said. Inflation in fuel and power basket eased to 32.83 per cent during June, against 37.61 per cent in May. Inflation in food articles too eased to 3.09 per cent in June, from 4.31 per cent May, even as onion prices spiked. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 10.88 per cent in June, against 10.83 per cent in the previous month. The RBI in its monetary policy last month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows and committed to maintain an accommodative policy stance to support growth. Retail inflation remained above the RBI's comfort level of 6 per cent for the second straight month at 6.26 per cent in June, data released earlier this week showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 104.99 points or 0.20 per cent lower at 52,664.74 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.80 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,780.55. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping around 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, L&T, HCL Tech and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 397.04 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 52,769.73, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.76 per cent to settle at 15,812.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 113.83 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmark Nifty appears to be consolidating in the range of 15,600-15,900. "However, we continue to believe that any meaningful correction in the market should be taken as an opportunity to get in quality stocks. "Visible improvement in key economic data including IIP, import-export business momentum and visible traction in overall economic activities in June indicates healthy corporate earnings for 1QFY22E despite the second wave of COVID-19," he said. US markets finished lower as a higher-than-expected jump in CPI print for June weighed on investors' sentiments, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.31 per cent to USD 76.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Coal India picks Accenture to advise on leveraging technology to increase production||Coal India Limited (CIL) has picked up consulting giant Accenture to advise it on how to leverage technology to increase production from seven of its large open cast mines of its two subsidiaries — South Eastern Coalfields Limited and Northern Coalfields Limited. Accenture has said it is possible to increase production from the seven mines by 100 million tonnes in 2022-2023 vis-a-vis 2021-22. Coal India officials said the seven high yielding mines accounted for nearly 32 per cent, or 188mt of the miner’s total output of 596mt during 2020-21. While the three mines of SECL contributed around 112mt, the four of Northern Coalfields produced 76mt. The seven identified mines are Kusmunda, Gevra, Dipka of South Eastern Coalfields Ltd and Nigahi, Jayant, Dudhichua, Khadia of Northern Coalfields Ltd . Accenture will use data analytics in its work and will advise Coal India at all stages of production from planning to operations till despatch and monitoring. As an initial recommendation, it has suggested the heavy earth moving machines be fitted with digital sensors to monitor their  efficiency . The move helps in addressing the road blocks and taking corrective measures. The objective is to extract higher volumes of coal at lower costs. “This is a first of its kind initiative by the company utilising digitalisation to ramp up coal output. It will be enabled in seven select mines for transformation across the entire business value chain of mining operations,” said a senior official of Coal India. Accenture will be paid its success fees only if the production from the seven mines crosses a threshold. Subsequently, it will be paid an agreed sum for every additional tonne of coal produced in the mines. “Learning from the outcome and success of this model we may replicate it in our other large mines,” said the official. Industry observers said extracting an additional 100mt from the running mines was a substantial volume amid challenges of land acquisition and environment concerns delaying greenfield and brownfield expansions. This incremental amount could play a role in import substitution. India imported 215.92mt of coal in 2020-21, including 136.77mt of non-coking coal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Covid: Govt exempts basic customs duty on imports of test kit raw materials||The government has exempted basic customs duty on imports of specified API/ excipients for Amphotericin B and raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits as the number of Covid-19 cases slowly increases amidst concerns of a third wave of the pandemic. In a notification dated July 12, the finance ministry said the basic customs duty exemption on raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits would be till September 30, 2021. The exemption on specified API (active pharmaceutical ingredients)/excipients for Amphotericin B would be valid till August 31. Fear of third wave Mahesh Jaising, partner, Deloitte India, said it was not surprising that the government has exempted the customs duty on raw materials for Covid testing kits, given the fact that a third-wave was likely to hit the country soon. Covid test kits attract 5 per cent GST rate (till September 30) and this exemption will further reduce the cost for the manufacturers and, therefore, the general public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Patanjali Research Foundation Trust gets five-year tax exemption||Patanjali Research Foundation Trust has been granted a five-year tax exemption by the income tax department by recognising it as a ‘research association’. Tax experts said they would be able to claim tax benefit for any sum invested for scientific research. “The central government hereby approves Patanjali Research Foundation Trust, Haridwar under the category ‘Research Association’ for Scientific Research,” a notification dated July 12, issued by the CBDT, said. The notification will apply from the date of publication in the Official Gazette (i.e from the previous year 2021-22) and shall be applicable for assessment years 2022-23 to 2027-28, it said. Neha Malhotra, director, Nangia Andersen LLP, said: “In computing the income under head business and profession, a taxpayer is permitted to deduct any amount paid to an ‘approved scientific research association’ for undertaking scientific research. A business entity that pays any amount to the Patanjali for scientific research shall be eligible to claim the said expense as deduction from business income under section 35 of the Income Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||S&P Global Ratings keeps India’s sovereign rating unchanged at BBB-||S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday kept India’s sovereign rating unchanged at the lowest investment grade of ‘BBB-’ for the 14th year in a row and said the government’s ability to execute additional economic reforms that spur investment and create jobs will be crucial for recovery from the current economic slowdown. S&P projected a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal year that began in April and a 7.8 per cent expansion in the following year. GDP, which shrank from $2.87 trillion in 2019-20 to $2.66 trillion in the following year, is projected to expand to $3.96 trillion in 2024-25. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 envisioned making India a $5 trillion economy and a global economic powerhouse by 2024-25. Forecasting economic recovery to gain pace through the second half of 2021-22 fiscal, S&P kept the rating outlook at stable. “The government’s ability to deliver and execute additional economic reforms, especially those that spur investment and job creation, will be important for India’s ability to recover from the economic slowdown. “Existing vulnerabilities, including a relatively weak financial sector, rigid labour markets, and sluggish private investment, could hamper the economic recovery if not meaningfully addressed,” S&P said . “S&P Global Ratings affirms its ‘BBB-’ long-term and ‘A-3’ short-term unsolicited foreign and local currency sovereign ratings on India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||As many as 23 bills to be tabled during Parliament monsoon session||As many as 23 bills will be tabled  in Parliament during the 19-day monsoon session starting next week. The focus is on the bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and the amendment to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961. “The (insolvency) amendment is aimed at providing speedier, cost effective, semi-formal and less disruptive framework for insolvency resolution of corporate debtors in distress,” according to the Lok Sabha bulletin. There has been a growing dissatisfaction over the pace of resolution under the IBC Code. Very few cases are settled within the 270-day period for resolution. The amendment to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961 would provide immediate relief to the thousands of depositors who had their money parked in stressed lenders. Last year, the government raised insurance cover on deposit five-fold to Rs 5 lakh with a view to provide support to the depositors of ailing lenders such as Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Following the collapse of PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank also came under stress leading to restructuring by the regulator and the government. The other important bill is the one seeking to amend the Electricity Act. This will allow consumers to choose from multiple power distribution services. The proposed amendments prescribe the rights and duties of consumers and aim to strengthen the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity through the appointment of a member from the law background in every commission. In the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Amendment Bill, 2021, the government  intends to amend the law related to acquisition of land containing coal deposits. It aims at allowing leasing of coal and mining rights to companies, including those in the private sector, which emerge as the successful bidder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Adani Airport Holdings takes control of Mumbai International Airport Ltd||Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, has taken over the management control of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) from the GVK group. The company has received the approvals from the Centre, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) of Maharashtra and the state government. MIAL is India’s second busiest airport by both passenger and cargo traffic. The Adanis now have eight airports under its wings, making them India’s largest player accounting for 25 per cent of footfalls. With the addition of MIAL, Adani Airports will also control 33 per cent of the country’s air cargo traffic. Adani said post-pandemic demand for air travel in India and the rest of the world was expected to surge. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) expects global passenger traffic to recover to 88 per cent of pre-Covid levels by 2022 and exceed the levels in 2023. Adani Airports has forecast its share of passenger traffic to grow to 100 million by the end of next fiscal from 80 million in 2019-20 on the basis of 12 per cent compounded annual growth rate of traffic. Adani will begin the construction of the Navi Mumbai International Airport next month and complete the financial closure in the next 90 days. The new international airport will be commissioned in 2024. “Our larger objective is to reinvent airports as ecosystems that drive local economic development and act as the nuclei around which we can catalyse aviation-linked businesses. These include metropolitan developments that span entertainment facilities, ecommerce and logistics capabilities, aviation dependent industries, smart city developments, and other innovative business concepts,” Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group, said. He said the group’s airport expansion strategy was intended to integrate India’s larger cities with the smaller  ones in a hub-and-spoke model. In February this year, AAHL which is the flagship holding company of the group for its airports business has acquired additional 23 per cent stake in MIAL from ACSA Global Ltd (ACSA) and Bid Services Division (Mauritius) Ltd  or Bidvest for Rs 1684.25 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Zomato IPO to open for subscription at price band of Rs 72-76 per share||The initial public offer of Zomato will open for subscription on Wednesday at a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Being the first IPO from a unicorn (a start-up with valuation of more than $1 billion) and a web aggregator, the issue has generated immense buzz with analysts recommending the shares for listing gains. Some others have cautioned against its expensive valuation and have recommended the shares to those with a high appetite for risk. Investors must buy a minimum of 195 shares in the IPO which comprises a fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 9,000 crore and an offer-for-sale (OFS) of Rs 375 crore by Info Edge (India) Ltd. “The IPO is interesting considering the fact that its the first from a unicorn and also from a technology platform. The market reaction to the issue is mixed, but it does offer some listing pop as of today,” says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment research firm. The grey market premium for the issue has reportedly dropped to Rs 9-10 per share from over Rs 20 at one point of time. Brokerage LKP Securities said the company’s food delivery business has grown rapidly since 2019, while its unit economics has improved consistently. Analysts at Motilal Oswal said Zomato operates in a highly underpenetrated market: of the total food consumption in the country restaurants make up 8-9 per cent, of which only 8 per cent is online food delivery. Analysts at Choice Broking said the Zomato issue was overpriced as the price-by-earnings-per-share multiple was 29.9 which is at a premium to the global peer average. “This initial public offer is not for the retail investor, but investors with higher risk appetite with long term investment horizon can apply,’’ the brokerage noted. MobiKwik One MobiKwik Systems, the digital payments start-up, has filed draft papers with Sebi to raise Rs 1,900 crore through an IPO. The IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 1,500 crore and an offer for sale of up to Rs 400 crore by promoters and existing shareholders. Meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Board of India has reportedly begun a preliminary enquiry into the preferential issues of Barbeque Nation and LIC Housing Finance. Sebi’s move is linked to the controversial preferential allotment by PNB Housing Finance to Carlyle, which is now being heard at the Securities Appellate Tribunal. A CNBC TV-18 report on Tuesday said Sebi has asked the stock exchanges to examine the proposed preferential issues of Barbeque Nation and LIC Housing Finance and that the bourses may have issued an examination notice to both these firms on the valuation of the preference issue. Kredent fund-raising Calcutta-based startup Kredent InfoEdge has raised Rs 10 crore from Kotak Securities . The startup, which offers data analytics and equity market learning to its 2 million users, has set its sights on expanding its user base to 10 million by 2023. The company is backed by investors such as Ramesh Damani and IndiaMart founder Dinesh Agarwal. “We have created the leanings and data analytics platform. Now we will connect with all the brokers so that anyone who is consuming data analytics from us can transact through the respective brokers,” said Vivek Bajaj, co-founder and director, StockEdge & Elearnmarkets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||India||Rajiv Pratap Rudy flies Dayanidhi Maran in a 'flight to remember'||So, how does it feel when a fellow Parliamentarian doubles up as your commercial aircraft pilot? Ask Dayanidhi Maran.  "A flight to remember indeed," Maran said, after he travelled in a private aircraft from Delhi, piloted by none other than Rajiv Pratap Rudy, MP, with the face mask initally hiding his identity, before the Captain declared he will fly the DMK MP and others all the way here in the three hour flight on Tuesday.  In a series of tweets and a statement, the Central Chennai MP described how it came as a surprise when Rudy, a former Union Minister, made the revelation.  "So you are traveling in this flight as well, said a person dressed in the Captain's uniform. I could not recognize him with his mask on, although his voice sounded familiar. I nodded my head, still wondering who it could be. He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask," Maran said.  "So you dont recognize me,he exclaimed. I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior Member of Parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy!" Maran added. He recalled that just two hours from then, the two were part of intense discussions at the Estimates Committee and now "I couldn't believe my eyes, seeing his transformation from a politician to a pilot." "I was pleasantly surprised and told Rudyji that I couldn't believe that he was going to be the captain flying us from Delhi to Chennai. He laughed and said "Yes, I noticed that you didn't recognize me. I fly frequently!," Maran said. He added he was honoured to be flown by his good friend and colleague and recalled that Rudy served as a Minister of State (in the NDA government), when his father, the late Murasoli Maran, was the Union Minister for Commerce. "A flight to remember indeed! How often does a sitting Member of Parliament captain a commercial flight? I'm sure I will be talking about this for a long time. Thank you Captain @RajivPratapRudy , MP for flying us safely from Delhi to Chennai!" the DMK leader said. Rudy, Lok Sabha MP from Bihar, responded to Maran in a series of tweets in Tamil and expressed joy and surprise over Maran being a passenger in his piloted craft on Tuesday. While recalling his days with Murasoli Maran, Rudy also hailed Dayanidhi as a "successful aviation entrepreneur and union minister."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Coronavirus: Delta sub-lineages AY.1, AY.2 unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta||Delta variant sub-lineages -- AY.1 and AY.2 -- are unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta said INSACOG, a consortium of government panel involved in genome sequencing of coronavirus. In a recent bulletin, it also said that AY.3 has been identified as a new sub-lineage of Delta and it is defined by 'ORF1a:I3731V common AY.1 mutations except for S:417'. It is primarily seen in the US with single reclassified case in the UK and India. There are no known significant properties of this mutation but since it is a Delta VOC sub-lineage, INSACOG will continue to monitor it, the bulletin stated. "It is likely that neither AY.1 nor AY.2 is more transmissible than Delta. They also continue to be below 1 per cent in available sequences from June in India," the INSACOG said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||India accounted for highest number of govt requests for account info in Jul-Dec 2020: Twitter   	||India was the single largest source of government requests for account information received by Twitter, accounting for 25 per cent of the global volume, in the July-December 2020 period, the microblogging platform said on Wednesday. India also ranked second in terms of volume of legal demands for content removal after Japan, Twitter said in a blog that provided an update to its transparency report. Twitter comes out with a biannual report where it shares details on the number of government and legal requests, removal requests and data around accounts actioned for various violations and breach of rules. In its latest blog, Twitter said it produced some or all of the requested information in response to 30 per cent of the global information requests by governments in July-December 2020 period. “India is the single largest source of government information requests, accounting for 25 per cent of the global volume and 15 per cent of the global accounts specified. The second highest volume of information requests originated from the US, comprising 22 per cent of global information requests,” it added. Twitter said the US submitted the highest volume of global emergency requests (34 per cent), followed by Japan (17 per cent), and South Korea (16 per cent). During the reporting period (July-December 2020), Twitter received 38,524 legal demands to remove content specifying 1,31,933 accounts. The platform withheld or otherwise removed some or all of the reported content in response to 29 per cent of these global legal demands. “Although there was a 9 per cent decrease in the number of legal demands Twitter received, compared to the previous reporting period, these requests sought removal of content from the largest number of accounts ever in a single reporting period,” Twitter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Parliamentary panel meet: Rahul raises national security issues||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi raised the issue of national security vis- -vis Pakistan, the standoff with China and the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan at a parliamentary panel meeting Wednesday and demanded a discussion on them, sources said. However, he left the meeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence minutes before it concluded as chairman and BJP leader Jual Oram denied a discussion on these issues saying they were not part of the pre-decided agenda, the sources said. The committee met here to 'Review the Working of Cantonment Boards. Gandhi stressed that rather than discussing the working of board, the panel should deliberate on more relevant and important security issues like the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the terror threats from Pakistan, the sources said. Gandhi also raised the issues of the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan, China's growing influence in Sri Lanka and the impact of these developments on India, the sources said. He said these issues are also more serious and need an urgent discussion in the parliamentary panel. Responding to Gandhi's demand, chairman Oram said the meeting's agenda is on the working of Cantonment Boards so the discussion should be limited to that only. If any member wants a discussion on other subjects, he should follow the procedure and to give prior notice of 14 days, Oram said, according to the sources. The panel chairman noted that neither Gandhi nor any other Congress member was present in the previous meeting in which the committee's agenda for the year was decided, otherwise their issues would had been taken up, they said. After putting forward his case, Gandhi left the 90-minutes long meeting just before its conclusion, the sources said. Other members of the panel raised several questions related to the functioning of the cantonment board to the officials from Defence Ministry and armed forces who deposed before the committee, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with Chinese counterpart amid LAC tensions||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held a one-hour meeting on Wednesday in Dushanbe with a focus on resolving the outstanding issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. After the talks, Jaishankar said he highlighted that unilateral change of status quo was not acceptable to India and that both sides agreed on convening an early meeting of the senior military commanders. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a foreign ministerial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). "Concluded a one-hour bilateral meeting with State Councilor and FM Wang Yi of China on the sidelines of Dushanbe SCO Foreign Ministers Meeting. Discussions focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector," Jaishankar tweeted. He said full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was essential for the development of the bilateral ties. "Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties," Jaishankar said. Earlier during the meeting, Jaishankar presented a three-point roadmap for Afghanistan that entailed cessation of violence and terrorist attacks, settlement of the conflict through political dialogue and steps to ensure that neighbouring countries are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism. Russian Foreign Minister Serge Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar were among those who participated at the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) contact group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Centre directs states not to detain anyone under scrapped Section 66A of IT Act||The Centre on Wednesday asked the states to direct their police not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 related to posting online comments. The Supreme Court in 2015 had struck down the controversial Section 66A of the IT Act that made posting "offensive" comments online a crime punishable by jail, after a long campaign by defenders of free speech. However, recently, the apex court had said that it was shocking that the judgment striking down the law has not been implemented even now. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has requested states and Union Territories (UTs) to direct all police stations under their jurisdiction not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, a home ministry statement said. The ministry said it has also asked the states and UTs to sensitise law enforcement agencies for the compliance of the order issued by the Supreme Court on March 24, 2015. The MHA has also requested that if any case has been booked in states and UTs under section 66A of the IT Act, 2000, such cases should be immediately withdrawn. The Supreme Court in its judgment on March 24, 2015 in the matter of Shreya Singhal Vs. Union of India had struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. This made Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 null and void with effect from the date of the order and hence no action could be taken under this section. The section of the law provides police power to arrest a person for posting "offensive" content online and provides for a three-year jail term. The Supreme Court early this month issued a notice to the Centre on the use of Section 66A of the IT Act and said that it was shocking that the judgment striking down the law has not been implemented even now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar presents 3-point roadmap to ensure peace in Afghanistan||Emphasising that the future of Afghanistan cannot be its past, India on Wednesday presented a three-point roadmap for the conflict-ridden country that entailed cessation of violence and terrorist attacks, settlement of the conflict through political dialogue and steps to ensure that neighbouring countries are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar put forth the roadmap at a meeting of the SCO foreign ministers' contact group on Afghanistan in Dushanbe amid growing global concerns over the Taliban fighters gaining control over large parts of the country. Russian Foreign Minister Serge Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar were among those who participated at the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) contact group. "The world, region and the Afghan people all want the same end state: 1. An independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous nation," Jaishankar tweeted. "2. Ceasing violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settle conflict through political dialogue, and respect interests of all ethnic groups, and 3. Ensure that neighbours are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism," he said. Amid escalating violence in Afghanistan, India has been pressing for a comprehensive ceasefire. "Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process is essential The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down," Jaishankar added. The Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process are separate frameworks for dialogue to resolve the conflict in Afghanistan. "The challenge is to act seriously and sincerely on these beliefs. Because there are forces at work with a very different agenda. The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions," Jaishankar said. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US aimed to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. Earlier this month, the Indian embassy asked all Indians visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan to exercise the utmost caution with regard to their security and avoid all types of non-essential travel in view of rising incidents of violence in various parts of the country. In an advisory, the embassy said the security situation in Afghanistan remains "dangerous" and that terror groups have carried out a series of complex attacks including targeting civilians, adding Indian nationals additionally face a "serious threat" of kidnapping. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD three billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||India should ‘reverse’ actions in Kashmir to start dialogue: Pak NSA||Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf said on Wednesday that it was India's responsibility to start the dialogue with Islamabad by ‘reversing’ its actions in Jammu and Kashmir. India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. According to an official statement, Yusuf briefed the Senate Committee on Defence & National Security on Pakistan's role in the changing regional scenario, Pakistan-American relations, Pakistan-India relations and the impact of the evolving situation in Afghanistan following the American military's exit. “The onus was on India to start the dialogue process after reversing the wrongs in Kashmir,” Yusuf said, referring to the August 5, 2019 decision. India has maintained that the issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country. India has made it clear to Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. Pakistan had downgraded ties with India and suspended trade after the Indian government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Talking about ties with the US, Yusuf said a broad-based roadmap is being developed for Pak-American relations which includes cooperation in commerce and trade, investment including vaccine manufacturing, climate change and military-to-military relations as well as promoting regional economic connectivity. Regarding Afghanistan, he said Pakistan's perspective is very clear in promoting an inclusive political settlement with a view to ensure that Afghan territory is not used against Pakistan and Pakistan to ensure his commitment that its territory will not be used against any country. "The international community is also being informed about Pakistan's concerns about the potential fallout of the Afghan crisis particularly in the new influx of refugees, he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
14-07-2021||India||Congress: Covid third wave may hit India ‘very badly’||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the ‘shortage’ of Covid-19 vaccines and said the third wave of the pandemic may hit the country very badly due to the ‘slow’ pace of vaccination and the government's ‘failure’. Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the weekly pace of vaccinations has declined to nearly 60 percent of what was seen in the week after June 21. Rahul Gandhi, who has been persistently targeting the Centre over its handling of the pandemic, said there are "jumlas (rhetoric)" but no vaccines. “Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines),” Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag ‘WhereAreVaccines’. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh pointed to complaints of shortage of vaccines in several states and urged the Modi government to double the vaccine procurement and allocate the same to states fairly. “Vaccine shortages are now hampering drives even in states friendly to Modi government - Odisha, Andhra and Telangana - in addition to states governed by Opposition. The only way forward is: Double vaccine procurement and allocate to states fairly and transparently,” Ramesh said. The two leaders pointed to the shortage of vaccines in several states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Telangana, Odisha, Kerala and Delhi. “The Government led by PM Narendra Modi claimed that it will fully vaccinate all adults by year end. For that, 80 lakh doses need to be given daily. Yet, only 34 lakh doses are being given daily,” Kharge said in a series of tweets. “Thanks to Modi Government's failure, the 3rd wave may hit India very badly,” he said. However, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday dismissed statements claiming shortage of vaccines, saying they are being made only to create panic among the people. He asserted that states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the doses. To enable vaccination through government and private hospitals, Mandaviya said, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available to the state governments and union territories in June and this availability has been increased to 13.50 crore in July. Hitting out at leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media, he said they need to introspect whether they are so far removed from the governance process that they are not even aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply. Kharge, however, claimed that the shortage of vaccines in several states has forced them to shut down vaccination centres. The Congress leader pointed out that Tamil Nadu has received only 1.67 crore doses of the two vaccines, against a demand of 11.5 crore doses and Maharashtra has administered 3.7 crore doses but the state government has passed a resolution demanding three crore doses per month to vaccinate enough people in the state. "Several Covid vaccination centres in Telangana have run out of Covaxin doses. "Kerala has the capacity to deliver 2.5-3 lakh doses per day but the huge supply-demand mismatch has reduced the pace of vaccination. 24 of 30 districts have run out of vaccines in Odisha," he noted. He claimed Delhi's vaccine stock is so low that 500 centres had to be closed due to shortage. "The lack of sufficient doses of the vaccines has forced Andhra Pradesh to prioritise giving the second dose to the beneficiaries due to receive it by limiting giving the 1st dose to certain groups," he claimed. In another tweet, Kharge cited a media report saying, "Reportedly, Gujaratis have mortgaged gold worth ?10K crores in the past 1.5 years. Families have had to pledge their gold to meet routine expenses, pay staff, pay medical bills and pay for weddings." "PM Narendra Modi's policies have destroyed India's middle and lower income groups," he alleged. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccination policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Minister Piyush Goyal to be Leader of House in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Piyush Goyal has been appointed as the leader of house in Rajya Sabha, sources said on Wednesday. He will succeed Thawar Chand Gahlot who has been appointed the governor of Karnataka. The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry has intimated the Rajya Sabha Secretariat that Goyal will be the Leader of House, the sources said. Goyal, a two-time Rajya Sabha MP, is currently the deputy leader of the NDA and is also Union Minister in the Cabinet. He is holding the charge of various ministries, including commerce and industry, food and consumer affairs, and textiles. Prior to becoming a minister in 2014, Goyal was the treasurer of the party. He was also engaged by the BJP in poll management activities and for managing logistics during the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Home ministry flags 'blatant' violation of Covid norms, asks states to take action||The Union Home Ministry Wednesday said blatant violations of Covid -19 norms have been observed in several parts of the country, including hill stations, and asked states and union territories to take action against officials responsible for ensuring compliance to laid down guidelines. In a letter to all states and UTs, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being adhered to in public transport and massive crowds are thronging marketplaces, violating social distancing norms. Bhalla emphasised the second wave of Covid is not yet over and there is no room for complacency and everyone must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. He said that with the decline in the number of active cases, states and UTs have started reopening economic activities in a gradual manner but the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated. During the periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge, he said. "However, blatant violations of Covid norms have been observed in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. Massive crowds are also thronging the market places, violating norms of social distancing," he said. The consequent increase in the 'R'-factor (reproduction number) in some of the states is a matter of concern, Bhalla said. The 'R'-factor indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country. An 'R'-factor below 1 indicates that each infected individual is on average passing on the disease to less than one person. "You may be aware that any increase in 'R' factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid -19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places, such as shops, malls, markets, market complexes, weekly markets, restaurants and bars, 'mandis, bus stations, railway platforms, stations, public parks and gardens, gymnasium, banquet halls, marriage halls, stadia, sports complexes (if opened up by the State) as well as at all areas identified as hotspots for transmission of Covid 19 virus," he said in the letter. Any establishment, premises, markets and other such places where Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being maintained is liable for the re-imposition of restrictions and the defaulters may face action under the relevant laws, the home secretary said. He also said Covid testing needs to be continued with the same vigor as it is extremely essential for an early identification of cases and checking the virus spread. "You would appreciate that we must guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which creep in as positivity declines. Instead, during the periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge," he said. Bhalla said there should be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of Covid -19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behavior. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to regulate the crowded places and take necessary measures for management of Covid -19. The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour," he told the states and UTs in the letter. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations and district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Will take action if digital crowd funding platform for rare diseases is not made operational: HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it would take action for "wilful non-compliance" if the Centre failed to make operational a digital platform for crowd funding of the expensive medicines and treatment for rare diseases. The high court said despite specific directions on January 28 that the digital crowd funding platform be made operational by March 31, it has not been done. Justice Rekha Palli was informed by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma that he was not aware if the platform was working or not. Directing that instructions be sought in this regard by the counsel for central government, the judge said, “This court would be constrained to take action for wilful non-compliance.” "I will have to say you are in contempt", the court orally cautioned during the course of the hearing. The court was hearing a batch of petitions on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases, including Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome), and seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free of cost treatment as the therapy is very expensive. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. MPS II is a rare disease that is passed on in families and it mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. On January 28, Justice Prathiba M Singh had passed an order directing central government to make operational the digital crowd funding platform for medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. The court had said that it was issuing the direction to finalise the policy and operationalise the digital platform by March 31. An affidavit filed by the Health Ministry had said that both things were "likely" to be done by March 31. Subsequently, on March 23, the court passed a slew of directions in connection with the treatment of persons with rare diseases, including a direction to notify the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases by March 31 and setting up a National Consortium for Research, Development and Therapeutics, a rare diseases committee at AIIMS and a fund for such ailments. It directed that the entire unspent budget allocated for rare diseases for the past three years shall be immediately moved into the rare diseases fund, which shall be managed, supervised and utilised by nodal agency AIIMS. The digital platform created under the Policy for receiving crowd funding shall be linked to the fund and those individuals and companies wishing to contribute shall make direct contributions into it, the court had said. The matter would be heard next on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Health Minister rebuts jab crunch charge, explains with ‘actual analysis of the facts’||Amid complains by some states about shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said "useless"' statements are being made only to create panic among the people, and asserted that states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the doses. “The Centre has informed states about the allocation of doses in advance,” he said. In a series of tweets, Mandaviya said the availability of vaccines can be better understood by an "actual analysis of the facts". "Regarding the availability of the vaccine, I have come to know from statements and letters of various state governments and leaders. This situation can be better understood by an actual analysis of the facts. Useless statements are being made only to create panic among the people," he said in a tweet in Hindi. To enable vaccination through government and private hospitals, Mandaviya said, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available to the state governments and union territories in June and this availability has been increased to 13.50 crore in July. The Centre had informed the states on June 19 about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available to them in July, he said. On June 27 and July 13, the states were informed about the availability of vaccines every day for the first and second fortnight of July. "... So the states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the vaccine doses. The central government has done this so that the state governments can do the work of vaccination up to the district level by planning properly and people do not face any problem," he said, "If the Centre is already giving this information in advance on its behalf and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason for it," he said. Hitting out at leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media, he said they need to introspect whether they are so far removed from the governance process and related information that they are not even aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply. Some states like Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, which recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Monday, have raised the need for more vaccine doses. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “The state needed a minimum of three crore vaccine doses per month to inoculate the entire eligible population against coronavirus at the earliest.” Covid-19 inoculation sessions were not conducted in at least 25 of Rajasthan's 33 districts on Monday due to vaccine shortage, a state official said. A senior West Bengal health department official also said that the state government was finding it difficult to evenly distribute the doses among its 23 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Activists, groups seek more time from HC to file comments on draft anti-trafficking bill||Activists and civil society groups have asked the government to extend the time for submitting comments on the draft anti-trafficking bill by four weeks, saying the 10-day period originally provided by it does not do justice to the subject's complexity and importance. The Ministry of Women and Child Development put the Draft Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 in the public domain on July 4 to invite suggestions from stakeholders. The last date for offering suggestions and comments is July 14. In the letter to the Women and Child Development Ministry, 80 civil society groups, health and social activists said, "The short notice given by the MWCD for submitting feedback does not do justice to the complexity and importance of the subject." They said they are concerned that the draft bill conflates trafficking in persons with sex work, which may have significant consequences for the community. "Our members, partners would like the opportunity to examine the bill and its clauses carefully in order to make comments and suggestions to the government. "The tight deadline given by the MWCD does not allow us to communicate and consult with our groups and network, which are spread across the country including in towns and cities that are still under lockdown or restricted movement orders on account of the second wave of COVID-19. Since the draft bill is only available in English, we also need time to factor in translation in regional languages," they added. The draft bill proposes severe punishments for aggravated forms of trafficking. The ministry has said the objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to provide care, protection and rehabilitation to the victims while respecting their rights and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them. It also seeks to ensure prosecution of offenders and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Once finalised, the bill will be sent to the Union Cabinet for approval and then tabled in Parliament for passage. It will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications. According to the draft bill, a person guilty of an offence of trafficking can be imprisoned for a term which shall not be less than seven years but may extend up to 10 years. Such a person shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than Rs 1 lakh but may extend up to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court calls police probe 'callous and farcical'||A court here has slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on the Delhi police and called its investigation into a Delhi riots case callous and farcical. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav directed that the amount of fine to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, saying tthey miserably failed in their statutory duties. The police had challenged a magisterial court order that had directed it to register an FIR on the complaint of one Mohammad Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. Investigators, however, maintained that there was no need to register a separate FIR as it had already registered one earlier and there was no evidence against the persons who allegedly shot him as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. The judge pulled up the police for lack of efficacy and fairness in the investigation and said that it has been done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner. A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi Police Commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this Court, he urther added in an order dated July 13. The judge said that Mohammad Nasir is free to exhaust his remedies available to him in accordance with the law to get a separate FIR registered in respect of his complaint. According to advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing the accused, one Naresh Tyagi had allegedly opened fire upon Nasir, as a result of which he suffered a gunshot injury in the left eye. Despite the request, no FIR was registered by the police, following which they moved the court seeking its registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||SC asks CBSE to tell within 8 weeks if they would return exam fee money||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed CBSE to decide within eight weeks if it would refund the examination fees taken for class 10 and class 12 board examinations as they have been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan ordered CBSE to consider as a representation a petition by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class 10 student studying in a CBSE affiliated school here, who had paid Rs 2,100 as examination fee. "CBSE's decision would be open to challenge if Joseph is not satisfied," the court clarified as it disposed of the petition. There has to be reasonableness on both sides, the judge added. Justice Jalan also recorded that the parties had no objection to him hearing the petition even though he would be beneficiary of the petition on account of his son being in Class 12. Advocate Robin Raju, for Joseph, contended that since the board examination have been cancelled, at least some part of the examination fees ought to be refunded to the students. Claiming that the expenditure incurred by CBSE to conduct board examination, as well as its role in the process, had been reduced, Raju said that schools were uploading the marks . The court, however, disagreed with Raju and remarked: "If CBSE is not doing anything, you take the marks-sheet from schools and go." Advocate Rupesh Kumar submitted that CBSE was a self-financing body and its expenditure was principally funded by the examination fees collected from students appearing in class 10 and class 12 board examination. He added that there was no direct correlation between the physical conduct of board examinations and fees charges from students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||If India is going Whiskey-Tango-Foxtrot in Afghanistan, here’s why||Dusk fell easy in the Kabul garden of a modest hotel in the late summer. The day was hard. An Indian Prime Minister was visiting the Afghan capital for the first time in nearly 30 years. Within the space of a few hours he had laid the foundation stone of a new Afghan Parliament, opened a chancery for the Indian embassy and inaugurated a renovated Habibia High School among whose alumni are Hamid Karzai and Ashraf Ghani, the former and current presidents of Afghanistan. The Habibia school in a large building with multiple wings in Karteh Seh was damaged in fighting among the many Mujahideen in the 1990s. India funded its re-building with $ 3 million. The reopening of the school was announced by Manmohan Singh and Hamid Karzai in the magnificent central hall that resembled a banquet room in a five-star hotel on August 29, 2005. At the inaugural, as Karzai and Manmohan Singh sat on the dais, security guards from an American military contractor (DynaCorp) took position, many of them armed with M15 rifles. At the doors to the hall, Gorkhas from a British entity were on guard, also armed with submachine guns and carbines. In the lobby around the hall, soldiers from the Afghan National Army with newly-issued American firearms stood guard. There were soldiers with firearms in the balconies that overlooked the quadrangle. Smartly suited men from the Indian Prime Minister’s Special Protection Group (SPG) detail escorted Manmohan Singh and took position around the dais. Just before they were escorted in, Bharat Vir Wanchoo, the French-bearded head of the SPG nervously surveyed the dais and the hall packed with officials, diplomats, students and of course soldiers. In the garden of the Kabul hotel later in the evening where dusk fell easy, Wanchoo joined us for a quiet chat. Most of the journalists who were members of the Prime Minister’s media entourage were taken with Rahul Gandhi who was also visiting Kabul concurrently. But Siddharth Varadarajan (now editor of The Wire) was in the lawns. I was not part of the media entourage, having being pre-positioned in Kabul by the editor of The Telegraph (Aveek Sarkar) who wanted stories from Afghanistan that went beyond an Indian VIP’s day tour. I was in the lawns for the chat. Wanchoo was more relaxed now, as we gathered around him. “Tough day”, he acknowledged. Kabul was still far from secure for VIP visits of the order he was protecting. Four days back, when I had landed, mortars fired from the hills flanking the city exploded in the outskirts. Security coordination for the Prime Minister’s visit had involved multiple national and international agencies. In the course of the day we had been to Darulaman in the southwestern suburbs and driven through Kabul for the chancery opening. But it was really, really dangerous inside Habibia. Why? “Too many guns,” explained Wanchoo. “Too little space.” Even if a bullet fired from a potential assassin missed the target, the ricochet could be fatal. So many soldiers with so many guns facing one another would cause fatalities in a cross-fire. That nightmare scenario is the picture of all Afghanistan today as the Americans cut and run. Too many guns with too many men leading a hardscrabble life in a landlocked country for too long. If India has now gone Whiskey-Tango-Foxtrot – the phonetic alphabet is also the name of a Hollywood movie based in Afghanistan – by evacuating its mission staff from Kandahar, there is reason. In the 15 years since that Manmohan Singh visit, India’s Afghanistan policy has swung from non-lethal support to lethal support for the regime in Kabul. The most visible of this of course is the gifting of Hind (Mi-25) Helicopter gunships from the Indian Air Force’s Firebirds squadron. The Soviet-built helicopters were refurbished before the gifting. Their role cannot be disguised. They are attack gunships seen in Rambo movies that fire cannon at hidden guerrillas in secluded valleys. In December 2015, when he made that famous stop over in Lahore to visit Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was photographed in Kabul with one of the India-gifted attack helicopters in the background. In the civil war that has now begun in Afghanistan, Ghani’s Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) have only one advantage over the Taliban – air superiority. And even that is in danger of being whittled down because aircraft are difficult to maintain. India’s aid to Afghanistan has totaled more than $ 3 billion. The military outfit, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), built the Zaranj-Delaram Highway that connects to the Garland Expressway. A strategic project that was to connect to Iran’s Chabahar port through which India has supplied goods. That road was among the first Indian projects to be overrun. Last week, the Taliban overran the Salma Dam, that was grandly named the Afghanistan-India friendship Dam, to the country’s west as rough men reached and drove out Afghan National Army troops and blocked half that 900-km-long border with Iran. The Afghan troops fled into Iran and were later airlifted to Kabul. The Parliament House near Kabul that was announced by Manmohan Singh and inaugurated by Narendra Modi was built by the India’s Central Public Works Department (CPWD). The irony of both, the venue of the Kabul Parliament – it is overlooked by the cannibalized Darulaman Palace where Soviet Spetznaz troops parachuted in 1979 and invaded Afghanistan, and the fact that India’s own Parliament House was built by the British – is stark. India’s military assistance to Afghanistan till the delivery of those gunships was restricted to supply of vehicles made by the Mahindras and training about 50 officer cadets each year in defence academies. Pakistan, that has always considered Afghanistan its backyard, strongly objected and is suspected to have orchestrated attacks on Indians – multiple attacks on the Indian embassy in Kabul among them. On one of my half-a-dozen reporting assignments in Afghanistan for The Telegraph I saw the khaldar – denotified old Pakistani currency – being used in Jalalabad and Torkham at the Afghan end of the Khyber Pass. Tajik soldiers guarded the little bridge over the Kabul River on which buses pasted with posters of Aishwarya Rai and Rani Mukherjee trundled into Landikotal on the Pakistan side. Pakistan’s Frontier Works Organisation (FWO) was rebuilding the road to Jalalabad, a highway lined on both sides by burnt-out Soviet T-54 tanks and mangled BMP armoured troop-carriers. On the Safed Koh, the White Mountain on the Afghan side, a stone castle from the time of the Mughals was in ruin, the bluffs of mountains opposite fell sharply into a sandy brown fog raised by over-decorated trucks grudging in from Pakistan. At a Pakistan Rangers’ base on the Khyber across the Kabul River that was now marked by a Pepsi hoarding that also read “Welcome to Pakistan”, former US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski had famously stood with a Koran in one hand and a Stinger missile in the other while briefing the Mujahideen on attacking the Soviet occupiers of Afghanistan in 1980. Both, the Koran and the Stinger have boomeranged with unerring accuracy as the US troops vacated their largest military base in Bagram in the dark last week ‘as if they would be ashamed in the morning of what was done in the night.’ In reality, the American troops actually distrusted the Afghan security forces so much that they did not disclose their time of departure. They left behind more than three lakh pieces of military equipment, Afghan journalists have reported. This adds to the unquantifiable arsenals that have built up through more than 40 years of wars and battles. Unlike the Soviets who withdrew across the Amu Darya after a scorched earth policy – destroying materiel that could be used by the enemy – there is little evidence that the US troops have done so. Instead, they have left behind the Humvees – the armoured all-terrain vehicles – for the Afghan security forces that are now already with the Taliban, some of them mounted with recoilless guns. The Soviet withdrawal in 1989 re-shaped the world, presaging the end of the Cold War, and reshaping India’s non-aligned status because the world itself was no longer to be divided in two superpower blocs. The American pullout that is happening as we speak is leaving India’s foreign policy in shreds in its aftermath. There is only one certainty of a repeat for India: the blowback, the shrapnel from the blast of an exploding geopolitical bomb in the immediate neighbourhood. An Indian minister who was the army chief (General V K Singh) has already done a Ph.D thesis in which he has talked of a Chinese tunnel in the Wakhan Corridor, the panhandle in Afghanistan’s North East between Tajikistan and Kashmir. Shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union that followed it’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, celebrated spy novelist (and former spy himself) John le Carre was asked if the bottom had fallen out of his plots with the end of the Cold War. Many of his dry and angsty thrillers were till then set in the real backdrop of the NATO-versus-Warsaw Pact scenarios, in a bisected Berlin, in Budapest, in London. “I don’t think so,” he responded. Not with “all those Kalashnikovs sloshing around in eastern Europe”. As with the Kalashes, so with the Humvees. They are sloshing around across the Khyber and India is in the line of the fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Shanghai Cooperation Organisation must stop terror financing, says Jaishankar at SCO meet||Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and it must stop terror financing, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at a key meeting of the grouping that was attended by his counterparts from Pakistan and China. In his address at the meeting in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, Jaishankar described the situation in Afghanistan as well as public health and economic recovery as pressing issues facing the region. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi were amongst the participants at the meeting. "Spoke at the FMM of SCO this morning at Dushanbe. Afghanistan, public health and economic recovery are pressing issues. Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of SCO. Must stop terror financing and deter digital facilitation," Jaishankar tweeted. In his remarks, the external affairs minister also highlighted the "One Earth One Health" message and urged early universal vaccination to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Jaishankar said he also spoke on reformed multi-lateralism and underlined the need to rejuvenate this domain. Earlier, in a separate tweet, Jaishankar said the 20th year of establishment of the SCO is an opportune time for the grouping to reflect on achievements and deliberate on challenges. "Afghanistan and post-Covid recovery are pressing concerns," Jaishankar said. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. The volatile situation in Afghanistan has triggered global concerns. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest trans-regional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS) which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
14-07-2021||India||Kejriwal promises free electricity of up to 300 units in Goa||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said each family in Goa will get up to 300 units of electricity free per month if his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power in the state Assembly elections, due in February next year. Unveiling four "guarantees", the AAP national convener promised to waive all the old electricity bills if his party gets a chance to rule the coastal state. "Every family will get up to 300 units of electricity free per month. We will start on a clean slate. Once the AAP government is formed in Goa, 87 per cent of consumers will start getting a zero electricity bill," he told a press conference on the last day of his two-day visit to Goa. Kejriwal also promised free electricity to farmers in the state. "If people in Delhi can get free electricity, then why not free power for people in Goa," he said. "Despite Goa being a power-surplus state, there are frequent power-cuts in the coastal state," he added. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank. During his two-day visit, Kejriwal met various stakeholders and claimed that the AAP was getting a good response from the common people "who are looking for a clean politics after a spate of defections in the state during the current tenure". Kejriwal slammed the MLAs who left Congress and other parties to join the BJP after the last Assembly elections in Goa. "The party (Congress) that had won 17 seats is now left with only five MLAs whereas the party (BJP) which had won only 13 seats is currently having 28 MLAs," Kejriwal said. "These MLAs who switched sides claimed that they were joining the BJP to get people's work done. Did they do people's work as they claimed? Now people are saying that they switched sides for the lure of money. People feel betrayed," he said. The AAP leader said the people of Goa now want change. "The people of Goa have seen how Delhi government has been providing free electricity to its residents. If Delhi can do it, why can't Goa," he asked. Kejriwal said 73 per cent of Delhi gets zero electricity bill under the AAP government. "Despite being a power surplus state, Goa is witnessing an erratic supply," he wondered. "Delhi once faced a similar situation. When we took over, this situation was corrected within two to three years and people started getting uninterrupted power supply," the Delhi CM said. He blamed defective power transmission lines for the irregular power supply, which, he said will be fixed. Kejriwal also pointed out that consumers in Goa are getting huge power bills that are not corrected by the concerned department. People in Goa are asked to pay money if they go to correct their power bills, he added. Kejriwal said that he felt "encouraged" as even opposition leaders are talking about his party, a day after Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted that the AAP has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. "Navjot Singh Sidhu? He is in Punjab. I am happy that AAP is doing such a good job that even Opposition leaders are praising us. So, one feels encouraged about it," the Delhi Chief Minister said when asked about Sidhu's tweets. He also assured justice in a matter related to the demolition of a church in the Chattarpur area of Delhi saying the action was taken by the Delhi Development Authority which comes under the Central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||India army monitoring PLA activities in Eastern Ladakh||There has been no attempt by the Indian or the Chinese side to occupy the areas in eastern Ladakh from where they disengaged in February and both sides are engaged in talks to resolve the remaining issues in the region, the Army said on Wednesday. The Army said it has been monitoring activities by the People's Liberation Army (PLA) including turnover of troops in the region. The Army made the comments as part of a statement trashing a media report that said the Chinese military has again crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh at several places and that there has been at least one incident of clash between the two sides. "Ever since the disengagement agreement in February this year, there has been no attempt by either side to occupy the areas from where the disengagement had been undertaken. There have been no clashes in Galwan or any other area, as reported in the article," the Army said. It also said that the report mentioning that agreements with China have collapsed is "false and baseless". "Both sides have continued with negotiations to resolve the balance issues, and regular patrolling in respective areas continues. The situation on ground continues to be as hithertofore. PLA activities, including turnover of troops continue to be monitored by the Indian Army," the Army said. India and China have been locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||SC takes cognisance of UP govt's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took cognisance of the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra' in the state in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman issued a notice to the state government and posted the matter for hearing on Friday. The Yogi Adityanath government on Tuesday allowed the yatra from July 25 despite concerns raised in various quarters over the risk posed by such events in triggering a possible third wave of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government has cancelled the 'Kanwar Yatra' in view of a possible third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 624 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,792 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,46,074, while the death toll reached 4,11,408 with 624 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have declined to 4,29,946 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,832 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,15,501 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,59,73,639, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 23 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.25 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,04,720, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.76 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 624 new fatalities include 196 deaths from Maharashtra and 124 from Kerala. A total of 4,11,408 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,26,220 from Maharashtra, 35,944 from Karnataka, 33,502 from Tamil Nadu, 25,020 from Delhi, 22,704 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,944 from West Bengal and 16,199 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Union Cabinet to physically meet today after over a year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a Union Cabinet meet on Wednesday, its first physical meeting in over a year. The Union Cabinet will meet at 11 am on Wednesday. Sources told news agency PTI that the last Cabinet meeting held physically was in the first week of April last year, when the coronavirus pandemic struck the country. The Union Cabinet had, however, been meeting regularly almost every week through video conferencing, even during lockdown. The Prime Minister will also chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 4 pm through video conferencing. This is the second time in a week that the Council of Ministers will meet after its expansion on July 7, with the induction of 43 new ministers. The new Council of Ministers had met on July 8. Sources said the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament may have been one of the reasons for the frequent convening of the meeting of Council of ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Three LeT militants killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's Pulwama||Three Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants, including a Pakistani national, were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. A gunbattle broke out in Pulwama town of the south Kashmir district after the security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. Three militants were killed in the gunbattle. "One of the slain terrorists had been identified as LeT commander Aijaz @abu Huraira," the official said, adding the slain ultra was a Pakistani national. The official said a search operation was going on in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt, asks where are the vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the alleged vaccine shortage in states, saying there are 'jumlas (rhetoric)' but no vaccines. He tagged a media report which claimed that Delhi along with many other states was facing a shortage of vaccines but the Centre had denied it. "Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines)," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'WhereAreVaccines'. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday had hit out at the government's COVID-19 inoculation programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast" and a "false promise". The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow. The Health Ministry on Tuesday had said more than 1.91 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Cong blames govt for staggering fuel, essential commodity prices||The Narendra Modi government is directly to blame for the steep prices of petroleum products and other essential commodities that are squeezing people already struggling with loss of incomes or jobs in a pandemic, the Congress said on Tuesday. “The government and the RBI have set an inflation target of 4 (+/- 2) per cent. Consumer price inflation has breached the upper limit of 6 per cent and is now 6.26 per cent. Food inflation is at 5.58 per cent, pulses inflation is at 10.01 per cent, fruits at 11.82 per cent, transport at 11.56 per cent, fuel and light at 12.68 per cent and oils at 34.78 per cent. “Will the government please tell the people what they should eat, how they should light their homes and how they should go to work?” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said at a news conference here. Demanding an immediate and substantial reduction in petroleum prices, Chidambaram said: “Inflation, even in a normal time, would be intolerable. The present is not a normal time. A pandemic is raging across the country. The pandemic has resulted in jobs being axed, unemployment rising to 8.1 per cent and incomes/ wages being cut for millions of working people. In such a situation of widespread distress, inflation has broken the back of the people, and we hold the Narendra Modi government directly responsible for it.” Chidambaram said the inflation “has not been caused by a spurt in demand”. “On the contrary, private consumer demand is low,” he said. “This inflation has not been caused by excess liquidity or too much money in the hands of the people. This inflation has been caused by the wrong policies of the government and its inept management of the economy,” he added. Pointing out that the UPA government had kept petrol price at Rs 65 a litre and diesel at Rs 44 when international crude oil price was $125 per barrel, Chidambaram said the Modi government was selling petrol for over Rs 100 and diesel for over Rs 90 when crude was around $75 per barrel. “The sole reason for the exorbitant prices is the levy of cesses by the government. Total cesses levied by the central government on petrol and diesel are Rs 33 per litre and Rs 32 per litre, respectively. Through these cesses alone the Centre collects approximately Rs 4.2 lakh crore every year and keeps all that money to itself. This is exploitation and greed of the worst kind,” the veteran leader said. The Congress has been holding demonstrations across states and will now organise news conferences to send the message that the Modi government was profiteering off people’s miseries. Senior leaders, including some from the rebellious group of 23, have been tasked to communicate the message effectively. Mallikarjun Kharge, Kamal Nath, Salman Khurshid, Anand Sharma, Digvijaya Singh, Shashi Tharoor, Shaktisinh Gohil, Ajay Maken and Manish Tewari will address the media across the country. Rahul Gandhi set the tone of the discourse with an acerbic tweet: “Khaya bhi, mitron ko khilaya bhi — bas janata ko khane nahin de rahe (Ate and fed friends — just not letting the public eat).” The tweet appeared to be a response to Modi’s campaign slogan “Na khaoonga, na khane dunga”, through which he had made a promise of honesty. Posting another article that suggested millions of Indians pushed into poverty were selling family gold for survival, Rahul said: “Come rain or shine, no respite from the Government of India’s economic mess.” Chidambaram had earlier said: “A government that is concerned about the welfare of the people — and their hardships and burdens — will not turn the other way when every household is agitated about the rise in prices. The government has continued to pretend that the concern about price rise is a false concern and, if the government ignores the issue, the issue will go away. The Congress condemns the callous negligence on the issue of price rise.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||'Breakdown of governance' in UP, ex-bureaucrats pen concern||Retired bureaucrats and police officers have written an open letter expressing alarm at the “complete breakdown of governance and the blatant violation of the rule of law in Uttar Pradesh”, warning that it could result in the destruction of democracy if left unchecked. The letter has been written under the banner of the Constitutional Conduct, a collective of retired bureaucrats, diplomats and police officers, and has been endorsed by over 200 academics and civil society activists. It details the excesses committed since 2017 when Yogi Adityanath took office. “We note with mounting alarm that the present ruling regime in UP has ushered in a model of governance which swerves further and further away from the values of the Constitution and the rule of law with each passing day. It seems clear that all branches of the administration, including the executive magistrates and the police, have collapsed. We fear that, unless checked now, the damage to the polity and institutions in the state will result in the decay and destruction of democracy itself,” the letter says. The letter speaks of the use of detentions, criminal charges and property recoveries to suppress dissent, extra-judicial killings as “official hate targeting”, institutionalisation and legitimisation of vigilantism, the bogey of “love jihad”, the misuse of the National Security Act in cow-slaughter cases and the handling of the pandemic which saw countless bodies floating in the Ganga. The signatories to the open letter have demanded that arbitrary detentions and torture of peaceful protesters be stopped immediately, as also the practice of recovering from them the cost of alleged damage to property. They have called for an end to encounter killings and vigilantism, using “love jihad” to target minorities, and demanded that the administration beef up health facilities to deal with the pandemic instead of trying to cover up cases by booking those reporting from the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Vaccination drive unlikely to meet 516 million doses-target by July-end||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign is unlikely to administer its planned 516 million doses by July-end without a sharp increase in the doses procured and supplied by the Centre for daily inoculations, health experts have said. The campaign had until Tuesday night administered nearly 384 million doses and will need a steady supply of around 7.3 million doses daily for the rest of the month to achieve the planned 516 million doses by July 31. But the weekly average of daily doses administered has declined for a second consecutive week after the week starting June 21 during which India achieved an average of 6.1 million doses daily. It fell to 4.18 million between June 28 and July 4 and to 3.44 million between July 5 and 12. “At this pace, we’re certain to miss the July 31 target,” said Rijo John, a health economist and faculty member at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Kochi. “The daily average in July so far has been less than June’s 4.1 million — at this rate, it’s simply unachievable.” John and other experts tracking the campaign have said the average daily doses administered likely reflect the country’s current vaccine production capacity, which they say does not appear in line with projections made by the Centre. The Union health ministry had told the Supreme Court in a June 26 affidavit that it “will make available for administration” 516 million doses by July 31 that would leave a requirement of 1,350 million doses to fully vaccinate the eligible 940 million population. But R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said the projection of 516 million appears “impossible” to achieve for now, given the average number of doses being rolled out this month so far. Even if the average this month reaches 4 million per day, the total doses administered by the end of July would range between 450 million and 460 million. Two medical experts who are advising the government on its Covid-19 vaccination policy had told this newspaper earlier this month that India has the capacity to administer 10 million doses per day if supplies become available. Experts say the vaccination campaign will need to increase the daily administered doses even higher to over 8.8 million per day to use up the 1,350 million doses during the 153 days from August to December to vaccinate all adults by the year-end. The campaign had until Tuesday fully vaccinated about 75 million people, or only about 8 per cent of the eligible population. “How quickly India can vaccinate its people will depend entirely on supplies — and there is still some uncertainty about the new vaccines which the government has projected will be part of the 1,350 million doses,” a senior public health expert said. The health ministry has said it expects 500 million Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, 400 million Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech, 300 million doses of a new vaccine from Biological E, 50 million doses of a new vaccine from Zydus Cadila and 100 million Sputnik V doses. India’s regulatory authority is yet to approve the Zydus Cadila and Biological E vaccines. “There is opacity about the current monthly production capacity,” said Ramakumar. The Centre had said in May this year that Serum produces about 65 million doses per month and Bharat produces 20 million doses per month. “Supplies from the ministry during June and July suggest that India has access to about 4 million doses day,” he said. “This would need to more than double to complete vaccination by the end of the year.” A Serum spokesperson had said earlier this year the company would achieve 100 million doses per month production between March and June. Both companies have said they are ramping up production and executives from both firms have said increasing production cannot be done very quickly. Spokespersons for both Serum and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday declined to comment on their current production capacities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
14-07-2021||India||Covid crisis: India's 'budget' private schools stare at closure||Amit Srivastava, principal and proprietor of Lotus Public School, is eagerly waiting for the Uttar Pradesh government to let schools reopen for in-person classes. He says it’s a question of survival. “If the school reopens, I think parents will prefer to pay the tuition fees. If the schools continue to remain closed for physical classes, it will be difficult to sustain ourselves,” Srivastava said from Pipraich town in Gorakhpur, where his school is located. The country’s 4 lakh “budget” private schools that mostly charge monthly tuition fees between Rs 500 and Rs 3,000 have been struggling because many of the parents, their earnings hit by the pandemic, are not paying the tuition fees regularly — or at all. Some parents, who are largely from the lower middle class, have stopped their children from attending the online classes to avoid any moral obligation to pay up. S. Madhusudan, vice-president of the National Independent Schools Alliance, said feedback from the ground suggested that nearly 1 lakh budget schools — 25 per cent of the total — had closed over the past one year because of financial problems. “Most of the schools that operated out of rented buildings have vacated them and closed operations,” he said. Madhusudan added that the schools that had taken loans to set up their infrastructure were “struggling”. The more expensive private schools in the cities, numbering about 50,000 across the country, have seen their students largely attending the online classes and their parents mostly paying up. Srivastava said: “We currently have eight teachers. Till last month, we paid them a reduced salary. From this month, I’ve told them no salary can be paid.” Srivastava had set up his school on his own land with a bank loan. He is still paying the EMIs. The school, which teaches up to Class VIII, charges Rs 600 a month till Class V and Rs 700 a month for the higher classes. Nearly 200 students are enrolled in the school but most of the parents are not paying, Srivastava said. Payment of tuition fees had dwindled right from the start of the Covid outbreak in spring last year. Most budget schools have slashed their tuition fees by about 20 per cent. But with most parents paying intermittently or not at all, Madhusudan said, the collection tends to be 25 to 30 per cent of the due amount. Madhusudan has been running a school, the Pragati Vidya Niketan, from two rented buildings in Hyderabad for the past 31 years. He has to pay Rs 4 lakh as rent a month. Of the 1,350 students enrolled in the school, only 550 are attending the online classes. “The past one year has been very difficult for me. I have been able to run the school somehow because it has more students (than most) and some of the parents are paying regularly,” Madhusudan said. He said the schools running with 300 to 500 students on Hyderabad’s outskirts had been hit very hard. Many of the parents whose children are enrolled in these schools are from the working class and have seen their earnings plummet during the pandemic, Madhusudan said. Another blow to the budget schools was the drying of admissions to Class I, the lowest level in most of these schools, last year after the pandemic hit. Most parents of very young children seem to have decided to wait, sceptical of how much good online classes would do to a beginner. Of the 11,000 private schools in Telangana, for instance, some 2,300 schools witnessed zero admission to Class I in 2020-21. This caused the total number of children in all private and government schools in the state to drop from 32 lakh in 2019-20 to 30 lakh in 2020-21, Madhusudan said. He did not have figures for the current academic year. Usha Ram, former principal of the Laxman Public School in New Delhi, said the state governments must help the struggling budget schools. “Otherwise, how can they run? Many have already closed,” she said. Ram said that children from lower middle class families were yet to become comfortable with online education, and not all their parents could provide them with their own electronic device to attend the classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Smriti Irani included in Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs||Women and child development minister Smriti Irani has for the first time been included in the Prime Minister-helmed Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs, signalling her renewed importance in the current regime after a prolonged trough. The government reconstituted various cabinet committees after the ministry expansion and shuffling of portfolios on Monday night. The Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs headed by the Prime Minister is seen as the core group of the administration, empowered to discuss and take a call on the political issues confronting the government. Although first-time central ministers such as Bhupender Yadav, Mansukh Mandaviya and Sarbananda Sonowal have also made it to the select group, it was the appointment of Smriti that was noted the most. Smriti, an actress turned politician, had been seen as a rising star when Narendra Modi made her human resource development minister in his first government in 2014. Her glory days, however, were short-lived and she was shunted out just after two years in office and given charge of the low-profile textile ministry. In BJP circles, this was seen as a big demotion and it was widely believed that she had lost Modi’s trust. Despite staging an electoral stunner in 2019, when she defeated then Congress president Rahul Gandhi in his family bastion Amethi, Smriti couldn’t regain her high point. She was rewarded with the charge of two ministries — women and child development, besides textile — but it was not as flattering as her start in 2014. In the latest shuffle too, she lost the textile ministry and had to settle for only women and child development. Smriti getting a place in the cabinet’s political affairs committee may not have restored her glory but has certainly underlined her maturity and political importance, BJP leaders feel. She is likely to be deployed extensively in the campaign for the Uttar Pradesh elections early next year. “Only the core ministers get a place in the political affairs committee. It’s a prestigious appointment and Smritiji should be proud to have made it,” a BJP leader said. After the Cabinet Committee on Security, which only has the Prime Minister and the other four top ministers, the political affairs committee is regarded as the second most important core group of the government. The 12-member political affairs committee has Prime Minister Modi at its helm while the others are Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti, Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Sonowal, Giriraj Singh, Mandaviya and Yadav. The exclusion of Rajnath from the political affairs committee in 2019 had created a flutter. He was, however, quickly re-inducted.Apart from Smriti, the inclusion of first-time ministers Yadav and Mandaviya, who has been given charge of the crucial health ministry besides chemicals and fertilisers, points to the new lot of leaders being promoted by the current regime. These leaders appeared to have made it to the important committee after six senior ministers were dropped in the reshuffle, including Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Harsh Vardhan and Ramesh Pokhriyal. In BJP circles, the reconstitution of the cabinet committees was also seen as offering clues to the leaders who could fill the vacancies in the party’s highest decision-making body, the parliamentary board. There are five vacancies in the parliamentary board and speculation is rife that either Smriti or Sitharaman could be picked to fill the void created by the passing of Sushma Swaraj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Don’t misuse laws to quell dissent or harass citizens: Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge D.Y. Chandrachud has said criminal laws, including anti-terror legislations, should not be misused to quell dissent or harass citizens. He asserted that the apex court plays the role of a counter-majoritarian institution whose duty is to protect the rights of socio-economic minorities and those deprived of personal liberty. “While it is important that prisons are decongested because they are highly susceptible to becoming hot spots for the virus, it is equally important to examine why prisons are congested in the first place. The criminal law, including the anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or for the harassment of citizens,” Justice Chandrachud told a seminar late on Monday night. The Supreme Court has decided to examine the colonial-era sedition law under IPC Section 124A, which is being frequently used by the central and state governments to stifle any view critical of the dispensation in power. There has also been a growing tendency in the country to brand as “anti-national” dissenters and people expressing views contrary to those of the government. Addressing an India-US seminar on the “Role of the Supreme Court in protecting fundamental rights in challenging times”, Justice Chandrachud made the observations while pointing to the various directions the apex court has passed amid the pandemic, including asking the government to offer free vaccines to citizens, supply free rations and provide transport facilities as a matter of fundamental right. The seminar was jointly organised by the Society of Indian Law Firms and Chartered Institute of Arbitrators and the American Bar Association. The government has been showcasing the free vaccination drive as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s gift to the nation. However, the announcement had been made after the Supreme Court had in June described as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Centre’s policy of leaving adults aged below 45 to pay for their Covid-19 jabs while providing for free vaccination of those aged 45 or above. Justice Chandrachud pointed out that the Centre changed tack after the Supreme Court’s observations. At the seminar, Justice Chandrachud, who had been on the bench that commented on the vaccination drive, referred to his recent judgment on Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s bail plea in a criminal case registered by the Maharashtra government. The top court had observed that “our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of the liberty of citizens. Deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one too many. We must always be mindful of the deeper systemic implications of our decisions”. Justice Chandrachud noted on Monday night that the Centre had earlier introduced a vaccination policy under which it had been inoculating people above 45, healthcare and other frontline workers for free. People in the 18-44 age group had to go to state government vaccination centres or private hospitals for jabs for which they had to shell out money. The people in this age group were also required to book appointments digitally. Justice Chandrachud said the Supreme Court could not remain a silent spectator although it was cautious that it could not transgress into the domain of policy-making and usurp the role of the executive.“However, in a humanitarian crisis, it (the court) could not stand as a silent spectator. It adopted a ‘bounded deliberative approach’ seeking justifications from the government for its policy, which it reiterated must be bound by a human rights framework which in this case implicated the right to life under Article 21 and the rights to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution,” the judge said. “The Supreme Court observed that prima facie, the Union government’s policy of differential pricing where a certain class of citizens is given free vaccines and another class has to pay for vaccines or depend on the financial wherewithal of each state to avail (themselves of) free vaccines was arbitrary and inconsistent with the right to life (which includes the right to health) under Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Chandrachud told the seminar. “We noted that the social strata of the 18-44 age group also comprises persons who belong to underprivileged and marginalised groups. Such persons may not have the ability to pay for essential vaccines, which is a public good in a pandemic. Hence, we noted that prima facie, a rational policy would require the Union government to take up the responsibility of procuring vaccines and negotiating with the vaccine manufacturers as a monopolistic buyer, and subsequently allocate the vaccines to the states for distribution to people free of cost,” he added. He noted that the apex court had prima facie held that the government’s then policy could have serious implications on the fundamental right to equality and the right to health of those in the 18-44 age group.Justice Chadrachud pointed out that following the Supreme Court’s observations, “…the Union government thereafter revised its policy, bearing the responsibility of procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines and administering them free of cost to persons above the age of 18 years, while also capping the price that could be charged for the remainder 25 per cent of the vaccines being procured by private hospitals from manufacturers. Further, the Union government also allowed on-site registration and vaccination of persons in the age group of 18-44 years along with digital registration…” Justice Chandrachud said the court plays the role of a counter-majoritarian institution and it is its duty to protect the rights of socio-economic minorities. “As the guardian of the Constitution, it has to put a break where executive or legislative actions infringe on fundamental human rights. Even in the context of the separation of powers, the scheme of checks and balances through supervision results in a certain degree of interference by one branch into the functioning of the other,” Justice Chandrachud said while referring to criticism over alleged judicial overreach in executive functioning. He said the Supreme Court had used various methods in holding the executive and legislature accountable, whether by striking down a law and ruling on the ground of unconstitutionality or by intervening in certain matters of policy or through a deliberative approach of making the other two arms of governance aware of the constitutional implications of the decisions at hand. “The Supreme Court has to act in furtherance of its role as sentinel on the qui vive (on the alert) and respond to the call of constitutional conscience and it is this role that prompts it to address the challenges of the 21st century, ranging from the pandemic to the rise of intolerance, features which we find across the world,” Justice Chandrachud said. The judge said the Indian Supreme Court had often relied on the comparative jurisprudence of the US Supreme Court, encouraging a trans-national judicial dialogue. For instance, in the Navtej Johar v. Union of India, where the Indian Supreme Court decriminalised same-sex sexual intercourse, Justice Chandrachud said that while delivering the verdict he had relied on comparative legal developments from the UK, European Court of Human Rights and the celebrated case of Lawrence v. Texas of the US to hold that there was a growing liberal consensus towards equal treatment of LGBTQ rights and India could not be left behind in this transformational vision. Similarly, in the Puttuswamy v. Union of India (Aadhaar card case), where the Indian Supreme Court upheld the right to privacy as a guarantee under the Constitution, specific comparison was made with the US, Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Vaccine: Serum Institute signs pact to produce Sputnik V||The Serum Institute of India has signed a pact with a Russian agency to produce the Sputnik V vaccine and is set to become a source of three Covid-19 vaccines. The first batch of the Sputnik vaccine from Serum is expected to be produced at its facilities in September, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, and the vaccine maker announced on Tuesday. They said they intended to produce 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year. “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in September,” Adar Poonawalla, Serum’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. “With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that Sputnik is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.” India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines had approved Sputnik V in April this year but its use into the vaccination campaign has been limited by supplies. But the Union health ministry has counted 100 million doses of Sputnik V in its projected inventory of 1,350 million doses with which it hopes to fully vaccinate India’s eligible population by the year-end. The Sputnik V vaccine uses two differing doses and India has received 3.1 million first doses and 360,000 second doses, a Reuters report had said on Monday. The unequal numbers has meant the vaccine’s full rollout in India is currently on hold. Serum has already received the raw materials for the vaccine — cell and vector samples — from Russia’s Gamaleya Centre and has initiated the cultivation process, the RDIF and the company said. The Sputnik V vaccine is registered for use in 67 countries. Serum is already producing Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine, currently used in the vaccination campaign, and Covavax, another Covid-19 vaccine designed by the US-based Novavax. The company had said earlier this year that it is ramping up Covishield production to 100 million doses per month and its pact with Novavax announced last year had set a target of a billion doses of Covavax in 2021. Russia is hoping India will emerge as a leading production hub for Sputnik V. The RDIF had earlier signed production pacts with other companies — Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen.“The more the manufacturers the better — but much of the Sputnik produced in India is also likely intended for the international market,” said R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The RDIF has said the Sputnik V vaccine has shown an efficacy of 97 per cent based on the analysis of data on the coronavirus infection rate among those in Russia vaccinated with both doses between December 5, 2020, and March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||'Martyrs’ graveyard' sealed in Srinagar||Srinagar’s “martyrs’ graveyard” was on Tuesday sealed to prevent pro-India politicians from paying tributes to the victims of the first popular uprising against the despotic Dogra rule. For decades since 1931, July 13 has been observed as “Martyrs’ Day” in Jammu and Kashmir in memory of the men who were killed by Dogra forces that year, with politicians from across the separatist-pro-India divide treating the victims as their own. But there was no state holiday last year on July 13 for the first time in decades after the government struck it down from the list of official holidays. Politicians too were not allowed to visit the graveyard to pay tributes but what had looked like a one-off incident last year seemed more of a norm this time round. The restrictions around the graveyard last year had coincided with a pandemic-related lockdown, prompting some officials to claim in private that Covid was the reason. There was no Covid-related lockdown in the Valley on Tuesday but the roads leading to the graveyard were sealed to prevent visitors from thronging the place. Officially, no restrictions were announced and no reasons were given, neither last year nor on Tuesday, as part of a new normal in Kashmir where the government offers no explanation for such action. All an officer in Srinagar had to say to this newspaper after requesting anonymity was that the “order has come from above”. Security forces were deployed in large numbers outside the Naqshband Sahib shrine in Srinagar, where the graveyard is located. The forces had erected barricades to prevent people from converging at the shrine. Two main pro-India parties — the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party — said they had applied to the Srinagar district magistrate for permission to visit the graveyard but were not allowed. The parties, however, joined others in paying tributes elsewhere. Parts of Kashmir observed a shutdown to mourn the losses of the “martyrs”. The NC held a programme headed by party president Farooq Abdullah at its main office. In a joint statement, Farooq and son Omar Abdullah described the 1931 episode as “a landmark in the history of J&K”. “Their sacrifices resulted in the transformation of the state from a feudalistic to a democratic one. The brave men belonged to a generation of wisdom and vision. They saw in darkness and despair a vision for the forthcoming generations; they envisioned a society free from bondage, discrimination and oppression,” the statement said. Farooq’s father Sheikh Abdullah, the founder of the NC and the first prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir after its accession to India, had emerged as a mass leader from the uprising. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the party was denied permission and the gates leading to the shrine were locked. “Attempts to distort and rewrite Kashmir’s history are being made only to create a sense of defeat and helplessness amongst Kashmiris. Nevertheless, as we pay homage to the heroes of 13th July, 1931, our resolve to strive for restoration of J&K’s dignity remains firm,” she tweeted. CPM veteran Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami had said on Monday that the “supreme sacrifices of the July 13 martyrs” had ultimately led the way for a “Naya (new) Kashmir” during which the erstwhile state made “significant strides including landmark agrarian reforms, free education to all, political and economic rights to women, (and the) uplift of weaker sections of the population, including peasants and tenants (of the land, who) got empowered”. “With a stroke of the pen, J&K’s special status under Article 370 was abrogated and the erstwhile state was downgraded and bifurcated into two Union Territories. The new narrative of the BJP government is to make a ‘Naya Kashmir’ where you are not even allowed to mourn and visit the graves of the July 13 martyrs to pay homage to them. In the last two years, silence of the people, achieved by force, is being projected as acceptance of the BJP government’s unconstitutional and arbitrary decisions,” he said in a statement. The BJP-led Centre has been accused of launching an assault on Kashmir’s pre-Partition symbols of resistance against “Hindu” Dogra autocrats, literally disowning the “Muslim martyrs” who laid down their lives fighting Dogra rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||CoBRA: 37 women personnel train in jungle warfare||Thirty-seven women personnel of the CRPF, the country’s largest paramilitary force, are undergoing strenuous training after being recently inducted into the force’s jungle warfare commando wing CoBRA. This is the first time the CRPF has inducted women constables into the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), the elite wing specialising in jungle warfare and anti-Maoist operations. “The 37 women constables are undergoing training and it covers, among other things, firing, handling special weapons, tactical planning, field craft, explosives and jungle survival skills,” a CRPF official said. They will be deployed, he said, in Maoist-infested areas, including Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, after the completion of their four-month training in October. In March this year the CRPF had also for the first time formed an all-women brass band. In 2008, the Centre had raised the 10,000-strong CoBRA under the command and control of the CRPF to counter Maoists, also helping the personnel grasp Naxalite intelligence-gathering techniques and strategy. CoBRA personnel are now deployed in Maoist-affected regions across the country. The CoBRA is headquartered in the National Capital Region and has battalion headquarters in every Maoist-hit state, including Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Another CRPF official said CoBRA commandos get an incentive of 15 per cent over and above the salary drawn by a CRPF jawan. The CRPF has had women personnel in combat since 1986 when its first “Mahila” battalion was raised. It has six such units now. The women troops are deployed across the country for rendering law-and-order duties, anti-Maoist operations and other operational tasks. The CRPF, having a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, is the lead internal security combat unit and is also posted in Jammu and Kashmir for counter-terror operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||Senior BJP leaders hit back at Nitish for criticising Yogi's population bill||Senior BJP leaders hit back at ally Nitish Kumar on Tuesday after his apparent criticism of the draft population bill brought by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, accusing the Bihar chief minister of indulging in doublespeak. Nitish had asserted on Monday that making laws to curb population growth would not work and that the best alternative was to educate women. Panchayati raj minister and BJP legislator Samrat Choudhary pointed out that Nitish had led the passage of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, which barred candidates with more than two children from contesting urban local body elections. The threshold date was fixed at April 1, 2008, under the law for counting the children of the contestants. Choudhary asserted that it was time to implement similar norms in the panchayat polls and said that preparations were afoot to bring a legislation. “Nitish Kumar had brought the law that barred candidates having more than two children from contesting municipal polls in Bihar. It is now time to implement the law in panchayat elections as well. We are preparing the draft for it,” he said. Choudhary clarified that such provisions will not affect the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Renu Devi also hit out at Nitish’s stand on population control and said his statements were inherently flawed. “Men should be made aware and enlightened to curb population. They are too afraid to go for vasectomy as a family planning method. The number of vasectomy operations in various districts of Bihar is negligible. Just educating women will not control the population growth. It’s a fact that family members put pressure on women to have more children due to their desire to have sons,” Renu said. The deputy chief minister, however, denied that her opinion could have been influenced by the forcible vasectomies performed during the Emergency between 1975 and 1977. Union rural development minister Giriraj Singh, the MP of Begusarai, said: also refused to accept Nitish’s stance on checking population growth. “A law is needed because population growth has become a major obstacle to national development,” he said. As the BJP leaders cornered Nitish over the issue, leaders of his Janata Dal United leaders returned the fire, asking them to check facts. “The work done to provide education to girls over the last 16 years has led to a decline in the fertility rate in the state The experiment has been successful and the country should follow it. It is not possible to control population with the help of laws,” JDU chief spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said. Nitish had also disapproved the talks about imposing a uniform civil code in the country. The JDU has opposed the National Register of Citizens, National Population Register, Citizenship Amendment Act, scrapping of Article 370 and uniform civil code, which have been supported by the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||India||No need to publish draft legislations in Malayalam, Lakshadweep admin tells Kerala HC||The Lakshadweep administration has told Kerala High Court that there is no need to publish draft legislations in Malayalam, which is the medium of instruction in schools. This was stated in a counter-affidavit the administration filed on Monday in reply to a plea by the Lakshadweep Lok Sabha member and six others who sought judicial intervention to get all draft legislations published in Malayalam, and not just English. P.P. Mohammed Faizal, who represents the Union Territory in the Lok Sabha, and others had in a writ petition said that all the draft legislations are published only in English, a language that majority of the islanders are not well-versed in. They had sought the draft legislations and notifications to be published in Malayalam as well to help the people understand them and file their objections, if necessary. But the administration has maintained that Malayalam has not been adopted as the official language in the Union Territory. “The language mainly spoken by the people of Lakshadweep, except Minicoy, is ‘Jeseri’ which has no script and English is taught in all schools of Lakshadweep,” the administration told the court. The lawmaker, had in his petition, cited the lack of people’s participation in the consultation process ahead of finalising rules governing the islanders because of the non-availability of the draft legislations in Malayalam. Another reason cited in the petition is the slow Internet speed that hampers downloads of the drafts from the administration’s website. While the administration admitted the Internet speed was slow, it informed the court that objections and suggestions filed via email are more than letters. According to the affidavit, the administration received 182 suggestions and objections via email while only 97 were received through the postal service. But Faizal said the numbers were hardly significant since the population of the islands is around 68,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
14-07-2021||West Bengal||CID officers visit Suvendu Adhikari's home in connection with probe into former security guard's death   ||The West Bengal CID officials on Wednesday visited BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's house in Contai in connection with the probe into death of his security personnel around three years ago, a senior officer said. Apart from talking to the two security gaurds who were former colleagues of AdhikarI's ex-security detail Subhabrata Chakraborty, and are still posted there, the CID sleuths also spoke to the BJP leader's younger brother Dibyendu Adhikari. Adhikari's personal security guard had allegedly shot himself dead with his service revolver in 2018 in a police barrack in Kanthi in East Midnapore district. ”We have also collected some necessary documents in connection with the probe from Contai police station. We have also held discussions with the police officers there and had their view about the case,” the officer said. The sleuths also visited the barrack where Chakraborty had shot himself in October 2018. The guard's wife Suparna Chakrabarty had filed a fresh complaint with the Contai police station demanding a probe into her husbands death. Chakraborty, who was from the state armed police, was part of Adhikaris security team since he was an MP and continued to be in the team after he became a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government in 2015.   The reopening of the case triggered verbal duel between rivals BJP and the TMC. Referring to the visit of CID team to Adhikari's residence, BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya told reporters in Calcutta, ”We wonder why the case has been raked up after two and half years?” ”When the incident happened Suvendu Adhikari was a powerful minister in Mamata Banerjee cabinet. Now when he has left Trinamul Congress to join BJP and defeated the chief minister from Nandigram all these things-filing of FIR and visit of CID team are happening. ”We guess there is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it. This is part of revenge politics,” Bhattacharya said. Trinamul Congress MLA from Mahisadal and cousin of the deceased bodyguard, Tilak Chakraborty said, “why the death was passed off as a suspected case of suicide? We want the truth to come out.” Younger brother of Suvendu Adhikari and MP Dibyendu Adhikari said, “I think there is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind digging up an over two years old case. But, we are not afraid of any probe."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee meets Jagdeep Dhankhar amid tense ties||Amid the ongoing tussle between Raj Bhawan and the state government, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Wednesday held an hour-long meeting and discussed various issues related to the state. Dhankar said in a tweet the meeting was held without the presence of aides. "Hon'ble Chief Minister @MamataOfficial called on Hon'ble Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan today. According to sources, the two discussed the resolution passed by the state assembly seeking creation of a legislative council. The West Bengal assembly had passed a resolution last week supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured creation of a legislative council despite strident opposition by the BJP. "A lot of issues related to the state were discussed in the meeting, which was held in a very cordial atmosphere," an official said. The meeting came amid growing animosity between Dhankhar and Banerjee, who recently said she has thrice written to the Centre demanding the governor's recall. The faceoff between Dhankhar and Banerjee intensified last month when the chief minister accused the governor of being a "corrupted man" and claimed he was named in the Jain Hawala case. Dhankhar remonstrated, accusing her of propagating "lies and misinformation". Dhankhar and the Banerjee government have been at loggerheads ever since he assumed office over a year ago. The governor has often expressed concern over the law and order situation, including the violence that followed the assembly polls held earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu moves SC for transfer of Mamata’s election plea outside Bengal||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election petition challenging his win in assembly polls from Nandigram constituency outside West Bengal. The BJP leader seeks transfer of Banerjee's plea, pending in the Calcutta High Court, outside the state, lawyer Kabir Bose said. Is move comes hours after Calcutta High Court directed that Banerjee's election petition will be taken up for hearing on August 12 and also directed notice be served upon Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, whose victory from Nandigram in the assembly elections was challenged by her. The court also directed the Election Commission to preserve all records and devices related to the polls in Nandigram. Today’s development, many believe prompted the leader of the opposition in Bengal Assembly to move the Apex Court, seeking a transfer. Adhikari, a former close aide of the chief minister, who joined BJP, is presently holding the post of the leader of opposition in the state assembly after defeating Banerjee in a closely-contested polls by the margin of 1,956 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: BJP protests against fake vaccination drive||The BJP on Wednesday organised demonstrations in several districts of West Bengal to raise voice against the recent fake vaccination drive that took place in the state. They have sought immediate action against all those involved in the dubious jab drive. Around 100 activists, led by senior BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya, assembled near the sub-divisional office in Salt Lake area on the outskirts of the city and raised slogans against the ruling TMC government for “failing to inoculate all the eligible people for free despite allotment of Covid vaccine doses by the Centre”. The agitators were bundled into police vehicles and moved from the protest site, triggering allegations of high-handedness by the TMC administration. “This government cannot stop persons like fake IAS Debanjan Deb from organising illegal vaccination camps but it knows how to halt a peaceful democratic movement by deploying policemen,” Bhattacharya said. Similar protests were also held in Purulia town and Siliguri. Deb, posing as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, had set up dubious vaccine camps in the city, which got busted after actor-turned-TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, who had taken her jab at his Kasba centre, raised an alarm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Metro services to resume, but Covid curbs to stay till end-July||Metro services will resume in Calcutta from Friday (July 16) with partial operations as the Bengal government has decided to continue with existing restrictions till end of this month. Metro services will operate on weekdays with only 50 per cent occupancy. There will be no services on weekends. Metro Rail authorities and the local police would have to ensure passengers comply with the Covid guidelines in the station and trains. Local train services will remain closed. Schools and educational institutes will continue to remain shut. The government has also decided to extend banking hours till 3pm. Banks are now allowed to function from 10am to 2pm. Private offices will be allowed to remain open with 50 per cent staff. Similarly with all production units, mills, IT and IT-enabled services. Music recording studios will be allowed to operate with 10 musicians. Likewise, for the shooting of film, television and web series, 50 people will be allowed per unit but all members of the crew must have had both doses of vaccination. Salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to work till “usual working hours” after vaccination of all staff. Restaurants and bars in hotels, shopping malls and clubs will be allowed to serve guests till 8pm. Swimming pools will be allowed for training of state, national and international-level swimmers for four hours a day till 10 am. The current restriction is valid till Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Where girls outnumber boys in schools||Girl students enrolled from pre-primary to class 12 in West Bengal schools have outnumbered boys, according to a central government survey. The dropout rate among girls is also lower than the boys in the state, the study released by the Unified District Information System for Education Plus said. Over 1.87 crore students enrolled from pre-primary to class 12 in the 2019-20 academic session in West Bengal schools, and there were 2.32 lakh more girls, it said. The number of girls in the academic session was 94,89,902, and that of boys was 92,57,890 in the state schools, according to the study released on Tuesday. An official of the syllabus committee formed by the state school education department said, "The implementation of Kanyashree project in the last few years and sustained campaigns by the state and central governments for girls' education in rural areas have contributed to the success." The importance given to girls' education by families in Bengal across social strata and campaigns against child marriage have helped achieve this, he said on Wednesday. The survey said the total enrolment in 2019-20 from primary to higher secondary level in the country was over 25.09 crore, a rise by more than 26 lakh over the previous year. "Countrywide enrolment of boys was 13.01 crore, while that of girls was 12.08 crore. "At all the levels above primary, the school enrolment has increased, showing an improvement in the ability of the system to retain more and more children," the survey said. The study, conducted in the pre-Covid-19 period, indicated that the dropout among boys was 14.1 per cent, and that of girls was 13.6 per cent in West Bengal. In the upper primary section, between class V and class VII, the dropout rate in the state was nil, while the national average was 2.6 per cent. In general, the availability of infrastructure in schools across the country has improved in 2019-20 as compared to the previous year. Some of these are - availability of electricity connection in 83.4 per cent of schools in 2019-20 as compared to 76.7 per cent in 2018-19, the study said. Computers were available in 38.5 per cent of schools in the academic year under review, and internet access in 22.3 per cent of educational institutes, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||HC admits Mamata’s plea challenging Suvendu’s win||Admitting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition for hearing, the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed that notice be served upon Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, whose victory from Nandigram in the assembly elections was challenged by her. Justice Shampa Sarkar directed that Banerjee's election petition will be taken up for hearing on August 12. The judge directed that in the meantime, notice be served upon Adhikari, a BJP MLA, and other parties in the matter. Justice Sarkar held that as per a report received by her bench from the high court administration, the election petition was filed in compliance with the provisions of the Representation of the People Act. The court also directed the Election Commission to preserve all records and devices related to the polls in Nandigram. The matter was reassigned to the bench of Justice Sarkar by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal after Justice Kausik Chanda recused himself from hearing the Trinamool Congress chief's petition. As per the result declared by the Election Commission, Adhikari defeated Banerjee by a margin of 1,956 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Firefighting Company manufacturing oxygen concentrators to help those in need||Integrated Fire Protection Private Limited, an MSME company that has been in operation for four decades, is a pioneer when it comes to Firefighting Foam, which is made in collaboration with ABS Sweden. The company, founded in 1984, has its manufacturing unit in Jalpaiguri and its head -office in Calcutta. With NABL accredited and DSIR recognized laboratories, the company has gradually developed a range of products in different areas like Fire Fighting Dry Powder and Equipment. It has achieved a number of national and international approvals of products and accordingly improved supplies of products to domestic as well as international markets, earning a considerable amount of foreign currency. Apart from the firefighting products, the company started manufacturing a number of healthcare items particularly due to the necessity arising out of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation. It is making products such as hand sanitizers, hand wash, keeping the excellent quality of the items intact. Due to the increased requirement of oxygen therapy during these trying times, the company has started manufacturing a low cost model of oxygen concentrator with state of the art technology in collaboration with NIT, Durgapur. The concentrator is built for long sustenance and will provide high purity of oxygen duly approved with FDA and CE marking, while keeping the price low. As a result, the company is now trying to cope up with the high demand. The company is dedicated to cater to the need of oxygen concentrator for commoners on one hand and provide employment opportunities to the people of Jalpaiguri on the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader Somen Mitra's son resigns as party's Bengal general secretary||Rohan Mitra, son of late Congress veteran Somen Mitra, resigned as the West Bengal unit general secretary on Wednesday over his differences with state party president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. In a letter to Chowdhury, Mitra said he was resigning as he was "not motivated to work" in his leadership. "Your attitude towards me from the beginning has been pathetic. The language used by your close clique about my father and other leaders in the past has been detrimental to party unit in Bengal," he said "Even after the results of May 2, I had hoped you would take necessary steps and make the rectification which would send out a message to the people of the state that Bengal Congress would fight the BJP for the opposition space. Alas, that too never happened," he added. The resignation once again brought to the fore the infighting in the faction-riddled state Congress, which failed to win a single seat in the assembly elections after joining hands with the Left Front and ISF. Mitra said that the party witnessed an ultimate downfall in the state and there are no signs of its revival. "The change in your tone and the narrative towards the TMC government and the chief minister of West Bengal is a proof of that," he wrote in the letter. Chowdhury was not immediately available for comments. The name of Rohan's mother Shikha Mitra was announced by the BJP from the Chowringhee seat for the state elections after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari met her. She then said that she was not consulted before the name was announced and she won't leave the Congress, forcing the BJP to change its candidate. The episode also drew the attention of the Congress high-command with party president Sonia Gandhi calling to congratulate her. Somen Mitra, the then state Congress president, died in July last year at the age of 78. Chowdhury replaced him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC to meet Election Commission on Thursday to press for bypolls||A TMC delegation will meet Election Commission officials on July 15 to demand conduct of bypolls and pending elections to seven Assembly seats of Bengal, as the Covid situation has eased considerably. The byelections are of critical importance to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Assembly poll to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. The Constitution allows a person to occupy a ministerial position only up to six months without getting elected to a state legislature or the two Houses of Parliament. It mandates that a minister who is not a member of legislature for six consecutive months shall cease to occupy the position at the expiration of that period. Mamata needs to get elected to the Assembly by November 4 to continue as the chief minister. "We will be meeting EC officials tomorrow (Thursday) in Delhi with the demand to hold pending elections and byelections to seven Assembly segments. The Assembly elections were held in eight phases when Covid was at an all-time high. But now the Covid situation has improved a lot. "The EC is delaying the by-elections. Is it waiting for the third wave? We want the by-polls to be conducted as early as possible," TMC chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Shekhar Ray said. Dinhata and Santipur Assembly seats fell vacant after BJP leaders Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned as MLAs and chose to retain their membership of Parliament. Pramanik was inducted into the Modi government during its recent expansion. Mamata Banerjee's pocket borough of Bhawanipore fell vacant after state minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay resigned to facilitate her election from the seat. The TMC had fielded Chattopadhyay from Bhawanipore after the party supremo decided to take on her former protege Adhikari in Nandigram. Byelections to Khardah and Gosaba seats in North and South 24 Parganas respectively are to be held after the death of TMC's Kajal Sinha and Jayanta Naskar due to Covid-19. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad had been countermanded following the death of candidates and later postponed indefinitely as Covid -19 raged across the state during the second wave. Currently, Mamata Banerjee and Finance Minister Amit Mitra are the two non-legislators in the ministry. Mitra has expressed his desire to step down due to ill-health, but Banerjee needs to win a by-election to enter the state Assembly. The TMC had stormed back to power in May for a third consecutive term bagging 213 seats in the 294-member Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bhutan's border lockdown sharpens petrol pain for residents of Jaigaon||The residents of Jaigaon, the Alipurduar town that sits on the Bhutan border, are feeling the pinch of the runaway petroleum prices even more than Indians elsewhere. The pandemic has put paid to their practice of hopping across the border to tank up in the Himalayan kingdom where the cost of fuel has always been lower. The nearest petrol pump is in Bhutan’s commercial capital Phuentsholing, 300 metres from Jaigaon. With the Bhutan government keeping the border gate closed since March last year because of the pandemic, Jaigaon residents need to drive down to Hashimara, 18km away, to buy fuel. Jaigaon does not have a petrol pump. “Around two decades ago, local traders had twice taken the initiative of opening pumps here. But as most people fill up tanks in Phuentsholing, the pumps in Jaigaon closed down on both occasions,” said Rama Shankar Gupta, the secretary of the Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. In Bhutan, which buys its fuel from India, petro products have traditionally been cheaper by Rs 10 to Rs 15 a litre because it does not levy taxes. That gulf has now widened. On Tuesday, the price of a litre of petrol in Alipurduar was Rs 102.10, while that of a litre of diesel was Rs 93.51. In Bhutan petrol and diesel cost Nu 72.89 and Nu 70.87, respectively. Nu or Ngultrum is the national currency of Bhutan, the value of which is equal to the Indian rupee. As the entry of vehicles to Bhutan, except for essential services, is barred now, Jaigaon residents were having to buy costlier petrol in India after making the fuel-guzzling journey to Hashimara. But with petroleum prices crossing Rs 100, a 36km to-and-fro journey has become a deal breaker. Both private car owners and commercial transport operators are largely avoiding using their vehicles, further hobbling the local economy that has suffered a blow because of its reliance on trade with Bhutan that too has come down to a trickle in the pandemic. “As we cannot enter Bhutan now, a car owner has to burn petrol worth Rs 300 only to travel to Hashimara to refill the tank. Amid the pandemic, when the income of people has taken a beating, many are not taking out their cars at all. Instead, they are using two-wheelers or local commercial vehicles like autorickshaws and trekkers,” said Samir Lama, a government employee who commutes to Hasimara every day. The plight of commercial vehicle operators is worse. “Hardly 100 autorickshaws are on the road these days. This is because most of us are finding it tough to sustain as we have to travel to Hashimara to buy fuel. We cannot take more passengers as only 50 per cent of the seating capacity is allowed in view of pandemic restrictions,” said an auto driver in Jaigaon. “Moreover, passengers are not ready to pay more than the existing fares. We are keeping our fingers crossed and waiting for the day when the restrictions on travel to Bhutan will be eased, at least in Phuentsholing,” he added. While autos in the area used to ferry 12-15 passengers, now not more than seven are allowed. Jaigaon has a population of around 1.25 lakh. According to sources in the local administration, there are around 500 autorickshaws, 200-odd light commercial vehicles, over 1,500 private vehicles (two and four-wheelers) and 200 trucks. A trader in Jaigaon said the fuel price difference with Bhutan became sharper after July 2018 when GST was introduced in India. “Since then, petroleum is exported to Bhutan at virtually zero tax rates. An excise duty has been levied by India, but that too is refunded to Bhutan,” the trader said. The Bhutan government does not levy any additional tax on imported fuel, which is why the cost is low there in comparison with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Calcutta High Court orders DNA test ||A five-judge special bench of Calcutta High Court hearing a post-poll violence case on Tuesday ordered a DNA test on a body to establish if it was that of BJP trade union leader Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly strangled by a mob at Narkeldanga on May 2, the day the Assembly poll results came out. Earlier, the bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had directed the state to perform a second autopsy at the Command Hospital in Calcutta following a plea by Abhijit’s brother Biswajit. The first autopsy report has not been revealed by the court, which had ordered a fresh probe into all cases of post-poll violence. On Tuesday, Biswajit told the court that the body sent for a second autopsy to the hospital was mutilated beyond recognition. The bench then ordered a DNA test. In response to an earlier order by the bench in the case, an eight-member committee constituted by the National Human Rights Commission to probe the alleged incidents of post-poll violence in Bengal has filed a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to prod Election Commission of India on pending Assembly bypolls||Trinamul will send a delegation to Delhi’s Nirvachan Sadan on Thursday to push for bypolls to seven Assembly seats in Bengal, one of which chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to contest to fulfill the constitutional obligation of getting elected to the House within six months of her May 5 swearing-in. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy on Tuesday said the party would meet the top brass of the Election Commission of India on Thursday to discuss the pending bypolls. “The bypolls remain pending and the situation now is conducive in terms of the pandemic for them to be held,” said the Dum Dum MP. The chief minister, who narrowly lost the contentious election from the Nandigram Assembly seat (a matter that is now sub judice), is demanding that the bypolls be held at once by the commission. “It is a very legitimate demand and the EC, keen on Rajya Sabha bypolls, knows it,” said a senior minister. Mamata has publicly said she is aware that the EC would conduct the bypolls only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi green-lights it. She has repeatedly accused the commission of succumbing to the BJP’s political pressure. A day after the Assembly election results on May 2, the EC suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the Covid-19 situation. The poll panel’s decision came at the end of an eight-phase election over two months, apparently desired by the BJP. Mamata is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the polls for health reasons, has to be voted to the Assembly within six months too. However, there are doubts whether Mitra’s health will permit his being active in poll politics. A senior Trinamul MP said that bypoll-bound Bhowanipore, Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba were likely to be won by the ruling party. BJP insiders said the party did not want bypolls as it was not in favour of the chief minister getting elected as an MLA now. But, it wants elections to Bengal’s 110-odd civic bodies. A state minister said elections to civic bodies would expose over two crore voters to Covid-19 risks, while bypolls to seven Assembly seats would involve around 17 lakh voters. On Tuesday, Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson for the state, claimed there was “no opportunity for free and fair polls” in Bengal right now. “Trinamul goons are killing our people, forcing BJP workers to join their party. In such a crisis there can only be polls when the commission can ensure freedom of speech for the Opposition and a peaceful atmosphere for voters,” said Bhattacharya, adding the Trinamul-led government was allegedly in fear of losing the civic polls and was delaying them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Eight BJP MLAs step down from standing committees in Assembly||Eight BJP MLAs  appointed chairpersons of various standing committees in the Assembly resigned from their posts on Tuesday, days after the Speaker appointed BJP turncoat Mukul Roy as the chairman of the public accounts committee. They are Manoj Tigga, Mihir Goswami, Krishna Kalyani, Nikhil Ranjan Dey, Bishnu Prasad Sharma, Dipak Barman, Ashok Kirtania and Anandamay Barman. “I was not consulted before eight BJP MLAs were appointed chairpersons of standing committees…. To protest the lack of consultation...and politicisation of the post of PAC chairman, we have rejected the offer,” leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said after meeting governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday. He said the BJP would meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla next week on the issue. Roy became MLA on a BJP ticket but soon joined Trinamul. The BJP did not want him to chair the PAC, but its Balurghat MLA Ashok Lahiri. Though there isn’t any set rule for appointing the PAC chairperson, conventionally the post goes to the person nominated by the Opposition. Roy, the de facto No. 2 in Trinamul till he joined the saffron camp in 2017, won the Assembly polls from Krishnagar North on a BJP ticket. Shortly afterwards, Roy went back to Trinamul and his candidature to the PAC was publicly supported by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on the ground that he was a BJP MLA. The BJP said that Speaker Biman Banerjee violated Rule 302 of the procedure and conduct of business rules in the Bengal Assembly. This rule specifies 20 members to the PAC have to be elected on the principle of “proportional representation”. The Opposition, in this case the BJP, can nominate six members, and the ruling party the rest. However, the BJP did not recommend Roy. Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Binay Tamang-backed Morcha faction, a Trinamul ally, proposed Roy’s name. Trinamul’s Egra MLA Tarun Kumar Maity seconded it. “We will write to leaders of the two Houses of Parliament, leaders of the Opposition and Speakers of Assemblies of all other states in India on the issue…. We have spoken to our party president and presidents of state units for a massive campaign across the country on how Opposition rights are being curbed in Bengal,” Adhikari said. BJP sources said the party was trying to prove that Roy had been nominated to the PAC as a “Trinamul MLA”. If this can be done successfully, the BJP’s case against Roy under the anti-defection law gets stronger, a BJP leader said. The hearing of Adhikari’s appeal before the Speaker to implement the anti-defection law against Roy will be heard on July 16. Tigga said a team of eight to nine MLAs, including Adhikari, will travel to Delhi to meet Birla and Kovind after July 19 when the Parliament session begins. Taking a dig at the BJP over the resignation of these MLAs, Trinamul MLA Tapas Roy said they needed to understand the legalities and technicalities of the Assembly first. “In the Assembly the Speaker takes the last call. Why did they meet the governor on this issue?” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||33-year-old youth returns home after two years in Bangladesh jail||A 33-year-old youth who hails from Dharanda village near the Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur and had erroneously sneaked into Bangladesh in 2019 was repatriated to India on Tuesday. Sources said Manik Debnath went missing from his house on March 8, 2019. His father, Binod, had filed a missing diary with police mentioning that Manik had left home with a bike and some cash. On Tuesday, Manik, accompanied by officials of the Border Guard Bangladesh and Bangladesh immigration department, walked past the international border at Hilli. His family, officials of South Dinajpur district administration, the police and BSF were present at the border. “I got into Bangladesh by mistake and was arrested and taken to a police station in Dinajpur district of the neighbouring country. Later, I was produced in court and sent to jail. It is great that I am back home after 28 months,” said Manik. An official of Bangladesh immigration department  said along with Manik, two other Indians, including a minor, were also repatriated back to their country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt races against time to complete seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards under Centre’s scheme ||The Bengal government is racing against time to complete the seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards under the Centre’s “one nation, one ration card” scheme, with the deadline just two weeks away. In all, Bengal has 9.8 crore ration cards. The state has completed the seeding of Aadhaar with only about 50 per cent ration cards. Meeting the deadline will be difficult, said government sources, explaining that the task involves seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards and then authenticating data. Sources said the authentication process was complete for only 27 per cent of cards. “Because of slow Internet in rural areas and mismatch in personal details given in the ration and Aadhaar cards, the seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards is getting delayed.… It will be embarrassing if we can’t complete the process by July 31 as that is the last date to upload details of the beneficiaries of the NFSA (National Food Security Act) on the Centre’s portal for the allotment of food grains,” said a government official. The Centre has been laying stress on seeding Aadhaar with ration cards for the past few years. However, the Bengal government had been resisting it as chief minister Mamata Banerjee was unsure of sharing details of the state’s citizens against the backdrop of the Centre’s new citizenship matrix. “Recently, the Supreme Court asked the state to complete the process by July 31. As we started late compared to other states, it’s taking time,” said an official. The sources said the state government had been facing snags ever since it started the work over three months ago. The process has two steps. First, the ration dealers  enter details of Aadhaar cards and biometric data of the beneficiaries in PoS (point of sale) machines. Then, the food department  matches with Aadhaar cards the details of digital ration cards stored in the central server of the department at Khadya Bhavan. “A beneficiary’s ration card is authenticated only when its details and those in the Aadhaar card match,” an official said. According to the sources, the food and supplies department is facing large-scale mismatch. “There may be a spelling mistake or a wrong address on Aadhaar cards. But there is little time left to correct the Aadhaar cards and re-enter details. We don’t know what will happen after July 31,” said another official. Insiders said the Centre had told the state verbally that it would allot food grains only to those whose names are uploaded in the central server after ration cards are tagged with Aadhaar cards. “If that is so, a number of beneficiaries in the state will face a real problem amid the pandemic,” said a source. Now, the Centre allots cheap food grains for 6.01 crore people in the state under the NFSA. A senior official said the state was trying its best to complete the process by engaging Webel, a state-owned company. “If we can’t complete the process on time, we will seek more time citing the problems,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Birbhum village achieves 100% first jab feat||Papuri, a remote village in Birbhum, has achieved the distinction of vaccinating all villagers aged 18 and above with at least one dose, at a time the national rate of Covid inoculation is around 7 per cent. A source in the health department said Papuri was possibly the only village in the state to have achieved the tag of being “completely vaccinated”. He added that the village had a minority population of 75 per cent and literacy rate under 50 per cent. Like most people in rural belts, Papuri residents were also reluctant to take the jab, fearing side effects. A systematic two-month campaign led by Trinamul’s Nanoor block working committee president Sheikh Kajal, however, took care of the misgivings of the village, 15km from Bolpur. Some 4,800 people at Papuri voluntarily turned up for jabs at the vaccination centre. “The process was a challenge as initially villagers did not want the jab, fearing harmful side-effects. That’s when a group of village youths came forward to convince villagers about the need to take the vaccine to protect themselves from Covid-19,” said Kajal, who led the team. To convince villagers, Kajal led by example. He convinced his 84-year-old mother with several comorbidities to become the first person from the village to take the vaccine. “Then the group of youths as well as I took the jab. I have two stents in my heart,” he said. These real-life examples made others confident. Salia Biwi, 45, a kidney patient, said she was initially reluctant to take the jab but was won over. To recognise the feat, the local Charkalgram gram panchayat held a programme attended by senior district health officials on Tuesday. “The village is the first in the district where all villagers aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated with at least one dose. We hope the village will inspire others to overcome the hurdles of superstition that health officials are facing in rural pockets in the vaccination process,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer. Sources added Bengal has around 7.3 crore people eligible for the vaccine. According to data with the state health department till Tuesday evening, 2.45 crore people were vaccinated with at least one dose. Sources in the health department said the percentage of vaccination was always high in cities or towns but low in rural belts. Health department data say around 68.5 per cent people have been vaccinated in Calcutta, but the corresponding figure is 65 in Bolpur. “In rural areas, vaccination is very slow and in some pockets the number of people vaccinated is below 10 per cent,” said a senior state health official. Kajal said there were 200 villagers who occasionally visit Papuri as they work outside. They will also get vaccinated when they come next, he added. A villager said they were cautious about migrants who come back home. “We have a primary school that was used as a quarantine centre during the first wave of the pandemic. We have requested those who work outside to first quarantine themselves at the school before their first jab,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa invited to Bhanubhakta Acharya's event, not Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung||The 207th birth anniversary celebrations of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya, the first official public function of the state government in the hills on Tuesday, had Anit Thapa as an invitee but not other prominent hill names such as Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung. Both the Tamang-Thapa faction and the Gurung group of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are allies of Trinamul. Trinamul leaders from the hills were also not invited to the Chowrasta event jointly hosted by the state information and cultural affairs department  and the  Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). The guest list at the poet’s birth anniversary, seen as a barometer to “closeness to the state government”, was under intense scrutiny by political observers. The other political invitees included Gautam Deb, administrator, Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and Bulu Baraik, minister of state, backward classes and tribal department. Thapa does not hold any official position in the government. Apart from these leaders, Surendra Gupta, GTA principal secretary, David Pradhan, GTA secretary, S. Poonambalam, DM, Darjeeling, Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, the SP of Darjeeling, C.K. Rai, the president of the Nepali Sahitya Sammelan, and Surya Shrestha, the secretary of the literary organisation, were among the handful of invitees. Administrative sources said “no formal invite” was sent from the district level. “Invitations were probably sent out from higher-ups,” said one. Baraik, the only speaker among the guests, said: “Two days back I was asked by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to attend this event.” Later, Thapa thanked the chief minister on Facebook: “I am grateful for the special invitation,” he wrote. Thapa was at the helm of GTA till Bengal went to polls after which his tenure as chairman of the board of administrators, GTA, was not extended by the state. After more than two hours of the official event, Gurung reached Chowrasta to pay his tribute to the statue of the poet. Gurung did not comment on the guest list. Tuesday’s development also comes at a day after Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Bimal camp returned to Darjeeling from Calcutta after meeting Abhishek Banerjee, the number two in the Trinamul and host of Bengal ministers like Bratya Basu, Moloy Ghatak and Chandrima Bhattacharya. Giri, however, had admitted that their delegation comprising the party’s Kalimpong district president Dr R.B. Bhujel and youth wing president Prakash Gurung, had not met Mamata Banerjee. “It is a major snub to Bimal Gurung,” said a leader of the Thapa camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 863 new Covid cases||Bengal on Tuesday reported the 23rd straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 340 to touch 14,191 now. On Tuesday, the state reported 1,186 recoveries, 863 new infections and 17 deaths, including one from Calcutta. Active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave, but for 11 days till June 20 rose again by over 56 per cent. Over these 23 days, active cases have fallen once again by over 38 per cent. Bengal now has 3.34 per cent of India’s total active cases, and is eighth among states with the most number. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Tuesday, also indicating  the decline. With worst-hit Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reining in day’s new cases to 77 and 97, Tuesday was the sixth straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.88 per cent, with the national rate at 97.26. Of the 17 deaths, apart from one each reported from Calcutta, Birbhum, East Midnapore and Hooghly, North 24-Parganas logged three. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first detected in March last year, which includes over 14.81 lakh recoveries and 17,944 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to encourage coffee cultivation in Darjeeling hills||The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) has planned to encourage coffee cultivation in the Darjeeling hills and set up a furniture park in Siliguri. Rajiva Sinha, the WBIDC chairman, spoke about the initiatives at a meeting hosted by the north Bengal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here on Monday. In Kalimpong district, around 1,193 farmers are into coffee cultivation, with the plantations spread over 350 acres. “The administration and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration are supporting this endeavour. The cultivators are spread across 65 hilly hamlets, which include areas like Algarah, Gitabling, Loleygaon, Sangsay and Bhalukhop,” said Sinha. He underscored that the plan is part of the rural entrepreneurship hub (REH) model that has been evolved to encourage local products. “To help the coffee farmers, the state has planned to establish a common facility centre (CFC) where they can get facilities like sorting, processing and packaging.” Sinha added. At the meeting, Sinha also mentioned that a furniture park will come up in Siliguri under the Scheme for Approved Industrial Park (SAIP) mode and around 20 entrepreneurs from the furniture industry will open units there. The SAIP mode has been launched by the Bengal government to encourage the private sector to set up industrial parks on state land. Sanjay Tibrewal, the chairman of the CII’s north Bengal council, said: “So far, 150-odd REH hubs have been created in the hill districts where people are making items like honey, ginger, large cardamom, mushroom, turmeric, soft broom and orchids. Industrial cooperatives have been formed and forward linkages have been created so that entrepreneurs can merchandise their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
14-07-2021||North East||Covid: Assam and Arunachal govts seek jabs from Centre ||The BJP governments of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh on Tuesday requested the Centre to increase their allotments of vaccines to meet targets, at a meeting where Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed concern over the pandemic situation in some parts of the Northeast. The request was made by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Arunachal Pradesh counterpart Pema Khandu during a videoconference the Prime Minister held with the chief ministers of the northeastern states on the Covid-19 status of the region. Sources said Modi observed that the pandemic situation was worrisome in some Northeast districts and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check further spread of the virus. The chief ministers of Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Manipur were the other participants of the meeting along with Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Northeast development minister G. Kishan Reddy and his deputy B.L. Verma. The sources said Sarma and Khandu requested Modi to increase the allotment of vaccines so that the target of inoculating the entire adult population could be achieved at the earliest. They said there was a huge rush at vaccination centres but the supply was not enough to sustain the momentum. During a “mega vaccination drive” held last month, Assam had achieved its target of administering three lakh doses a day, but had to “go slow” from the fourth day for want of adequate supply. Around 83 lakh people have received at least one dose in Assam, including 14 lakh who have got both shots. Assam has a population of about 3.3 crore. “We are planning to vaccinate people in the nine districts from where we are receiving the most number of cases. For this we need vaccines. It would definitely help if vaccine supply is enhanced,” a source said. Participating in the virtual meet, Khandu said that while Arunachal had the capacity to vaccinate 15,000 people per day, it was managing to inoculate only 10,000. He also pointed out that there had been zero wastage of doses in his state. “As we have been optimally utilising our quota of vaccines with zero wastage and our capacity is to vaccinate 5,000 more people per day, our quota may be increased,” Khandu requested new health minister Mandaviya. Modi said Northeast had equal importance in the Centre’s free vaccination campaign and that “we need to keep accelerating the vaccination process”. Sources who attended the meeting said the situation in Manipur was worrying. The state reported 890 cases and 15 deaths on Monday, taking the number of infections detected in the past seven days to 5,903 and the casualties to 83. The positivity rate was 13.6 per cent till Monday, much higher than the ideal of below 5 per cent. This is the second high-level review of the Covid situation in the Northeast since July 7. The first review was held by the Union home secretary with the chief secretaries, directors-general of police and principal secretaries (health) of the Northeast and the Union Territories where it was noted that of the 73 districts with high case positivity rates of over 10 per cent, 43 were from the Northeast. Before that the Centre had deputed multi-disciplinary teams to Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Manipur, along with Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, in view of the steep number of Covid cases being reported by them. The teams had helped the states in their efforts towards targeted Covid response and management. At Tuesday’s meeting, Modi lauded the people, health workers and the governments of the Northeast for their hard work in the fight against the pandemic and creating infrastructure for testing, treatment and vaccination despite the difficult terrain of the region. The Prime Minister, however, expressed concern over the growing number of cases in some districts and stressed the need to catch these signals and take strict actions at the micro level. Modi re-emphasised the use of micro-containment protocols in dealing with the situation and specifically mentioned such measures undertaken by Assam instead of going for complete lockdown. He urged the chief ministers to make full use of the experience and best practices gathered over the past one-and-a-half years to check the epidemic. Assam chief minister Sarma said the state had managed to contain the pandemic by declaring more than 6,000 micro-containment zones without going for total lockdown. “Both the economy and the Covid fight were sustained simultaneously,” he said. Till Monday, Assam had 19,594 active cases and a positivity rate of 1.53 per cent, which Sarma said would be brought below 1 per cent soon. The Prime Minister also stressed the need for quickly increasing the number of beds, oxygen facilities and paediatric care infrastructure in the Northeast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
14-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New Motive||The National Democratic Alliance government has decided to form a new ministry of cooperation with the home minister, Amit Shah, in charge. The formation of a new ministry is not surprising in itself. What has led to speculation is the portfolio and the second most important member of the cabinet being given charge of it. Cooperative institutions under the banner of a cooperative movement had been formed in the 1950s. The movement did not gather any significant momentum as these bodies became hotbeds of local politics, corruption and conflict. The institutions still survive with varying degrees of importance and efficiency. There are agricultural cooperatives, cooperative banks of various types, and cooperative organizations for production and marketing. Cooperatives are a state subject. A few agricultural cooperatives are monitored by the Union ministry of agriculture, while the Reserve Bank of India along with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development oversees the functioning of the cooperative banking system. Cooperative institutions remain an important source of agricultural credit, but other cooperative organizations for production and marketing rarely function well. The Union government had been indicating that it wanted to give a fillip to the movement by setting up multi-state cooperative institutions with operations going beyond a particular state. The surprise centres around the reason behind the government creating a ministry whose purview is a state subject. There are many possible reasons for this, all of which could yield large political dividends for the ruling party. The first is the sheer size of the cooperative sector measured in monetary terms. According to Nabard’s Annual Report of 2019-20, state cooperative banks had deposits worth Rs 1,35,392 crore and district central cooperative banks had disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 3,00,034 crore. According to the RBI, the urban cooperative banks had a loan book of Rs 3,05,368.27 crore. There are, thus, considerable financial resources to be controlled. Many of these institutions have been the nursery for grooming political leaders, especially in Maharashtra and Gujarat. There is also the opportunity for the Union government to tap these resources to offer lucrative schemes to placate the agitating farmers in northern India, including those in western Uttar Pradesh. Given the strategic importance of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, this possibility cannot be ruled out. In any case, the ministry of cooperation is likely to engender greater control — and not autonomy of — over cooperatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Mansukh Mandaviya trolled for bad English, Euro 2020 and Copa America||Language of disdain Sir — Soon after being appointed as the Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya was trolled online for some of his old tweets in incorrect English. Mandaviya, of course, is not the first political leader to be ridiculed on account of his grasp of the English language; Bengal’s chief minister and Lalu Prasad, too, have often been mocked for the same reason. It is high time that elitists realized that it is one’s work and not one’s fluency in English that reveals one’s competency. Criticism is of value only if it is fair. Mandaviya must first be given a chance to prove his worth. Praveen Sharma,Delhi Glorious moment Sir — The end of Copa America did not bring the international football season to a close; football fans had one last treat to savour in the dramatic Euro 2020 final between Italy and England. England’s goal within two minutes of the first whistle set the tone for the game. However, it was Italy that won the day in the end — Leonardo Bonucci became the oldest player to score in a Euro final. England succumbed to a penalty shootout in a major tournament yet again. The post-match period also yielded a host of iconic moments. The simultaneous scenes of jubilation and heartbreak presented a compelling scene — while Leonardo Spinazzola celebrated with his teammates on crutches, having earlier injured an Achilles tendon during the quarter-finals, the England team gathered to console the teenager, Bukayo Saka, who failed to score the final penalty. The nearly empty Wembley stadium when Italy lifted the Cup also revealed a nation’s dejection — England’s 55-year wait for a major trophy could not be ended on this night. However, all is not lost for the Three Lions. Most key players in the squad are still young, and with the lessons learnt from this tournament, they will only come back stronger in the upcoming World Cup. Abhigyan Kar,Calcutta Sir — The Euro 2020 final at Wembley gave us 120 minutes of football at its best, with superb passes and headers, and a thrilling penalty shootout to boot. We were rewarded for forgoing our sleep to watch the match. It was a real cliffhanger before Italy lifted the Cup. It is not that England played poorly on home soil or that Italy played better; it was sheer luck that smiled on Italy to make them the European champions. England suffered the heartbreak of losing the final after controlling the game for long periods and coming tantalizingly close to a win. They could not eventually outsmart a team with incredible defensive skills. The second-minute opening goal by Luke Shaw caught Italy unawares and gave England a dream start. This lead lasted until the 67th minute when Leonardo Bonucci, the eventual Man of the Match, levelled the score, giving Italy a fighting chance. In the course of the penalty shootout, even those of us who had no favourites were overwhelmed by high anticipation and tension. England missed three of its penalty kicks and the goalkeeper, Gianluigi Donnarumma, became Italy’s national hero. It was later learnt that the black players from England who could not convert their penalty kicks faced racist abuse online. As football fans and firm believers in racial equality, we condemn this. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The month-long mesmerizing football bonanza is over with Argentina kissing the Copa America and Italy lifting the Euro Cup, but moments from these two tournaments will linger in the hearts of football fans around the world. The participating nations, football federations and authorities deserve a big applause as the matches were conducted smoothly and safely, especially at a time when the whole world is in the grip of a pandemic. The tournaments brought joy and excitement, and offered a big relief during these difficult times — both young and old stayed up nights, glued to the screens. In Kannur, fans even offered puja in temples to help their favourite team win. The support for players like Lionel Messi, Neymar Jr and Kylian Mbappé made it seem like they were boys next door. But that is the magic of football. The heart-warming hug between Messi and Neymar after the final at the Maracana stadium proved that football has the power to promote brotherhood, peace and unity among lovers of the game. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: On trial||The issue of bail under any anti-terror law is balanced on a razor’s edge. Stan Swamy died before his challenge to Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 could be heard in court. This provision ensures that no bail shall be given unless the public prosecutor had been heard or if the court, after a perusal of the case documents, decided there were ‘reasonable’ grounds to believe that the case against the accused was prima facie true. Thus the court’s discretion was crucial, while the State, if so minded, could use the provision to detain the accused for long periods. But detention would be legitimate only when balanced against the right of the accused to a speedy trial. The Supreme Court upheld this right at the hearing of an appeal against the Kerala High Court’s decision to grant bail to a person accused of a crime in 2010. The Supreme Court reportedly said that while courts would appreciate the legislative policy against the grant of bail under the UAPA, the bar against it would ‘melt down’ when there was no likelihood of the trial being completed within a reasonable time and the accused had already spent a substantial portion of his jail time, should he be proven guilty, as an undertrial prisoner. This logic lies behind the recent question raised by the Delhi High Court when it wondered last week what the duration of a UAPA trial should be. The Supreme Court had said in February that the UAPA’s restrictions on bail and the powers of Constitutional courts could be ‘harmonised’ by granting bail when trial was delayed. This emphasis of the courts on the right to speedy trial is especially pertinent when the government of the day is perceived as the power behind incarcerating under the UAPA persons who dissent or are known to campaign for the rights of the underprivileged. In these cases, prolonged detention becomes the penalty, acts as deterrent to the like-minded, and prevents the possible attempts of the accused to organize protests or campaigns. The Delhi High Court’s question and the Supreme Court’s ruling indicate that the relevant section in the UAPA should not be used as the ‘sole metric’ to deny bail; it must be balanced with the right to a speedy trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||A different script for Myanmar||India’s Myanmar policy has been China-centric. With the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ascendancy in politics, India’s policymakers have been obsessed with not pushing Myanmar towards Beijing. From Rajiv Gandhi’s open support to the Burmese democracy movement and the government in exile to A.B. Vajpayee’s endorsement of the execution of Arakanese rebel leaders used until then by Indian agencies to Narendra Modi joining China and Russia to water down the United Nations security council’s resolutions on Myanmar after the military takeover in February, it has been a 360-degree turn. It is time to call the bluff on New Delhi’s policy paralysis on Myanmar that was reflected in its abstention from the UN general assembly resolution lambasting the military takeover in Myanmar. The Chinese have run away with clearances for 15 new mega infrastructure projects after the February 1 coup, leveraging their support for the military intervention. In early June, General Min Aung Hlaing and his foreign minister, Wunna Maung Lwin, met the Chinese ambassador, Chen Hai, after which the Chinese embassy’s Facebook statement identified Min Aung Hlaing as the “Leader of Myanmar”. The Tatmadaw does not trust the Chinese, but it values their support. The stock argument that India should not push the military junta into China’s embrace by being critical is hollow because the latter is already in China’s vice-like grip. The Indian army strongly backs engagement with the Tatmadaw. It undertook ‘Operation Sunrise’ against Arakan Army rebels as a quid pro quo for Burmese military action against northeastern insurgents in the jungles of Sagaing province. This will not work any longer because there is evidence to suggest that the Tatmadaw is using Indian insurgents to attack refugees and resistance forces in Sagaing and the Chin Hills. It is unlikely that the Tatmadaw would oblige the Indian army by handing over the rebels to them. The Tatmadaw has struck a tactical ceasefire with the AA, securing its western flank to protect Myanmarese and Chinese interests. The AA is now free to focus on India’s Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project, which it has jeopardized by attacking contractors. The AA is willing to deal with Indian diplomats but it does not trust the Indian army. So India is seemingly supporting the Tatmadaw, which cannot protect New Delhi’s interests, and is moving against a rebel group whose predecessors were close to India until the ‘Operational Leech’ betrayal and is now hell-bent on disrupting the Kaladan project. Can India’s military and diplomatic acumen guarantee the completion of this crucial connectivity project if the AA continues to oppose it? Why can’t the chief minister of Mizoram, Zoramthanga, be asked to deal with the AA? The National League for Democracy government used him to ferret out a lawmaker from the AA’s captivity. India’s diplomatic policy is not in sync with the changing dynamics in Myanmar. Is India’s policy establishment aware of the intensification of resistance in Myanmar? Credible reports suggest that more than 800 soldiers have joined the democracy movement. By March end, Myanmar's resistance movement, started by the youth and labour unions, had expanded dramatically to include doctors, nurses, bankers, grocers, railway workers and other professionals. Thousands of healthcare workers have refused to go to work in a country where health workers hold 10 per cent of all government jobs. Most hospitals and medical schools remain shut in spite of the raging pandemic. The national resistance movement is also turning violent with many who lost friends and relatives in peaceful demonstrations rushing to ethnic rebel bases to receive arms training. People across Myanmar are also boycotting products produced by the army and its conglomerates, such as Myanmar beer and the Joox music app, as well as goods imported from China and Singapore, the two top investors in Myanmar neither of which condemned the coup. China itself is rethinking its options after 36 Chinese factories were burnt down in and around Yangon and police guards in a Mandalay offtake station of the Rakhine-Yunnan oil-gas pipeline attacked and killed. The resistance is threatening to blow up the pipeline that carries oil from the Middle East and Burmese natural gas to China. Can the status-quoists in New Delhi afford to alienate the Burmese youth who look upon Indian democracy as a role model? But jumping on to the Western bandwagon would be ill-advised. Sanctions don’t work, except for adversely impacting the poor and the vulnerable. It is, therefore, time for India to undertake a Gandhi Peace Mission to Myanmar that can facilitate a meaningful dialogue among the Tatmadaw, the democratic parties, the government in exile, and the ethnic rebel armies. China and the Asean have lost their credibility with the democracy movement and the rebels, and the Tatmadaw does not trust the West. If New Delhi can work out an honourable exit for Min Aung Hlaing, something that Pranab Mukherjee did for the former Bangladesh army chief, General Moeen U. Ahmed, in 2008, Myanmar’s fledgling democracy could be restored. The Gandhi Peace Mission can then work on a federal solution by kindling a comprehensive dialogue. Zoramthanga is no Gandhian, but in him we surely have someone whose across-the-board connections in Myanmar can help start a meaningful engagement. Acting on Myanmar is the key to the success of India’s Act East policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||The first speakers||Great books, it is said, can change one’s life. In my case, though, it was not so great a book that triggered the change. Neither did it contain any original ideas, nor did it have any stylistic merit, for either of these would have damaged its objective. By design, it had to be drab. It was by R.C. Nigam, giving language data gathered during the 1971 census. It accidentally caught my attention. Two completely faceless words in it sent me on an endless quest. The words were “all others”. They came at the end of a rather long and — I thought at that moment, over four decades ago — uninteresting list of 108 language names. What got me interested in those two words was the fact that the 1961 census list of languages had 1,652 names of languages. So, I thought, some 1,544 languages had disappeared during the 1960s, and had become “all others”. At that time, I had no idea of the intricacies of the census data. I felt pained and agitated by the news of the death of so many hundreds of languages in India in such a short time. The pangs of pain propelled me into doing many things in life, one of which was to carry out a nationwide survey of living languages. When the survey, which identified and described some 780 languages, was completed, mediapersons, friends and young students often asked me if I had noticed, like the legendary Sindbad, any ‘stranger than life’ phenomena worth talking about. Initially, I used to evade that question as a pointless query. But a decade after the People’s Linguistic Survey of India has been completed, I venture to respond. A particular language, officially described as ‘marginal’, spoken in northern Maharashtra, has never ceased to amaze me. It is true that every language is amazing in its own way; but this one, the Nihali language, stands out. Kordev, Jamod, Shantinagar, Sonbardi and Chinchari are the villages in Buldhana district, at a distance of about 250 to 300 kilometres from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur as the crow flies, where Nihali is being spoken. The population of those who understand it may now be a little under 2,000. They feel deeply attached to it, though some of them speak Marathi, Hindi and the language of the neighbouring Korku tribe. The day is not too far when their numbers will dwindle and India will never again hear Nihali being spoken. But the dwindling numbers are not what draws attention to it. There are several hundred languages in India that have died during my lifetime, or are on the verge of extinction. That is bad enough; but if it were to happen in the case of Nihali, the future generation of Indians may regret it forever. The reason? While all of the other languages, major or minor, belong to one or the other known language families, Nihali does not fit into the structural framework of any of those families. Linguists describe it as a ‘language isolate’. This indicates exceptional ethnic character and an origin of the language or its speakers that has not yet been explained. One does not know when in the distant past the community moved into the subcontinent. They have little in common with the surrounding communities influenced by the Vedic culture. For instance, consider their idea of divinity. They primarily worship water bodies. Although image worship has entered their cultural space to an extent, their main deities are Kheda and Muthawa, not known in the Vedic pantheon. They measure quantities not in the sequence of 1, 2, and 3 but in multiples, such as once, twice, three times. Gender distinction is mostly absent in their language. Their community self-reference is the term ‘kolta’, which means ‘many human persons’. All these features — particularly the fact that Nihali is not related to the Austro-Asiatic, Dravidian or Indo-Aryan language families — lead one to conclude that Nihali speakers belong to the earliest population that lived in India. And how early is the earliest? Going by all the recent research on ancient human populations and their movements coming from various paleo-sciences and genetics, it would not be unrealistic to postulate that the Nihali language and its first speakers may well have been in India for over the past 35,000 to 40,000 years. One does not know if the ancient cave-dwellers in Bhimbetaka in the Madhya Pradesh cave shelters — about whom we do not know enough — had any contact or relation with the Nihalis. Future research will resolve these mysteries. The superb hunting and gathering skills that the Nihalis possess enhance the probability that they have been around in India at least from times prior to the beginning of the Holocene (some 12,000 years ago). Does it really matter as to who came to India and when? It did not in any past era. But in the current regime, there is an overzealous attempt to prove that all the glory of India in the past rests with the Sanskrit language. The pastoralists of India 10,000 years before our time toiled to explore territories and learn about the diverse land. The first farmers sweated to get wheat and rice growing in our land some 8,000 years ago. City dwellers of pre-historic times slogged to build a whole civilization 4,500 years ago, much before the Sanskrit language was born. It is also true that Sanskrit, as great as it undoubtedly is, had substantial borrowings from the Avesta, a landmark in the evolution of the Indo-Iranian languages. Yet, the myopic cultural nationalism would like to hitch the whole of Indian civilization to the wagon of what it constructs as Vedic-Sanskrit-Hindu. Any student of linguistics can tell us that the name of the river, Sindhu, is ‘u’-ending because the naming of the river owes itself to a Dravidic origin. In spite of the available scientific data coming from research in linguistics, genetics, archaeology, paleo-dentistry, epigraphy and palaeoanthropology and pointing to the fact that all of us in India have mixed ancestry, that human population has existed in the subcontinent for tens of millennia prior to the emergence of Sanskrit, that various non-Vedic philosophies — such as Buddhism and Jainism — had developed outside the Sanskrit fold of knowledge, the RSS’s version of history is unwilling to accept India in terms of its historical, social and cultural reality. The sooner the votaries of Hindutva realize how self-defeating this is, the better for them and for India. There is a Nihali proverb, “madiren kaggo diska” — the one who speaks without knowledge is not to be forgiven. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI's longest serving director dies of cardiac arrest||Former director of XLRI, Jamshedpur Fr. E. Abraham passed away on Wednesday morning due to a cardiac arrest at XIM, Bhubaneswar, where he was a member of the Governing Board. He was 70 and an alumnus of XLRI's 1978 batch (Post Graduate Diploma in Personnel Management and Industrial Relations course). Fr. E. Abraham was the longest-serving director of XLRI. His total tenure as director spanned over 16 years across two terms, from 1989 to 1994 and from 2008 to 2019. All India Management Association (AIMA) conferred on Fr. E. Abraham the "AIMA - Kewal Nohria Award for Academic Leadership in Management Education" in 2019. Fr. Abraham was also conferred the 'AIM - ASMA Lifetime Achievement Award' at the 3rd ASMA Annual Convention & Awards -2019. Fr. Abraham was highly regarded as a champion of India's management academia and an eminent thought leader in academic governance who has immensely contributed to management education in India. He was the founder-secretary of the National HRD Network and the founder-president of the Indian Association of Autonomous Business Schools. He was also on the International Association of Jesuit Business Schools and Association of Asia Pacific Business Schools boards. He has been the president of the Association of Indian Management Schools and was a board member at Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA). He has also been a member of the National Board of Accreditation(NBA) and member of the All India Board of Management Studies. Fr. Abraham served as a member of the Board of Governors at many Indian and foreign business schools, like XLRI Jamshedpur, St Xavier University Calcutta, St Xavier University Bhubaneswar, and Asian Institute of Management, Manila. He has received numerous accolades for his contribution to management education. Funeral service The funeral service will take place between 10.30 am 12 noon  on July 16, Friday at Jamshedpur. The faculty, staff and alumni members of XLRI will pay homage to Fr Abraham  at  Fr. Prabhu Hall in XLRI campus. The XLRI family will organise a memorial prayer service. Between 12.30 pm and  2 pm homage will be paid to Fr Abraham by religious clergy and faithfuls at the Loyola School Chapel. Burial at Jesu Bhavan Jesuit Cemetery at 3.30pm XLRI officials said Covid-19 protocols will be followed strictly in every place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||16-year-old Jharia local drowns in river, family suspect foul play||The body of 16-year-old Purushottam Prasad Chauhan of Baniahir area of Jharia was found at Chhath Ghat in paltun area under Sudamdih police station about 20 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Wednesday afternoon. Purushottam died due to drowning in river Damodar at Amlabad police station area on Tuesday evening. A team of Sudamdih Police station led by officer in charge, Aditya Kumar Nayak reached the site after getting information from local residents and sent the dead body for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Chiranjeevi Prasad, father of deceased suspected the murder of his son conspired by three teenaged girls of Patherdih area who accompanied his son during a trip to the river bank on Tuesday for the occasion of his birthday. Family members of the deceased, his relatives, local residents and sources in police said that Purushottam went out of his house on Tuesday morning on the pretext of celebrating his birthday and reached the bank of river Damodar under Amlabad police station on his bike. While the three teenage girls were sitting on the bank of the river, Chauhan went to take a bath in the river and suddenly came in contact with the strong current of water and got carried away in the river. Though, the girls cried for help but despite the effort of local residents he could not be saved. Family members of the deceased came to know about the incident when one of the girls reached their home on the bike of the deceased boy and informed them about the incident on Tuesday evening. Though the rescue operation was stopped last evening due to bad light, his body was recovered on Wednesday. Chiranjeevi Prasad, while talking to media at the river bank on Wednesday said, “My son went out of house yesterday morning and we came to know about the his death last evening through one of the girls who accompanied him.” “Though, we are not aware of how the girls were associated with my son, we suspect the three girls behind the death of my son,” said Prasad. Narendra Sinha, Circle Inspector of Chandankiyari, who reached the site said, “The boy probably died due to drowning but postmortem report will further throw light on cause of death and we will initiate action after the arrival of report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town water kiosk on busy road for commuters||Intended at providing clean and safe drinking water to pedestrians and commuters, the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in association with social organisation Marwari Youth Brigade on Wednesday installed a water kiosk at Randhir Verma Chowk near the Press club. The kiosk, fourteenth in a series equipped with a reverse osmosis (RO) plant, a water cooling machine and a water tank of about 2000 litres capacity, will be functional round the clock everyday where people can drink water and a local youth has been deputed with the task of maintaining it. Speaking during the occasion, Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner said, “The water kiosk launched today is in the series of kiosks established by Marwari Youth Brigade on the land provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation.” Lauding the effort of Marwari Youth Brigade, Kumar said, “Providing safe pure drinking water is the prime responsibility of the civic body and we are thankful to social organizations like Marwari Youth Brigade who have helped us in fulfilling our responsibility.” Convenor of Marwari Youth Brigade Nandlal Agarwal who is noted industrialist of Dhanbad, said, “We have established altogether 14 water kiosks so far as part of our initiative launched on June 23, 2019 and planning to establish the 15th Kiosk at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital next month.” “The selection of sites for establishing the water kiosk are being made on the basis of survey and priority is being given to such places which witness large number of commuters and pedestrians,” said Agarwal and added they have plans to establish altogether 50 kiosks in all the five circle of Dhanbad, including, Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand. “Randhir Verma Chowk situated near the heart of town, is one of most busiest place of district where large number of people including students, office goers, passengers of auto rickshaw and buses congregate so the place is one of the most ideal site for establishment of water kiosk,” said Agarwal. While the infrastructure for the kiosk including the building, RO plant and Water Coolers etc have been provided by the Marwari Youth Brigade other support of land, free of cost water connection and free electricity for operation of RO plant have been provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Out of the thirteen other kiosks, three each have been established at Bank More and Jharia while one kiosk each is lying  at Dhanbad, city center, Loyabad, Bastacola, Govindpur, Dhansar and Bekarbandh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||11-year-old steel city player at chess world cup ||Jharkhand's Souryadipta Sarkar will display his prowess at the Online Rapid World Cup (Cadets & Youth) for under-12 age group to be held between August 6 to 10. The 11-year-old from Jamshedpur's Sonari locality made it to the team by the virtue of his performance in the recently concluded online nationals to select Indian players for the different age group events. Souryadipta finished in the nationals. All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) Secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, said it is proud moment for the chess fraternity of the state. "Souryadipta is a talented player who is expected to perform well at the World Cup. We congratulate Souradipta, his parents and East Singhbhum District Chess Association (ESDCA) for the feat achieved," he added. Sourayadipta joins Radha Krishna Kamath, Dolan Champa Bose, Grandmaster  Deep Sengupta, IM (Elect) Abhishek Das, Priyanka Kumari, Vatsal Singhania, Ananya Sarkar, Malvika Singh and Vishal Sareen from Jharkhand who have represented the country in any World age group meet. ESDCA treasurer and chief coach at Tata Chess Centre Jayant Kumar Bhuyan said Souryadipta is a very good player who makes smart moves across the board. "He (Souryadipta) is smart and makes intelligent moves. I have seldom come across a child of Souryadipta's talent. I have also heard similar comments from other chess mentors and senior players," he added. Souryadipta was a trainee at the Tata cradle and is now working under the guidance of Neeraj Kumar Mishra. Souryadipta started chess a little over two years back and has shown good progress. He is a standard V student of DBMS English School. The upcoming player lives with his parents Shankar and Ruam Sarkar. Besides chess, he also likes to play cricket and has a keen interest in computer hardware and software. Souryadipta has competed in the 8th National School Chess Championship held at Raipur in 2019 and attained 19th rank. He has also represented Jharkhand in National Under-12 Championship and has also won district events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Renovated Hazaribagh temple now a tourist attraction ||Renowned Mumbai architect Rohit Kumar has been roped in to design a Rs 7 crore temple on two acres of land in a remote village of Daru block in Hazaribagh. Construction materials have been brought from different states for the grand temple situated in Punai village. The temple is situated between Ichak and Daru block and accessible by taking the Ranchi-Patna highway crossing Ichak Bazar, Chanda and Kariyatpur village. Another route is through Giridih-Bokaro road taking Punai from Jhmura. From both routes, the distance is almost 30km. A former banker Anil Deo is spearheading the project. He said it took almost ten years to get the Sankatmochan Hanuman Mandir ready. People donated generously to make this temple a reality in this remote village. Sources said an expert from Makrana of Rajasthan, Babu Chaudhary, designed the interiors. Masons from Calcutta stayed here and completed the construction work. Marbles came from Makrana and bricks were brought from Didargunj of Bihar and Chandauli of Uttar Pradesh. The temple has two giant grand gates with a huge dome. The boundary walls have pictures depicting Ramayana stories. Idols were brought from Rajasthan. Sources said as the temple opened its gate for devotees four days ago, people started coming here from different districts making it the hotspot of the district. One of the devotees, Sanat Kumar of Barkatha said he came here after word of mouth. “It is a new attraction in the district,” he added. Senior BJP leader Bateshwar Prasad Mehta said Ichak is known for its 250 ancient temples. Punai was earlier in Ichak till a few years back. When Daru block came into existence, Punai became a part of it, he added. Each temple in Ichak with trees and ponds is called a place of 3Ts. “Punai situated close, the new temple also falls in the same circuit which will be easy for devotees to visit in one go. I request the state government to develop and maintain all the ancient temples of Ichak,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand jab recipients face problems with dowloading certificates ||Faulty data entry on the Co-WIN platform is leading to a host of problems for vaccine beneficiaries: some are not able to download their certificates, while some who have got both doses of the vaccine are getting a certificate that only confirms them as first dose recipients. Bhagirat Mahto, a 47-year-old resident of Sonahatu in suburban Ranchi, got his first jab from a government-run session site at Morhabadi on June 12. He walked in at the vaccination centre and got the first dose of Covishield without booking a slot online in advance. Bhagirat was given a handwritten chit, which carried the date and the vaccine name on it, at the session site and told that his vaccination certificate would be available on the Co-WIN platform. Cut to July 14, Bhagirat, who works as a security guard at an apartment on Kanke Road, was worried after he logged in with his registered mobile number on Co-WIN to check the date for his second dose. The website showed him as a non-vaccinated resident. “I only have this handwritten parchi (chit) to prove that I have received the first dose. I need to get my vaccination certificate as people in my Panchayat have decided not to give ration to those who do not get vaccinated,” said a visibly anxious Bhagirat. Bhagirat, however, is not the only vicitm of “human error” made allegedly by "overburdened" data entry staff at vaccination centres in Jharkhand. A 45-year-old resident of Ratu Road, who did not wish to be named, recently got his second dose of the vaccine at a government-run session site. However, after logging in to Co-WIN, he noticed that the platform has once again registered him for a second jab, counting his latest dose as the first of two. An information technology staffer from United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), who has been assisting the government in web-based management of the immunisation programme, said that there was no way to make backlog entries on the Co-WIN platform. “The problem is clearly caused due to faulty data entry or intermittent internet connectivity. People who are facing such issues should immediately visit the vaccination centre they got vaccinated at and ask them to make an entry on the current day. This might delay their second jab by a few days, but they will still get it within the stipulated time period,” the UNDP staffer said. With such largescale immunisation going on across the state, minor errors in data entry and faulty updates due to technical glitches may have to be accepted as part and parcel of the programme, he said, adding that such errors also occurred on the websites of some of the leading global e-commerce giants during delivery of products. State immunisation officer Dr Ajit Prasad was unavailable for comment on Wednesday. Another vaccination official, not authorised to talk to the media, said that people who have not received a certificate for their first dose can directly go for the second dose carrying any documentary evidence of their first jab. Jharkhand has administered Covid-19 vaccines to over 7.73 lakh residents since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Congress protests against fuel price hike, organises cycle rally||Workers and activists associated with the district unit of the Congress Party’s minority cell organised a cycle- rickshaw rally near Dhanbad district headquarters. The demonstration was part of the party’s nation-wide protest against sharp rise in petrol- diesel and LPG price. The protestors led by Jahir Ansari, district president of the minority cell of Congress even conducted a signature campaign, demanding immediate roll back of hike in fuel and LPG prices. The rally began at 11.30 am from Randhir Verma Chowk under the joint leadership of Shamsher Alam, state executive committee member of Congress, Pintu Turi, state convenor of scheduled caste cell of Congress. It concluded two hours later near Green View Petrol pump and was followed by the signature campaign. The agitators were seen holding banners and posters. They even chanted slogans like ‘Narendra Modi, sharm karo-aam janta par raham karo; diesel-petrol ka daam kam karo’ along with other slogans. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the protest site, Jahir Ansari said, “At a time when the common man is buckling under financial repercussion of the 16-month-long pandemic, such steep hike in petrol, diesel and LPG prices, is more of a curse for them.” He added, “During the protest, we organised a symbolic cycle rally today to express our anger against the hike in fuel and LPG prices. The rising price is hurting us all.” He further explained his point, “The general public is having difficulty in managing the household expenses. Many have been compelled to discontinue their child’s education as the reduced income has made it difficult for many to pay the school fees.” Echoing a similar sentiment, Shamsher Alam, said, “The BJP government at the centre led by prime minster, Narendra Modi came to power with the promise of ‘achchhe din’but now the common people are experiencing the worst kind of achchhe din where petrol and diesel prices have touched Rs 100 per litre, while mustard oil cost around Rs 200 per litre. Similarly, the cooking gas price is hovering around Rs 1000 per cylinder.” Alam maintained that the BJP leaders during the UPA rule used to resort to chest beating campaigns when there a price hike by 25 paise per litre. He reminded, “These very people are now oblivion to steep hike and are distracting people from the core issue in the name of jingoism,” he said. Pintu Turi on other hand accused the central government of having policies that only benefit the capitalists. He said, “All the policies of the BJP-government are aimed at benefitting its capitalist partners, right from the hike in fuel prices to the anti-farmer law.” He added, “We will continue our agitation and compel the anti-poor government at the centre to roll back the hike.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation to hold second edition of kids' adventure camp||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is all set to organise the second edition of online adventure camp for kids from July 17. The programme focuses on social and emotional well-being, satiate curiosity and help learn new skills for 6 to 11 years age group. Beginning from July 17, the 10-session learning programme over 5 weekends spanning till mid-August will encourage participating children to take part in every learning and fun activities.  The course has been curated by TSAF mountaineering experts with over 20 years of experience. This fun and learning journey will help participants to expand their exposure to the world beyond the confined walls of their respective homes with the correct guidance and motivation.  The elite Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit defines a healthy and happy kid, who not only has knowledge about the world and capacity to face real life problems and work out solutions besides being physically fit and good in academics. "The programme also includes some outdoor activity along with physical workouts like kids’ yoga, meditation, fun workouts in virtual mode," a TSAF official said.  The adventure boot camp 2.0 is open to children between 6-11 years of age. They can join as individuals or with their siblings. To register, one can write to info@tsafindia.org or get in touch with 7062441380.  Notably, the first season was a great success with participation of 150 kids from different parts of the country. The guardians of the kids who participated in the first season were of the view that the course design was completely unique and noble while the sessions on mountaineering, first aid and environment were very enriching for kids.  TSAF has been conducting virtual programmes to keep kids busy in Covid times. It had conducted virtual lessons to help children between the ages of 5-9 remain tuned to sport climbing while at home last year. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft were handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. The activity was aimed at strengthening the hands and core muscles of the kids.  The adventure outfit also conducted a virtual programme for school students last month with the aim to motivate and keep them engaged in the comfort of their homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Derailment of goods train halts services at Tatanagar||Train services were affected in Tatanagar - Chakradharpur and Tatanagar - Kharagpur section of South Eastern Railway due to derailment of an empty rake of a goods train at Tatanagar railway yard in the early hours of Wednesday. According to railway authorities the derailment took place at around 3.45 am and soon train movement in that section came to a grinding halt. The derailment caused cancellation, diversion and rescheduling of several trains. The trains which were cancelled included 68010 Chakradharpur-Tatanagar Passenger,  68006 Tatanagar-Kharagpur Passenger, 68005 Kharagpur-Tatanagar Passenger, 68035 Tatanagar-Hatia-Passenger, 68036 Hatia-Tatanagar Passenger,  78031 Tatangar-Badampahar Passenger and 78032 Badampahar-Tatanagar Passenger The 08477 Puri-Yog Nagri Rishikesh Special was made to run on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur. The 02801 Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Special ran on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra and Purulia while the  02517 Howrah-Titlagarh Ispat Special ran diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur. The 02096 Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special was diverted via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur while the  03288 Rajendra Nagar-Durg Special ran on a diverted route via Chakradharpur and Jharsuguda. The 02586 Anand Vihar-Santragachi Special  ran on a diverted route via Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur  while 02876 Anand Vihar-Puri Special ran on a diverted route via Adityapur-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Hijli. The 02820 Anand Vihar-Bhubaneswar Special was diverted  via Tatanagar-Chandil-Adra- Midnapur and Hijli. The 02259 Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special was diverted via Sini-Kandra-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur. The 02896 Ranchi-Howrah Special was diverted via Purulia-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur while the 02833 Ahmedabad-Howrah Special train ran on a diverted route via Sini-Kandra-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur. The 08183 Tatanagar-Danapur Special train was rescheduled by four hours. The train left  Tatanagar railway station at 12.15 pm instead of 8.15 am today. Vijay Kumar Sahu, divisional railway manager ( DRM), Chakradharpur and other senior railway officers rushed to the derailment spot and restoration work began in full swing. Snacks and water bottles were provided to passengers because the trains in the Kharagpur-Tatanagar section were  running behind schedule due to diversion. For the convenience of the passengers of diverted trains, two 60 seater buses and three SUVs were  arranged for travel to Tatanagar from Kandra station by road. Help desks were also set up at Tatanagar, Chakradharpur and Rourkela railway stations for helping passengers and providing them information about train services. Railway officials said normal train services were expected to be restored late in the evening. Chakradharpur railway division also initiated a probe so as to ascertain what led to the derailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais sworn in as 10th governor of Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais on Wednesday succeeded Droupadi Murmu as the 10th governor of Jharkhand by taking oath of office at the Raj Bhavan. Jharkhand high court’s chief justice Rajiv Ranjan administered him the oath. Prior to this, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh read the warrant of appointment of Bais issued by the President of India on July 6 setting the stage for the swearing-in ceremony. Speaking briefly with a few electronic media after the ceremony, Bais said that he will try to work as a team with the state government, which is led by JMM. He said, "I believe in work and nothing else. That will be my focus. I am told the chief minister that we can sit down to understand issues of the state whenever he is free to do so. I have told CM that I am here to work as a colleague keeping state's interest above everything." Chief minister Hemant Soren and his cabinet ministers were present during the meeting. Other justices from the high court, senior bureaucrats of the state government, a few BJP MPs, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra were among the attendees. Bais, 74, was the governor of Tripura before being transferred to Jharkhand. He originally hails from Chattisgarh, and has been a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party and served as a Union Minister of State (Independent charge) for Environment and Forests during late Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government from 1999. He was elected to the 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Lok Sabha from Raipur. Chief minister Hemant Soren extended greetings to Bais by handing him a bouquet after the ceremony. He said that both state government and Raj Bhavan will work together to turn the wheels of development in the state. BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth said that Bais’s long and illustrious political experience will be fruitful for the development of Jharkhand. “We all welcome the new governor and I am sure that his presence here will go a long way in taking the state forward. He has been a long term lawmaker and has immense political experience which will be advantageous for Jharkhand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.4 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand after days of slowdown ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated over 1.4 lakh residents against Covid-19 after the arrival of fresh doses from the Centre allowed the state to intensify the immunisation programme, health officials said, blaming the lack of vaccines in stock for the unprecedented drop in vaccination figures in the past couple of days. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday evening, the state administered the first dose of vaccines against Covid-19 to 86,005 residents, while the second jab was administered to 56,001 beneficiaries. Almost 75,000 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years were inoculated on the day. According to data available on the Co-Win platform, at least 1,091 vaccination sites were operational in the state on Tuesday, 82 of them in Ranchi. The number of vaccination centres that administered vaccines was, however, more than what Co-Win dashboard showed, officials said. Less than 500 vaccination centres opened their gates for beneficiaries on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Elsewhere, a resident of Bokaro died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5,120, as per NHM data. The state reported 70 Covid recoveries against 40 fresh cases and the active caseload in Jharkhand dropped to 347 on Tuesday. At least 13 districts – Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on the day, while none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases. Ten recoveries against seven cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 50, while 10 recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 54, NHM stated in its bulletin. Bokaro reported seven cases against five recoveries and Dhanbad reported four cases against zero recoveries on the day. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 58,266 residents and 0.6 per cent of them were found infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 of patients could not survive. No fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in the state on Tuesday after three confirmed cases and three fatalities in hardly 48 hours triggered panic among residents and health officials. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has reported 98 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection so far and 29 patients have died, while 78 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||UAPA: Pan-India movement call by Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha||Trade unions, farmer unions, student unions and social organisations protesting against the death of Father Stan Swamy in judicial custody will form a coordination committee to submit memoranda to governors of different states for the repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and release of rights activists arrested under the anti-terror law on allegedly flimsy grounds. Members of the newly formed outfit, Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha, have held discussions with the All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc), Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc), Students Federation of India (SFI) and social organisations for a pan-India coordination committee. “We discussed with our comrades and friends in like-minded unions and social bodies on a joint move to exert pressure for repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA under which intellectuals, academics, writers and human rights activists have been languishing in jail without trial for years and elderly person like Father Stan had to die for lack of proper medical treatment in jail. State units will form coordination committees and submit memorandum to governors of their respective states demanding repeal of the UAPA,” said Jharkhand Aituc general secretary P.K. Ganguly. “We will be submitting a memorandum to the Jharkhand governor (Ramesh Bais who will take charge on July 14) on July 15 demanding repeal of the UAPA, judicial probe into the custodial murder of 84-year-old Fr Stan, besides drawing attention to the rising fuel prices. The state committees will finalise their own dates and draw up memoranda for submission to their respective governors. The common point would be repeal of the UAPA and release of all those persons jailed under this act for long periods without trial,” said Praful Linda, CPM leader and president of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
