15-07-2021||Calcutta||CBSE directs schools to relook at Class X marks ||The CBSE has told schools that those who have not complied with the board policy and awarded higher marks to Class X students are being given an opportunity to “relook (at) the marks and redo moderation” according to “historical performance and given reference range”. Tuesday’s circular said the schools would have to complete the work by Saturday 5pm. To support schools, the circular said, the CBSE had given them the marks of best of three years and schools were expected to follow the reference distribution while awarding marks. The circular said upon analysis post uploading of marks by schools, it had observed that “some schools have not done the same and bunched the marks in upper brackets of given reference range, eg instead of distributing theory marks in 70-80 range, marks have been bunched in 77-80 range”. It said: “This is unfair to the few actually deserving candidates, whose performance will fall in this range of marks.” The board has said if schools do not follow the directions, “CBSE before preparation of result will moderate the marks... and also initiate action against the schools”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||19-year-old ‘blackmailer’ held for teen suicide||A 19-year-old boy has been arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abetting suicide of a 14-year-old girl, who had hanged herself at her Howrah home, earlier this month. Police said the girl had written the passcode of her mobile phone on her wrist that helped the cops gather evidence in the case. The police said they have arrested Sunny Khan who had been allegedly threatening the girl on social media to continue a relationship with him despite the fact that he was married. “The victim distanced herself from the accused once she realised he was married. But he threatened to post her photographs on social media. The victim was unable to take the pressure and ended her life,” said a senior officer of Howrah police commissionerate. The family of the Class VIII student had lodged a complaint against the man who they knew was “disturbing” the victim, the police said. “We knew that a man whom she had befriended on social media was disturbing her,” the girl’s elder sister had told The Telegraph on July 5. Based on the family’s complaint, officers of Bally police station had initiated a probe and on conducting the forensic examination of the victim’s phone, found evidence of how she was being blackmailed by Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro service on weekdays with 50% seating capacity||Metro train services will resume in a limited manner from Friday as part of the Bengal government’s latest relaxations to the pandemic-induced stricter restrictions, most of which have been extended by another 15 days till July 30. According to a notification issued by the Mamata Banerjee government on Wednesday, Metro trains will be allowed to run on weekdays with 50 per cent seating capacity. Consistent with its cautious approach of allowing movement only for emergency and work, the government said there would not be any Metro services on Saturdays and Sundays. Suburban train services, however, will remain suspended till at least July 30. The relaxations the state government has offered from July 16 to July 30 are: ⚫ Metro train services with 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday to Friday. ⚫ All kinds of shops can remain open without restrictions to their normal business hours, except for the 9pm-to-5am curfew. ⚫ Retail outlets at shopping malls and market complexes can remain open till 8pm with 50 per cent workforce and restricted entry of customers. These shops are now operating with 30 per cent of the workforce, and till 6pm. ⚫ Banks can operate from 10am to 3pm. Earlier, they could remain open only till 2pm. ⚫ Games and sports can resume, but in empty stadiums. Sources in the government said that during a meeting with the chief minister on Wednesday, senior officials advised that continuing with the stricter restrictions for a few more weeks would be prudent although daily Covid cases in Bengal have fallen to 800-odd from over 22,000 in April-end. “It is a precautionary step keeping in mind a possible third wave of the pandemic.… We discussed the situation in states like Kerala where the daily cases are rising again after stricter restrictions were eased. So we want to have a closer look at the infection numbers before we withdraw all restrictions,” a senior government official said. The sources said that before the chief minister’s meeting in the afternoon at Nabanna, an advisory from the Union home ministry had arrived at the state headquarters, suggesting that restrictions be relaxed in a carefully calibrated manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State health department writes to private hospitals to ramp up child care||The state health department has written to the private hospitals to augment beds and arrange infrastructure for paediatric care to deal with a third wave. The hospitals have been asked to augment existing beds — both general and critical care beds — so that paediatric as well as neonatal patients can be treated well. This may need “paediatric-specific infrastructures and logistics”, the department’s letter said. The letter also mentioned the need for adequate training for doctors, nurses and other human resources in the hospitals for paediatric care. “Given the Covid-19 experience in certain regions of the world, experts have been predicting a Third Wave of Covid-19 cases with a disproportionately high burden among the paediatric population. Therefore, there is a need to prepare for any sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in future in the paediatric population,” read the letter. “It is desirable to designate specific areas in the Covid facilities for paediatric care with due regards to infection prevention measures”. Most multispeciality private hospitals in the city have paediatrics departments, said officials of hospitals. “We have prepared a plan of how to segregate Covid and non-Covid paediatric patients in the paediatric ward. We have already submitted a plan to the government on how we will deal with any additional load of infants and children with Covid if a situation arises,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. The department’s letter also spoke about the need of emergency services for paediatric patients. “There need to be appropriate triage area system and holding area for patients waiting for reports. Available holding area, used for adults, may be augmented to suitably cater for the paediatric patients and their guardians”, the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Excise department to conduct probe into how liquor reached revellers at The Park||The excise department will conduct a probe to find out whether the liquor served at the Saturday night party at The Park, from where 37 people were arrested for violating Covid norms, was provided by the hotel or not. The decision was taken on Wednesday, a day after the excise department barred the hotel from serving liquor in all its 10 bars and rooms till further notice. The probe will run parallel to the one that is already being carried out by the detective department of Calcutta police. The excise department will set up a team that will visit the Park Street hotel within the next few days. “The team will talk to hotel officials and find out how liquor reached the revellers beyond the stipulated time of 8pm on Saturday,” said a senior officer of the excise department. “We will then scan the seized liquor bottles.” Following the findings of the probe, the department would invite the hotel authorities for a hearing and a final decision would be subsequently taken on whether the restriction on serving liquor would remain or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Snatchers pistol-whip, slash walker on Maidan||A 24-year-old morning walker who tried to resist as two scooter-borne men snatched his iPhone was hit by a pistol butt on his head and slashed in both arms and the right leg, and lay bleeding on the Maidan early on Wednesday morning. Police said the two assailants had robbed two other morning walkers at gunpoint before they targeted Hargovind Vyas off Kidderpore Road near the Read Road crossing. The two earlier victims, Rakesh Rana, 49, and Sachin Kumar Shaw, 21, had apparently handed over their mobile phones and cash without protest after being told they would be shot if they resisted or raised the alarm. All three incidents were reported between 5.20am and 5.35am. Two men were arrested on Wednesday afternoon from Entally and Beniapukur in connection with the offence. They were identified as Mohammad Imran alias Totla, 33, and Sheikh Sameer Hossain alias Saboo, 33. Hargovind, a resident of Basak Street in Burrabazar, had come walking all the way from his home to the Maidan. He was walking back home when he was accosted, his younger brother Shambhu said. “Usually, all three of us brothers go for morning walks together. But today he (Hargovind) had gone alone. We received a call from an unknown number — it was our brother informing us that he was seriously injured and that his iPhone 6s had been snatched,” Shambhu said. “My younger brother and I rushed to the Maidan and found he was bleeding profusely and the police were preparing to take him away in an ambulance.” Shambhu said his brother had told him that one of the two men on the scooter had pushed him from the back, and he felt his phone being snatched from his hand. As Hargovind grabbed one of the men, the other allegedly slashed him multiple times with a large knife, Shambhu said. “One of them attacked my brother with the butt of a pistol. That is when he fell and gave up. The two men fled,” the brother said. The stretch where the incident happened is frequented by hundreds of morning walkers from across the city. It appears that a morning walker found Hargovind, let him make a call home, and rang up the police helpline. The police said they had morning patrol vehicles in the Maidan area, which is why they could respond promptly. Hargovind was discharged from hospital late in the afternoon with 80 stitches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Value lessons keep kids busy at home||Students of Akshar School offered their tribute to Rabindranath Tagore on the bard’s 160th birth anniversary with enthusiasm and joy. It was an online endeavour where everyone was united in spirit. Students of classes I to VI celebrated Tagore Week. It was an enlightening period wherein the children spoke about the bard’s life, recited his poems, narrated stories, sang songs, danced, played instruments and made beautiful paintings and informative PowerPoint presentations on Tagore’s child characters. “Rabindra Jayanti was celebrated with fervour by children and teachers alike. In fact, the teachers have adapted Birpurush, the poem by Tagore into a skit for the prize distribution day which seems to be a very apt choice at these times,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Junior students of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated Mother’s Day, virtually. Children of LKG to Class II met online to share with their classmates titbits about their mothers and what made them special. Every class did something special to entertain their mothers. From card-making, sharing family photographs to twinning the children and their mothers made the best of the home-bound celebrations. The enthusiastic children of Class II prepared non-flame dishes such as cold coffee, salads and sandwiches for their moms. Beautiful handmade cards came along with the treat. “I feel every day is Mother’s Day. However, one occasion earmarked to celebrate motherhood has its own importance. Children have grown to appreciate the selfless effort of their mothers, especially during the new normal. One can never repay what a mother does for her child. However, a smile, hug and thank you from children do make mothers feel loved and appreciated,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. “During the pandemic, mothers are playing a major role to help their wards sail through all the adversities and crises. Her responsibilities have multiplied now. We are grateful to them and salute all mothers,” said the Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. Birla High School, Mukundapur, recently organised the annual day and prize distribution ceremony on a virtual platform with video presentations, compiling cultural performances by students and celebrating their various achievements in the online classes. The school report shared in the presentations highlighted the extra-curricular activities conducted virtually, the role of the teachers and students in the paradigm shift — from brick and mortar to virtual class. For the prize distribution ceremony, the school celebrated the performance of the students in online classes under different parameters such as being alert and responsive during online classes, good conduct, immaculate presentation of work and innovative thinking. “The Annual Day and Prize Distribution Ceremony is a much-awaited event in the school calendar and students look forward to being felicitated for the good work they have done throughout the year. Since the academic session 2020-21 was so different from our previous sessions, we decided to change our prize categories in order to reward students for their adaptability to the online mode of the teaching and learning process,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Purushottam Bhagchandka Academic School recently hosted a week-long summer camp, virtually. Students of Pre-primary to Class XII took part in the camp that included webinars and workshops on gardening, culinary skills and paper craft, to name a few. There were events such as psychological counselling, zumba, fitness and storytelling sessions as part of the camp. “Summer camp is an inherent part of the curriculum which aims to impart holistic education to the students. It has always been designed catering to the students’ interests,” said principal Madhuparna Andrews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||State expects to receive 45 lakh Covid vaccine doses by end-July||The state government is expected to receive 45 lakh Covid vaccine doses between now and the end of July, a senior official of the health department said on Wednesday. The vaccine manufacturers have informed the department about the supply schedule. The supply would consist of 37 lakh Covishield and 8 lakh Covaxin doses, said the official. However, there was no clarity when private hospitals would get fresh stocks for which they have paid manufacturers last week. The state received 3.5 lakh doses on Wednesday and would get another 5 lakh doses on Thursday. An official in the health department said that the 45 lakh doses for the rest of the month would enable the state to vaccinate about 3 lakh people on an average every day. The fresh supply is also likely to boost the vaccination from centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “We have received a schedule of supply for the rest of the month from the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin. We will receive 45 lakh doses by July 31. We were supposed to get 48 lakh doses for the rest of July but 3 lakh doses will arrive on August 2, though this will be considered as the supply for the month of July,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer. Bengal had managed to vaccinate 5 lakh people a day earlier but could not sustain the pace because of vaccine shortage, said a health department official. According to Co-Win, Bengal administered 2,24,930 doses on Tuesday and 2,03,052 doses on Monday. The state had vaccinated 3,90,838 people on June 25. Officials of the department said that the state had received about 25 lakh doses in the first half of July and the increased supply would mean more vaccinations on an average every day. For the last fortnight, the Covid vaccination in Calcutta and across the state has been very erratic because of the inconsistent supply of vaccines. The CMC’s clinics vaccinated varying numbers of people on various days. In the week before last, the CMC’s clinics vaccinated only 50 people on a couple of days because of the shortage of doses. Some of the clinics that had vaccinated about 300 people in April are now vaccinating only 100 or 150 people in a day. “Every day there is a ruckus outside some CMC clinic. There are people queuing up since early morning to get vaccinated. Sometimes there are 250 people in a queue but only 150 vaccine doses to administer,” said a senior doctor of the CMC. The CMC had targeted vaccinating 50,000 people a day, a feat it has achieved earlier. But in the last two weeks, it has barely managed to vaccinate about 30,000 people from all its 190 centres. The CMC’s clinics are prioritising second dose vaccinations. The second doses are being administered between 10am and 1pm and the first doses are administered between 1pm and 4pm. The CMC staff in the vaccination centres are asking people to form two queues, one for first dose and another for second dose, so that they can distribute the coupons that recipients have to carry to get vaccinated among both first and second dose recipients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math to open for a day on Guru Purnima||Belur Math, the global headquarters of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will be open for a day on July 24 on the occasion of Guru Purnima, the Math authorities have decided. Belur Math has remained shut to visitors since April 22  following a surge in Covid-19 cases. The authorities are yet to decide on its re-opening. At a recent meeting of the governing council, senior monks at the headquarters decided that visitors and devotees would be allowed inside the Math compound only for a day on Guru Purnima. It has been decided that the Math would remain open between 7.30am and 11am and from 4pm to 5.30pm. “Devotees and visitors will be able to visit only the temples and offer pranam,” said a senior monk of the order. “We hope that devotees and visitors would not loiter around unnecessarily on the Math compound that day.” Traditionally on Guru Purnima, devotees meet senior monks at Belur Math. But this time, the authorities have decided there will be no darshan of Swami Smaranananda, the president of the order, or the vice-presidents. Their blessings to the devotees will be premiered through pre-recorded video messages through the website and YouTube channel of Belur Math. Mayer Bari Mayer Bari in Bagbazar will be thrown open to devotees and visitors from July 16, the authorities have decided. Devotees can visit between 8.30am and 10.45am in the morning and between 4pm and 5.45pm in the evening. The visitors will have to abide by the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Jogger rushes to help, gets robbed but chases snatchers||The first morning walker whose mobile phone was snatched on Red Road on Wednesday was a 21-year-old who is new to the city. The second was a 49-year-old Calcuttan who responded to the cries of the first and came forward to help. Garments trader Sachin Kumar Shaw who has recently come to the city from Bihar was robbed of Rs 4,500 and his mobile phone at gunpoint. Rakesh Rana, who works as a peon in an office in central Calcutta, was jogging with a friend a few metres away, was the first to respond. Rana rushed towards Shaw when he realised a fellow morning walker was being robbed, police said. He, too, was forced to part with his mobile phone, the police added. As the two scooter-borne attackers fled, Rana and his friend who had a two-wheeler gave chase and found them attacking another morning walker — Hargovind Vyas — with a “big knife and a gun”, they purportedly told cops. The accused duo saw Rana approach on the two-wheeler and fled. Rana chased the scooter till the Outram Road-JL Nehru Road crossing after which the two managed to escape towards Park Street, the police said. The two suspects who were later arrested have claimed that they lost their jobs during the Covid pandemic, the police said. The police are yet to verify their statement. “One of them has claimed he worked in a shoe manufacturing unit and the other was an embroidery tailor and that both have lost their jobs. These soft claims are very common among criminals to gain sympathy… But the presence of a gun suggests that they are not amateurs,” said an officer in Lalbazar. The police said the butt of the gun was used to hit Hargovind on his head when he tried to resist the snatchers snatching his iPhone. Hargovind, who jointly runs his family business of wholesale grocery and printer’s ink, received four sharp cut wounds apart from being hit on his head with the pistol butt. “He had sharp weapon injuries all over him. One on his right leg, two on his right arm and wrist and one deep gash on his left arm. He received 80 stitches at SSKM hospital, including 12 on his head,” said a police officer. The arrested duo — Mohammad Imran alias Totla, 33, of Phoolbagan Road in Entally, and Sheikh Sameer Hossain alias Saboo, 33, of Dr Suresh Sarkar Road — have been charged with sections of robbery and attempting to cause death or grievous hurt while commission of the offence. They will be produced in court on Thursday. The police said they used electronic surveillance and human intelligence to zero in on the accused. “We received the information at 5.35am when a caller dialled 100. There was a simultaneous alert from the traffic control room. Our officers were at the spot within the next five minutes along with an ambulance to rescue the injured person. The accused were arrested within a few hours,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. Hargovind’s younger brother Shambhu, who had rushed to the spot after being informed, said Hargovind was lying in a pool of blood but had not lost consciousness. “He was aware of his surroundings and told me everything. He had been very brave,” said Shambhu. Later in the afternoon, Hargovind was discharged from the hospital and the family brought him back to their Burrabazar home. The other victims — Rana, of Chatawala Gali in Bowbazar, and Shaw, who is presently staying on SN Banerjee Road — were escorted to the Maidan police station where they recorded their statements. Rana reported the robbery of his mobile phone and Shaw reported the snatching of his mobile phone and Rs 4,500. The Maidan police station initiated a case for the three robberies, which was taken over by the anti-dacoity and robbery squad of the Calcutta police’s detective department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers raise Rs 1.5 lakh for students’ online classes in Howrah||Teachers of a government-sponsored school in Howrah raised Rs 1.5 lakh for the online education of the students who were unable to attend classes because of unavailability of phones or inability to recharge with datapacks. About 60 per cent of the students of the school come from low-income groups and a significant number of them are first-generation school goers whose fathers are hawkers and mothers work as domestic helps. Teachers at the Howrah Jogesh Chandra Girls’ School have so far given phones to 21 girls and helped 35 with data recharge in Classes V to IX. The school handed over the phones to the guardians during an event organised on the school premises recently. The pandemic has hit the livelihood of some of the parents. The school told the students that they would receive the phones recharged till the time their parents were unable to do it, said Subhra Chakraborty, the headmistress of the school. “We conducted a survey to understand the situation. Each class teacher from Classes V to X found out how many girls were unable to attend the online classes and the reason for not being able to do so,” said headmistress Chakraborty. Chakraborty said the school located in the Howrah Maidan area had started online classes from around March last year. However, drop outs increased after the classes commenced over digital platforms. A section of the girls went back to native places. The long absence of physical classes aided this migration, a school official said. “This is something that I have wanted to do since last year. This year I discussed with the teachers if we could come forward to help the students and they agreed to,” said Chakraborty. In the survey, the teachers found that 55 students did not have devices or had phones which could not be used for online lessons. “It was difficult to provide devices to so many students at one go. So we prepared a list of meritorious students but cannot afford to buy a device. The teachers recommended the name and we have provided them initially,” she said. Every month the school has estimated about Rs 7,000 in datapack recharge and the school is hopeful of raising more funds. Chakraborty said in each class about 20 to 25 per cent students are “first generation learners”. “Even 10 years back there were more students from the middle-income group but that has gone down. When income improves there is a tendency amongst parents to get their wards admitted to English medium schools. We have started English medium section in 2017.” Chakraborty said while the teachers have raised this amount this year there have been instances in the last 15 months when teachers have come forward to get the girls’ phones recharged or even help them with books even before the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Colleges to accept online applications for entry into UG courses from August 2 ||The Bengal higher education department on Wednesday told colleges and universities that a “prospective student should not be called for counselling or verification of documents during the process of admission” because of the pandemic. The colleges will start accepting applications online for the admission process from August 2. They will receive the applications till August 20, says a notification issued on Wednesday for the affiliating universities. The admission process was announced a day after the state higher secondary council said that Bengal board Class XII results would be declared on July 22. No physical presence “will be required at the college/university” says the notification. After the plus-II results are published across all the major boards, the colleges will assess how the students have performed. They will come up with the eligibility criteria and a format for online applications on their websites, said an official of the department. “If a college wants to factor in the marks of the secondary exams (Class X) held in pen-and-paper mode in 2019 as well while drawing up the merit list, it has to speak to the respective affiliating university. Since the plus-II exams could not be conducted and students have largely been evaluated based on marks in Class X board and Class XI exams and internal assessment or practical in Class XII, many colleges desire to consider the marks of the Class X exams,” he said. An undergraduate aspirant will apply according to the eligibility criteria and enter the best-four score and marks in the subject a candidate wants to major, in the application format. Scanned marksheets will have to be attached to the format. After going through the scores, each college will prepare a merit list and upload it on its website. Colleges have to publish the  list by August 31. Vice-chancellor of an affiliating university said the colleges would have to inform the prospective candidates through text message/WhatsApp or email that their names feature on the merit list. They will be given details of the bank where they will make the payment  of the admission fees. The lists containing names of eligible candidates will also be provided to the concerned bank branches for verification during payment. The notification says: “Payment of fees should be done only through e-payment or designated banks and not physically at the colleges.” The undergraduate admission process would have to be completed by September 30. A communication will be sent to the colleges by the banks. The colleges will then alert the selected students about the commencement of classes over digital platforms in case the Covid situation does not improve for the resumption of in-person classes by October 1 — a schedule fixed for the start of classes. Documents will be verified as and when students are allowed to visit the colleges. “Admissions will stand cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the declarations made in the online application,” said an official. The notification said candidates would not be charged anything for scanning or uploading of documents and for the application forms or the college prospectus. Since the JEE board has been barred from holding any admission test on behalf of Presidency University amid   the pandemic, vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said they would admit students based on marks. Postgraduate entry The universities will start receiving online applications for postgraduate courses from September 1 to 15. After publication of the merit list by September 20, classes for masters will start from the last week of October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro Railway to resume services from July 16 with 50 per cent capacity||Metro Railway will run 192 trains daily from Monday to Friday, the carrier said on Wednesday after the state government greenlighted its resumption from July 16. “Metro Railway service shall operate five days a week with 50 per cent seating capacity and shall remain suspended on Saturdays and Sundays,” said the notification issued from Nabanna on Wednesday. Local trains will remain suspended, “except for staff special trains for movement of emergency and essential services personnel,” it added. Metro officials said they were treating “seating capacity” as “passenger capacity”. The suspension of local trains, limited attendance in offices and shutdown of schools and colleges would ensure that the 50 per cent cap is followed on Metro trains, said officials. “We will run 192 trains every day from Monday to Friday. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations (Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash) at 8am and 8pm respectively. Commuters will have to use smart cards. Tokens will remain suspended,” said a Metro official. Between May 5 and 15, when the carrier operated with a 50 per cent cap before the fleet was grounded on May 16, the number of trains every day was 192 and the number of passengers varied between 1,00,000 and 1,50,000. After a long shutdown last year, Metro services resumed from September 14, 2020. An e-pass system was introduced for access control at the gates when Metro services resumed. The number of trains and passenger count went up slowly. The e-pass system was discontinued from January 18 this year. Now, Metro passengers will only need a smart card to avail the services. The number of trains was increased to 258 in April this year, the most since the September 2020 resumption. Still at its peak, the number of passengers did not go past the three-lakh mark. “The ridership reduced drastically as the second wave made its impact felt. Even now, once the services resume, we don’t see the passenger count surging. We will increase the trains according to the requirement,” said a senior Metro official. The frequency of the trains will be adjusted according to the rush of passengers during the peak hours, he said. “On Saturdays, there will be 104 staff special trains. There will be no service on Sundays,” the carrier said in a statement. “Forty-eight trains will be run on the East-West corridor from 8am to 8pm from Monday to Friday, starting July 16,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Business||Centre releases 75,000 crore GST compensation to states||The government has borrowed and given to the states Rs 75,000 crore to make up for the shortfall in their revenues because of the GST implementation. The Finance Ministry in a statement said the amount released is about half of the Rs 1.59 lakh crore that was agreed to be borrowed in the current fiscal by the Centre and passed on to the states and Union Territories on a back-to-back basis to meet their resource gap. The amount released is in addition to the normal GST compensation that is paid bi-monthly to states out of the collections made from the levy of a cess on luxury and sin goods. "The Ministry of Finance has released today Rs 75,000 crore to the States and UTs with legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST compensation. This release is in addition to normal GST compensation being released every 2 months out of actual cess collection," the statement said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said, "Almost 50 per cent of the total shortfall for the entire year released in a single instalment". The Centre has estimated the shortfall in GST compensation payable to the states in the current fiscal at Rs 2.59 lakh crore, of which about Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed this year. The Centre expects to collect over Rs 1 lakh crore through cess on luxury, demerit and sin goods, which will be given to the states to compensate them for the shortfall in revenue arising out of the GST implementation. Hence, the remaining Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed to meet the promised compensation to states under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. The ministry said in the May 28 GST Council meeting, it was decided that the central government would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore and release it to states and UTs with the legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the short release of compensation on account of the inadequate amount in the compensation fund. "This amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore would be over and above the compensation, in excess of Rs 1 lakh crore (based on cess collection), that is estimated to be released to States/UTs with Legislature during this financial year. The sum total of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the ministry said. All eligible states and UTs (with the legislature) have agreed to the arrangements for the funding of the compensation shortfall under the back-to-back loan facility, the ministry said. "For effective response and management of COVID-19 pandemic and a step-up in capital expenditure, all States and UTs have a very important role to play. For assisting the States/UTs in their endeavour, Ministry of Finance has front-loaded the release of assistance under the back-to-back loan facility during FY 2021-22 Rs 75,000 crore (almost 50 per cent of the total shortfall for the entire year) released today in a single instalment. The balance amount will be released in the second half of 2021-22 in steady instalments," it added. The release of Rs 75,000 crore being made now is funded from borrowings of the Centre in 5-year securities, totalling Rs 68,500 crore and 2-year securities for Rs 6,500 crore issued in the current financial year, at a weighted average yield of 5.60 and 4.25 per cent per annum, respectively. "Government of India's release of Rs 75,000 crore to States and UTs under the back-to-back loan facility in-lieu of GST compensation not to change the GoI's borrowing programme in the first half of 2021-22," the statement said. Icra Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said, "The release of these funds from the Government of India's borrowings raised so far, corroborates the inference that healthy tax and non-tax revenues have boosted the cash flows of the central government". Last year too the Centre had borrowed and released to the states Rs 1.10 lakh crore towards GST compensation. Besides, Rs 70,000 crore was released from the compensation fund. For fiscal 2020-21, about Rs 63,000 crore GST compensation was pending to the states/UTs as of March 30, 2021. Deloitte India Senior Director M S Mani said, The release of the compensation shortfall amounts committed to states would alleviate the fiscal position of states; however, the recovery of the amounts borrowed to make the payments would necessitate the extension of the period during which the compensation cess is levied beyond 2022 .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Tapering second wave brightened economic prospects for India: RBI||The tapering of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic coupled with aggressive vaccination has brightened the near-term prospects of the Indian economy, though a solid increase in aggregate demand may take some time, said the Reserve Bank of India on the state of economy. Attributing the rise in inflation to the supply side disruptions on account of the pandemic and hardening of commodity prices in the international market, the RBI article opined that these factors should ease over the year as supply-side measures take effect. "The tapering of the second wave, coupled with an aggressive vaccination push, has brightened near-term prospects for the Indian economy. "While several high-frequency indicators of activity are recovering, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape," said the article written jointly by RBI Deputy Governor M D Patra and other officials. The RBI, however, said views expressed in the article are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Reserve Bank of India. On the supply side, agricultural conditions are turning buoyant with the revival in the monsoon but the recovery of manufacturing and services sectors has been interrupted by the second wave. "The economy is struggling to regain the momentum of recovery that had started in the second half of 2020-21 but was interrupted by the second wave. "The pick-up in inflation is driven largely by adverse supply shocks due to disruptions caused by the pandemic, including increases in margins and taxes," it said. There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by specific supply-side measures, the article said. But more needs to be done, it said, and added elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect. "Furthermore, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape. Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2020-21, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident," it said. Inflation ruled above the tolerance band during June-November 2020 and has again moved above the upper tolerance threshold in May and June 2021. The sense is that inflation will persist at these elevated levels for some months before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in markets, it said. Sowing for the kharif season covered 499.9 lakh hectares (around 46 per cent of the total acreage) by July 9, 2021. The progress of sowing has, however, been relatively muted -- 10.4 per cent lower than a year ago on account of inroads of the second wave into rural areas, hot weather leading to power slack and break in the monsoon's progress. As of July 12, the cumulative rainfall in this season was seven per cent below the long period average (LPA) as against 13 per cent above a year ago. This is also reflected in fertiliser sales which remained subdued till May. The article also noted that pump prices of petrol in all major metros have exceeded Rs 100 per litre in the first half of July, with an average price (pump prices in the four major metros) of Rs 102.92 per litre as on July 12, 2021. Diesel pump prices were also high at Rs 93.52 per litre. After remaining steady for the past two-three months, kerosene and LPG prices have also registered increases in July so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to life-time highs on rally in IT, financials stocks||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty on Thursday raced to close at life-time high levels on the back of gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and HCL Tech amid signs of recovery in earnings. The 30-share BSE index rose by 254.75 points or 0.48 per cent to close at its life-time high of 53,158.85. It touched a record intra-day peak of 53,266.12. The broader NSE Nifty rose by 70.25 points or 0.44 per cent to a record of 15,924.20. It hit a record intra-day peak of 15,952.35. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by L&T, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, UltraTech Cement, ITC and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, M&M, Asian Paints, Titan and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. "As global investors digest inflation data and the US Fed commentary, Dalal Street bulls were seen betting on economic recovery as IT stocks continue to power the indices to new highs, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Markets seemed in no mood to oblige investors waiting on the sidelines for a correction as sector rotation played its part during the session. Capital Goods made a smart comeback across market capitalisation and the broader market was buzzing with action across cement, real estate and pharma names, he added. "Indian indices extended gains to all-time high supported by positive Asian market and rally in Reality, IT, Financials and Metals stocks, in anticipation of robust Q1 earnings & recovery in demand," Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Asian markets were positive as China reported better than projected economic data and the global market was boosted by the accommodative stance in the Fed official's statement, reducing risk of change in rates, Nair added. Sectorally, BSE realty, capital goods, IT, industrials, metal, basic materials and bankex ended up to 4 per cent higher. On the other hand, oil and gas, telecom, energy and auto indices declined up to 0.87 per cent. Broader midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 0.43 per cent. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities said that continued rebound in IT stocks followed by financials supported today's rally. "We note strong revenue performance and strong deal wins reported by key IT companies in 1QFY22 attracted investors toward IT pack. Baring auto, pharma and PSU Banks, buying momentum was visible in most of key sectors," Modi said. Realty stocks witnessed sustained rebound due to better-than-expected improvement in operational performance of real estate companies in the first quarter of FY22. HCLT, L&T, Tech Mahindra and Wipro were among top Nifty gainers, while ONGC, Eicher Motors, Coal India and Bharti Airtel were laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.70 per cent to USD 74.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Zomato’s IPO oversubscribed 1.3 times on second day of offering||Zomato's initial public offering (IPO) was oversubscribed 1.3 times on the second day of the offering with retail investors continuing to bid for shares of the food delivery platform. The offer received bids for 95.44 crore equity shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore, stock exchange data showed. Retail investors sought 3.96 times the portion reserved for them. Against 12.95 crore shares reserved for retail individual investors, 51.36 crore shares were bid by 1400 hours. Non-institutional investors put in bids for 26 per cent against their reserved portion while qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) fully took their quota of 38.8 crore shares. The portion set aside for employees has been subscribed 22 per cent. The IPO, the biggest in India this year, is open for subscription till Friday in a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Zomato has already mobilised Rs 4,196.51 crore from 186 anchor investors on July 13, a day before the issue opened. The IPO size has been reduced to Rs 5,178.49 crore from Rs 9,375 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||John Aaron Reveals The Most Important Skill You Must Master To Attain Success||The term ‘networking’ is commonly used within the business world, but what does the term actually refer to? Put simply, ‘networking’ describes the process of creating connections and relationships within your chosen industry. The overall aim of networking is to help you create a reliable network that you can use as a supportive resource as you build your career. Real estate investor John Aaron feels that networking is essential for reaching the level of clientele that you deserve. Networking, Aaron shares is one of the most important skills that an entrepreneur can master. He explains that networking goes far beyond drinks receptions and industry seminars, it is the foundation that you will build your entire business persona on. Your business persona, Aaron explains is the personal brand that you create to represent yourself to potential networking contacts and clientele, and it is essential to take the time to cultivate it. However, Aaron stresses that your business persona should be entirely authentic; personal branding doesn’t mean that you project a fake image of yourself. Genuine networking happens when you understand your product or service fully, and you know exactly what your ideals and goals are. Aaron explains that consistent and strategic networking is the most effective way to find impeccable clientele for your business. He further adds that networking can also give you a thinktank of experienced people that can offer support as your business grows. It is also a great tool for trend casting, because if the peers in your industry have caught on to a new trend, you will hear about it. Overall, Aaron says that the most beneficial result of networking is putting you and your business in the perfect position to find the clientele that you deserve. Aaron elaborates on this saying, “Networks are communities, and communities are built on trust and respect. If you become part of a network, then you will gain the trust of your prospective clientele.” John Aaron is the founder of the Aaron Organization, which is a real estate investment company established in 2012. Within its first four years, the Aaron Organization flipped over 200 single-family homes in the tri-county area of South Florida. Aaron shares that he wouldn’t have reached the success that he has within his career without trusting in the power of networking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Sensex gains over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors L&T, HDFC Bank and HCL Tech amid a largely positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 111.50 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 53,015.55 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 31.30 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,885.25.  L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, M&M, Asian Paints, Maruti, ITC, Titan and Infosys were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 134.32 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 52,904.05, and Nifty advanced 41.60 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,853.95.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,303.95 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "IT results out so far including that of majors like TCS and Infosys indicate a strong order pipeline emboldening the companies to raise their revenue guidance to 14 to 17 per cent. This augurs well for the industry and can invite further investments," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  However, Nifty is likely to face resistance around 15,900, since FIIs are consistent sellers at higher levels, he said, adding that retail activity is high in mid and small-cap space, as heavy FII selling is in large caps.  Further, global support to the markets comes from US Fed chief Jerome Powell's remark that rates will remain near zero until "inflation goes persistently and materially higher". This has further emboldened the equity bulls, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.76 per cent to USD 74.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||ITC Ltd to diversify tobacco and hotel businesses ||ITC Ltd is diversifying its tobacco and hotel businesses to expand the market for each of the categories amid concerns of an economic slowdown during the second wave of the pandemic. The company is in the process of setting up a manufacturing unit near Mysore, Karnataka, where it will produce nicotine and nicotine derivative products for the exports market, especially the US and the European Union. It has formed a wholly owned subsidiary ITC IndiVision Ltd for the project. ITC invested Rs 50 crore as of March 2021 in the subsidiary, the latest annual report disclosed, adding that “steady progress” has been made during 2020-21 in the project’s construction activities. Abneesh Roy, executive director of institutional equities at Edelweiss Securities, noted that the conglomerate is diversifying its flagship tobacco business into manufacturing nicotine and nicotine salts for exports to the US and European Union markets to capture the growing demand for nicotine-based oral and vaping products there. ITC is the dominant market leader in the cigarettes business in India. The company earns close to a four-fifth of its profit from this segment, which is reeling under punitive taxation by India. The diversification may open up a new vista for growth for the company, analysts added. New hotel brand ITC will launch a boutique hotel brand under the name of ‘Storii’ to diversify its offerings for travellers. The company operates the hotels business under four brands — ITC Hotels, Welcomhotel, Fortune and WelcomHeritage. The diversification is in line with the company’s policy to focus on managing properties rather than building and owning hotels. The move comes after a devastating year for the hospitality industry, including hotels, as travellers were forced to stay home because of the pandemic. Even though there has been an uptick in hotel occupancy from October last year, the second wave hit the sector hard again. CMD’s salary ITC chairman Sanjiv Puri’s salary grew 47 per cent to Rs 10.1 crore in 2020-21 over the previous year following changes in the pay structure of the top executives of the company after BAT vetoed a stock option scheme to reward the employees in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Great Eastern Energy Corporation to invest Rs 15,000 crore for shale gas core well exploration in Bengal||Great Eastern Energy Corporation Limited (GEECL) plans to invest about Rs 15,000 crore for shale gas core well exploration after the  Bengal government clears an amendment to the mineral lease agreement. “We hope to get clearance from the state government before the end of this calendar year and will start the process of core well exploration early next year. The initial investment would be about Rs 15,000 crore,” Prashant Modi, managing director and CEO of Great Eastern, told The Telegraph. He said “based on the results of the core wells, we intend to drill an optimum number of pilot production wells”. The firm plans to start shale gas exploration along with coal bed methane in Raniganj south block. The OGIP (original gas-in-place) has been estimated at about 9.25tcf (trillion cubic feet). The company is banking on the GAIL Jagdishpur-Haldia and Bokaro-Dhamra pipeline to sell to customers in Calcutta. GAIL (India) Limited partially commissioned the  pipeline on February 6, 2021. Further work on laying the pipeline section in Calcutta is underway and is expected to be completed by August 2022. “This will provide the company with the opportunity to expand its customer base,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Promoters holding in McLeod Russel falls to 10.07% at end of June quarter||The promoter holding in McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL), the largest bulk tea producer in the country, has fallen to 10.07 per cent at the end of the June quarter. The Khaitan family of Williamson Magor Group is the promoter of the company, which is in some financial trouble because of a high debt overhang. The holding of the family fell 7.41 per cent during the June quarter from 17.48 per cent after creditors who held shares as collateral against loan invoked them. A year ago, the promoters held a 25.82 per cent stake in McLeod Russel. The sell-off in pledged shares mirrored the predicament of Eveready, the largest dry cell battery maker from the house of the Khaitans. As the share price rose in Eveready, creditors invoked pledged shares taking advantage of the rally in the scrip, leaving the promoters with a paltry stake of 4.77 per cent at the end of the March quarter. Creditors took advantage of a similar situation in the MRIL counter when the price more than doubled in three months. The stock closed at Rs 34.25 on the BSE on Wednesday. The company has presented a comprehensive debt restructuring proposal to lenders who are considering it. However, it is also being tried at company law court for admission into insolvency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies extended for textile exporters||Garment exporters will continue to get a rebate on central and state taxes on their outward shipments as the government on Wednesday approved the extension of the RoSCTL scheme till March 2024. “The Union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for the continuation of Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) with the same rates as notified by the ministry of textiles for the export of apparel/garments and made-ups,” information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur told reporters on Wednesday. Under this scheme, exporters are issued a duty credit scrip for the value of embedded taxes and levies contained in the exported product. Exporters can use this scrip to pay basic customs duty for the import of equipment, machinery or any other input. These scrips are tradeable. So, if the exporter does not need this for his personal use, he can transfer the same to any other importer. The textile ministry had fixed a maximum rate of rebate for apparel at 6.05 per cent while for made-ups, it was up to 8.2 per cent. The made-ups segment comprises home textile products such as bed linen, curtains, pillows and carpets. Shipping subsidy The cabinet also approved a scheme to provide Rs 1,624 crore over five years as subsidy to Indian shipping companies in global tenders floated by ministries and CPSEs for the import of government cargo, an official statement said. According to the statement, registration shall be done online within 72 hours  and this will make it easy and attractive to register ships in India and thereby help boost the Indian tonnage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Market capitalisation of Tata Steel stock at record Rs 150,000 crore||A sustained sectoral rally has powered the market capitalisation of the Tata Steel stock to a kissing distance of Rs 150,000 crore for the first time in the history of the company on a closing basis. The scrip closed at Rs 1,244.6 on Wednesday making it the third most valuable company among salt-to-software Tata Group after Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Titan Company (see chart) The stock touched a high of Rs 1,247.40 when the market capitalisation crossed the magic number. The share  closed up 1.28 per cent, or Rs 15.75, on the BSE. The stock has given a return of 269.73 per cent in the last one year — one of the top outperformers on the benchmark Sensex and Nifty 50. Despite of the stupendous rally in the share price, most brokerages remain positive on the stock, asking clients to buy or accumulate more shares. ICICIdirect.com has a buy rating with a price target of Rs 1,500 on Tata Steel, while Prabhudas Liladhar has an accumulate target of Rs 1,400. Motilal Oswal, however, has a neutral rating on the scrip with a target price of Rs 1,210. JSW Steel is the most valuable among steel companies listed on the Indian bourses on a standalone basis. However, Tata Steel would not be far behind if the four listed subsidiaries of the company are taken into consideration. There are four listed subsidiaries of Tata Steel Ltd —Tata Steel Long Products, Tata Metaliks, Tata Steel BSL and Tinplate. The breakout in the stock came after nearly a decade of under performance as the steel cycle dramatically changed from the third quarter of the last fiscal. The margin reached unprecedented levels in the fourth quarter allowing Tata Steel to declare its highest ever dividend of Rs 25 a share, even after paring debt by over $4 billion. The stupendous performance received praise from Ratan Tata, the chairman emeritus of Tata Group, who joined the last annual general meeting of the company to appreciate the performance of the management, led by chairman N. Chandrasekaran and aided by CEO & MD T.V. Narendran and ED & CFO Koushik Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
15-07-2021||Business||RBI bars Mastercard from issuing new credit, debit and prepaid cards||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has barred Mastercard from issuing new credit, debit and prepaid cards. The Reserve Bank said Mastercard has not complied with India’s storage norms. The ban will take effect from July 22. Mastercard is the third major payment system operator after American Express and Diners Club to face restrictions for not adhering to the central bank’s guidelines on data storage. American Express and Diners Club have been barred since May 1 from issuing  cards. But unlike American Express, which is a relatively small player in India, companies such as Mastercard and Visa have partnered many Indian banks that offer cards using the US firms’ payments network. The RBI clarified that the action against Mastercard will not impact existing customers of the payments and technology company. “Notwithstanding the lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities being given, the entity (Mastercard) has been found to be non-compliant with the directions on storage of payment system data,’’ the RBI said. In April 2018, the central bank had directed all payment system providers to store all their transaction data in India within a period of six months. A compliance report as well as a board-approved system audit report to the RBI was made mandatory . The RBI had observed that not all system providers store their payments data in the country. The compliances were meant to ensure effective monitoring of data, while ensuring unfettered supervisory access. The RBI had, therefore, said that all system providers must ensure the entire data be stored only in India, including full end-to-end transaction details. Data for the foreign leg of the transaction, if any, can be stored overseas. The payment systems providers feared this will raise the cost of their compliance requirements. Some of the overseas firms had reportedly suggested data mirroring instead of storing them only in India. In 2019, Mastercard said it was “bullish on India”, announcing $1 billion in investment over the next five years, in addition to its earlier investment of $1 billion from 2014 to 2019. “It does leave a big vacuum in credit cards and can come as a good opportunity for Visa ... Banks will have to start re-negotiating the deals and this will be a blow for Mastercard,” said Ashvin Parekh, an independent financial services consultant told Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
15-07-2021||Business||Infosys reports 22.7 per cent growth in net profits||Infosys fell short of Street expectations as it reported a 22.7 per cent growth in net profits for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, but raised revenue guidance for the full year on good deal wins and a strong order pipeline. The country’s second largest IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 5,195 crore against Rs 4,233 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were projecting a net profit of around Rs 5,400 crore. Infosys raised its revenue guidance for this fiscal to 14-16 per cent from 12-14 per cent earlier. Analysts were expecting Infosys to raise the growth forecast to 13-15 per cent. Infosys has benefited from enterprises spending more on activities such as cloud amid the pandemic and this was reflected in its topline . “We have had a landmark first quarter with robust year-on-year growth of 16.9 per cent and a sequential growth of 4.8 per cent in constant currency terms. This has been the fastest growth we have seen in 10 years,” Infosys CEO Salil Parekh said at a conference call after the company announced the results. In dollar terms, reported revenues came in line with estimates by growing 21.2 per cent at $3,782 million compared with $3,121 million in the same period of the previous year. In rupee terms, revenues rose 17.9 per cent over April-June 2020 to Rs 27,896 crore from Rs 23,665 crore. Moreover, large deal wins (over $50 million in value) at $2.6 billion continued the momentum witnessed in the previous year. Parekh said the company has continued to gain significant market share and the growth seen during the first quarter is largely organic in nature. A key highlight was the digital business, which grew a strong 42 per cent over the year-ago period. It now contributes 53.9 per cent to Infosys’s revenues. “Growth was broad-based with seven industry segments reporting strong double-digit growth, including the two largest financial services and retail growing more than 20 per cent year-on-year,” Pravin Rao, Infosys chief operating officer, said. Financial services saw a constant currency growth of 22.6 per cent, while it stood at 22.2 per cent for retail, 21.2 per cent in life sciences and 18.5 per cent in manufacturing. In terms of geographies, North America saw a growth of 21.1 per cent, Europe 12.2 per cent and India 20.7 per cent. Parekh said pricing is also expected to remain stable during the year, though there could be an opportunity to drive higher pricing in digital. “We have had a good start to the year with good deal wins and a strong pipeline. We can support the digital transformation approach that our clients are looking for. This gives us the confidence to increase the revenue growth guidance,’’ he added. However, the quarter saw operating margins falling to 23.7 per cent from 24.5 per cent on a sequential basis. Infosys will roll out salary hikes in July after a similar move earlier in the calendar year. “As the demand for digital talent explodes, rising attrition in the industry poses a near-term challenge. We plan to expand our hiring programme of college graduates for 2021-22 to 35,000 globally,’’ Rao said. During the quarter, attrition rose to 13.9 per cent from 10.9 per cent in the preceding quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
15-07-2021||India||Amarinder Singh opposes Sidhu's elevation as party state unit chief||According to a NDTV report, the differences between the warring factions in Punjab Congress escalated after the Central leadership's new peace formula that involves the elevation of Navjot Sidhu to the post of the party's state unit chief. Sources in Punjab said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is not on board with the idea. This evening each faction held meetings with MLAs supporting them, sources said. Sidhu, on the other hand, held a meeting with six MLAs including two cabinet ministers from the anti-Amarinder Singh camp. Sidhu is yet to be officially announced as the state Congress chief. Earlier on Thursday, sources said according to the Central leadership's peace formula, Sidhu will replace Sunil Jakkar. Two other leaders - one from the Dalit community and the other a Hindu face - are likely to be named Working Presidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Another Pakistani drone intrudes Indian space on LoC, jawans fail to bring it down||Another drone was spotted inside Indian territory along the Line of Control (LoC) in Pallanwala sector in Akhnoor late Wednesday, officials told Hindustan Times. This happened barely a day after the Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire at a suspected Pakistani drone along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector, Both the strategic sectors fall in Jammu district. “Alert soldiers observed a Pakistani quad-copter, which had intruded around 150 metres inside the Indian territory along the LoC in Pallanwala late Wednesday,” the officials told Hindustan Times. “The jawans immediately opened small arms fire but couldn’t bring it down. The UAV flew back into Pakistani territory. Such machines are being used by the adversary for surveillance on the borders,” they added. An officer said that the incident occurred around 9.10 pm on Wednesday. He informed that during searches of the area nothing was found. Pakistan used such drones to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and money to fund and fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday BSF troops fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border at Arnia in Jammu. On June 27, two explosive-laden drones dropped payloads on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Since then, drones are being spotted hovering over military stations in Kaluchak, Ratnuchak, Kunjwani and Sunjuwan in Jammu at regular intervals. The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. Meanwhile, a section of media reported that another drone was spotted by the forces hovering over the IAF station in Jammu late Wednesday. They also reported that alert forces were able to thwart the alleged terror bid with the help of the anti-drone equipment which detected the UAV and eliminated it. However, there’s no confirmation of the drone by the defence authorities in Jammu. “A white light was seen by the guards near the IAF station late Wednesday. It was likely to be a satellite and unlikely to be a drone,” an official, who insisted on anonymity, told Hindustan Times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19 third wave likely to hit end of August, might be less intense: ICMR ||The third wave of Covid-19 is likely to hit India at the end of August and chances are that it will not be as intense as the second wave, Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, has told NDTV. In an exclusive interview to NDTV, Dr Panda said, “There would be a nationwide third wave but that does not mean that it would be as high or as intense as the second wave.” According to him, four things could lead to the third wave. The first of these is an instance where the immunity acquired in the first and second wave due drop. "If that goes down, it could lead to a third wave," he said. Secondly, there could be a variant that can bypass the immunity acquired. Third – the new variant may not be able to bypass immunity but can circulate fast in the population. Fourth – if the restrictions are lifted prematurely by states, it could lead to a fresh surge, Dr Panda said. Asked if the variant involved could be Delta Plus, he said both Delta and Delta Plus have swept the country and "I'm not expecting any more public health havoc from the Delta variant". Earlier this week, the top doctors' body in the country, the Indian Medical Association, said the third wave is "inevitable and imminent", pointing out that "in many parts of the country both the government and public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols". The government has also said the people are taking predictions about the second wave about as seriously as "weather predictions". World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday warned nations that they have entered the early stages of the third wave of Covid-19. The health expert sounded alarms over the fresh rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, which were declining as a result of increasing vaccination rates in Europe and North America in the recent months, UN News said. “Unfortunately…we are now in the early stages of a third wave”, he was quoted as saying by UN News. Ghebreyesus said that the virus was evolving continuously and into more transmissible variants. “The Delta variant is now in more than 111 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain circulating worldwide if it isn’t already,” he said. The WHO chief also noted that the cases are being "fuelled by increased social mobility and the inconsistent use of proven public health and social measures", and called out the "shocking disparity" in vaccine distribution. "We expect it to soon be the dominant COVID-19 strain circulating worldwide if it isn't already," the WHO chief had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||China ready to seek mutually acceptable solution to issues at border: Wang to Jaishankar ||With India firmly conveying to China that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a “negative manner”, Beijing on Thursday said it is ready to seek a mutually acceptable solution to the issues that require “emergency response” through negotiation and consultation. During their hour-long in-person meeting on the sidelines of an SCO conclave in Dushanbe on Wednesday, External affairs minister S. Jaishankar also told his Chinese counterpart and State Councilor Wang Yi that any unilateral change in the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “not acceptable” to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. The meeting in Tajikistan's capital took place amidst a stalemate in the disengagement process between the two militaries in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh after they withdrew troops and weapons from the Pangong Lake areas in February following series of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the standoff since May last year. In a statement posted on its website on Thursday on Wang's talks with Jaishankar, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said, the minister stated the overall situation in the border area has de-escalated after the withdrawal of troops from the Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake areas. However, the relations between India and China are still at a “low level” which is not in the interest of either side, Wang said. While reiterating China's oft-repeated stand that it was not responsible for the China-India border standoff, Wang, however said that “China is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation.” ”The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation,” he said. The nature of China-India relations is how two adjacent developing countries look at each other, co-exist in harmony and help each other succeed, he said. “China's strategic assessment of China-India relations has not changed. China and India pose no threat but offer development opportunities to each other. The two countries are partners rather than rivals or enemies,” the Chinese foreign minister said. The principles of China-India relations should still be mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other's internal affairs, and mutual respect for each other's core interests, he said. The interaction between the two countries should still be seeking mutual benefits and complementarity, pursuing healthy competition and avoiding confrontation, with cooperation as the main theme, Wang said. While China moved its troops from Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso, the disengagement has not been completed from other friction points like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh. In his meeting with Wang, Jaishankar firmly conveyed to that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a “negative manner” and rued that there was no forward movement from the Chinese side since the disengagement in Pangong Lake areas in February that had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues. Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was “not acceptable” to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh, according to statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs on the talks. Wang, according to the Chinese foreign ministry, also said that the two sides must consolidate the results of disengagement that have been achieved, strictly abide by the agreement and common understanding of the two sides, and “refrain from taking unilateral actions in sensitive and controversial areas, in order to avoid any recurrence of tensions due to misunderstanding and miscalculation.” “We must take a long-term perspective and gradually move from emergency response toward regular management and control, to avoid unnecessary interruptions of border-related issues to China-India relations,” he was quoted as saying by the Chinese foreign ministry statement. Recalling their last meeting in Moscow, in September 2020, Jaishankar also emphasised the need to follow through on the agreement reached then and complete the disengagement, resolving the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the earliest. It has been reported that each side currently has around 50,000 to to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. The Chinese foreign ministry statement pointed out that during the meeting between Wang and Jaishankar, both sides believe the two countries must lift bilateral relations out of the low level and achieve healthy and stable development. The two sides encourage strengthening consultations on the border issue through the existing mechanism to consolidate the achieved results, and working towards turning emergency response to regular management and control to safeguard the peace and tranquillity of the border area, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
15-07-2021||India||Farmers from 22 states to join protests outside parliament: SKM||Farmers from 22 states will participate in the protests planned outside parliament from July 22 to demand scrapping of the contentious farm laws and for a legal guarantee on MSP, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Thursday. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions has planned that around 200 farmers will hold protests outside parliament every day during the monsoon session. The leaders have not commented on whether they have permission to hold demonstrations outside parliament but have maintained that the protests will be "peaceful". "The Samyukta Kisan Morcha's call for Parliament March from July 22 till August 13 has received an overwhelming and enthusiastic response from across the country," it said in a statement. Besides Punjab and Haryana, a large number of farmers from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra, Telangana, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan will participate in the protest, SKM said Special marches by women on July 26 and August 9 will also see huge participation from across India, including the northeastern states, it said. "The parliamentarians shall see farmers from all over India march in a disciplined manner to parliament to place their demands and have their voices heard," SKM said. Extending their support to the farmers' movement, Punjabi artists, including Gul Panag, Amitoj Mann and Babbu Mann, performed on Thursday for the protestors camping at the Singhu border, the statement said. They also appealed to the Indian citizens to extend their solidarity with the farmers' movement. "It is noteworthy that all sections of the country are coming out in support of the farmers and it is unfortunate that the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unable to do justice to the farmers and stand with them," the statement said. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||WhatsApp banned 2 million Indian accounts between May and June||WhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts while it received 345 grievance reports between May 15 and June 15, the company said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.  The new IT rules require large digital platforms -- with over five million users -- to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.  "Our top focus is preventing accounts from sending harmful or unwanted messages at scale. We maintain advanced capabilities to identify these accounts sending a high or abnormal rate of messages and banned two million accounts in India alone from May 15-June 15 attempting this kind of abuse," WhatsApp said on Thursday.  WhatsApp clarified that more than 95 per cent of such bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam).  "We expect to publish subsequent editions of the report 30-45 days after the reporting period to allow sufficient time for data collection and validation," WhatsApp said in the report.  The Facebook-owned company explained that the number of accounts banned have risen significantly since 2019 as the sophistication of systems has increased, and "so we are catching more accounts even as we believe there are more attempts to send bulk or automated messages".  The vast majority of these accounts are banned proactively, without relying on any user reports, it added.  About eight million accounts are banned/disabled globally on an average per month.  WhatsApp said besides the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available "unencrypted information" including user reports, profile photos, group photos and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform.  In the report, WhatsApp said it had received 345 reports in total, cutting across categories such as ban appeal, account support, product support, safety issues and others.  Against this, 63 accounts were "actioned" by WhatsApp during May 15-June 15, 2021.  WhatsApp said user reports received by the platform via the grievance channel/s are evaluated and responded to.  Majority of users who reach out to WhatsApp are either aiming to have their account restored following an action to ban them or reaching out for product or account support, it added.  'Accounts Actioned' denotes reports where WhatsApp took remedial action based on the report. Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint.  The IT rules -- which came into effect on May 26 -- mandate that significant digital platforms include the number of specific communication links or parts of information they proactively remove by using automated tools.  Other platforms like Google, Koo and Twitter have already submitted their compliance reports. Instagram and Facebook have also submitted their reports.  The IT rules have been designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography.  The rules also mandate appointment of three key personnel -- grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer. These officials need to be residents in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Delhi schools won't open now, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Thursday ruled out any plans for the reopening of schools in the national capital for now. "Like we are seeing trends internationally that there will be a third wave of Covid-19. So, until the vaccination process is complete we would not like to take risk with children. So there aren't any plans to reopen schools as of now," Kejriwal told reporters. He was responding to a question about whether schools in Delhi will begin to reopen like in other states. The national capital meanwhile recorded 72 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Thursday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.10 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The single new fatality has pushed the death toll in the city to 25,022, according to the latest bulletin. On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 77 new cases and one death, while on Tuesday the daily infection tally was 76 with two deaths. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. The infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to 0.10 per cent now. Last Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the COVID-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Fourth edition of JEE-Main postponed, says education minister||The fourth edition of engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been postponed to August 26-September 2 to give aspirants a four-week gap between two sessions of the crucial exam, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. The fourth edition of JEE (Main) was earlier scheduled to be held from July 27 to August 2. "In view of the persistent demand from the student community and to enable the candidates to maximise their performance, the National Testing Agency has been advised to provide a gap of four weeks between session three and four of the JEE(Main) 2021 exam. "Accordingly, the JEE (Main), 2021, session four will now be held on August 26, 27 and 31, and on September 1 and 2. A total of 7.32 lakh candidates have already registered for JEE (Main), 2021, session four," Pradhan tweeted. The minister said that registration for the JEE-Main session four is still in progress and dates for registration will be extended up to July 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Opposition leaders welcome Supreme Court observations on sedition law||Several Opposition leaders and civil society activists on Thursday hailed the Supreme Court for asking the Centre whether the sedition law was still needed 75 years after Independence and expressed the hope that it would be "thrown out". Concerned over the "enormous misuse" of the colonial-era penal law, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to "silence" people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. The bench, which agreed to examine pleas challenging the constitutionality of section 124A (sedition) in the IPC, also issued notice to the Centre. We do not know why the government is not taking a decision. Your government has been getting rid of stale laws," it said. Reacting to the Supreme Court terming the sedition law colonial and asking whether it was still needed 75 years after Independence, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said, "We welcome this observation by the Supreme Court." Some leaders, including Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, pointed out that about 100 farmers in Haryana were charged with sedition, among other charges, in connection with an attack on the state deputy speaker's car during a farmers' protest. Moitra said she was finally hoping "this archaic law misused by GoI will be thrown out". "Ironic that Haryana police charge over 100 farmers with sedition after alleged attack on BJP leader's vehicle while SC questions why we have this outdated law!" the Lok Sabha MP said on Twitter. On the Supreme Court asking the Centre whether it was necessary to keep the sedition law in the statute books, Yadav said. "Yes, that's the question. Case in point: Yesterday, sedition case was registered against farmers in Sirsa for breaking the windshield of a minister's vehicle!" That's what this law is being used for, he alleged. Former law minister Ashwani Kumar did not directly comment on the Supreme Court's observation but tweeted that the sedition charge against Haryana farmers is an insult to India's democratic traditions. "Government should withdraw the charges immediately and unconditionally," he said. Activist and lawyer Prashant Bhushan said, "Kudos to the SC & the CJI for standing up to the Govt on the gross misuse of this colonial law of sedition to silence dissent." According to Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill, the British used the sedition law to silence Mahatma Gandhi and the BJP is "using it to kill principles of transparency and accountability espoused by Mahatma Gandhi". In a tweet, he said, "28% rise per year in registration of sedition cases since 2014 -- well thought strategy to kill freedom of speech!" Actor and Shiv Sena leader Urmila Matondkar said, "'Do we still need it after 75 years of Independence?' Honorable #SupremeCourt has referred to #Sedition law as 'Colonial'." Filmmaker and former MP Pritish Nandy also reacted to the Supreme Court asking the Centre whether the sedition law was needed and said, "Good point, Supreme Court. Gone hoarse saying this." He added that we want to remove all traces of British rule but won't give up this terrible law under which our freedom fighters were jailed. The Supreme Court bench, which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, said, "Mr attorney (general), we want to ask some questions. This is the colonial era law and the same law was used by the British to suppress freedom movement." "It was used by British to silence Mahatma Gandhi, Gokhale and others. Is it still necessary to keep this in statute even after 75 years of independence?" it asked. Observing that the provision on sedition has been put to "enormous misuse", it also referred to alarming misuse of Section 66 A of the Information Technology Act even after the top court set it aside long back. and observed: It can be compared to a carpenter, asked to cut a wood, cut the entire forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||India has highest unjabbed, under-vaccinated kids: UNICEF||India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019, amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the UNICEF said. It also noted that over 3 million of zero-dose children in 2020 lived in India. At nearly 4.4 million, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination in the past ten years, in 2020. "More than 3 million of these 'zero-dose children' in 2020 lived in India," the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund, (UNICEF) said in a statement. Globally, the UNICEF said the data shows that just 10 countries account for 62 per cent of all under- or unvaccinated children globally. India - particularly hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic - had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million, the children's body said. Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination. “Pakistan had 1.3 million unprotected children in 2020, an increase of 0.4 million,” the statement said. "Most of these children did not receive a single vaccine during the year, an indication that the most vulnerable, hard-to-reach children are paying the steepest price for pandemic-related disruptions to vaccine access," the statement said. Noting that the majority of countries in South Asia experienced drops in childhood vaccination rates, the UNICEF said the rates for diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccine reduced by 9 per cent points in Nepal; 7 per cent points in Pakistan; 6 per cent points in India; 3 per cent points in Sri Lanka; and 2 per cent points in Bhutan and Afghanistan. "However, robust recovery efforts mounted in many countries towards the end of the year helped to blunt the impacts of overall declines. In India, for example, vaccination drives in remote areas are helping to reach missed children," the statement said. Yasumasa Kimura, Officer-in-Charge and Deputy Representative programmes, UNICEF India said, While the health systems are strained by the COVID-19 response, we must be cautious in our fight against the pandemic so as not to interfere with decades of gains against other preventable diseases. We cannot afford to lose out on routine immunisation and letting vaccine-preventable diseases endanger children's health. UNICEF is partnering with the Government of India to support continuity of essential health and immunisation services through planning, implementation, and monitoring of various strategies to identify and vaccinate missed children. We also support generating awareness and confidence among communities to vaccinate their children and strengthening the cold chain for routine immunisation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Haryana Police book 100 farmers on sedition charge, arrest 5||The Sirsa police on Thursday arrested five people days after lodging an FIR, which included a sedition charge, over an alleged attack on the Haryana deputy speaker's car during a farmers' protest. The incident had taken place on Sunday and police had booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property. Meanwhile, to protest the arrests, a group of farmers sat on a dharna near Baba Bhuman Shah Ji Chowk in Sirsa, demanding that they be released. Police, however, said the arrests were made after they were identified based on the video footage of the incident. "Five protesters have been arrested. We analysed the video footage of the incident in the past two days. The pictures were magnified and later based on the evidence, the five who were identified have been arrested," Sirsa Superintendent of Police Dr Arpit Jain told PTI over the phone. He said more people who were present near the site on Sunday have been identified and further action will depend on to what extent their involvement. Earlier, the state government had taken a serious view of the incident, replacing Sirsa district police chief Bhupender Singh with Dr Arpit Jain while suspending an Inspector-rank official. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa had told reporters here on Tuesday that those who pelted his vehicle with stones on Sunday cannot be called farmers. "They cannot be called farmers. I can say those who attacked looked like addicts...," he had said. Farmers carrying black flags had assembled outside Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa on Sunday during the day and raised slogans against the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Sharjeel Imam seeks bail in sedition case||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition law, has moved a bail plea before a court here in a case related to making allegedly inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC at two universities. Imam was arrested for his alleged speech at Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 16 where he allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He is in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. In the bail plea, which came up before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat for hearing on Thursday, Imam claimed that he never participated in or encouraged any violence during the course of any protest or demonstration and is a peace-loving citizen. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing Imam, read parts of his speeches to the court and said that they do not fall within the meaning of sedition law. “Where is the call of violence? How does Sedition come into play? The context is to block the roads. How is this seditious? He called for a greater federal structure. That was the intent,” advocate Mir said. Alluding to the speeches, the counsel further said, “Imam spoke about cutting off some cities. When the call ‘rail roko’ is not seditious, why is the call of bringing the country to a standstill seditious? He submitted that the perusal of the contents of the speeches show that there was neither any ‘incitement to violence’ nor have any ‘incidents of violence’ taken place which could be attributed to the Imam's speeches. ASJ Rawat heard the arguments put forth by Imam’s counsel and posted the matter to August 2 for further hearing. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Last year, Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. “In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the charge sheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Formula to bring together Sidhu, Amarinder being worked out, says leader||Amid speculation over Navjot Singh Sidhu getting a bigger role in the party in Punjab, the Congress leadership is working out a formula for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu to work together. AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat said Singh will continue as chief minister when the next assembly elections are fought. "We are working out a formula where both the chief minister and Sidhu could work together," he told reporters. "Amarinder Singh will continue as chief minister of Punjab and the party will go to polls with him in the top position," he also said. He, however, said that the party president's final approval on the Punjab unit revamp is awaited. Rawat said the Congress wants that both should work towards uniting the party and steering it to victory in the next assembly polls, slated early next year. Both Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other, prompting the party to set up a three-member panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge to end factionalism. Sources said Sidhu could land up with a bigger role in the party's revamp in Punjab ahead of assembly polls. The sources add that the Punjab Congress could have two working presidents too, in a bid to accommodate all sections, regions, religions and castes. The party will announce a major revamp in Punjab in the next few days which may see a new PCC chief. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has met Singh, and Sidhu has met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The chief minister has told reporters that any decision with regard to the party will be acceptable to all and will be implemented. Sidhu is also learnt to have told the leadership that any of its decisions will be acceptable. Sidhu is keen for a bigger role in the revamped organisation ahead of assembly elections. The party leadership has met almost all senior leaders and legislators from Punjab and taken their views before initiating the changes in the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Zika virus caseload in Kerala rises to 28||Amid concerns of identifying a cluster of Zika virus in the capital city, five more people, including four women, have tested positive for the infection in Kerala, taking the caseload in the state to 28. Of the fresh cases, two were natives of Anayara here, where a cluster of the disease had been identified within a three kilometre radius, Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The other infected people were those hailing from East Fort, Kunnukuzhi and Pattom here and all the samples were tested at the National Virology Institute at Alappuzha, she said. Four samples were sent from a private hospital here, while one was collected by the Health Department as part of surveillance, the minister said. Meanwhile, 16 other samples tested negative. "With this, the total number of infections in the state rose to 28," the minister added. The Health Department had said yesterday that acluster of Zika virus was identified within a three km radius of Anayara and steps were being taken for extermination of mosquitoes in the area to prevent its spread to other places. They also said a control room had been set up at the district medical office in the wake of the Zika outbreak in the capital city, where all the 23 cases were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
15-07-2021||India||Kamal Nath meets Sonia Gandhi amid speculations over future role in party||Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi amid speculation over his future role in the party. Nath's name is doing the rounds for a bigger role in the revamped Congress organisation. Nath has been a veteran of the party and shares good ties with senior party leaders including those part of the group of 23 leaders who had written to the Congress chief seeking the organisation's overhaul. The former chief minister's meeting also comes ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Nath shares good relations with leaders of some opposition parties. Nath had also recently met Sharad Pawar at his Delhi residence, after the NCP chief met some opposition leaders amid talk of the formation of a larger opposition front against the BJP. Meanwhile, according to an NDTV report, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, also plans to be in Delhi on July 25 in connection with political activities targeted around 2024 national elections. If things proceed as planned it would be Mamata’s first visit to the national capital after her landslide victory in the recently concluded Bengal polls. According to the report, she during her four-day stay is supposed to meet several opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and a few others. Given the fact that her chief poll strategist Prashant Kishore had recently met the Gandhi’s, it would be interesting to see how her meet with Sonia unfolds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: court to hear Umar Khalid bail plea on July 27||A Delhi court on Thursday said it will hear the bail application of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, on July 27. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat has sought a reply from the prosecution on Umar's bail plea by the next day of the hearing. Senior advocate Trideep Pais is representing the accused in the case. Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. Notably, they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Besides him, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case. Recently, the Delhi High Court had granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Civil aviation ministry issues draft rules for ease of drone-flying in India||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has issued draft rules to ensure ease of using drones in India on the basis of "trust, self-certification and non-intrusive monitoring", an official statement said on Thursday. The number of forms to be filled to operate drones in the country have been reduced to six in draft Drone Rules, 2021' in comparison to 25 forms mentioned in the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, it said. The UAS Rules, 2021 came into force on March 12 this year. The Drone Rules, 2021, once notified, will supersede the UAS Rules, 2021. The fee, in the draft rules, has been reduced to nominal levels and de-linked from the size of the drone, the statement said. The draft rules have also abolished the requirement of various approvals, including certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, acceptance of existing drones, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation and student remote pilot licence, it said. No flight permission will be required up to 400 feet in green zones and up to 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter, the draft rules stated. The draft rules have also prescribed easier process for transfer and deregistration of drones. The draft rules have been built on a premise of trust, self-certification and non-intrusive monitoring, the ministry stated. No pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drone and for R&D (research and development) organisations, the draft rules mentioned. Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries and a drone promotion council will be set up to facilitate drone-friendly regulatory regime in the country, according to the draft rules. The last date for public to submit their comments on the draft rules is August 5. The draft rules also stated that there would be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. Digital sky platform will be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system. "There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most of the permissions will be self-generated," the draft rules added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Modi calls UP's Covid efforts commendable during Varanasi visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday described as "commendable" the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in combating the Covid-19 crisis. "The way in which UP has controlled the second Covid wave and stopped its spread is unprecedented," the prime minister, who arrived at his parliamentary constituency earlier in the morning, said while addressing a gathering. Earlier, even minor problems assumed monstrous proportions due to the shortage of health facilities and the lack of willpower, he said. The prime minister inaugurated projects worth around Rs 744 crore and laid the foundation stones of several projects and public works worth about Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission and mango and vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyanv. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, the chief minister and state ministers were also present on the occasion. Modi will also inaugurate the International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, he will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing, BHU. He will also meet officials and medical professionals to review Covid preparedness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||SC concerned about 'colonial-era' sedition law, asks why Centre is not repealing it||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the misuse of "colonial-era" penal law on sedition and sought response of the Centre on pleas including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India challenging the validity of the provision. A bench headed by Chief justice N V Ramana and comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said the main concern was about the "misuse of law", and asked as to why the Centre, which is repealing stale laws, was not getting rid of this provision. The sedition law was meant to suppress the freedom movement and was used by the Britishers to silence Mahatma Gandhi and others, the court noted. Some guidelines may be laid down to curb misuse of sedition law, Attorney General K K Venugopal said while defending the validity of the provision. The bench was hearing a fresh plea by former army officer Major-General S G Vombatkere (Retd) challenging the Constitutional validity of section 124 A (sedition) of the IPC on grounds that it causes a "chilling effect" on speech and is an unreasonable restriction on free expression, a fundamental right. "The sedition law is a colonial law. Do we still need the law in our country after 75 years of Independence," CJI Ramana asked, according to a report by ndtv.com. The bench noted that several petitions have challenged the sedition law and all will be heard together. "Our concern is misuse of the law and no accountability of the executive," it said. The top court described the law as "a serious threat" to the functioning of institutions. "There is enormous power of misuse. We can compare it to the carpenter, instead of cutting wood, cutting the forest itself. That is the effect of this law," the CJI observed. He added that there was "minimal conviction or very low rate of conviction" in the history of the law. The plea, filed by Major-General S G Vombatkere (Retd) submitted that Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of sedition, is wholly unconstitutional and should be unequivocally and unambiguously struck down". The petitioner contends that a statute criminalising expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions of 'disaffection towards Government' etc. is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) and causes constitutionally impermissible 'Chilling Effect' on speech", the plea said. The petition said there is need to take into account the "march of the times and the development of the law" before dealing with Section 124-A. Earlier, a separate bench of the top court had sought response from the Centre on a plea challenging the Constitutional validity of sedition law, filed by two journalists -- Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla -- working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh respectively. The Supreme Court's observation came days after Justice D.Y. Chandrachud made similar comments saying that criminal laws, including anti-terror legislations, should not be misused to quell dissent or harass citizens. “While it is important that prisons are decongested because they are highly susceptible to becoming hot spots for the virus, it is equally important to examine why prisons are congested in the first place. The criminal law, including the anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or for the harassment of citizens,” Justice Chandrachud told a seminar late on Monday night. The sedition law under IPC Section 124A is being frequently used by the central and state governments to stifle any view critical of the dispensation in power. There has also been a growing tendency in the country to brand as “anti-national” dissenters and people expressing views contrary to those of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Modi in his constituency Varanasi, to inaugurate projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an international cooperation and convention centre, 'Rudraksh', in Varanasi today that will offer a glimpse of the cultural richness of the ancient city of Kashi. As many as 108 Rudraksha have been installed at this convention centre and its roof is shaped like a Shiva Linga, officials said, adding that the entire building will glow with LED lights at night. The two-storey convention centre has come up at posh Sigra area on 2.87 hectares of land and has a seating capacity of 1,200 people. The officials said the objective of the project is to provide opportunities for social and cultural interactions between people at the international convention centre in Varanasi that would strengthen the city's competitiveness by developing its tourism sector. It is ideal for holding international conferences, exhibitions and music concerts and other events and the gallery is done up with murals depicting Varanasi's art, culture and music, they added. The Japan International Cooperation Agency-assisted Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre's (VCC) main hall may be partitioned into smaller spaces when needed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 581 casualties in a day||India recorded 41,806 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,87,880, while the active cases increased to 4,32,041, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,43,850, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.39 per cent with the country recording 581 fatalities in a day, the data stated. An increase of 2,095 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The active cases comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 19,43,488 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 43,80,11,958, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.15 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.21 per cent, according to the ministry. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far have reached 39.13 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Choksi lands in Antigua and Barbuda after getting bail in Dominica||Diamantaire Mehul Choksi has landed in Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 after leaving India, after 51 days of custody in neighbouring Dominica for illegal entry which his lawyers claim was a kidnapping plan, local media reported. Choksi, 62, was given bail by Dominica High Court to travel back to Antigua for seeking medical help from a neurologist based there. After depositing bail money of EC Dollars 10,000, Choksi in a shirt and shorts flew back to Antigua in a chartered plane, Antigua News Room reported. While seeking bail, Choksi had attached his medical reports, including CT scan, which showed "mildly worsening hematoma". The doctors recommend an urgent review of his medical condition by a neurologist and a neurosurgical consultant. "The services are not currently available on the island (Dominica). All courtesies extended to him would be greatly appreciated," the CT scan report dated June 29 signed by Doctors Yerandy Galle Gutierrez and Rene Gilbert Veranes of Princess Margaret Hospital of Dominica said. Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore bank fraud case in India, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Jagannath temple opposes laser scan on sanctum sanctorum  ||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has opposed the ASI’s move to conduct laser scanning of the sanctum sanctorum of the 12th century shrine. The temple administration and the servitors feel that the exercise would destroy the sanctity of the sanctum sanctorum (Garva Gruha) and might expose its many secrets that have been hidden from the public. The temple is an Archaeological Survey of India protected monument and the agency has been in charge of its conservation since 1975. “We had decided for complete documentation of the temple including its sanctum sanctorum using the modern advanced laser technology. This is required considering that it is an old monument. We have deliberated on it and it was also decided in one of the meetings of the temple management committee. But as there is stiff opposition to the move from various quarters, we have been asked not to go do the scanning of the sanctum sanctorum,” said a senior official of ASI. The SJTA has allowed the ASI to conduct the laser scanning work of only the interior and exterior parts of Jagmohan (the audience hall facing the sanctum sanctorum), Natamandap (dancing hall) and Bhogamanadap (dining hall where the prasad is placed) during the Rath Yatra period from Tuesday to July 22. The exercise can be conducted smoothly during this period as the deities are out on a sojourn to Sri Gundicha shrine, the abode of their aunt. “We have started work from this morning. This is the right time to inspect the sanctum sanctorum as the presiding deities of the shrine have left for a nine-day sojourn with the beginning of the car festival on July 12. We have our own system of carrying out conservation activities inside the sanctum sanctorum. The sanctum sanctorum will also be cleaned. However, we will not go for laser scanning of this area as per the order of the SJTA,” superintending archaeologist, ASI (Bhubaneswar Circle) Arun Mallick told The Telegraph. The SJTA has asked the ASI to submit all the processed data and analysis relating to the laser scanning of the interior and exterior parts of the Jagmohan, Natamandap and Bhogamanadap after the completion of the exercise. “All the data and analysis should be shared with the temple office and it should be kept confidential. It should not be shared with any other organisation and agency,” the SJTA has directed the ASI in a letter. The SJTA has also made it clear that the instructions of the temple commander (a commander is the supreme authority inside the temple. He is a part of the Shree Jagannath temple administration) should be strictly followed. Chief administrator, SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar said, “The temple administration will consider allowing the ASI to carry out the laser scanning inside the sanctum santorum next year. However, this time they conduct scanning of Jagmohan, Nata Mandap and other parts.” The ASI team will also find out whether there is any seepage of water in any part of the temple. “We apprehend that there are some sources of possible leakage. We will examine this and take necessary remedial steps. In the wake of the havoc caused by cyclone Fani in Puri in May 2019 there is special focus on ensuring that the temple remains fully safe,” said a member of the temple management committee. Meanwhile, the three deities — Lord Jagannath, his brother Balabhadra and sister Subhadra — on Tuesday entered the Shree Gundicha temple where they will remain till their return to their original abode in what is called Bahuda Yatra. Their chariots (Nandighosh of Lord Jagannath, Taladwaja of Lord Balabhadra and Darapadala of Goddess Subhadra) are now parked outside the Shree Gundicha temple, the abode of their aunt. The “darshan” of the deities in the Adapa Mandap (believed to be their birth place) inside the Shree Gundicha temple is considered to be particularly auspicious. “The belief is that by setting eyes on them inside the Adapa Mandap one is liberated from all ones’ sins. However, due to Covid restrictions no one is allowed inside the Shree Gundicha temple,” said senior servitor Ram Krushan Das Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Covid: SC flags Centre's 'disparate' views on mass gatherings||A “disturbed” Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices suo motu to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand towards a possible ban on the annual Kanwar Yatra, and flagged the “disparate” views on mass gatherings expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders. The bench referred to Modi’s statement, quoted in Wednesday’s news reports, that it was “up to us to stop” a possible Covid third wave and that “we cannot compromise even a bit”. Despite this, the bench said citing a news report, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to allow the Yatra although its Uttarakhand counterpart had withheld permission. The Yatra, which reports say attracted 3.5 crore Shiva devotees in 2019, is scheduled from July 25 to August 6. Citing the short time left, the court sought responses to the notices by Friday morning. The court notices come months after the April Kumbh Mela in Hardwar, where lakhs of pilgrims had congregated, was blamed for the second wave of the pandemic that devastated large swathes of the country. “The headline just above this headline speaks about the Prime Minister’s statement when he met the northeastern chief ministers that when people ask about the third wave of the Covid-19 virus striking the citizenry of India, it’s up to us to stop it and we cannot compromise ‘even a bit’,” the bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and Bhushan Gavai said. “Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant secretary, Union of India, respond to this news report. Given the fact that this yatra is to take off from 25.07.2021, it is necessary to fix a short time period for this case. Affidavits will be filed by Friday morning, the 16th of July, 2021, responding to the aforesaid news article by the relevant secretary, Union of India; principal secretary to the state of Uttarakhand; and principal secretary to the state of Uttar Pradesh.” The annual Kanwar Yatra sees Shiva devotees, called kanwariyas, walk in processions from their homes to the Ganga or a tributary, collect the holy water and visit a Shiva temple of their choice to bathe the idol with it. The Yatra is popular mainly in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar. Last week, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had declined to entertain a batch of petitions seeking permission for this year’s annual Rath Yatra to be conducted in Odisha and other places in the traditional way, with large crowds participating. Justice Ramana had said that as a devotee, he too would have liked to participate in such festivities but the pandemic situation was not conducive to it. On Wednesday, the bench headed by Justice Nariman said: “We were a little disturbed given today’s headline in The Indian Express... about the Kanwar Yatra.... This court has taken suo motu cognisance of the newspaper report....” According to the newspaper, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had on Tuesday met top officials and police and discussed the fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19. Following this, Uttarakhand decided to call off the Yatra, the report said. It added that the Uttar Pradesh administration had begun preparing for the Yatra “with restrictions”, such as an insistence on small processions with physical distancing, short routes and mask-wearing, and a ban on collective singing or dancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
15-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court fines police for 'callous and farcical' investigation||A court here has fined Delhi police for its “callous and farcical” investigation into a Delhi riots case and said the force had “miserably failed in their statutory duties”. The police’s investigation into the February 2020 riots in which 53 people lost their lives had earlier too come under the scanner when several retired judges said the probe had “evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times”. The latest court order came in a case involving Mohammed Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. The Delhi police had challenged a magisterial court order that had directed them to file an FIR on Nasir’s complaint. In his order on Tuesday, Karkardooma court judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the police’s petition and slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on them. The additional sessions judge directed that the fine be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers. The police had maintained that there was no need to register a separate FIR as the force had already filed one and there was no evidence against the people accused of shooting at Nasir as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. Judge Yadav pulled up the police for lack of efficiency and fairness in the investigation, which it said “has been done in a most casual, callous and farcical manner”. “The concerned petitioner (the SHO of Bhajanpura police station) and his supervising officers have miserably failed in their statutory duties in this case,” the order said. “A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi police commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this court,” the judge said. Judge Yadav said Nasir was free to exhaust the legal remedies available to him to get a separate FIR registered on his complaint. In the recent past, the police had ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, of inciting the riots. The minority panel’s report in October alleged that the Delhi police, who answer to Shah’s ministry, “were complicit in and abetted the attacks” during the riots and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Muslims were the worst sufferers of the violence, which began on the night of February 23 and continued till February 27 afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Piyush Goyal made leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha||Commerce and textiles minister Piyush Goyal was on Wednesday made the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, a post the late Arun Jaitley used to hold. Goyal was already deputy leader of the House and was promoted after the post fell vacant because of the recent appointment of Thawar Chand Gehlot as governor of Karnataka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the leader of the House in the Lok Sabha. Goyal lost the railways portfolio in the recent cabinet shuffle and was given charge of the textiles ministry instead in addition to commerce. In his new House assignment, Goyal will be tested during the monsoon session beginning on July 19 as the Opposition is gearing up to corner the government over Covid-19 mismanagement and the sliding economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Kerala nun rape case: Dumped by all, Sister Lucy argues own case ||A nun who has incurred the wrath of the Church and is facing eviction from her convent after she stood up for another nun who was raped allegedly by a bishop argued her case before Kerala High Court on Wednesday after her lawyer relinquished his authorisation to represent her. Sister Lucy Kalappura, who has been ordered to leave her convent in Wayanad, appeared before the high court bench of Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan, seeking police protection as she fears retributive action from the Church. The court said she would be provided police protection if she moved out of the convent, which the nun is reluctant to do as she has “nowhere to go”. She decided to argue her case after failing to get a replacement lawyer to appear in the case related to police protection for her. “After my lawyer relinquished his vakalath (authorisation) I tried to get a replacement. But no one was ready since it is a complicated case. So I decided to argue my case,” Sister Lucy told The Telegraph. “I argued before the court that I am a woman and a nun for 39 years fighting for justice and it is important that I stay on at the convent and requested the court not to throw me onto the streets since I have nowhere to go,” she added. “The court gave me a very patient hearing and I sought police protection since I could face any kind of retribution for taking on the Church. Since the high court case is only about police protection for me, I told the court that a civil court had granted an injunction against the eviction,” Sister Lucy said. A munsiff court in Mananthavady, Wayanad, had issued a stay order on the eviction notice more than a year ago. The court is expected to hear the case soon. The high court, in an oral observation, guaranteed police protection if Lucy moved to any other facility since it would be difficult to post policemen inside a convent. “The court has assured me protection at any other place. But for now, I am waiting for the civil court’s order,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Billboards across Delhi fete Yogi and ‘No. 1’ Uttar Pradesh||Over 100 hoardings have come up across Delhi over the past one week carrying pictures of Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and extolling the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s alleged achievements, the unusual development evoking surprise. “What are these posters doing in Delhi and that also in such huge numbers? Never seen any other state CM from outside Delhi peeping from the billboards this way,” S. Irfan Habib, a historian of science, tweeted on Tuesday. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department, which put up the hoardings, declined to comment. The billboards come weeks after Adityanath was summoned to Delhi in late June to meet Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda amid speculation that he might be removed as chief minister. There was talk of his “autocratic functioning” triggering dissidence within the state unit and his Covid mismanagement partly fuelling international criticism of the Prime Minister. Party sources said the chief minister was told to get his act together before the Assembly polls, due in March next year. The hoardings show a large image of Modi and a smaller one of Adityanath. Some of them claim that Uttar Pradesh is “number 1” in the country in the development of smart cities and highlights an award conferred on the state by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. The rest say the state is “number 1” because it has given 4 lakh government jobs to youths. Similar hoardings have been reported from Bangalore too. A lawyer, Shishira Rudrappa, had on Tuesday tweeted a picture of a hoarding featuring Modi and Adityanath and making the four lakh jobs claim in Hindi — unusual in a city where hoardings are written in English or Kannada. It had been put up on the way to the airport, he said. Shortly afterwards, Shishir Singh, the director of the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department, tweeted tagging Rudrappa: “Be responsible. Don’t spread fake news please. No such advertisement given anywhere in the state of Karnataka.” To this Rudrappa responded: “Mr Shishir ji, What fake news is this? I just put a picture of a hoarding you have put all over Bangalore Airport! Anyone can see this!” Rudrappa later posted a video clip of the hoarding being removed by two workers. “Now the hoarding is being removed! Luckily managed to capture on video by my team!” he wrote. Shishir had his phone switched off on Wednesday afternoon. He didn’t respond to a WhatsApp message this newspaper sent him in the morning. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary of the department, didn’t reply to a message. But a source in the department said: “We had received an order from the chief minister in 2020 to put up his banners in Delhi along with his and Modi’s pictures. We were asked last month to do this more aggressively.” In 2020, a few hoardings had been put up near a few Delhi Metro stations. Adityanath is believed to have nursed prime ministerial ambitions since securing the chief minister’s chair out of the blue in March 2017. When his father Anand Singh Bisht claimed in Pauri Garhwal on August 11 that year that “my son will become Prime Minister in 2024”, Adityanath didn’t issue the expected disclaimer. Yuva Halla Bol, “a nationwide movement against unemployment” conducted largely by youths from New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, dubbed the billboards “fake advertisements” in a media release from Rishav Rajan, its spokesperson. “We had launched a Berozgar Divas (Jobless Day) campaign on Adityanath’s birthday (June 5) because his government didn’t create any jobs in four years,” Rishav told this newspaper over the phone. He cited how would-be schoolteachers were agitating in Uttar Pradesh with the results of recruitment exams — for 50,000 jobs — unpublished after three years. Dwijendra Tripathi, a Congress leader, said: “Out of the 10 smart cities in Uttar Pradesh, none has a proper sewerage. Many areas of Varanasi, publicised as a smart city, are waterlogged even today.” Saurabh Singh, a social worker in Varanasi, said: “They are removing slums and displacing poor people in Varanasi to make the city look smart, but they are not giving it proper roads or sewer lines.” Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Central govt lifts freeze, increases dearness allowance to 28 per cent||The Centre on Wednesday increased the dearness allowance to 28 per cent, an increase of 11 percentage points over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the basic pay, in a relief to central government employees and pensioners. The revised dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) from July 1, 2021, will benefit about 48.34 lakh central employees and 65.26 lakh pensioners. The government had frozen all such hikes because of the strain on its revenues in light of the Covid-19 crisis. The instalments due from January 1 and July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, had also been frozen. “Cabinet approves restoring of three instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief with effect from 01.07.2021 representing an increase of 11 per cent over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the Basic Pay/Pension. No arrears for the period from 01.01.2020 till 30.06.2021 shall be paid,” the Press Information Bureau tweeted. After a cabinet meeting, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the increase in the DA and DR would result in an additional annual burden of Rs 34,401 crore for the exchequer. The step will offer respite to government employees, especially with rising inflation. The government said that the increase reflected the additional instalments that were earlier frozen. “The rate of Dearness Allowance/Dearness Relief for the period January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, shall remain at 17 per cent,” an official release said. “Our demand for arrears has not been accepted by the government so far. We will continue to press for it. Inflation has spiked and the government continues to earn large sums from increased duties on petrol and diesel. Why should the poor employees suffer?” R.N. Parashar, secretary-general, Confederation of Central Government Employees, told The Telegraph. Amid the pandemic and the ensuing lockdowns in April last year, the finance ministry had decided to put on hold increments in DA for over 48 lakh central government employees and over 60 lakh pensioners till July 2021. Economists said the additional sum could act as a stimulant to boost demand. The additional money could spur spending in consumer durables at a time the economy is recovering after the second wave of the pandemic and could prop up the government’s tax collections as well. This increase is in accordance with the accepted formula based on the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission. The DA/DR is paid to central government employees/pensioners to adjust the cost of living and to protect their basic pay/pension from erosion in the real value. These are revised twice a year from January 1 and July 1. Dearness allowance is part of an employee’s salary. It is calculated as a percentage of the basic salary and transport allowance. This amount is then added along with house rent allowance to get the total salary. The hike in DA/DR is according to the agreed methodology of taking the average of the Consumer Price Index for industrial workers for the past 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Gujarat Assembly elections 2022: Rudderless Congress in leader plea||Congress leaders from poll-bound Gujarat, where the party has been rudderless for months amid a decline in fortunes following a brief spell of recovery, met the leadership in Delhi to appeal for swift organisational appointments. Frustrated by the leadership’s indecision in a state that is the wellspring of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s strength, around 20 senior leaders met the party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, to stress the need for immediate appointments of office-bearers. They wanted to meet Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi as well to explain how miserable the situation in the state was but Venugopal assured them that at least a general secretary in-charge would be appointed within the next 10-15 days. Gujarat will go to polls next year and the Congress is on a downhill journey after doing well in the 2017 Assembly elections. The resurgence was short-lived as the party suffered a wipeout in local bodies polls earlier this year. Gujarat Congress chief Amit Chavda and legislature party leader Paresh Dhanani resigned on March 2 this year but no replacements have been made so far. The party’s central in-charge for the state, Rajiv Satav, died of post-Covid complications on May 16 and since then the Gujarat unit is waiting for a new general secretary. At the national level too, the Congress has been waiting endlessly for a new president after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the crushing defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. A seemingly reluctant Sonia Gandhi has stepped in as a stop-gap arrangement as the party muddled along without a functional head, weathering rebellion by senior leaders, apart from desertions, electoral defeats and the grim allegation of weakening Oppositional politics. While a frail central leadership emboldens state leaders to rebel and even minor issues snowball into uncontrollable crises, as manifested in Punjab, the Congress has cited the pandemic to postpone its organisational elections for so long. While the Congress Working Committee had rejected Rahul’s resignation, he could have returned anytime without any formality if he intended to. At the last CWC meeting, senior leader Digvijaya Singh had told Sonia that the party had no objection and it was for her to decide on the leadership in consultation with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. While the entire party is exasperated by the protracted leadership crisis and enduring uncertainty even after the lapse of two years, the Gujarat leaders’ decision to nudge the high command demonstrated the depth of the unease. They came with the sole demand of a leadership structure — a state unit head, a leader of Opposition in the Assembly and a central in-charge. The same central leadership, which has appeared to be dithering on Gujarat that is the backyard of Modi and his lieutenant Amit Shah, appointed a state chief in Kerala within days of an electoral rout. Gujarat leaders had requested Rahul to make the appointments quickly when he visited Surat some time ago in connection with a legal case. But they felt compelled to knock at the doors of the high command again, only to be assured of an early decision. Sources now say the entire restructuring process will be completed before August 15. However, the Congress had set similar deadlines in the past, only to extend them on the questionable ground that the parliamentary elections are a long way ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine fresh plea challenging constitutional validity of sedition law||The Supreme Court will on Thursday examine a fresh plea challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law, asking the petitioner to serve a copy of the plea on attorney-general K.K. Venugopal who will have to address the court during the hearing. The petition, filed by Maj. Gen. S.G. Vombatkere, has pleaded for quashing of the colonial-era sedition law on the ground that it has a “chilling effect” on the freedom of speech and expression of citizens and is being increasingly used across the country by parties in power to suppress any form of dissent. A bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy adjourned the matter to Thursday because of glitches in the virtual hearing. “Due to a technical glitch, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner was not visible but audible. We direct the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner to serve a copy of the writ petition upon the learned attorney-general for India immediately. List the writ petition on July 15,” CJI Ramana said. On Monday, another bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi had sought the views of the Centre on a similar plea made by two journalists from Manipur and Chhattisgarh. At that time, Venugopal had sought two weeks’ time for placing the government’s views, following which the court had adjourned the matter to July 27 In the wake of Wednesday’s developments, it is unclear whether the bench headed by the CJI will deal with the constitutionality of the sedition law or it will be referred to the other bench headed by Justice Lalit. But there is also a possibility of CJI Ramana, after initial hearing the petition, referring the matter to a constitution bench of five or more judges to examine the constitutional validity of Section 124A in view of the fact that earlier a five-judge constitution bench had in the Kedar Nath Singh vs State of Bihar (1962) case upheld the constitutional validity of the sedition law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Morcha to issue people’s whip to all MPs ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ protest since November, on Wednesday decided to issue a people’s whip to all MPs to ensure repeal of the three new farm laws and enactment of a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Borrowing a leaf out of the parliamentary practice of parties issuing whips to members to vote according to the line taken by the party, SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said MPs should respect the people’s whip as “a direct instruction” from their constituents who have elected them. According to the directive, MPs should not allow any business to be taken up in Parliament till the Centre gives in to the farmers’ demands on the floor of the House. Also, the farmers have made it clear that they will not be satisfied with walkouts, pointing out that this only enables the government to carry on with its business unhindered. The SKM warned that if the MPs failed to follow the whip, the farmers would oppose them in the same manner in which the ruling party legislators are facing the ire of the farming community whenever they are stepping out for public activities in Haryana and Punjab. In both states, ruling party legislators are facing social boycott and being heckled regularly. After some instances of farmers manhandling a couple of legislators, the SKM had sent out instructions against such acts and announced that only the politicians’ presence at public events, not personal engagements, would be objected to. To mount pressure on the MPs and the government, the farmers also plan to march to Parliament daily during the monsoon session in batches of 200. Asked how they proposed to do that given the tight security around Parliament and the heavy police presence at the borders where they had been picketing for the past seven months, Rajewal told reporters that the farmers would remain peaceful. “How the government will respond is for it to decide,” he added. This is the third time that farmers are planning to march to Parliament since January. Both the earlier plans had to be aborted. In the first instance, farmers called off their march on February 1 after the Republic Day violence. An attempt to conduct a march in the first fortnight of May had to be shelved because of the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||India-China clash: Jaishankar holds meeting with Wang Yi amid tension||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday that China was not working with India to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area earlier this year. Jaishankar articulated India’s disappointment at China’s failure to work with New Delhi for further disengagement during his meeting with Wang on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, where the two held delegation-level talks. This is the second time the two leaders met face-to-face since the escalation of tensions between the two countries in the summer of 2020. According to the official readout on the meeting, Jaishankar recalled their last meeting in Moscow in September 2020 and emphasised the need to follow through on the agreement reached then and complete the disengagement along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the earliest. “EAM (external affairs minister) pointed out to State Councillor that the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area earlier this year had created conditions for resolving the remaining issues. It was expected that the Chinese side would work with us towards this objective. EAM noted however that the situation in remaining areas is still unresolved,” the statement said. Pointing out that bilateral relations had been impacted in a negative manner because of the prolonged tensions, Jaishankar reminded Wang that peace and tranquillity in the border areas has been the foundation for the development of ties since 1988. “The attempts to change status quo last year that also disregarded commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements have inevitably affected ties,” he said, stressing that early resolution of the remaining issues while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols is in mutual interest. Earlier, while addressing the SCO Afghan Contact Group, Jaishankar said the world, the region and the Afghan people wanted an independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous Afghanistan. “Besides, what the world is hoping for is an end to the violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settlement of conflict through political dialogue, and respect for the interests of all ethnic groups. And, the region wants an assurance that neighbours will not be threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism,” he said. Arguing that the world will not legitimise seizure of power by violence and force, the minister added: “Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects the Doha process, Moscow format and the Istanbul process is essential. The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Vaccine: Centre blames states for poor management of campaign ||The Union health ministry on Wednesday blamed the states and private hospitals for poorly managing the Covid-19 vaccination campaign amid continued complaints of vaccine shortages by some states and people being denied doses at inoculation centres. The health ministry said many private hospitals had not requisitioned doses earmarked for them. In many cases, payments were pending on orders and, in some cases, vaccines paid for had not been “lifted” by states or private hospitals. States have been “advised to ensure speedy and effective coordination” between private hospitals and the vaccine suppliers to remove bottlenecks, the ministry said after Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a meeting of health officials from 15 states and vaccine suppliers. But health experts said the Centre had flagged classical supply chain management issues that likely coexisted with the vaccine shortages in the country that the health ministry had denied but vaccinology researchers and industry executives had described as inevitable. “There are such problems on the ground — but we need to ask whether they’re being used to cover up for supply shortages,” a public health specialist familiar with the discussions during the meeting told The Telegraph. “It is clear there are gaps between demand and supply.” The country’s vaccination campaign has over the past two weeks administered on an average slightly lower than 4 million doses per day, although it needs to administer over 8.5 million doses daily to fully vaccinate the estimated 940 million population by the year-end. “Irrespective of the supply chain management issues, the shortages are evident from the differences between what we need and what we’re getting,” said the public health specialist who requested not to be named. The lack of orders from private hospitals suggests that the 25 per cent reservation for the private sector is actually slowing down the campaign, said R. Ramakumar, a professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Under the current vaccine distribution formula, the Centre procures 75 per cent of available doses for free distribution through states and reserves 25 per cent for private hospitals where Covaxin is available for about Rs 1,250 per dose and Covishield for about Rs 780 per dose. “The vast majority of our population cannot afford this. Two doses for a person will eat away half a month’s income for a household at the poverty line,” said Ramakumar, who has filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking changes in the vaccination policy and 100 per cent free vaccines. Experts tracking global vaccination orders and industry executives had earlier this year predicted India would face acute shortages in the early months of the inoculation campaign because it rapidly expanded the campaign without ensuring the availability of required doses. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday claimed that statements on vaccine shortages and slow availability of vaccines “are not based on facts” and the number of available doses had increased to 135 million in July from 114 million in June. Mandaviya said the Centre had provided advance information on available doses to states and appeared to blame the states for mismanagement. “If mismanagement and long queues of vaccination beneficiaries are being seen, it is clearly evident what the real issue is and who is responsible,” he tweeted. But experts said under the current demand-supply circumstances, where exactly vaccine shortages become visible or acute would hinge on factors such as doses supplied and doses demanded, and how many people opted for specific vaccination sites. A nationwide citizens’ survey has found that 65 per cent of people sampled from 278 districts across India knew someone in their social network who was unable to get a dose after reaching a vaccination centre over the past week. Respondents from Delhi, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Tamil Nadu were among those who knew someone — among family or friends — in their social network who was unable to get jabs, the private survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform, has found. Among 8,931 respondents, 20 per cent knew four or more people who couldn’t get a dose after reaching a vaccination centre, 26 per cent who knew two or three people and 19 per cent who knew one person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
15-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi walks out of defence panel meet||Rahul Gandhi and some other MPs walked out of a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defence on Wednesday after his request for a discussion on the border dispute with China was turned down. The scheduled topic for discussion on Wednesday was a briefing on the working of cantonment boards. Rahul had in the past objected to the discussion of apparently irrelevant issues like soldiers’ uniform in parliamentary committee meetings. Rahul is of the view that parliamentary committees should discuss strategic and policy matters instead of wasting time on subjects which can be decided by officials. The Narendra Modi government will have to face uncomfortable questions on China in the coming Parliament session as the Congress has decided to raise the border issue, in addition to new revelations in the Rafale deal along with price rise, Covid mismanagement, farm laws and unemployment. The issues were decided at the party’s strategy committee meeting called by president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday evening. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge has been assigned the task of coordinating with other like-minded parties to decide the parliamentary strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
15-07-2021||India||Bihar minister reiterates need to build dams in Nepal to reduce flood ||A Bihar minister has reiterated the need for building high dams in Nepal to reduce the flood fury in the state and also demanded reconsidering the necessity of the Farakka barrage on the Ganga. Flood in the northern parts of Bihar usually occurs after heavy rainfall in Nepal, which has the catchment areas of major rivers flowing into the state. The huge volume of water gushing down from the neighbouring country through the Gandak, Kosi, Bagmati, Kamla Balan and dozens of smaller rivers result in the annual deluge in Bihar. “There is a need to construct high dams on major rivers in Nepal for a permanent solution of the flood problem in Bihar. The talks between the governments of India and Nepal on the issue have been going on for several decades, but have not yielded any desired result,” said state water resources minister Sanjay Jha. High dams are constructed on rivers for better control of floods, increased storage for irrigation and to generate hydroelectricity. One of the famous examples is the Aswan High Dam over the Nile in Egypt. The multi-purpose high dam over the Kosi in Nepal was conceptualised way back in 1945 by the British, but has failed to take off. High dams on the Kosi, Kamla and Baghmati rivers were proposed in the later decades, without any tangible progress. Experts have attributed the lack of progress to an apparent lack of enthusiasm from the central and state governments. Altogether 28 out of 38 districts in Bihar are flood-prone and around 68.8 lakh hectares or 73 per cent area of the state suffers from flood almost every year, resulting in heavy loss of lives, infrastructure, agriculture and hampering future prospects of development. Jha pointed out that the Farakka barrage has led to huge silt deposit in the upstream of Ganga over the decades, which has affected the perennial, incessant flow of the river. “Bihar has been demanding discussion and reconsideration of the international treaty related to the Farakka barrage, as well as, inter-state and international sharing of water from the Ganga,” Jha said. Meanwhile, the majority of the flood-causing rivers were flowing above the danger level in Bihar. However, the Ganga, into which all these rivers fall, was still flowing below the danger level in the state. West Champaran, East Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Madhubani, Khagaria, Supaul, Araria and Kishanganj are the worst flood-affected districts. The East Central Railway had to cancel 10 trains, divert five and opt for the short termination and short origination of 10 others after the flooded Baghmati surged up to touch the railway bridge between Muktapur and Samastipur stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress MPs meet EC for conducting bypolls||A Trinamul Congress parliamentary party delegation, comprising six MPs, met the Election Commission here on Thursday demanding that the bypolls in six vacant Bengal Assembly seats be held at the earliest. In a memorandum submitted to the poll body, the party stated that with the decreasing number of coronavirus cases in the state, conditions are conducive for conducting the bypolls with Covid appropriate protocols in place. "The number of Covid-19 cases is at least 17 times lower now with fewer than 831 cases reported till July 14. There has been a steady decline in the number of daily cases recorded... "Hence, it is conducive to hold the bye-polls to the aforementioned constituencies at this time. Going by the steady decline, it is expected that by the time the bye-elections are announced and conducted, the number of daily cases will decrease further. During this time, appropriate Covid safety norms as may be prescribed by the Election Commission of India (ECI), may be adopted during campaigning," the party said. The Trinamul Congress (TMC) is keen on the bypolls as Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Assembly election from Nandigram, will have to get elected in the next six months to continue as the chief minister. In that case, the bypolls must be conducted by November 5. After the election results, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, the TMC MLA from Bhabanipur constituency, had vacated the seat to allow Mamata to contest from there. She had won from Bhabanipur twice since 2011. Dinhata and Santipur Assembly seats fell vacant after BJP leaders Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned as MLAs to retain the Lok Sabha membership. Polling could not be held in Samserganj and Jangipur seats in Murshidabad district due to the death of candidates. Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas district felt vacant after TMC candidate Kajal Sinha died of COVID-19 before the results were announced. Sinha won the election posthumously. The party also said that if general elections could be held at the height of the pandemic, bypolls too could be held at a time when the cases were significantly lower. It further argued that in April 2021, wherein polls were conducted in eight phases spread across the month, there was a steep rise in daily Covid cases in Bengal. From the middle of April 2021, at the peak of the elections, the daily cases rose from approximately 6,000 cases to 17,000 cases. Despite the rise in Covid cases and our repeated requests, the remaining phases of the polls were not clubbed together, as the ECI concluded that it was safe to conduct elections. Constitutional principles mandate that voters from the aforesaid assembly constituencies have the fundamental right to elect a representative of their choice to represent them in the Legislative Assembly of the State, the memorandum stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee likely to visit Delhi amid anti-BJP force buzz||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi later this month where she will hold talks with leaders of non-BJP parties, TMC sources said on Thursday, amid the renewed buzz over formation of an anti-BJP front ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. According to some reports, she will head to the national capital on July 25. Sources in Bengal's ruling TMC said the party supremo's Delhi visit could happen any day after the Martyr's Day rally in Calcutta on July 21. The TMC holds a rally every year to commemorate the killing of 13 people in police firing on Youth Congress workers on July 21, 1993, during a protest led by Banerjee, who was then its leader. The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month. However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The speculation about an anti-BJP coalition grew again after election strategist Prashant Kishor had a string of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis, including the one he had with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Vadra together. Though what exactly transpired at the parleys is not known yet, media speculated a broadbased coalition against the Centre's ruling NDA might have been on the agenda. "Mamata is likely to visit New Delhi after the 21st July Martyr's Day rally. She may give details about her visit during her speech. The date is yet to be fixed but it will be after the rally," sources told PTI. Mamata, who is likely to spend a few days in the national capital, has apparently timed her visit to coincide with the monsoon session of Parliament as senior leaders of opposition parties will be in town. The sources said Mamata may visit some other states as well. On her part, Mamata told a press conference that there was nothing unusual in her visit. "Everytime after elections I visit Delhi to meet old and new friends. So, this time too, I would be going to Delhi for few days as the Covid-19 situation is presently under control," she said. "Mamata didi has further grown in stature after defeating the BJP in the assembly elections. She now wants to reach out to anti-BJP and non-BJP parties at the national level ahead of the 2024 general elections," a TMC leader said. He said Banerjee will, in all probability, meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, her Delhi counterpart and AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal and Sharad Pawar during the visit. Kishor, who crafted Narendra Modi's 2012 Gujarat assembly campaign and devised his successful prime ministerial bid in 2014, is also being hailed for drawing up the TMC's strategy that saw Banerjee triumph over the formidable BJP in the Bengal polls. The astute election manager also rendered his services to AAP in Delhi, Jaganmohan Reddy's YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh and, more recently, M K Stalin's DMK in Tamil Nadu with great success. Mamata, arguably the most doughty Opposition face after the TMC's resounding victory, now seeks a larger role in national politics and, helped by Kishor's personal equation with a host of opposition leaders, will try to become the rallying point for anti-BJP parties. "This is the first step towards reaching out to them," the TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||NHRC recommends CBI probe into Bengal post-poll violence||The National Human Rights Commission has recommended a CBI probe into cases of post-poll violence that allegedly led to murders and rapes in Bengal and set up a special investigation team to probe other complaints. Referring to the unrest that occurred after results of the Bengal Assembly elections were announced, NHRC observed that the "violence  was neither sporadic nor random” and focussed on “targets” explained as supporters of the major Opposition party, the BJP. “It is indeed ironical that in the land of Rabindranath Tagore, where the mind is without fear and the head is held high, where the world has not been broken into fragments by narrow domestic walls, thousands of its citizen have been subjected to murder, rape, displacement and intimidation, etc in the last couple of months… If the above mentioned worrisome trend is not arrested where the entire might of the government machinery has been used (through innumerable acts of omission and commission) for furthering the political objective of the party in power, the disease may spread to other states also,” the report stated in its conclusion. The NHRC report, however, drew the wrath of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has repeatedly dismissed reports of post-poll violence as exaggerated.  She said that the panel was pursuing "political vendetta" of the BJP by leaking its findings to the media. She also expressed surprise over the NHRC committee arriving at conclusions without taking into account views of the state government. The NHRC report on Bengal comes less than a week after Opposition allegations of violence and intimidation during the conduct of the panchayat elections in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The Opposition had alleged largescale intimidation of candidates who were not allowed to file nominations, kidnappings, threats, blackmail and attacks on women. In Bengal, a five-member NHRC committee submitted a 50-page report to the Calcutta High Court. It has stated that the situation in the state (West Bengal) is a manifestation of "law of ruler" instead of "rule of law". The committee submitted it had 1,650 complaints from around 5,000 victims. Cooch Behar, where five persons were killed on polling day, had the highest number of complaints at 322, followed by Birbhum with 314 and South 24-Parganas with 203. From Calcutta, the committee received 172 complaints. There are 29 cases of murder, 12 rapes, 391 cases of grievous hurt and 940 cases of arson among others. While recommending a CBI probe into the complaints of rape and murder, the commission has recommended that the cases be tried outside Bengal. For other cases it has recommended a court monitored SIT with provisions for fast-track courts, special public prosecutor and witness protection programmes. The Supreme Court in 2018 had given its approval for a witness protection scheme and asked the state governments to implement it. The committee members visited 311 spots in different parts of Bengal like Calcutta, East Midnapore, Howrah, East Burdwan, South 24-Parganas and Murshidabad within 20 days to prepare its report. Though Mamata has repeatedly dismissed incidents of post-poll violence that happened after the election results were declared on May 2, the NHRC report states that the "scale of these incidents is widespread and extensive across the entire state" and this was the first time that the NHRC had conducted a probe of this magnitude. The report states, despite seeking information on a number of related issues from the office of the director-general of police, the government had provided “piecemeal” and “incomplete” information. The NHRC committee observed the police had made a few arrests but did not investigate cases on priority basis. “It is quite evident that the police is working under influence and in a biased manner and do not have the courage to take action against the looming goons of the ruling dispensation,” reads the report. Out of the 311 spot enquiries, the committee observed the police had not recorded FIRs in as many as 188 instances. The committee has also recommended actions against police officers who were found guilty of not performing their duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Railway offers land near Howrah station on lease to raise funds||A prime railway land near the iconic Howrah station will be offered on 99-year-lease for residential-cum-commercial development as the national transporter looks to raise funds, officials said on Thursday. The land parcel, having an area of 88,300 sq metres, is located along the Hooghly riverbank and will be put under the hammer with a reserve price of Rs 448 crore, they said. “Rail Land Development Authority has invited bids for leasing vacant railway land at Salt Golah in Howrah. It is situated along a 20-metre-wide highway, around 1.5 km from the Howrah station,” an official said. “The initial feedback from local developers in the pre-bid meeting was encouraging. The deadline for bid submission is August 29,” he said. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) is a statutory authority under the Railway Ministry for the development of railway land. It has four key mandates as a part of its development plan -- leasing commercial sites, colony redevelopment, station redevelopment and multi- functional complexes. “Howrah is a vibrant commercial hub of West Bengal. The land at Salt Golah can be used for residential-cum- commercial development. Water sports facilities can also be developed there,” RLDA vice-chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja said. The site is surrounded by Golabari Ghat and Ratnakar School in the north, Signal Workshop and Railway Printing Press in the south, the Hooghly river in the east and Salkia School Road on the west. The lessee will be given controlled and regulated marketing rights and will be mandated to develop the site within ten years, officials said. Indian Railways has around 43,000 hectares of vacant land across the country. The RLDA is currently handling 84 railway colony redevelopment projects and recently leased out three railway colonies in Guwahati and Secunderabad for redevelopment, they said. RLDA has over 100 commercial (greenfield) sites across India for leasing, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Nine fishermen dead, one missing after trawler capsizes in Bay of Bengal||Bodies of nine fishermen from Bengal's South 24 Parganas district were found on Thursday morning inside the trawler that capsized in the Bay of Bengal, officials said. One person is still missing and a search is on to find him, they said. The trawler, 'Haimabati', capsized due to sudden high waves near Rakteshwari island off the Bakkhali coast in the early hours of Wednesday when it was returning after catching hilsa, officials said. Fishermen Sankar Sashmal Majhi and Saikat Das who were on the deck and operating the trawler could manage to jump into the sea. Another fishing boat rescued them later. It is suspected that the other fishermen were sleeping and did not get the time to escape, officials said. The nine bodies were found in the cabin of the trawler, which was loaded with fish, after a day of search and rescue efforts, they said. The Coast Guard is leading the search for missing fisherman Anadi Sashmal, a resident of Haripur in Namkhana block. Apart from patrol vehicles, drones have been deployed to locate him, an official said. The trawler, owned by one Jamuna Rani Lal, left for the sea five days back with 12 fishermen from the 10 Mile area in Namkhana, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||MP John Barla used govt land for Banarhat commercial complex: Report||The plot on which Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla is raising a commercial complex at Chamurchi More in Jalpaiguri district’s Banarhat belongs to the state PWD, senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration said here on Wednesday. The minister has also built a house on land leased out to a tea company that owns the garden, the officials added. Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat block, recently raised brows for being vocal about a separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. Last week, district Trinamul leaders had filed a written complaint with the administration, alleging that the Union minister had encroached upon a government plot and was raising a multi-storey commercial complex there. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, acting on the complaint, had instructed the district land and land reforms department to conduct an inquiry and submit her a report on the status of the land. Ranjan Chakraborty, the district land and land reforms officer, submitted a report to the district magistrate on Wednesday. “It has been found that the land on which the building is coming up is owned by the state PWD. We also have reports that the MP had built a house at Lakhipara tea estate on land leased out to the garden by the state. We are sending letters to the state PWD and the garden authorities on how they permitted private construction on such plots,” the district magistrate said. The report has come as a shot in the arm of the Trinamul leadership in the area, which is preparing to mobilise a scathing offensive against Barla. K.K. Kalyani, district Trinamul president who also owns tea gardens, said that land was normally leased out to a tea garden for plantations, factories, workers’ quarters and bungalows. The tea company does such jobs. “No resident of any tea garden can encroach on additional land or carry out any construction. The MP has built a new house in the tea garden. We want to see what tea garden authorities and the state PWD say in reply (to this construction). We also expect the administration to take appropriate legal steps against him (Barla),” said Kalyani. Repeated calls made to Barla by this paper went unanswered. Since last week, the minister, who is away from north Bengal, is neither taking calls  nor responding to WhatsApp texts. Victor Barla, the MP’s brother and a panchayat member, however dismissed Trinamul’s allegations as well as the report. BJP leaders in Banarhat opened an office on the first floor of the under-construction building at Chamurchi More on Tuesday evening, claiming that it would function as the workspaces of both the MP and the BJP-backed Bharatiya Tea Workers’ Union. “Some people are saying this is government land. But that’s a baseless allegation. We have power connection here and we also pay for drinking water supply. The office (of the MP and the tea union) existed for quite some time and now we have opened it in the new building,” claimed the MP’s brother, who is also a panchayat member. However, when mediapersons asked him for the land documents, Victor did not furnish them. Districts BJP leaders defended Barla. “This is nothing but a political ploy by Trinamul to defame our MP who is now a Union minister,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista named Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national general secretary ||BJP MP of Darjeeling Raju Bista was on Wednesday named the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha national general secretary by its national president Tejasvi Surya. The move is being seen as an attempt to address the discontent among BJP supporters of Darjeeling and Kalimpong at Bista being overlooked for a ministerial berth by the Narendra Modi government. MPs John Barla and Nisith Pramanik of Alipurduar and Cooch Behar became ministers. This prompted many BJP supporters in the hills to react, saying Bista’s proactiveness helped the party win all five Assembly seats in Darjeeling district. Neeraj Zimba, the BJP MLA of Darjeeling, had shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. Asked if it was a placatory move, state BJP leaders dodged a direct reply. “The decision (to include an MP in the cabinet) is made by the Prime Minister and central leaders. But let us mention that the post in which Raju Bista has been nominated is far more important to us than that of even a minister,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the state BJP spokesperson. Anup Kumar Saha, the BJP MLA of Dubrajpur, became a vice-president of the BJYM national panel, BJP sources said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Petition challenges quantum of ex-gratia for Cyclone Yaas victims||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday admitted a public interest litigation challenging the validity of the Duare Tran scheme undertaken by the state government to compensate those affected by Cyclone Yaas. The petitioner, Left economist Prasenjit Bose, claimed that the government had fixed the quantum of compensation without assessing the quantum of loss incurred by the farmers. A division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee fixed the matter for hearing on August 27 and asked the state authorities to file an affidavit stating its views with regard to the contentions made by the petitioner. The petition claimed the compensation — ranging between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500 — had been fixed arbitrarily and quantum of compensation was fixed without conducting any survey to estimate the extent of crop losses in the cyclone. “The eligibility criteria have been left unspecified; it is unclear in the case of sharecropping whether it is the land owner or the tenant farmer, who is entitled to receive the compensation. No separate provision for compensation has been made for unregistered sharecroppers cultivating lands on verbal lease,” the petition stated. The petitioner claimed that the scheme failed to asses the quantum of actual crop losses in respect of individual applications and fixed a uniform rate of compensation for all crops. “It is inconceivable that only one type of crop was being cultivated on the 2.21 lakh hectares which have been reportedly damaged in the cyclone,” the petitioner said. The petitioner also claimed that actually the farmers incurred loss because of infiltration of saline water in farm land. “The Duare Tran scheme has totally ignored the cost of pumping out saline water and making the inundated lands fit for cultivation. In many areas, this cost is likely to exceed the loss of crops due to the cyclonic storm,” the petitioner stated The petitioner sought a fresh, separate and enhanced scheme for compensating the affected farmers. When asked, a state panel lawyer said that copy of the petition has not been scanned yet. “Compensation for affected farmers is an administrative issue. How can judiciary interfere in the issue,” the lawyer said He also asked how the petitioner was affected by the government decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Ten fishermen missing after Hilsa trawler capsizes in Bay of Bengal ||At least 10 fishermen were feared dead after a trawler capsized in the Bay of Bengal near the coast in South 24-Parganas’s Fraserganj early on Wednesday. Sources said a team of 12 fishermen — all hailing from South 24-Parganas -— in the Hilsa-trawler Haimavati were asleep when the trawler capsized in a sudden high wave near Rakteshwari Island, 25km off the coast. The trawler had sailed on Sunday night from Shibpur-Dasmile. Fishermen Sankar Sashmal and Saikat Das, residents of Haripur and Debniwas villages, were reportedly on the deck and operating the trawler and managed to jump into the sea. Later, they were rescued by a nearby fishing boat. According to eyewitnesses, the incident occurred around 5am when the trawler was returning towards the Fraserganj harbour abreast of a few other similar vessels. The sources informed that the district administration with the help of local fishermen’s welfare associations and the Indian Coast Guard started a search operation. “The Coast Guard has also launched an aerial search, but till evening no missing fishermen were spotted despite the overturned vessel being located,” said a source. The sources said that fishermen in nearby boats began dragging the capsized boat towards the Frasergunj harbour with chains, apprehending that the missing crew were trapped underneath. “But the weather did not permit and we even broke a few chains,” said one fisherman. Jayanta Kumar Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine), said: “It is not clear how the accident actually occurred. We are waiting for the boats to arrive along with the capsized vessel. Once they arrive, we will check whether the fishermen are really trapped inside. In case no one is found in the trawler, a fresh search will begin from Thursday morning with the help of the Coast Guard.” Goutam Majhi, a fisherman who was on a nearby boat and witnessed the incident, said the weather was clear but there were strong waves in the sea. “All of a sudden the Haimabati capsized and we saw two fishermen from the trawler swimming hard in the sea to survive. We tried to approach them but failed owing to strong waves. However, MV Paramita, a nearby trawler, managed to go close and rescue them,” Majhi added. Bijan Maity, joint secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen’s association, said it appears that the accident happened as the trawler failed to sustain the waves. “The incident also an eye opener for us. The physical fitness of the boat to sustain turbulent weather and strong waves needs to be checked to avoid such accidents in future,” Maity added. After a gap of two months, around 1,500 vessels from the Kakdwip fishing harbour, Namkhana, Raidighi, and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas left for deep sea Hilsa fishing starting June 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MP’s name absent from Bhanubhakta Acharya event guest list||Trinamul Congress leaders in the Darjeeling hills were disappointed that they were not invited to a government programme to commemorate the birth anniversary of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya here on Tuesday. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp, was present at the event. Rajya Sabha member and senior Trinamul leader Shanta Chhetri has written to party supremo Mamata Banerjee and MP Abhishek Banerjee on the importance given to Thapa and the message that the invite sent across the hills. Thapa does not hold any official position. But Trinamul has two hill leaders with formal positions —MP Chhetri and Mirik municipality chairman L.B. Rai. Neither of the two Trinamul leaders had been invited to the event jointly organised by the information and cultural affairs department of the state government and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Two other hill leaders, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, who are both backed by Trinamul, were also left out. “On what basis was Anit Thapa invited? If he was invited as a former administrator of the GTA, then, we have two other leaders (Gurung and Tamang) who occupied the same chair,” Chhetri told The Telegraph. The Trinamul MP, however, chose to blame “politically inclined GTA officials” for the alleged faux pas. “The GTA officials deliberately did not invite me nor was Sri. L.B. Rai, Chairman of Mirik Municipality and other local TMC leaders who are working day in and out for the party ,” complained Chhetri in the letter. Trinamul leaders have been working against odds to establish themselves in the hills but Thapa’s presence at the event seems to have demoralised them. Chhetri was of the opinion that Thapa was invited “so that a message goes to the local people how much faith the top leaders of the state have on such leaders”. Many observers believe Thapa managed to send a strong message in the hills at a time when Tamang and Gurung are also in a race to prove their closeness to Mamata Banerjee. In the present political situation, such a message could have a strong bearing. The ramification of this message was not lost on Trinamul leaders. Chhetri said that “rumour mills had already started working” that Mamata has faith in Anit Thapa and that the CMO had contacted Thapa to attend the event. The Trinamul leaders tried to assuage this fear and said they knew this was not the case. “This is simply rumour mongering but no one can prevent such doing the round (sic),” wrote Chhetri adding that this “can never be true.” In the last Bengal Assembly election, the state Trinamul leadership had decided not to field any candidates in the three hill seats and leave it to their “friends (Tamang and Gurung)” to field their own candidates. The hill Trinamul leaders, however, decided to back Gurung’s candidates. Gurung’s candidates, however, came third in all the three hill seats, while Tamang’s candidate came second in Darjeeling and Kurseong and managed to win the Kalimpong seat- the first such win after the faction was formed in 2017. Trinamul hill leaders had told this newspaper that they had decided to back Gurung’s candidates on instruction from Prashant Kishore’s I-PAC team. “Shanta Chhetri’s strongly worded letter is an indication of the apprehension among hill TMC leaders following yesterday’s development,” said an observer. Even though Chhetri tried to blame the “GTA officials”, sources in the administration said that they had not issued any invitation and all invitees were probably asked to attend by higher-ups. The other political invitees at the Chowrasta event included Gautam Deb, administrator, Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and Bulu Baraik, minister of state, backward classes and tribal department, leaders who occupy official positions. Even Baraik said that he was asked to attend the event by Mamata Banerjee. “No officials can dare take a decision on the invitee list given its sensitivity,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||CID team at Suvendu Adhikari home over security guard death probe||The state CID team probing the 2018 unnatural death of the security guard of BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari visited his residential complex in Contai, East Midnapore, on Wednesday and examined the site where the guard, Subhabrata Chakraborty, received the gunshot injury. “A team went to the building where he would stay during office hours. The building is in the name of Suvendu Adhikari’s brother Dibyendu. The latter was present during the CID visit,” said a CID officer. The CID team spoke to colleagues apparently present on the spot or in the same building when Chakraborty received his bullet injury. Dibyendu was questioned as the owner of the building, an officer said. In 2018, police reported Chakraborty shot himself. Last week his wife Suparna filed a complaint blaming Suvendu Adhikari and others for the death, including an alleged delay in arranging an ambulance for her then-wounded husband from Contai to Calcutta. Contai police started a case under sections of murder and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Patient killed, two arrested in North 24-Parganas||A 49-year-old man recovering from drug addiction at a rehabilitation centre here in North 24-Parganas was allegedly beaten to death on Tuesday night by a section of its officials apparently because he had secretly called his brother to inform him about the ill-treatment meted out to him and other inmates. Police have arrested two accused officials — Subhankar Mondal and Subhashis Chakraborty — on murder charge whereas the owner of the Su-Drishti Darshan Rehabilitation Centre is yet to be traced. The Nimta police have begun a probe on the basis of a complaint lodged by the brother of the victim, Partha Raha. Raha, a resident of Birati Kalabagan area, was brought to Ghola Hospital at Sodepur on Tuesday night with multiple injuries, including one to the head. He was declared brought-dead by the hospital officials, who informed the police about the unnatural death. Deputy commissioner (south) of Barrackpore Police Commissionerate Ajoy Prasad said: “We have received a written complaint from the victim’s family and began a probe. Two persons have been arrested. Police are in search of another accused person.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Professors asked to explain email to PM on salary delay||Visva-Bharati’s officiating registrar Ashok Mahato on Tuesday evening sought in writing explanations from two professors, who are also office-bearers of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA), for sending a letter to varsity Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “government dignitaries” about the varsity’s delay in disbursing salaries and pensions for June. Suspended economics professor and VBUFA president Sudipta Bhattacharyya and philosophy professor and VBUFA secretary Kaushik Bhattacharya had emailed Modi and others on July 6. The central varsity in an order on June 18 had asked employees not to send service-related grievances to “dignitaries of the Government of India” and warned violators of action. Mahato charged the duo with sending the emails “without taking permission from the university authority”, which was “contrary to the statutory rules”. Many insiders said there was no such rule. The varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not respond to this paper’s calls or WhatsApp text on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Vaccine and test riders for visit to the Darjeeling hills||The Darjeeling district administration has asked the owners of hotels, resorts and homestays to allow only those tourists who have got fully vaccinated or are carrying RT-PCR negative reports which have been issued within 72 hours of their travel to check into their properties. “To curb the spread of Covid-19, we have advised all hotels and homestays in the Darjeeling hills to allow tourists only after ascertaining either RT-PCR negative status or double vaccination certificate,” said a source in the administration. In north Bengal, this is the first such advisory that has been issued by the administration of any district with regard to the movement of tourists. On Monday, the subdivisional officer of Contai in East Midnapore had issued a similar order to check unrestrained inflow of tourists in Digha. On Wednesday evening, the Jalpaiguri district administration also issued a similar notification. There are around 370 hotels in the hill town while over 500 homestays have mushroomed in three hill divisions of Mirik, Kurseong and Darjeeling. Those running hotels in Darjeeling, however, said unlike Digha, the rush of tourists is comparatively less in the hill town. As of now, the average occupancy at hotels in Darjeeling is around 20 per cent but at some places, it is as high as 80 per cent. Also, 75 per cent of visitors to the hills these days are from Bengal, while the rest are from Jharkhand and Bihar. “After the first wave of the pandemic, there was a huge rush of tourists in January and February. We hope there will be a similar rush in the coming months,” said Samir Singhal, the treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association. Others associated with the tourism industry in north Bengal said the inflow of tourists in the hills had always been less during the monsoon. “We have no problem in adhering to the advisory issued by the administration. Most tourists now are visiting the hills on weekends and preferring rural homestays. The inflow, we expect, will go up in October and November,” said Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. He underscored that the vaccination of all those associated with the sector, particularly those working at hotels or running homestays, vehicle drivers and tour guides, need to be expedited. “This would help us revive the industry in a sustainable manner.” At Digha, two tourist groups had to return to Calcutta on Wednesday morning after they had tested positive at a Covid screening camp organised by the Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri in Darjeeling and Anshuman Phadikar at Digha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases below 13,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged the 24th straight day of a dip in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 344 to 12,984, back to below 13,000 for the first time since April 6, 99 days ago. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,161 recoveries, 831 new infections and 14 deaths. With this, Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.96 per cent, the highest ever for the state since the onset of the pandemic. The national rate is 97.25 now. With 78 new cases in Calcutta and 96 in North 24-Parganas, Wednesday was the seventh successive day since the second wave when none among Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections while South Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia single-digit figures. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.5 per cent on Wednesday, indicating the shrink in Covid-19 spread. Of the 17 deaths, two each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday, while North Dinajpur, Birbhum, East and West Midnapore just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 per cent now, while that of the nation is 1.32. The state’s active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21 during the second wave. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before falling by around 44 per cent again these 24 days. Bengal now over 15.13 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March 2020, including nearly 14.83 lakh recoveries and 17,958 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s Covid-vigil letter cloud on Bengal bypolls||The state government on Wednesday received a letter from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, asking the administration to be extra vigilant about easing curbs in view of the impending third wave of the pandemic, with sources saying the missive was read by Nabanna top brass as a prelude to an indefinite delay in Assembly bypolls. As ruling Trinamul has a clear majority in the House, bypolls scheduled for seven seats in Bengal may not have any major numerical significance for the government. But party supremo Mamata Banerjee, who lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, has to win a bypoll within November 5 to stay as chief minister. Though no one confirmed it on record, Mamata apparently went into a huddle with her party’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday afternoon, after the letter reached Nabanna, to discuss her next move. She later visited Raj Bhavan for a one-on-one meeting with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for over an hour. Details of the meetings were not made available. Though addressed to all state governments, Bhalla’s letter triggered speculations in Bengal’s power corridors that it could have been sent to create a context for the Election Commission of India to delay the Assembly bypolls in view of the pandemic. The reason is not far to seek. It is no secret that Mamata, sworn in on May 5, has to be elected to the House by November 5 under the constitutional requirement. “Two-and-a-half months have gone. It’s a fact that the clock is ticking,” said a source. The home secretary’s letter read: “With the decline in the number of active cases, States and UTs have started re-opening the activities in a gradual manner... the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated.” Sources said the letter, by stating the second wave wasn’t over and Covid-appropriate behaviour must continue, hinted that the Centre wasn’t in favour of mass gatherings in the next two to three months. The letter also pointed out blatant violations of Covid norms in parts of the country after some relaxations. “It needs to be ensured that if norms of Covid appropriate behaviour are not maintained at any establishments/ premises/ markets etc, such places shall be liable for the re-imposition of restrictions, for containing the spread of Covid-19...” reads the advisory. As bypolls will entail rallies and gatherings, the advisory can be used by the EC to defer them, sources said. “Unless large-scale gatherings are allowed, it is tough to hold elections. So, it is definitely a cause of concern for the Bengal government. The notification for bypolls has to be issued within the next two-and-a-half months to allow the chief minister to continue by winning the bypoll,” said an official. Some officials that this paper spoke to said the chief minister can take oath again after six months if bypolls aren’t held owing to Covid-19. But others said the rule clearly states she has to win an election within six months. There’s a high probability that bypolls may be indefinitely delayed, said a Trinamul source, referring to public statements by scores of BJP leaders. Adhikari has often taunted Mamata as a “non-MLA chief minister”. “Ideally, there shouldn’t be a correlation between a central advisory and a decision of the poll panel...But things have changed so much in recent years that there are reasons to believe that the Union home ministry under Amit Shah is setting the context so that the Election Commission can say bypolls can’t be held now,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: EC asked to keep all Nandigram poll documents||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday asked the Election Commission of India to preserve all documents, devices and video recordings  related to the Nandigram Assembly poll till the disposal of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s victory. Justice Shampa Sarkar issued the directive after accepting Mamata’s petition contesting the election of Adhikari, who had defeated the chief minister by 1,965 votes in Nandigram. Justice Sarkar also made Adhikari a party to the case and sent him a notice while fixing August 12 as the next date for hearing. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had initially assigned the case to Justice Kaushik Chanda but Mamata sought the transfer of the hearing to another bench fearing that she might not get fair judgment from him. The chief minister raised objections to her petition coming up before Justice Chanda because of his association with the BJP since his days as a lawyer. Last week, Justice Chanda released the case on personal grounds but imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on Mamata for her “offensive attempt to seek recusal”. Later on Wednesday, sources said Adhikari had moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of the election petition filed by Mamata to any high court outside Bengal. Although the legal team of Adhikari refrained from sharing the contents of the petition with the media, it is learnt he had referred to the July 7 recusal of Justice Chanda as one of the main grounds for transfer of case outside Bengal. The source said Adhikari had in his petition relied on certain observations made by Justice Chanda who had referred to pressure mounted on him leading to his recusal. However, technically, the petition filed by Adhikari has to first clear the decks at the Supreme Court registry that scrutinises it before placing the matter before the Chief Justice of India for listing it before an appropriate bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||West Bengal||Somen Mitra’s son quits Congress post over differences with Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Signs of trouble brewing within the Bengal unit of the Congress over Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s continuation as the state president of the party have increasingly been emerging with Rohan Mitra’s resignation on Wednesday added to the list. Mitra, son of deceased Bengal Congress stalwart Somen Mitra, stepped down as a state general-secretary attributing the decision to his differences with Chowdhury. “Your (Chowdhury’s) attitude towards me (Mitra) from the beginning has been pathetic. The language used by your close clique about my father and other leaders in the past has been detrimental to party unit in Bengal,” wrote the 37-year-old. Behrampore MP Chowdhury said he had “nothing but affection” for Mitra. “His father introduced me to politics and mentored me. I have nothing but respect for him (Somen Mitra). As his son, I have nothing but affection for him (Rohan Mitra),” said Chowdhury. “Things that have been said in that letter indicate the tastes of the sender,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
15-07-2021||North East||Assam lawyer moves NHRC seeking an inquiry into 'fake encounters'||A lawyer from Assam has moved the National Human Rights Commission seeking an inquiry into all “fake encounters” that have taken place in the state since May. Arif Jwadder, who moved the NHRC on Saturday, in his email complaint to the commission’s chairperson, citing media reports, alleged: “Assam police is on (an) encounter spree! Since the new government took office in the state there have been fake encounters wherein alleged small-time criminals are being shot and the reason cited for such encounters are that the alleged criminals tried to flee from the police custody (by) snatching pistols.” Since such police action “deny” the rights of the alleged criminal to a “fair trial”, Arif requested the NHRC take cognisance of the matter and institute an inquiry against all such “fake encounters” which have taken place since May 2021. The BJP-led alliance was re-elected on May 10 for a second straight term. Arif has cited 10 cases in his complaint and that the “people at the receiving end” were mostly “alleged drug dealers, alleged cattle dealers”. He has referred to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s remark at the conference of officers-in-charge of all police stations in the state “that police should shoot at alleged criminals in the legs, which is permitted by law”. Addressing the conference here on July 6, Sarma had backed police action, saying “firing” at criminals in self-defence or while in chase should be a “pattern”. “There is criticism of policemen shooting accused/criminals who tried to flee or harm others in the recent past. Law allows to shoot them in the leg. If this is the pattern, let it remain so to send the right message,” Sarma had said. Sarma’s statement was condemned by the Opposition, including the Congress and the Raijor Dal. Arif has also raised questions about the police’s ability to handle the accused because they “are/were not militants and hence not trained to use pistols and it is very unlikely that they could use the pistols after snatching against the police force that were outnumbered and heavily armed”. Arif told The Telegraph on Sunday: “It also raises questions about the standard operating procedures (SOP) followed by the police while dealing with accused. The police should have become more alert after four-five such incidents but there have been more than 20 incidents, two taking place in the past 24 hours. It cannot be believed that all alleged petty criminals could snatch a pistol from a trained police officer whose pistols/guns are normally tied to a rope to the waist belt of that officer.” Both the Congress and Raijor Dal have expressed concern over the developments. Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia, while condemning the developments, said the chief minister wants to turn Assam police into “trigger- happy cops” which is against the Constitution as the “right to live” is guaranteed under Article 21. “The Supreme Court mentions six special conditions under which this right is denied, exclusively for self-defence purposes. If the police, due to their own inefficiency, let a criminal escape when under custody and then shoots him, it is against the law. I appeal to the police officials not to be party to such unconstitutional activities. I also ask government officials not to fall prey to political instigation and indulge in activities contrary to the Constitution and democracy,” Saikia said. Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi said such developments were disturbing. “These are signs of our state moving towards a dictatorial regime. This has sparked concern... Today they are firing at an accused but what is the guarantee they will not fire at political opponents in future? This should be stopped,” Akhil said. The issue is likely to figure in the Assembly session starting from Monday. Though the fate of Arif’s prayer is awaited, the Assam Human Rights Commission (AHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on the police firing leading to the death of 12 militants/criminals/accused and injury to five persons since May and directed the principal secretary (home and political) to conduct an inquiry into the circumstances leading to the firing and submit a report within a month. In its July 7 directive, the AHRC said it had to order the probe “considering the gravity of the reported incidents”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
15-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unreformed||The Union home minister’s call to make scientific evidence the lynchpin of police investigations in India must be welcomed. This plea was made in the context of reforming — modernizing — such relevant legal segments as the Indian Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Indian Evidence Act. Amit Shah has assured that the days of forced confession are over. Furthermore, Mr Shah proposed forensic evidence to be made mandatory for criminal cases that entail penalties of six or more years. The Centre must consider these options with utmost seriousness. The record of the police force when it comes to such transgressions as extracting confessions under duress, trampling upon prisoners’ rights or being implicated in custodial deaths need not inspire confidence. The relevant data are equally depressing. Seventy-six per cent of the deaths in police custody in 2019, the National Campaign Against Torture has alleged, can be attributed to lethal coercion. This, in a country where the law mandates an unbiased, compulsory investigation of every custodial death. It is evident that the scrutiny of custodial demises is compromised. The immunity of the police from accountability, institutional lethargy as well as other deficiencies — the National Crime Record Bureau’s annual reports do not identify the cause of deaths in custody — can be cited as some of the causes of the malaise. The rhetoric of police reform must emphasize the modernization of investigative methods. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. The deployment of science would, however, require more than pledges from the home minister. Financial constraints have, over the years, held up the introduction of state-of-the-art technology in the force. When money is available, the lion’s share is spent on modernizing weaponry, infrastructure, and surveillance, leaving very little funds to upgrade other areas of policing. What must also be borne in mind is that a scientific method need not be free of ethical concerns. In 2010, in a landmark judgment, the Supreme Court had stated that the involuntary administration of narco analysis or lie detector tests — scientific investigation relies on such techniques — can be interpreted as an intrusion of a person’s mental privacy. That personal liberty can be at odds with objectivity — this was the caveat presented by the wise judges — is a grey area that requires greater deliberation from the minders of policy and policing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Dilip Kumar passes away, over Olympics crowds, black women health||For all time Sir — With the passing of the veteran actor, Dilip Kumar, the Indian film industry has lost a legend (“Kohinoor who pierced hearts”, July 8). Kumar was well-known as the ‘tragedy king’ for his portrayal of numerous serious roles in classics such as Mughal-e-Azam and Devdas. However, he never limited himself to a particular genre and had proven to the public that he was just as good at comedy with Ram aur Shyam. He was the last of the golden troika who transformed Hindi cinema, the other two being Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand. Besides being awarded the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan, Kumar was also conferred the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award. Notably, in 1998, the Pakistan government presented him the highest civilian award of the country, the Nishan-e-Imtiaz, for his cinematic appeal across the subcontinent. Although Kumar’s illustrious film career is familiar to most, what is less known about the iconic actor is that before pursuing acting, he worked as a canteen owner and dry fruits supplier. With his death, the country has lost one of the first superstars of Indian cinema. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The death of Dilip Kumar is an immeasurable loss for Indian cinema. Unlike many of his contemporaries, Dilip saab, as he was fondly called, was a measured actor, carving out a niche for himself. He had a powerful screen presence and had influenced several generations of aspiring actors. Although he had largely retreated from the public eye years before his demise, he was still revered among the younger lot as one of the finest actors of all time. His films will continue to set the benchmark of excellence in Indian cinema. R. Sekar,Chennai Sir — Over the last week, people across the world paid tribute to Dilip Kumar after the legendary thespian passed away in Mumbai at the age of 98. He was laid to rest with state honours at the Juhu Kabristan in Santacruz, Mumbai. While Kumar’s most iconic roles were in the 1950s and the 1960s, his method of acting, sartorial style, gait and mannerisms continue to be studied by young actors to this day. He was universally respected for his decency; he stood for a Nehruvian idea of India. While he worked in fewer films than many of his contemporaries, Kumar still made over 60 films in Hindi and Bengali in a career spanning 50 years. He was a versatile artist who played tragedy and comedy with equal ease. His contribution to cinema is unparalleled. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — A recent article by the actor, Naseeruddin Shah, after the demise of Dilip Kumar has revived the question about the legacy of actors and their duties towards the craft as a whole. Shah, while venerating the Kohinoor star, laments that in spite of his enduring legacy, Kumar could have left more of an impact on Indian cinema had he chosen to do so. Shah is right to ponder if Kumar had been guilty of contributing to the star-centric nature of Hindi cinema which has now led to its downfall. Neither did Kumar groom new actors nor, according to Shah, did he pen down his vast knowledge and wealth of experience for future cinephiles. It has been a matter of debate among fans of Hindi cinema if veteran actors like Dev Anand, Sunil Dutt and Manoj Kumar should have taken an active interest in mentoring the next generation of actors beyond blood ties. Had this been done, contemporary Hindi cinema would have looked very different. Meenal Kapur,Mumbai Be cautious Sir — The decision of the Japanese Olympic Committee to hold this year’s Games without spectators in venues in and around the capital is the correct one. Tokyo reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases in almost six months on Wednesday. This has sparked fear that the caseload might exponentially increase in the upcoming months. It would have been better had the Games been postponed altogether. At the very least, the host country should ensure that safety protocols are followed as much as possible. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — It is worrying that people from all over the world are gathering in Tokyo for the Olympics. One can now only hope for the best. Alaka Sinha,Calcutta  Change needed Sir — A 25-year-long study by Boston University on the health of black women found that the long-term use of lye-based hair straightening products among them was linked to an increased risk of breast cancer in comparison to those women who used the products moderately. This finding is crucial in determining the racial disparities inherent in the diagnosis of breast cancer. Black women are socially pressured to straighten their hair as many offices continue to deem the natural hair type of people of African descent to be ‘unprofessional’. Unless such discriminatory practices are curbed, black women’s health will continue to be endangered. Aratrika Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Little known||Laws alone cannot correct institutionalized gender bias; people must have a genuine desire for justice too. A direction by the Bombay High Court exposed ways in which gender bias functions in implementing the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, or the PoSH Act. A woman appealed to the high court last year against the dismissal of her allegation of sexual harassment by the PoSH Act-mandated internal committee in her workplace. The Act allows for appeals against the internal committee’s decision to an appellate authority, but she found no other authority for her appeal. It was only after this that the Maharashtra government notified as appellate authority 20 industrial courts on March 31 this year. On July 8, the Bombay High Court directed the complainant to the industrial court for the appeal. That the state government had not bothered to notify the appellate authority earlier exposes an indifference to gender justice. The authority became available months after the woman’s complaint although, according to the law, the appeal against an internal committee decision must be filed within 90 days of the recommendation. So the complainant was burdened with the additional stress of a technical hitch. The case also demonstrated the anxious running around that a complainant is made to do while facing the reluctance of the establishment instead of getting its cooperation. A lack of awareness bedevils this law. Employees are often unconscious of it, or ignorant about the internal committee. The system must be made visible and the procedures of the law communicated to all employees, both men and women. Besides, not only is a complainant subjected to various pressures during the inquiry, but members of the internal committee, too, may need protection in a private company, as a public interest litigation claimed in the Bombay High Court in January. The situation is far worse in the unorganized sector. A woman vendor, for example, would be unlikely to know that a law-mandated local committee would hear her complaint of sexual harassment, and that the district collector is the grievance redressal authority. The administration is noticeably casual about the PoSH Act, whether in the organized or unorganized sector, as though the less women know about it the better. But the PoSH Act must be widened too, to include men, and trans and non-binary workers. Nothing will succeed unless attitudes change||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Self and Other in New India||We have seen very often that the current regime is unable to accept its mistakes. There is instead a ‘strategy’ to blame others and claim credit out of turn. It is important to comprehend why taking responsibility, owning up to mistakes, and course correction are important in and for a democracy. Taking responsibility assumes a certain ‘self’ that is foundational to an open society and a democratic State. Is the absence of such a self in the current leadership a reflection of Indian society or is it an exception? Many political thinkers, from M.K. Gandhi to contemporary critical theorists, have reflected deeply on why the health of a democracy is not merely about ‘politics’ or political in nature but, essentially, about fashioning a certain self that results in the necessary social gestation where social conflicts and complexities can be handled in a manner that results in less suffering and in generating greater shared goals and values. In other words, there should be a willingness to engage with reason, to think and to deliberate. The alternative to this is the replacement of a dialogic and secure inner self with an aggressive, alienated self that is ill-prepared to identify and empathize with others and, thereby, unwilling to take responsibilities. It provokes hysteria and is narcissistic and nihilistic in its imagination. We are witnessing — globally — a retributive self, subsuming the more reasonable and reasoned self. The critical theorist, Axel Honneth, argues that for a fuller sense of self (realization) and recognition, every individual requires self-confidence born out of unconditional love and emotional security. Self-respect ought to be treated with dignity and equality in law, and self-esteem born out of merit and a sense of achievement. All these dimensions are required for a fuller self that is then willing to be reasonable, take responsibility, treat others with respect and dignity and relish the sense of purpose and meaning in life. Those who are denied these remain as a ‘distorted self’, which can then become retributive, aggressive, insulting, abusive and intolerant. This distortion can be a vicious cycle that further enhances the conditions of denying individuals and social groups the basic conditions of recognition and a fuller self. However, it is not easy to fill the vacuum that the self suffers from. Bertrand Russell observes that those who do not get emotional security in their formative years end up seeing the world as one without love and the more they attempt to gain empathy and recognition, the more they end up feeling unloved and unwanted. Many of them remain insecure and anxious even after finding love and emotional security as they fail to feel and experience these. The gap between the inner self and the external world remains, more or less, unbreached. Similarly, those who are not treated as equal in everyday interactions remain suspicious and are incapable of forging collective enterprises while those who suffer from a lack of self-esteem can end up, in spite of the required talent, achieving much less than what they are capable of. It is this inner sense of emptiness that is filled with external aggression manifest in a thirst for power and, in its worst form, unbridled imageries of gory violence. The empty self seeks to find social resonance that is always momentary and without larger meaning. The ‘distorted self’ is produced not merely within dispossessed social groups but also among dominant hegemonies. Individuals and social groups that occupy dominant social positions can also suffer from the lack of self-confidence, self-respect and self-esteem. This can happen either as a result of higher expectations or anxiety concerning the loss of privileges. Much of the political Right has emerged from these social groups that are dominant but suffer from ‘hurt pride’ and wish to overcome it by endorsing existing inequalities and their accompanying stigma. They subvert the language of dignity and equality to produce ‘regressive modernism’. All this, at some level, becomes a mode of coping with the social changes that they witness and cannot keep up with. When practices born out of ‘hurt pride’ enter into an unholy alliance with the victims of social stigma, societies move substantially towards intolerance and become totalitarian. Currently, India is passing through an interregnum where the imageries of a ‘distorted self’ as an authentic self or as an assertive self have taken over. Indifference is being mistaken for atmanirbharta, uncivility for assertion, intolerance for subversion, and anxiety for aspiration. Unless Indian society manages to overcome these distortions, it will be difficult to mobilize legitimate anger against those who wish to govern without taking responsibility and make promises without compassion. Recent protests have invoked the new inner self but whether they manage to evoke the ‘collective conscience’ and the urge for a fuller self-realization still remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||More to come||The custodial death of Father Stan Swamy, a physically frail octogenarian social worker, left me thinking, as a citizen, about its larger significance. It is obviously something to be deeply ashamed about. It represents the cruelty, callousness and violence of the State at its worst. Not all Indians will share this same feeling, though. Many will defend it as collateral damage in the fight against terrorism and political violence. Others will remain silent with the plea that it does not concern them. A few will remain significantly silent, signalling a strong endorsement of the event. I thought of splitting my feelings into a number of arguments that lead to rather disturbing conclusions. Such deaths have occurred many times in the past, and will occur again in the future. The Stan Swamy case is only a recent example that can be analysed. My first argument pertains to treating the case as not one of active killing, like in an encounter, but a case of letting someone die consciously, ignoring the cause leading to the death. Philosophers and ethicists do make a distinction between killing and letting die. There could be many ambiguities involved. Since the latter is not an act of agency, it is considered by many — though not all — as being a little more defensible than outright killing, and hence less morally reprehensible. In the process of letting a person die, there could be excuses like forgetfulness, or inability to gauge the seriousness of the cause leading to the death, or even ignorance about the facts and context of the case. However, there are opposite possibilities too. The act of letting a person die could be very cold and calculating, where the person or persons who could have stopped the death have something valuable to gain. The gains could be financial benefits, romantic relationships, power or revenge. Therefore, the context and circumstantial evidence can be quite important in morally judging such an outcome. My second argument is about context. In this case, the context was crystal clear. The incarcerated person was awaiting trial for an inordinately long time, he was ill, he was old. The reason for his being arrested was in connection with a high-profile case of conspiracy and violence. No one in authority, starting from the prison officials, the prosecutors, the investigators, the courts and government officials and ministers could claim ignorance or forgetfulness. Indeed, if anything, there was a denial of access to something as simple as a drinking straw for a man whose hands were no longer strong and stable. Hence, it is well-nigh impossible to believe that no one knew where things were heading. The violence lay in the denial of basic human needs. One may argue that in prisons people are supposed to be deprived of certain privileges that a free citizen enjoys. This would also include the freedom not to be physically coerced. Should all prisoners face the same degree of coercion? If we include children in juvenile homes, women and old people all as a homogeneous crowd that can be meted out the same set of denials, then we are no different from a Nazi Germany or a Stalinist Russia. The issue is about certain human rights no State can deny, especially when the prisoner has not even been tried and found guilty of the charges levied against him. My next argument leads to the question: what if he had actually participated in a conspiracy to create political chaos and murder? Why should he be treated with leniency in jail? This argument is naïve to say the least, vicious at the very worst. A person is not found guilty beyond reasonable doubt unless tried by a court of law. The trial must follow due legal processes. In this case, Stan Swamy was far away from being tried or questioned. The charges against him were not fully framed even months after him being held. Yet it was supposed to be a case of the highest importance and sensitivity. Those who think he was indeed guilty, and some form of extra-legal or divine justice was meted out to him, have no idea of the sanctity of the rule of law in a civilized society. There are many people in our nation who believe in extra-legal justice: the prevalence of lynching, encounter deaths, honour killings and murder are just a few examples. These people have an extraordinary distrust in the legal system: its timely closure of cases, its sense of fairness and its vulnerabilities. It is symptomatic of a malfunctioning democracy. Another ‘argument’ worth noting is the complete absence of any argument: an eerie silence from the vast majority of citizens. Does it not concern them, or does one not want to get involved in matters of statecraft? A silence can signify many things. It can immediately be taken as a sign of ignorance, not knowing all the details of the matter and hence not considering it prudent to voice an opinion. Usually, these people never get fully informed, simply because they do not want to be. The other reason for silence could be a fear of taking sides, or an absence of any concern for other people. These positions invariably help the political establishment: the less noise the better. Finally, there is another reason for silence, and that is a tacit endorsement of what happened. It reflects an extraordinary degree of arrogance: we can do it and nobody cares or dares to say anything against it. It gives the political establishment more confidence to try out similar projects of letting die. Political goals can be achieved more easily with the silence of those who might have raised their voices in opposition. The stifling of dissent, the shying away through special draconian laws from the natural course of justice, direct and indirect violence — all point to a large democratic deficit. New experiments can be carried out and the scale of violence easily escalated if the need arose. The final argument, possibly the most common in contemporary India, is the use of examples from the past, or from other countries: did you see what Mao did? Do you know what Aurangzeb did? Do you know what Indira Gandhi did? Did you protest earlier? These examples are supposed to justify current acts that are similar. However, as a citizen, I live in the here and now. I am not interested in the history of violence when morally judging a contemporary act of cruelty. In any event, historical examples can only be prompts to make us a little more decent and compassionate, not justify brutality. Examples and counter examples, though illustrative on occasions, are never an adequate substitute for an argument. The case of Stan Swamy will be forgotten quite soon, as have been thousands of similar cases of people who have died at the hands of the State, people whose names one never ever heard of. State violence will also remain. However, as citizens, we need to interrogate the stony silence of the powers that be. Otherwise all of us become morally complicit in condoning acts of violence that are increasing rapidly in India. We ought to have the moral courage and human decency to apologize with folded hands to the memory of Father Stan Swamy. But we will not. Does anyone really care?  Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO Red Paws gets injured stray back on its feet ||The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation has arranged a walker for a stray dog whose hind legs were crushed in a road accident. Fondly called DJ, the around four-month old female stray is now able to move with the help of the lightweight walker fitted with wheels. The stray is under treatment at a shelter being set up at Pardih near Mango by the Foundation, a steel city-based NGO. "DJ was badly injured in a recent road mishap at Jugsalai. One of our volunteers informed us about the incident. The stray was writhing in pain when we reached Jugsalai, we subsequently brought it to the shelter," said Aniz Patel, founder of the NGO. According to him, the stray was not able to walk and was in unbearable pain. We thought of doing something to help the stray walk. One of our volunteers, Piyush Agarwal, made a lightweight walker with plastic pipes and also fitted  wheels. The walker weighs around half-a-kg and has been made by keeping the weight of the stray in mind. DJ is now moving with the help of the walker. We feel immensely happy watching it move," Patel added. He informed that the injury has healed fifty per cent and the pain has also somewhat subsided. “DJ is under treatment by a vet and volunteers are taking care of it. Volunteers give DJ the prescribed medicines. We are hopeful that she would be able to walk sans the walker," Patel said, adding DJ has nerve issue as a result of the accident. "There is no fracture in the legs as such." She moves with the walker for four hours in the morning and evening. Rest of the time she stays inside a cage. "DJ needs rest since the injury has not fully healed. The more she rests more is the chances of recovery of the injury So we keep it in a cage. DJ lives in the company of 11 other canines, including a labrador, which was found abandoned near the Dalma hills on Wednesday evening. We feed rice, soyabean and dog food to the rescued canines," Patel said. According to him, they were yet to formally inaugurate the shelter. "We have arranged the shed and cages. We thought of utilising the facility since we were spotting strays who needed urgent help. We plan to inaugurate the shelter sometimes next month," Patel added. It is the second animal shelter of the state. One of the members of JRPRF has provided land measuring 150x30 ft. Around 40 strays can be accommodated at the facility. The Foundation is generating funds for the shelter. A number of strays fall victim to road mishaps in the city. Some even die or are badly injured and eventually die. “We try our best to save strays but it is not always possible. After all, we are not experts in providing treatment for critical cases. Hence, an animal shelter was the need of the hour,” a member said. Besides feeding strays, the foundation also conducts anti-rabies vaccination camps in periodical intervals at different localities. It also puts reflective collars on strays to protect them from road mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre promises Jharkhand over 16 lakh vaccine doses by July 29||The Centre has assured Jharkhand that it will get over 16 lakh vaccine doses in the second half of July to continue its immunisation programme against Covid-19, health officials said on Thursday, adding that the vaccines would be delivered in at least six installments. According to the schedule of vaccine supply shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Jharkhand will be provided at least 14,66,300 doses of Covishield and 1,35,100 doses of Covaxin between July 15 and July 29. The first lot of 3,16,980 Covishield doses reached the state by air on Thursday and was subsequently distributed among the 24 districts, officials said. After a lull of several days, the vaccination drive in Jharkhand regained momentum after about 3 lakh doses were sent to the state earlier this week. The state, as per government data, has about 4 lakh doses in stock, enough to inoculate about 1 lakh residents daily until fresh supplies arrive, officials said. As per the schedule fixed by the Centre, on July 21, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day. “The vaccination drive will be intensified as we will have enough doses in stock to go all out with the campaign if deliveries are made as per the schedule,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, special officer on duty for Covid-19 vaccinations in Jharkhand. As per government data, the state has so far received about 80 lakh doses of vaccines and administered the jabs to over 78 lakh residents. Jharkhand is also expecting supply of 1,47,740 doses of Covishield on August 4, but it will be included in the quota for the next month, officials said. Jharkhand, as per the schedule of vaccine supply fixed by the Centre last month, was promised supply of 25 lakh doses in July. However, the state received only about 10 lakh doses until Thursday. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand has at least 3377 session sites for vaccination and the infrastructure to inoculate around 3 lakh people on a day. However, due to vaccine crisis, almost half of the session sites have been non-operational this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jubilee Park of to stay open mornings and evenings ||The Jubilee Park reopened with certain guidelines on Thursday bringing some good news for morning walkers, joggers and yoga enthusiasts. State health minister Banna Gupta, deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and Jusco (or Tata Steel Utility and Infrastructure Services Limited) managing director Tarun Daga were present at the occasion. Daga said the park will open every day for four hours in the morning from 5am to 9am and three hours in the evening from 4 pm to 7 pm for morning and evening walkers and other visitors. People can enter either from the Sakchi or the Bistupur- end gate. "For security reasons and contact tracing as the pandemic is continuing, those entering the park will have to show their Aadhaar Card as identity proof at the entrance gate. The Jubilee Park Road will continue to remain closed for vehicular movement as per the directives of the district administration, "said Daga. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar appealed to people to follow the Covid - 19 standard operating procedures while entering and exiting the park. "The threat of Covid-19 is not yet over. There is a possibility of a third wave. Hence, the visitors to the park have to follow all the necessary Covid protocols. Those entering the park would have to tell their names and produce Aadhaar Cards so that if required in case of spread of the Covid-19 infection, contact tracing can be done," said the deputy commissioner. He went on to say that the facility of paid cycling will be available for visitors inside the park. Moreover, battery operated cars would also be made available for elderly visitors. Health minister Banna Gupta thanked Tata Steel and Jusco, which looks after the upkeep of the park for reopening the picturesque park for the people. He urged Jusco to start yoga and a meditation centre for the benefit of steel city residents. Park regulars were happy. "We were forced to go to Marine Drive for morning walk where some of the stretches are polluted. We welcome the decision of Tata Steel and Jusco for reopening the park where we can now go daily for a walk in fresh air, "said Sangeeta Dubey, a teacher by profession and a resident of Aambagan in Sakchi. Notably, Tata Steel had closed down the green lung in March last year following the state government’s  directive to close public places as a precautionary measure for Covid-19. Following relaxations in lockdown rules, malls and other parks in steel city had  reopened last week. But, Jubilee Park remained closed. Jubilee Park and other parks and stadiums including JRD Tata Sports Complex, Jubilee  Nicco Amusement Park, Children’s Corner, Tata Steel Zoological Park, Bhetya Park and Nildih Park, were shut down on March 17 last year because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant intervention brings back 32 migrant workers from Kerala||Altogether 32 migrant workers, including 15 women of Bhalsumar Panchayat of Ramgarh block of Dumka, accompanied by their five children who were trapped at Idukki district of Kerala since June 29 were brought back to state at the initiative of State Migrant Control Room and NGO Shubh Sandesh through the Alappuzzha-Dhanbad express. Senior officials of the district administration led by Additional Collector, Shyam Narayan Ram who received them at Dhanbad Railway Station in the presence of Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto and others later sent them to Dumka, through buses and SUVs after carrying their mandatory test where they will be put in institutional quarantine for five days before being sent back to their respective places. The incident comes close on the heels of the Jharkhand government last month rescuing 33 tribal migrant workers and their nine children who were forced to live like bonded labourers in a brick kiln in Uttar Pradesh. This month alone the Jharkhand government rescued a total of 47 children from Delhi who had been trafficked. "Thirty two workers and their five children hailing from Santhal Parangana region were rescued from Kerala at the intervention of Chief Minister Hemant Soren," a state government spokesperson said. On CM's intervention, a joint initiative by the Labour Department's State Migrant Control Room and a social organisation PHIA Foundation helped rescue 32 workers from Jharkhand and their five children from Kerala. Anita Marandi, a resident of the Dumka district in Jharkhand thanked CM Hemant for listening to her plea when she and other migrant workers found themselves in a problematic situation in Kerala. The workers were promised a daily wage of Rs 400 per person but due to the difficult geographical location, the workers were not ready to work there and were forced into it, a statement from the state government said. The 32 labourers departed from Dumka on a bus along with a bus driver of Kerala on June 27 on the promise of providing them job of Rs 6000 per month in a factory but after reaching Idukki, the bus driver failed to provide them with a job and on the other hand taken their Aadhar card and compelled them to work for some forest clearance work without pay. The labourers somehow contacted the State Migrant Control Room at Ranchi which in turn contacted the local administration of Idukki through NGO Shubh Sandesh which first provided food to the trapped persons and then arranged for their return journey to Jharkhand. Talking to the media, Ram said, “We are extending help as part of state government instruction to every person lying trapped in any other state and facing difficulties there and today brought 32 such persons lying trapped in Idukki along with their three children.” He further said the migrant labourers were brought as an effort of the State Migrant Control Room in association with Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, Ernakulam, India Care and Labour department. Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto who was also present at Dhanbad Railway Station, said, “The state government is committed to provide all necessary facilities to the laborers within the state and in process of generating employment opportunities for the people within the state” Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Daniel Ponraj, Chief Executive Officer of NGO Shubh Sandesh, who also present at the Dhanbad Railway station to receive the migrant labourers, said, “After receiving information through the state migrant control room we contacted the local police and district administration of Idukki which took up the issue very seriously and arranged for food as the labourers were even deprived of sufficient food as instead of Rs 6,000 per person they were only provided a cumulative one time money of Rs 15,000.” “The local administration then arranged for their repatriation back to Jharkhand and they reached today at Dhanbad from where they were sent to Dumka” said Ponraj and added they have also arranged for food to migrant people at various intermediate stations like Chennai, Vizag etc during their return journey. Mahendra Prasad, one of the rescued migrant labourers of Dumka in his interaction with media said, “We were taken in the name of providing jobs at a factory but instead we were asked to clear forest and not given any money.” As many as eight lakh calls had been received by the state authorities from such workers who were in distress during the pandemic and the state government also ensured the return of 1,176 migrant workers from abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI commences new academic session, freshers attend online classes||The new batch of XLRI students at both the Jamshedpur and Delhi- NCR campus for the academic session 2021-2023 have started attending classes on an online mode. The new batch has 179 students in Business Management and 178 students in Human Resource Management at the Jamshedpur campus. The Jamshedpur campus has another 114 students in its Executive  Postgraduate Diploma in Management course, 14 students in Fellow Programme in Management (FPM)  and 20 students in Executive Fellow Programme in Management (EXEC-FPM). The B-school's Delhi-NCR campus has 108 students in the Business Management  stream. Fr. Paul. Fernandes, director, XLRI- while welcoming the new batch of students of both the campuses recently emphasised the four essential hallmarks of Jesuit education. Elaborating on the four themes, he said, "XLRI’s successful growth over seven decades has been guided by these four important hallmarks of Jesuit education, and we will continue to place a strong emphasis on them. The first aspect being excellence - to strive continuously for the best, without getting easily satisfied and without becoming complacent with our achievements; the second aspect being integrity coupled with ethics - which describes the ethos of XLRI. One cannot achieve excellence, long-term success without integrity and ethics which go hand in hand; the third aspect relates to growth. Growth of an individual across intellectual, social, emotional and spiritual levels and the fourth hallmark being social consciousness-to be sensitive to the needs of the less privileged around us." He went on to say that the new campus in Delhi-NCR, from its very inception, was conceived as an integral part of XLRI Jamshedpur. "Our two campuses remain part of the same registered society, the same governing board, and have the same treasurer for all the campuses," he added. Every year the first-year students of XLRI undergo compulsory village exposure programme and the outbound adventure programme. Both programmes have been specially designed for students to create awareness about the realities of rural India and foster a sense of team spirit. This year due to the pandemic, both the programmes were cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Today's activists must gather strength from Stan Swamy's ideals: Hemant Soren||Chief minister Hemant Soren asked one and all to learn and gather strength from the values and virtues that Father Stan Swamy stood for while working for the welfare of adivasis. Speaking at a gathering organsied by Ranchi archdiocese and Bagaicha, an outfit formed by Swamy in Namkum, Hemant said the 84-year-old jesuit priest’s demise was an addition to the illustrious chapters of great souls who laid down their lives in service of the poor and marginalised in Jharkhand and elsewhere. “Jharkhand has a rich history of people who have laid down their lives in service of poor tribals. Right from Bhagwan Birsa Munda to Stan Swamy, people here have seen and learnt about them. The future generation must also be aware about it,” he said, adding that the values and virtues which Stan Swamy stood for must continue to live through the work of today's activists. Swamy, who was battling Parkinson's disease, died in judicial custody in Mumbai early this month while awaiting bail on health grounds. He was arrested in October last year by NIA in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018 and was booked under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. He was among the dozen other human rights activists who were arrested in the case from across the country by NIA causing global uproar. Recalling his experience of meeting Swamy for the first time years ago, Hemant said, “I wasn’t aware about his journey back then _ his sacrifices and works. But gradually, I have discovered how great he was in his mission to serve society, mainly tribals. Such people come once in ages.” The chief minister said that had Swamy not been arrested and booked under anti-terror law UAPA, he would have lived among us today. “He was one of the voices who was opposed to the attempts of several wrongdoings by certain forces in the country. I don’t think he was surprised to be jailed but the way the system tortured him, I think sooner or later, there will be more voices from within society against such attempts to thwart dissent,” he said. Among the others present at Thursday's gathering were Archibishop of Ranchi Felix Toppo, Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and several social and tribal activists. Thanking the chief minister for speaking out, especially after Swamy's midnight arrest, Mascarenhas said, “Our CM has been one of the few voices who strongly opposed Stan Swamy’s arrest. He was also critical of the powers that be after his demise. We now urge our CM to also work with other chief ministers to create a consensus against revoking UAPA as it is used mostly as a political tool. Equally, cases of sedition against tribals and others must also end." Mascarenhas mentioned Hemant's decision to withdraw sedition cases against Pathalgadhi activists. "I don’t know if that has been done or not but we request you to consider withdrawing cases against poor people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Special jab camp for leprosy patients||Leprosy patients Barmsia Rehabilitation and Training Centre, Bhuda received their first dose of Covishield on Wednesday during a special jab drive conducted by the district administration. These patients were facing difficulty in getting vaccinated against Covid-19 partly due to their inability to visit vaccination centres and partly because of social taboos associated with leprosy disease. The initiative to organize the camp was taken by Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto and was executed under the supervision of District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikas Rana. This was the fifth special vaccination drive conducted by the district administration. Earlier 60 physically and mentally challenged individuals were vaccinated on June 9 at Pehla Kadam school. It was the first special vaccination camp, and was soon followed by the vaccination of 60 kids at the delinquent child reformatory centre on June 16. Following that 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 and over 150 auto rickshaw drivers and LPG delivery men were inoculated on July 9. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Rana said, “The special vaccination drive which is of a kind in the state and aims at inoculating the vulnerable population from Covid infection, as well as helping those who couldn’t visit the vaccination centre.” “We are thankful of Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto who raised the issue of vaccination of inmates of Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre (BRTC)” said Rana. He added that a similar camp would be organized at the centre for the second dose after the completion of 84 days. “We have vaccinated various vulnerable groups by conducting special drives earlier as per the availability of vaccines and are planning to vaccinate the rickshaw pullers by organizing a special drive soon” elaborated Rana. Echoing a similar sentiment, father Ajay Tiru, Director of Damien Social Welfare Society which operates from Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre since 1980, said, “We were concerned about the safety of the inmates of this centre as the infection is spreading in the surrounding areas. We are thankful to the Tundi MLA, who helped us out.” “Convincing the inmates for the benefits of the vaccine was a challenging task as a majority of them are uneducated and had various apprehensions about the vaccination procedure,” said Tiru. He added that along with leprosy patients other staff of the centre were also vaccinated. Samir Sheikh (55), one of the patients, received the first dose along with his wife Munni Sheikh (52) during the camp. He said, “We have been living at the centre for 20 years and are engaged in producing bed sheets, operation theatre gown, gamcha and lungi. We were concerned about our safety during the pandemic. After being jabbed, we are feeling secure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents seek Hemant help for road repair||Sindri residents on Wednesday appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren and Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar demanding immediate repair of the deplorable condition of the over 3km stretch from Gaushala More to Kalapana Talkies Chowk. Two separate tweets have been made by Deepak Kumar Dipu, president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce to Hemant Soren and Sandeep Kumar, drawing their attention towards the lack of apathy of civic body Dhanbad Municipal Corporation towards the repair of roads leading to repeated accidents. In a related development, a group of retired employees of Sindri Fertilizer factory on Wednesday also met Meena Minz, Executive Officer of Sindri Circle of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) demanding improvement in civic amenities of Sindri township. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dipu who is also the president of citizen’s rights organisation, Sindri Bachao Morcha, said, “The condition of the road has turned from bad to worse since the last 1 and a half years as our repeated demands to carry out repair has fallen on deaf ears.” “Such is the condition of the road that even four wheeler drivers sometimes lose balance while the two wheeler drivers always face the risk of falling on the road due to the large size of potholes,” said Dipu. “The condition aggravates during monsoon when the potholes are covered with water and the riders could not properly gauge the depth of potholes leading to accidents,” said Dipu and added that the condition of around 2 km stretch of total 3 km from Mayur Gate to Rohra Bandh in Sindri is more dangerous. “Heavy vehicles carrying over 50 to 60 tonnes of clinkers of Associated Cement Company (ACC) plant at Sindri are primarily responsible for the bad condition of roads,” said Dipu and added that the poor quality of material used during the repair of road more than two years ago led to the damage of road. “If the situation continues even after the normalisation of Covid period and reopening of schools, the school students may become the victim of the bad condition of roads and thus we demand immediate repair of the road,” said S. Mishra,71, a retired employee of fertilizer factory of Sindri. Sindri old timers led by Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Office of FCI Sindri, during their meeting with Meena Minz, raised the issue of poor state of civic amenities in Sindri, particularly water logging, clogged drains, non functional street lights etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Another patient of mucormycosis dies in Jharkhand||Another mucormycosis death, reported in Giridih, took the black fungus toll in Jharkhand to 30 on Wednesday, while two more suspected mucormycosis patients got hospitalised for further diagnosis, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The casualty reported on Wednesday was the first death caused by the fungal infection in Giridih, a district which has reported five confirmed and two suspected cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis so far. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Jharkhand has so far reported 98 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of mucormycosis. At least 81 patients have recovered from black fungus in the state so far. Mucormycosis, a rare but potentially lethal disease caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables, has an average fatality rate of 50 per cent. Covid patients who were administered high dosage of steroids, especially those suffering from diabetes, are more prone to this fungal infection, say doctors. Covid cases continued to drop in the state. At least 68 people were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand, while 71 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Wednesday, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 344, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 49,245 residents and 0.13 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. As per NHM data, at least nine districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamu, Pakur, Khunti, Giridih, Garhwa and Dumka – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. At least 14 Covid recoveries against 11 cases brought the active caseload down to 47 in Ranchi, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 50 as the district reported eight recoveries against four fresh cases of infection. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in Jharkhand on Wednesday and the Covid toll remained 5,120. The growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 5403.12 days against the national doubling rate of 737.01 days. The state on Wednesday vaccinated over 90,000 residents against Covid-19. As per provisional data released by NHM, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 56,166 residents, while 34,655 residents received their second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy death: Brinda to lead delegation to Jharkhand governor||CPM politburo member Brinda Karat will lead a delegation to the Jharkhand governor on Thursday to submit a memorandum protesting against the custodial death of Father Stan Swamy and demanding repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “Brinda Karat will arrive in a flight to Ranchi on Thursday morning. She will reach Shahid Chowk at Ranchi around 11am and lead the delegation to meet new governor Ramesh Bais and hand over the memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind protesting against the custodial killing of tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy and demanding the repeal of the UAPA,” said Jharkhand CPM secretariat member Prakash Viplav. The delegation will also have tribal rights activist and writer Dayamani Barla and leaders of non-BJP parties. “We have got confirmation from the RJD and the Congress and are also expecting leaders from the JMM to be part of the delegation. All non-BJP parties have endorsed our demand for the repeal of the UAPA and the release of rights activists lodged in jail under the law. But we will have to limit the attendance at the rally near the Raj Bhavan due to Covid restrictions,” Viplav said. The rally from Shahid Chowk to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi will have members of trade unions, farmers’ organisations, student unions, social outfits, Jesuits and academics, apart from political parties, converging under the banner of Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha. Similar memoranda addressed to the President will be submitted to the governors of other states by a central-level coordination committee comprising members of trade unions, student and farm unions on different dates this month. “The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy was nothing but a custodial killing done by the central government to suppress the voices of dissent. We would not sit idle and raise our voice against this act across the country till action is taken against officials responsible for his death,” said Jharkhand Aituc general secretary P.K. Ganguly. Father Stan had been lodged in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. He was charged under UAPA provisions. However, there was not a single trial and his bail petition citing health issues and poor medical facilities at the jail was denied by the NIA special court four times. Father Stan passed away on July 5 while undergoing treatment under custody at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Chief minister Hemant Soren will pay his last respects to Fr Stan at a memorial service on Thursday at Bagaicha, the social integration organisation set up by the priest at Namkum near Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Five lakh trees planted in during 72nd Van Mahotsava in Jharkhand||Over 5 lakh trees were planted, including over a lakh in Ranchi, on Tuesday during the 72nd Van Mahotsava (forest festival) organised by the Jharkhand forest department. Sources in the state forest department said that this was the highest target of trees planted on a single day since the creation of Jharkhand during the Van Mahotsava, an annual tree planting festival celebrated in July across the country to spread awareness on forest conservation and environment protection. Additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) Jharkhand N.K. Singh said that since the creation of Jharkhand (2000) the state forest cover has increased by 1,625 sq km. “As per the latest Indian State of Forest Report-2019 (a biennial exercise) Jharkhand forest cover had increased by 65sqkm and since the creation of the state our forest cover has increased by 1,625 sq km. We had set a realistic target of planting over 5 lakh trees across all 24 districts of Jharkhand with 1 lakh only for Ranchi on Tuesday. We would ensure that the trees planted are protected and nurtured too,” said Singh, who is also the managing director Jharkhand State Forest Development Corporation (JSFDC). Nearly 34 per cent of the state area is covered with forest and the department has set a target of planning 1 crore 65 lakh saplings in 2021. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was the chief guest during the van mahotsava programme at Angara Block in Ranchi after planting a sapling on the banks of Subernarekha river at Gandhigram, said the state forest department will try to plant trees on all vacant and barren government lands. “The forest department will be planting saplings on vacant government lands and also distribute fruit bearing saplings for plantation to those interested so that they are made aware about important of environment. There is need to increase green cover in the city along with infrastructure development,” said Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Security forces guide killed in Maoist blast in Jharkhand||A 35-year-old villager guiding the security forces conducting a search operation in a dense forest in the Maoist-affected Gumla district of Jharkhand was killed in an IED blast on Wednesday morning, police said. The incident occurred a day after a CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) jawan was injured and a sniffer dog was killed in an IED blast in the same Marwa forest in Karagani hills under Kurumgarh police station in Chainpur block of Gumla district, over 180km from state capital Ranchi. According to police sources, the villager identified as Rameshwar Munda was accompanying the security forces to guide them during the search operation conducted jointly by the CRPF, CoBRA (a special unit of the CRPF which specialises in anti-Maoist operations and jungle warfare) and district police personnel when he accidentally walked over the IED. Munda succumbed to his injuries on the way to hospital, the police said. “There are hundreds of IEDs planted by Maoist zonal commander Budheshwar Oraon in the dense forest area. A CoBRA jawan (Vishwajit Kumbhar) was injured yesterday (Monday) during the search operation and is recuperating at a private hospital in Ranchi. “Today an IED blast killed a villager during the search operation. The injured villager was being taken to the Sadar Hospital but died on the way. We will be giving compensation according to government norms and a job to the kin of the victim,” said Gumla superintendent of police H.P. Janardhanan. Sources in the Jharkhand police headquarters said according to the central government norms, the family of any person killed in Maoist-related incident would get a compensation of Rs 3 lakh and a government job. “The villager, Rameshwar Munda, got injured in the IED blast and was evacuated immediately from there, but succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to a doctor. Being a local, he was taken along by the security forces to guide them in the dense forests,” said Janardhanan. The squads of Oraon, who carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head, are said to have planted several IEDs in the Marwa jungles of Gumla to deter security forces from entry and they have also warned the villagers against venturing into the forest. However, the security forces use the villagers who are well-versed with the topography of the area to guide them. In February this year, a CRPF jawan had lost his legs in a similar blast while villager Mahender Mahto was critically injured in another IED explosion that occurred in the Marwa Karagani jungles in Gumla. “We are conducting an intensive search operation in the last few months and this will continue. We have diffused and neutralised several IEDs earlier which are used primarily to disturb the movement of our troops,” said Janardhanan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
