16-07-2021||Calcutta||Students give day one of ABP Education College Fair a virtual thumbs up||On July 15, ABP Education flagged off its maiden virtual college admission fair for students who are graduating from high school in 2021. The virtual fair, powered by anandabazar.com and telegraphindia.com, opened at 10am and witnessed a virtual footfall of over 1000 visitors on the first day itself. Students and guardians had the opportunity to explore leading academic institutes under one roof, and interact with their representatives directly from the comfort of their homes. Students were able to seek relevant answers to their queries and book a seat in an institute of their choice, without having to physically go anywhere. A team of career counsellors, with their expert tips and guidance, further helped students pursuing their desired career goals connect with suitable colleges as well. The virtual fair, which will bring a plethora of interesting events and will continue till August xx, aims to help students discover their career options and new avenues of learning at this crucial juncture of their educational journey. Alongside exploring spot admission opportunities, students can also attend a host of webinars on emerging careers and career development. Keynote speakers from various institutes and eminent industry experts will come aboard to deliver inspirational talks and empower students with practical knowledge about their chosen career paths. Topical discussions would be around careers in engineering, arts, social sciences, media, mass communication, nursing, design, hotel management, hospitality and tourism, commerce, law, among others. Over 16,000 students have registered for the online education fair till date. On the other hand, a myriad of renowned institutes have associated with this premium educational event to showcase their programmes and the career prospects they bring to their upcoming batch of students. Adamas University, Amrita University, Indian Institute of Hotel Management, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Sister Nivedita University, Techno India, Calcutta Institute of Engineering and Management, Eastern Institute of Integrated Learning in Management, Manav Rachna University, MCKV Institute of Technology, Swami Vivekananda University, OmDayal Group of Institutions, Dr B C Roy Engineering College, and B. P. Poddar Institute of Management and Technology are some of the top names in the bandwagon. Students, who have not yet registered for the ABP Education Admission Fair, can register here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Fake police vehicle seized; held for aiding terror accused||Tiljala: Traffic police personnel while carrying out a drive to clear no-parking areas found a Maruti Omni with a “police” sticker parked in a no-parking zone on Picnic Garden Road on Thursday. The officer-in-charge of the Tiljala traffic guard, Souvik Chakraborty, spotted the car. The owner of the car, identified as Sukumar Das, allegedly failed to explain why he had pasted a “police” sticker on his vehicle. Cops seized the vehicle and Das was arrested on charges of impersonation. Calcutta: A man was arrested for allegedly providing logistic support and funding to the suspected Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh operatives arrested in the city last week. Lalu Sen alias Rahul Sen alias Rahul Kumar, 38, was arrested in Barasat on Wednesday. “He used to support the JMB operatives by arranging funds for them through hawala and by preparing forged IDs for them,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||The Park hotel organised console for DJ at night party, say cops||The Park had organised an elaborate console for a disc jockey to perform on the third-floor corridor where guests danced till police arrived past 1 in the morning on Sunday, officers investigating the case said. There were over 50 guests in the corridor and the revelry began late at night, well past the time — 9pm — when night curfew kicks in across the state because of Covid-19. Some of the guests, the police said, had left by the time the cop team turned up at the Park Street hotel. In all, 37 people were arrested at the hotel for partying in violation of Covid norms. The disc jockey’s console was connected to large sound boxes, which were placed on one side of the corridor where the late-night party was held. Guests from the rooms booked previously across the second and third floors, as well as from outside, joined the revelry. The console box was placed on a three-tiered wooden desk. The turntable was placed right on the top shelf for the DJ to use. The second tier of the desk had the remaining part of the console with electric wires fitted into a socket. The lowest shelf had a heap of black, yellow and red wires connected to the sound boxes. Offices of the detective department of Calcutta police said the hotel authorities had made the entire arrangement for placing the console box and getting a DJ. “We have spoken to some of the hotel employees and collected information about the Saturday night party. We will speak to a few other employees as well,” a senior police officer at Lalbazar said on Thursday. “Apart from the accused, the FIR also has the name of the hotel and it is imperative for us to talk to the staff.” Officers who have spoken to hotel employees said that in all probability the party with loud music would have continued till dawn, in violation of the restrictions imposed by the state government to combat the spread of the coronavirus. “After speaking to some of the employees, it appears that the hotel authorities were aware that a late night party was being organised on Saturday,” the officer said. “The sound boxes and the DJ console set were accordingly moved to the third-floor corridor.” The hotel authorities did not react to the allegations. In an earlier statement, the management had said that being in the hospitality business for over five decades, the hotel had been complying with all rules and regulations and would continue to do so. A spokesperson said on Thursday: “We have nothing more to add.” The state government has banned most gatherings as a precaution against Covid. Weddings and related events can be held with up to 50 people. The cap for funerals is at 20. The excise department has prohibited sale of liquor from any of the bars on The Park premises. The department has sought CCTV footage of the party to find out who had served liquor to the revelers. Investigators have collec-ted CCTV footage of the corridor where the party was held and recorded statements of seven of the 37 accused who are in police custody. The rest have obtained bail. Those in custody will be produced in court again on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro to run trains every 7 to 9 minutes from today||Metro trains will run at an interval of seven to nine minutes for most of the day, once services for all resume on Friday. The first trains will leave the terminal stations of Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 8am. The last train for New Garia will leave Dakshineswar at 7.48pm.  From Dum Dum and New Garia, the last trains will leave at 8pm. “Service will be available at seven to nine minutes’ interval for most of the day. Let us see how the first day goes. The number of trains will be increased from next week if there is a need for the same,” said a Metro official. The services will be available for all passengers from Monday to Friday. Only special trains for railway staff and essential service providers will run on Saturdays. There will be no trains on Sunday. A smart card is a must for a Metro as tokens will remain suspended. Metro services were suspended on May 15. In a notification issued on Thursday, the carrier said the smart cards whose validity expired “on or after May 15 to July 15 will be treated as valid till August 16”. But like before, sufficient balance on a card will be a must for a Metro ride, said an official. “Commuters need to contact on-duty booking officials at any station to validate their smart cards. People whose cards’ validity expired on or after May 15 should get the cards validated by August 16 to have their residual balance carried forward,” said an official. The carrier has 27 air-conditioned trains in operational condition. “All 27 trains will not roll out every day. The daily fleet will be adjusted according to the increase in the frequency of trains,” said another official. When trains resumed after a long shutdown on September 14 last year, seats were cross-marked to enforce social distancing protocols. “The markings are still there. But I am not sure how many passengers will abide by them. So far we have got no instructions to enforce the seating arrangements according to the markings,” said an RPF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||CMC and Metro blame game over waterlogging||The outgoing city mayor inspected two canals that drain out water from Jadavpur and Kasba on Thursday. He blamed the waterlogging in these places on blockades in the canals that were made to erect piers of the New Garia-airport Metro corridor. The blockades are necessary to erect piers for the Metro Railway corridor but they were supposed to be removed before the monsoon, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The delay in removing the blockades can be blamed on the various government authorities responsible for providing citizen services. RVNL, the executing agency of the New Garia-Airport Metro, had built the blockades last year to erect the piers. "We could begin work only in February," said an RVNL official. “We needed traffic closure in the middle of the Avishikta crossing for the construction work. This permission was granted only in February, otherwise we could have finished the work before the monsoon.” The delay in handing over the site was a result of another delay. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of the Bypass, was supposed to widen a stretch of the artery at the Avishikta crossing last year. But the widening was completed in January this year. Police had agreed to barricade the crossing only after widening the stretch to prevent snarls. While the CMC blamed RVNL for the waterlogging, the railway agency blamed the state government for the delay. Caught in the blame game, people suffered. Several homes were inundated after spells of rain. Water had entered the reservoir of several homes and residents had to wade through shin-deep water more than 24 hours after it stopped raining. Waterlogging in these areas is also a result of a lack of underground drainage, lack of desilting of drains and lack of dredging of canals, said civic engineers. To reduce waterlogging for the rest of the monsoon, RVNL has promised to remove the blockade in the canals. “The RVNL will remove the blockade by July 22. Once the blockades are removed, the water will flow at greater speed and waterlogging will reduce,” Hakim said on Thursday. The two canals cut across EM Bypass — one near Calcutta International School close to Ruby crossing and another at the Avishikta crossing. The one running near Calcutta International School drains out water from Kasba. The one running under the Avishikta crossing drains out water from Mukundapur, Kalikapur and vast areas of Jadavpur. CMC engineers said that only about 50 per cent of the area in Mukundapur has underground drainage. The rest has open surface drains. The height of the surface drains is lower than the canal. As a result, water does not flow into the canal from these areas in natural force of gravity, said engineers. “If there was a proper underground drainage network with a drainage pumping station, then the water could have been pumped into the canal,” said a CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||ABP initiative gives parents choice on schools ||Over 50,000 school applications, including those from overseas, have been processed in the last two years through an online platform that gives parents the choice and convenience to pick their preferred school. The common online gateway —  admissiontree.in, an initiative by ABP —  completed two years on Wednesday. Over 250 schools in Bengal, most of them in Calcutta, are part of the online platform for admission. Several heads of schools have admitted that the portal had increased the visibility of their schools. Launched in July 2019, admissiontree had 100-odd schools enlist in the last one year, when distancing became the norm and institutions could easily digitise their system, thanks to the platform. “This portal provides guardians options to choose,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, the secretary general of Shri Shikshayatan School. It is the third admission season for the school with the portal. Parents can log on to www.admissiontree.in and choose a school without visiting individual school websites or calling up schools to enquire about admission. “...because of this online platform they (parents especially the working ones) can complete the (admission) process whenever it is convenient for them,” said Surendra Kumar Singh, the general manager, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. In the last two years, abo-ut a lakh people have registered on the website. For admission, guardians get a choice of schools from which they can pick one, give the date of birth of the child, upload documents, pay the fees and submit the form. The “credibility of the platform” has widened the reach for schools. “The platform has created a wider reach and many more parents can gather information, especially now when access to premises is limited,” said  Mahadevi Birla World Academy principal Anjana Saha. School heads said admission had eased the process  for parents as well as for institutions. “This is an innovative idea. We see this benefits both schools and parents,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. Brigadier V.N. Chaturvedi (retd), the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society that runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur said admissiontree was a well-thought and planned portal. “The evolution and revolution in the admission sector is being led by admissiontree and it should not be limited to Calcutta or Bengal.” Schools have also noticed a change both in the number of applications and the admission pattern. Biswas said the number of applications from far-off places in the city had gone up. “We have mostly done away with hardcopy applications,” said Sudipta Bose, the rector-cum-manager of HM Schools, which has a CBSE and a state-board affiliated school. Delhi Public School (Joka) principal Writuparna Chatterjee said it was a “blessing” to be able to reach out to parents during the lockdown. “Parents can compare school infrastructure and fees on a single portal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIEST Covaxin camp to resume for four days on Friday||A vaccination camp on the IIEST campus, which was shut down because of vaccine shortage, will resume on Friday for four days to ensure that the Covaxin recipients get their second dose on time. The stop-start nature of the camp on the Shibpur campus shows how the vaccination drive has moved everywhere in Bengal because of erratic supply of doses. The Telegraph had reported on July 2 that the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) suspended the Covid vaccination camp it had been running since late April because of non-availability of doses from the office of the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), Howrah. Since the suspension of the camp left the institute in a lurch, Bivore Das, an assistant registrar, met the district magistrate and CMOH on Tuesday with a plea for the resumption of the camp. An official of the institute said: “We have been allowed to resume the camp with a rider that only a second dose of Covaxin will be available....” A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in charge of the institute’s hospital, on July 15 says: “The second dose vaccination with Covaxin for 200 beneficiaries (who got first dose vaccine from the Institute Hospital, IIEST, Shibpur on June 10) will be held on 16th July, 2021 from 11am onward at Pandya hall of residence.” Majumder told The Telegraph that 844 people would be administered Covaxin on July 16, 17, 19 and 22. An official of the district health office said the scarcity of supply was prompting them to focus on providing only the second dose of Covaxin. “Since the supply is irregular the first dose cannot be provided. Those who had taken the first dose of Covishield at the IIEST camp, will be completing 84 days gap from the end of this month. We hope to cover them as well,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police ramp up Maidan vigil after series of snatchings||The two men who were arrested on Wednesday in connection with snatchings on the Maidan lied to police when they said they had been forced to rob people after having lost their jobs during the pandemic, officers said. Investigators said the two did not have regular jobs from before the lockdown last year and their unemployment was “not related” to the Covid pandemic. “One of them, Mohammad Imran, used to work at a shoe shop in Mumbai two years ago while the other, Sheikh Sameer Hussain, had never held a proper job. We have come to know this during a background check. In the last few years, they only did odd jobs and would spend their income on psychotropic substances,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The officer added that Hussain was a “rough” in his area. However, till Thursday, the police said they did not find any official police records suggesting their involvement in a crime. The duo were produced in court on Thursday and remanded in police custody. The two men had robbed three morning walkers in the Maidan area early on Wednesday and attacked one of them who resisted with a big knife and the butt of a gun. The injured man, 24-year-old Hargovind Vyas, had five deep cuts on his body and received 80 stitches. “My brother is stable now. The doctor has advised bed rest. He is recuperating but still traumatised,” said Hargovind’s brother Shambhu. Calcutta police introduced four police pickets comprising two officers each armed with walkie-talkies in the Maidan area between 4.30am and 7.30am for the safety of morning walkers from Thursday. The number of mobile patrol vans and motorcycle patrols has been increased from Thursday, senior officers of the south division said. “Earlier, there was only one patrol van and two motorcycle patrols to cover the entire Maidan. From today, we have introduced four police pickets and increased the number of patrol vans and motorcycle patrols,” said a senior police officer. In the evening, police raids are being conducted to stop criminal activities in the Maidan area. The police are planning to shift some of their morning exercise to the Maidan area to ensure more police visibility in a pocket that has become deserted because of Covid curbs parking restrictions. “There is zero tolerance for car parking in the Maidan area. Most of the people I know are unable to come for morning walk because there is no car parking area in and around the Maidan. Elderly people find it very difficult to park their car at Dalhousie or Dharmatala and walk all the way, hence many of them have stopped coming,” said a city lawyer who regularly goes to the Maidan with his son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab drive limps as supply falters in Calcutta||Erratic supply of Covid vaccine doses has hobbled the inoculation drive in Calcutta with only about nine lakh of the targeted 60 lakh people in the city receiving two doses till date. About 29 lakh people in the city have received at least one dose. State health department and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said many more people would have been vaccinated by now had the supply from the Centre been more robust. Public health experts said the vaccine hesitancy that was observed in the initial days of the drive has reduced to a great extent and people are eager to get a Covid jab. According to the CMC, approximately 38.4 lakh people have received vaccines in Calcutta, of whom 9.05 lakh have got both doses. A state government official said the target was to vaccinate around 60 lakh people in and around the city. The data on the CoWIN portal, managed by the ministry of health, confirm that the pace of vaccination in Calcutta has been erratic. Less than 20,000 people had been vaccinated on July 1. On July 5, as fresh stocks arrived, the count went up to around 60,000. However, on July 12, it dropped below 15,000. “Many among those vaccinated are floating populations who came from other states to get vaccinated,” said a CMC official. “So, the actual number of residents of the city who got vaccinated could be even less.” According to the Centre’s data, Calcutta is behind Delhi and Mumbai in vaccination but has done better than Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. “We could have vaccinated many more people had the supply of doses from the Centre been steady. We have deployed adequate personnel and infrastructure. The state government on its part is trying to procure more doses and we are expecting the drive to ramp up,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. There are 249 government and 84 private vaccination centres in Calcutta at the moment. Apart from CMC and state-run hospitals, the vaccination programme has suffered at private centers, too. Many small nursing homes could not start vaccination because of lack of supply. Public health experts have been repeatedly stressing that vaccination is the most preferred way to beat the pandemic. “Vaccines have proven to have prevented infection by 75 to 80 per cent. The death rate (among the vaccinated population) is also extremely low. So, the production of vaccines should go up. The target should be to vaccinate 50 lakh people across the country every day,” Naresh Trehan, the chairman and managing director of Medanta, The Medcity, told The Telegraph. At the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, he said, there were around 600 Covid patients admitted at a time. None of them was fully vaccinated, he said. Trehan, however, stressed the need to keep wearing double masks and avoiding crowded areas even after vaccination. “The primary issue in scaling up vaccination is insufficient supply of doses from the Centre. Unless the vaccination drive is speeded up, we cannot prevent a fresh wave. Another lockdown will be harder for our economy,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. He said vaccination and wearing masks were the two weapons to fight Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Bank official held for duping couple of Rs 1 crore in Calcutta||The Bidhannagar branch head of a private bank has been arrested for allegedly duping a city couple into investing more than Rs 1 crore in a financial institute the bank official was allegedly running with her husband, police said. Supti Mukherjee, the accused bank official, had allegedly promised the couple hefty returns on their investment but failed to deliver. Supti was arrested from her workplace on Wednesday. The police are looking for her husband Sudip Mukherjee. According to the complaint, Supti had allegedly used her position in the bank to convince the complainants into making the investment. “Supti Mukherjee and her husband had misused the former’s official position to lure my clients into believing that they were investing their money in a reliable financial institute for lucrative returns. My clients had invested Rs 1 crore and 5 lakh,” said the complainant’s lawyer, Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee. Complainant Partha Pratim Roy and his wife used to work in England. They had taken voluntary retirement and came back to their south Calcutta home a few years ago. Roy has told the police that they knew the Mukherjees for a long time and invested in their company in good faith. “Initially, I had invested a small amount in 2017. After a few months we were told that according to SEBI rules, if the minimum amount of investment could be increased to Rs 20 lakh a year, there would be higher returns. We then withdrew all our savings and started investing in this (Mukherjees’) financial institute. We paid in cheques,” an officer quoted Roy as saying. From 2017 to the end of 2018, the Roys had purportedly received interests on the investment as promised, they have apparently told the police. From 2019, the finance company allegedly started defaulting on their payment. “At times Mukherjee paid the interest in two cheques, both of which bounced,” Roy has apparently told the police. From mid-2019, the Mukherjees apparently became incommunicado. The police said Roy had told them that he found both offices of the finance company closed — one at Dalhousie and the other in the Shakespeare Sarani area. In February 2020, Roy lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station. Roy’s lawyer said the accused had moved for anticipatory bail by the end of 2020, but the court rejected the application. “We arrested Supti Mukherjee from her workplace. Her husband was not found at their home or any place nearby. We are looking for the co-accused,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Stolen canal behind waterlogging in large tracts of Calcutta||A canal has been stolen from Calcutta. No one knows who the real offender is, but the 4km-long canal that used to drain water from Metiabruz, Garden Reach and Maheshtala has been filled and shops and hawkers occupy most of the stretch. In government records, this is still a canal and it runs along Santoshpur Road, near Maheshtala. The lost canal did not have any name. It used to drain water into another canal called Monikhal, which finally merges with the Hooghly. Defunct pumps and pipes fitted to them still occupy a stretch of the dead canal. The pumps were installed to drain out water from localities served by the canal. They act as reminders that a canal once existed there. Gautam Roy, a resident of the area, said he had seen water flow through the canal even about a decade back. “When I was a kid, there was a very good flow of water in the canal. There was water even 10 or 12 years back. But now the canal is dead,” said Roy. The resident of Santoshpur, near Maheshtala, said most homes in the area get flooded even after a brief spell of rain. “Had the canal not been filled, the problem of waterlogging would not have been so severe,” he said. The canal has been filled over several years. It used to run close to the Garden Reach water treatment plant and the slush removed from the raw water in the plant was used to fill up the waterway. “This (restoration of the canal) will need big planning. The canal has to be dredged. We will request those who have set up shops there to let us lay an underground drainage line,” said Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators. Tarak Singh, a member of the board, said residents along both sides of the canal, too, played a part in killing the waterway. “When the Garden Reach water works was built in the 1990s, there was no plan to manage the slush. The water from the Hooghly is treated and the slush is removed. The slush used to be drained into the canal and it led to the fill-up,” he said. “The capacity of the canal dwindled with slush being dumped into it. The canal was not even dredged. Over time, residents dumped soil into the waterway and completely filled it. Now they have set up shops on the stretch.” Singh said a water treatment plant must have a management plan for the slush. Even now there is no robust slush management plan for the Garden Reach water works. The shops along the stretch are not legal but the civic body will not dismantle them without finding an alternative site for the owners, Singh said. “We are thinking about a system where we can dredge the canal and bring it back to life again. The canal will run underneath while the shops can function above,” he said. The mushrooming of shops and huts on the canal in Santoshpur is not unique. Across Calcutta, setting up of shops and huts by filling up portions of canals is common. Such encroachments is one of the reasons why it takes longer than usual for water to recede from streets after a downpour. Sarojit Sarkar, another resident of Santoshpur, said waterlogging was very rare in the area when the canal was alive. “Monikhal, into which the Santoshpur canal used to drain water, has not been dredged for years.  The slush and silt accumulating there has severely impacted the flow of water through Monikhal,” he said. Sarkar blamed the government, too, for the death of the canal. “They constructed an underground drainage line on a stretch of the canal. A road was built above it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||WhatsApp stage for cultural meet||Sunday meant a working day for marketing professional and Dhaka resident Safayat Mahmud. However, the latter cut short a work meeting in the evening to be part of a virtual programme that was organised by a cultural club of AC Block in Salt Lake. This was his first time. Kichu Kotha Kichu Gaan, a cultural evening organised by Suridbrindo Club, was meant to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of Bangladesh and India’s Satyajit Ray, both of whom completed their birth centenary in succeeding years, through music, poetry and an audio play. The whole programme was shared with audiences from Salt Lake and elsewhere through a Whatsapp group. “I was included in the group through a friend who is a resident of AC Block. I joined, eager to see how a cultural evening can be conducted on WhatsApp. It was an excellent experience. I got to listen to our national anthem and many other old favourites. I was left nostalgic,” added Safayat. He was not the only one. Audiences joined in from Japan, the US and all over Calcutta to make the community programme of a neighbourhood club much more than that. AC Block resident Sumitra Das’s rendition of Amar Sonar Bangla started off an evening of charged emotions as participants, mostly from Salt Lake, took turns to sing Bengali and Hindi songs and recite poetry and Mujibur Rehman’s famous speeches. All the performances were pre-recorded and uploaded at intervals on the WhatsApp group. Every performance was followed by a flood of praise, both from “old para friends” and new patrons. “This was the sixth programme that we conducted virtually since the start of the pandemic. We follow the same module. Friends and neighbours are requested to send recordings of their performances. The best are selected and uploaded at an interval of a few minutes. The anchor’s narration is also uploaded in between. Most people get drawn in and don’t leave the group till they have heard all the recordings,” said Samit Roy of AC Block, who along with Arup Ghosh, Animesh Mukherjee and Prabal Bhattacharya, formed the core team of organisers. “Our club has been presenting cultural programmes since 2016, bringing the Salt Lake community together. This time we received performance recordings from residents all over the city. Besides honouring Rehman, as a wrap up to his 101th birth anniversary, and Ray, on his centenary year, we also tried to reach out to people sitting alone at home,” added Samit Ray. The programme that stretched from 6pm to 9.30pm was a montage of five poems, two dance performances and over 25 songs. The youngest participant was four-year-old Anishka Das of AC Block, who danced to the Nazrulgeeti Rum jhum jhum jhum on the occasion. According to mother Achira Adhya, the child is a spontaneous dancer who was delighted to perform before a virtual audience. “As her father shot her in action she kept looking towards me for encouragement. I had taught her the steps and had to sing along,” laughed Anishka’s mother. An audio play, Class Friend, based on Ray’s story, was appreciated. “It was rehearsed and shot at my home, maintaining all norms of social distancing. It was the first time we presented an audio play,” added Samit Ray. The messages left by the audience members praised the performers as well as the organisers. Septuagenarian Syamal Kar, who joined from Japan, was thanked profusely by all. “I don’t miss out on such cultural events. I have been a resident of AC Block since 1975. I am now living in Japan for over 30 years but I visit Calcutta regularly. Since the pandemic, the WhatsApp group is the only way I can connect with my old neighbours,” said Kar from Japan. Hindustan Park resident Madhumita Ghose was all praise too. “I enjoyed the programme. I wish other para communities also learn from them how to bring people together through art,” said the chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Love of gardening is a seed that once sown, never dies’||The love of gardening is a seed that once sown, never dies”. Mitali Puitandi’s favourite quote also happens to be the story of her life. Time was when she would pick up saplings from the roadside while walking home from school. One plant led to more and now she has what she calls a whole family of plants to love and care for. The more the plants, the more the love, she says. The other day when we went for our Covid vaccines the queue was long and my husband was suggesting we leave without taking it. But I had no qualms waiting. The longer the better, I felt. You see, the vaccine was an excuse for me to go out. My real motive was a trip to the nursery, which wouldn’t open till a few hours later! And so happily after getting my jab, I went to Ultadanga and brought home 50 to 60 beautiful ceramic pots for my terrace and balconies. On the terrace, we have Hibiscus, Rose, Euphorbia Milii…there should be nearly 250 pots up there and in winter I grow Petunia, Chrysanthemums, Dahlias.... We have two spacious balconies and I keep plants there based on the amount of sunlight they need. In the south-facing verandah, there are Crotons, Snake Plants, Jade Plants and colourful flowers in hanging baskets. The north-facing balcony receives less sunlight and so I’ve kept Cacti, Succulents and indoor plants there. I think, watching me, a neighbouring house has also filled up their balcony with plants. I’m also fond of birds and thanks to the garden, birds come to my house despite all the construction work around. I wake up to the chirping of birds! What can be more beautiful than that? No matter how busy I am, I always find time for my hobby. I remember one chilly winter night when I was shivering under a blanket with fever and I suddenly remembered that I hadn’t checked my plants after applying insecticide on them. So at 12.30am I headed out to the terrace with a torch. My daughter thought I had gone mad but she now relates to my feelings. She too has started an indoor plant collection in her room. My husband is supportive as well. Today itself, he was talking of erecting a false ceiling in the balcony to enhance its beauty. This support motivates me. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Rathyatra, short but outdoor||Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra “Joy Jagannath!” hailed a devotee and everyone pulling the rath repeated after him. “Corona ke dur karo!” the man added and the others chuckled and repeated after him anyway. For the second year in a row, Rathyatra at this centre was held under the shadow of Covid-19. A handful of devotees had come down and drew the chariot a brief distance outside the DD Block address. “We sanitised the rope thoroughly before use and maintained distancing while pulling it too,” said president of Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra, Chanchal De. “We had informed the police that our route would be very short and they allowed us.” Passersby stopped in their tracks to fold their hands in obeisance and those like Raja Das of CD Block quickly stepped up to pull the rope too. “In normal years, there are several chariots to pull but I was lucky to spot one this year,” he smiled. Brajagopal Das Baul joined the procession singing paeans to the lord and prasad was distributed to all afterwards. Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj The idols of Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj were toured around the township by cars. “We did the same last year,” said general secretary of the body, Kumar Sankar Sadhu. “Once a year, Jagannath leaves the temple and mingles among the masses and even if symbolically, we wanted to uphold the tradition.” MLA and minister Sujit Bose and chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, dropped by during flag-off. “It is important to maintain both rituals and Covid protocol and it’s good that this organisation is balancing both. Hopefully, next year we shall return to holding the festival in the former grand way,” said Chakraborty. In other years, their procession includes music, dance, tableaux and thousands of devotees, who come to pull the rope along the way. This year, the convoy’s route included Central Park, City Centre, CA Island (around the place the chariot normally sets off from in other years), PNB Island and then back. Rupak Sinha, in whose car the Balaram idol travelled, played Jagannath arati on his phone, connected to speakers, to set the ambience. In other years, their idols stays at Central Park where a Rath-er Mela takes place but this time it shall stay at BF 20, where they stay throughout the year. “Since it will not be possible to take the idols to a different location for mashi-r bari, we are positioning the idols in a different place at home itself. We shall be open from 5.30 to 7.30pm till July 19 for darshan,” said Debasish Roy, in whose BF Block home the idols are kept. IA Market The traders of IA Market pulled their chariot up around the Purbachal area and back. “This is the fifth year of our Rathyatra celebrations. Due to the pandmeic, last year we had taken our chariot around within the market itself but this time, limited members pulled it out on the streets. Ward co-ordinator Minu Das Chakraborty joined us,” said Rishiraj Ghosh, who runs miscellaneous stores in the market and is secretary of Bidhan Nagar IA Market Traders’ Association. The idol is staying at the temple inside the market and organisers are keen to distribute prasad to devotees on Ultarath. AA Block Forty miniature chariots were handed over to underprivileged children at AA Block community centre on the eve of Rathyatra. Committee members and senior citizens handed over the chariots, masks and candy and the initiative was taken by a youth of the block, Argha Mitra. “We have lost so many loved ones to Covid and there is unemployment all around. How would parents buy chariots for their kids this year?” wondered Argha, a graduate, who bought the chariots and spread word in the nearby slums asking children to come over. “The kids were excited and I was also happy for the artisans who got to earn some money this festival by selling the chariots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||Pros and cons of lockdown The outbreak of the pandemic created a turning point in the history of civilisation. While being confined within the walls of our flat, boredom started to take over me. I started to explore some things that I had never tried before. For a week, I woke up early to watch the sunrise because I have always wanted to see the crimson sky which vitalises sleepy souls in the morning. The sight of the sunrise made me realise that Nature is indeed the best artist. I tried non-gas cooking and made biscuit cake which emerged as a total success. My interest in K-Pop songs gradually developed in this lockdown. BTS, Shinee and Blackpink became my favourite groups. I also watched K-Dramas which left me breathless as the plots are amazing. I have a passion for reading. I read a lot of story books during this lockdown and hope to read more in future. One of the books that became my favourite recently is Thea Stilton and the Chocolate Sabotage. This lockdown gave me both good and bad experiences. I was able to spend quality time with my family while being apart from my friends for such a long time is heartbreaking. I am eagerly waiting for daily life to resume again. Tiyasha Das, 13 years, DB Block, New Town Samriddh Kasera, 9 years, EE Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Plants for Sarat Abasan ||Residents of Sarat Abasan celebrated forest week by planting saplings of fruits and flowers in their pagoda park. The elongated block has three parks but Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of the corporation, was invited to the park that has a stage shaped like a pagoda for the ceremony. “Anyone entering Salt Lake can feel the difference in air quality thanks to the abundance of greenery here. The township has so many senior citizens with children living away. Wouldn’t it be nice if everyone of them adopted a plant and brought it up like one’s child?” suggested Chakraborty. But she also urged people to plant trees responsibly, such that their roots did not intertwine and damage pipes underground. Chakraborty went on to plant a Mango sapling that she herself had brought to gift the block. Twenty four saplings were planted in the inner perimeter of the park including species like Mango, Jaam, Lemon, Neem and Hibiscus. The project was executed jointly with Rotary Club of Bidhannagar and president Satyabrata Mukherjee said afforestation was an important issue for them. “We try to do something on this occasion every year. We plant trees and raise awareness among people to save plants,” he said. “While most blocks are built around a centrally located park, ours is like a rail line. This makes it difficult for residents of one end to meet and interact with those living on the other,” said secretary of Sarat Abasan, Soumen Kumar Dutta. “We do have events like sports and Rabindrajayanti in the block, but thought of celebrating forest week as well, in a bid to bring neighbours closer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Greening pledge to pay off carbon debt||A 2.13 acre plot carved out of the wilderness of Action Area III, further up from Uniworld City and behind Tank 20, will soon house 1,000 saplings of a variety of species. Green Verge 3 was formally inaugurated on Tuesday to coincide with the week-long state-wide afforestation drive, Van Mahotsav. As reported earlier in these pages, the NKDA is inviting NGOs to adopt about 40 plots it has designated as Green Verge across residential blocks to create pockets of greenery at regular intervals amidst built-up space. The Green Verge will be part of the carbon offset programme of CDE Asia, headquartered in neighbouring Eco Space. “By 2025, we aim to become a carbon neutral company. Overall, we emit about 250-300 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide as our goods come from and supplied to far-flung areas like Maharashtra and Bangalore respectively. Many come from our UK factory. To offset this, we will need to plant 25,000 trees. We will engage more with NKDA and try to do more in our home city,” said Manish Bhartia, promoter and managing director, CDE Asia. More applications have been submitted to NKDA in this regard by the company’s CSR company Sand Grains Foundation, he added. “I love to visit New Town,” said Nick Low, British deputy high commissioner, who inaugurated the plantation drive.  “There is nowhere in Bengal where I try coming to more. Be it movies or songs, there is dystopian, nightmarish view of the future that is put out. It doesn’t have to be like that. We can have a clean, green future. This is the future,” he said, pointing to the green expanse next to the stage with highrises dotting the skyline. “Last year,” he pointed out, “has made apparent this nexus between looking after the environment and climate change. Covid was almost certainly caused by abuse of nature, by breaking down the barriers between man and animal. It was same with SARS and MERS, its predecessors,” he added, referring to the aims of the upcoming United Nation’s Climate Change Conference, COP 26, in Glasgow this November. “No country or group can combat climate change on its own. But everyone needs to do one’s bit,” he said, lauding the plantation drive as well as the other initiatives by CDE Asia towards a circular economy. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen spelt out the greening target for the year for New Town. “Last year, we had a target of 10,000. Through citizen initiatives, we managed to plant 10,053 trees. This year, we aim to plant another 10,000 but we are doing it differently by involving interested companies,” he said. In course of the next 11 months, Hari Mitti Foundation will plant and nurture 1,000 saplings, on behalf of Sand Grains. Sen planted a Bokul sapling while Low planted Almond. Bhartia chose to plant a Jamrul, making it a mix of flowering and nut and fruit-bearing trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone & diesel push-up fruits, vegetables rates||A trip to the vegetable or fruit market this week may burn a hole in your pocket. Prices are skyrocketing and vendors are blaming everything from rising transportation to distress sale of damaged crops after Cyclone Yaas. “Vendors of Salt Lake generally travel to Koley Market and Bhangar wholesale markets to get vegetables. Earlier we had to pay around Rs 350-400 for travelling up and down but now, due to increased diesel costs, we are having to pay anything between Rs 700 and Rs 1,000 for the same trip,” said Subir Bose, a GD Market vendor. “Sale prices are rising as these costs have to be covered.” A couple of weeks ago, cauliflowers sold for Rs 50 in the township but they are now selling at Rs 75. Jhingey was selling for Rs 45 a kilo and now they cost Rs 70; the price of bitter gourd too risen from Rs 60 to 80. In Baisakhi’s fruit section, the price of Chikus has risen so much that Pachu Gopal Dey has stopped getting them altogether. “Who will buy them at Rs 400-450 a kilo? Kharbuja (muskmellon) is now Rs 80/kg and papaya Rs 50. People are grumbling about these prices itself so more expensive fruits are simply off my cart,” said Dey. Aajit Malik, a vendor who pushes a fruit cart around the township, says jackfruits are now Rs 60/kg, a good Rs 10 dearer than they were two weeks ago and way costlier than the price in 2020. “Wholesalers say many jackfruit trees fell during the recent cyclones and so this year overall production has been less,” he said. Soham Chakraborty, a resident of ED Block, said his shopping expenditure had nearly doubled in the past couple of weeks. “One cannot stop eating so we are being forced to spend nearly double,” said Chakraborty. Shyamal Pramanick, who runs a vegetable stall in CA Market, blamed middlemen. “Customers are blaming us for the hike in prices but it’s actually middlemen who are raking in huge profits,” he said. “They buy at much lower prices as there are several fields that had been flooded due to Cyclone Yaas but are still selling to them to us at a premium.” The government trucks however have stable prices. “Even if the market rate for potatoes is Rs 26 we continue to sell at Rs 14. Our prices are subsidised. In fact, our demand jacks up whenever prices in the free market rise,” said vendor Habib Khan at Baisakhi Market. “Since it’s not season for Simla apples yet, we are depending on imported ones from New Zealand, selling at Rs 200 a kilo.” The price of mangoes has risen too but Asadul Gaji of CK Market said it is because its season is fast ending. “It is mainly Lyangda available now, at Rs 70 a kilo. Supply is dwindling but people can never have enough of mangoes so the price is still high.” He blames rising diesel prices for the rise in prices of other fruits. Some products are seeing fluctuating prices. “The price of brinjal has fallen from Rs 80 to 50 since a week ago, lady’s finger has fallen from Rs 60 to 40, capsicum from Rs 120 to 100.  But they might rise tomorrow,” felt Kamal Halder of Baisakhi, clueless about the reason why. Kalipada of Joy Mata Ji in BJ Market said he could quote prices of vegetables today but they would mean nothing tomorrow. “Today cabbage is Rs 25 but tomorrow it could fall by five rupees. The market for perishables is volatile now and we cannot even say for sure that prices are rising,” he said. Jayanti Biswas, vegetable seller of CK Market, isn’t too worried. “Prices rise every monsoon as a lot of crops goes bad in the fields during heavy rains. Rates will rationalise in winter, which is the season for most vegetables. Till then, we have to bear with fluctuations. For instance, this week lady’s finger costs Rs 60-80 while it was Rs 80-100 a fortnight ago.” Vivekananda Das of Ramakrishna Bhandar in BJ Market cites competition from online stores. “Customers are veering towards them as they provide home delivery and can be a tad cheaper. To counter them, I have started providing bulk discount now,” he says. On purchase of 5kg, he sells potatoes for Rs 16 or 17, instead of the Rs 18 going rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Cop for all seasons||Rachpal Singh, a former IPS and a two-term MLA in the Mamata Banerjee government, passed away on July 8. According to family sources, the FE Block resident had suffered a cardiac arrest in hospital, triggered by septic shock resulting from urosepsis. He was 78 and is survived by his wife and daughter, and a son settled in New Zealand. Singh had shot into the limelight in 1993 when as superintendant of police, North 24-Parganas, he was called upon by minister Subhas Chakraborty to deal with a crisis in Sukhchar, 20km from Calcutta, emerging out of the disciples of a godman Balak Brahmachari refusing to cremate his body, claiming there would be a resurrection. After a 55-day impasse, a team of 450 policemen engaged in a pitched battle with the devotees who called themselves Santan Dal and got the body released. Singh was attacked by a devotee with a trident, leading to heavy bleeding. He also served as deputy inspector general of police, Presidency Range. He had run-ins with Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee towards the  end of his career and took voluntary retirement in 2002. In 2011, he contested on a Trinamul Congress ticket and won the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat. He was made a minister of tourism and then of planning and development. In 2016, he won the seat a second time. He did not contest this year and was currently the chairman of West Bengal Transport Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Dubai tower inspires Sreebhumi puja||Despite the pandemic showing no signs of receding, Sreebhumi Sporting Club is aiming high. The puja, organised by the club helmed by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, will be modelled after Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world. “Every year, we try to give visitors something special. Almost all interesting structures of India, from the temple of Puri to Chittor fort, have been replicated here. Many of our members have been to the tower in Dubai and we had considered this structure earlier as well but never took it up as building it is a complicated job. In our pre-golden jubilee year, we thought of taking up the challenge,” said Dibyendu Kishor Goswami, chief coordinator of the puja committee. The club held its khuti puja on the day of Rath Yatra. While the Dubai tower stands at 2,722ft, with 163 floors, 57 elevators and eight escalators, the Sreebhumi tower will be at least 110ft tall. “The structural drawing is being finalised. It will be critical for a temporary structure with such complicated architecture.” The tower rises from the flat desert base with 27 setbacks in a spiral pattern, that decreases the cross section of the tower as it rises and creates outdoor terraces at each level. These setbacks are arranged and aligned in a way that minimises vibration wind loading. Another challenge would be attaining the finish of the tower’s cladding system which has more than 26,000 reflective glass panels, and aluminium and textured stainless steel spandrel panels with vertical tubular fins. The glass acts as an anti-glare shield for the intense desert sun and strong winds. Experiments are on with various shades of acrylic paint to achieve the look of the reinforced concrete, steel and aluminium. But there will be no experiments with the idol. “It will be traditional goddess, sculpted by Pradip Rudra Pal, clad in gold jewellery,” he said. The organisers agree that the theme is bound to pull crowd. Is that not a concern with the third wave of Covid-19 looking in the horizon? “Some people will go out pandal-hopping, whatever be the situation. Scaling down is not an option for us as about 300 families depend on us, including those of the 120-odd labourers who are engaged in the making of the pandal. We will comply with whatever restrictions are set by the government at the time,” Goswami said. The organisers are betting on vaccination to minimise risk. “We are trying to vaccinate all our volunteers and the pandal-makers in phases.” The club is connected to Gandhi Seva Sadan, a local hospital which houses a vaccination centre run by the South Dum Dum Municipality. Will you visit the Sreebhumi puja this year? Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Containment zone count rises to eight||The number of micro-containment zones in Salt Lake now stands at eight, taking the total number of containment zones falling under the 41 wards of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) up to 15. A rise in the number of cases is being reported from Salt Lake, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. On Tuesday, an AH Block house was marked as a micro-containment zone as at least four family members have tested positive for Covid-19, the official said. Traffic guardrails with signage announcing that it was a micro containment zone were set up. “We have asked the residents not to step out and have given them our numbers to get in touch with us in case they need essentials or if any medical emergency arises,” said the official. This house is the eighth micro-containment zone that has been set up. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported earlier how three such zones had been set up in end-June in other blocks. Of them, a flat in Labony Estate’s D Block continues to be on the list though the two zones in BF Block are off the list. The seven other micro-containment zones in Salt Lake are recent additions — in HA, GD, AB, EE, BJ and AJ blocks, along with AH Block. According to the list released by the North 24-Parganas district administration, the number of micro-containment zones under BMC happens to be the highest in the district under a civic body. Among the least affected is neighbouring South Dum Dum Municipality which has two — in Green Park and in Block D, Bangur Avenue. In end-June, there were 11 micro-containment zones under the BMC, including three in Salt Lake proper. The total number of zones in North 24-Parganas is now 70. According to an official of the district administration, they have been setting up more such zones based on feedback from each area in association with the civic body. “We are monitoring the developments and each containment zone will stay in place till everyone in the affected family tests negative,” said the official. According to BMC health department sources, more than 30 fresh cases of Covid-19 are being reported daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Dead fish in Central Park water raises upkeep query||After months of neglect, the authorities are finally planning to clean up the waterbody in Central Park that has got covered with water hyacinths. There are also plans to revamp Banabitan. Last week, dead fish were seen floating on the surface. The forest department had started the tender process for cleaning of the pond, said minister Jyotipriya Mallick, at the Banmahotsav celebration there on Wednesday. Last Friday, morning walkers had complained to the authorities that they had been seeing dead fish in the water for the past four days. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests, wildlife, and chief wildlife warden, explained that the water hyacinths had reduced the oxygen level in the water to an extent that might have made it difficult for fish to survive. “We have initiated the tender process to remove the hyacinths. We also need to stop professional anglers who sell the catch to make money,” said Mallick. He also spoke of plans for a new model of Banabitan. “An allotment of Rs 4 crore has been made for it. We want to rejuvenate Banabitan. We shall plant fruit-bearing and flowering trees and transform it into a beautiful park where residents can relax.” Many areas of the park are in serious need of restoration and Mallick said they had identified the portions affected by Cyclone Yaas and started planting trees there. “We also want to turn Banabitan into a no-plastic zone and install solar lights,” he added. At the event, saplings were planted and more than 100 butterflies released. Banabitan has a butterfly park. Two “tree ambulances” were flagged off to distribute saplings and raise awareness across districts about the importance of planting trees. The event was also attended by Birbaha Hansda, minister of state, department of forests. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2020: Pick of Puja writings & township shots||Best Editorial Winner: Subhasish Mondal, souvenir editor, Salt Lake BF Block Residents’ Association Why: This year, the editorial column was bound to be distinct from any other year’s, given the circumstances under which the souvenir had to be brought out. This article, titled Hobe Joy, is a mix of the acknowledgement of the reality of pandemic-hit life and the mental effect of being house-bound on one side and on the other the promise of help and unity in hours of need from fellow residents and the dawning of hope beyond the darkness that Durga puja stands for in our emotional life. Special mention: Iswar Mukherjee, secretary, Purba Co-operative Housing Society, Cluster XIII, Purbachal and Kumkum Chattopadhyay, editor, Pushpanjali, of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town Best Fiction Winner: Asim Das of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town, for Alps Othoba Adi Ganga Why: The story holds up a mirror to the stark reality of human relationships where even a close friend can stab one in the back if there is a clash of interest at stake. The language is crisp and lucid, the length is just right and the conclusion aptly left devoid of sentimentality. Special mention: Rita Das of Animikha Apartment Owners Association, New Town, for Suicide Note and Susmita Bhaduri of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate, New Town, for Ogo Bodhu Sundari. Best Non Fiction Winner: Monika Mitra of Animikha (C&D) Durgotsav Committee, New Town for Pakhider Ananda Niketan Why: The close study of birds in one’s own backyard speaks of an endearingly close bond with feathered creatures. The description is homely. The appeal to plant more fruit-bearing trees and allow the consumption of their crop by birds gains import as the author has set an example for the same herself. In a world beset by global warming and a pandemic, allowing Nature and all other creatures to be is a lesson to be learnt for all of us. Special mention: Diptendu Banerjee of CB Block Welfare Association for Nam-kirtan Best Poetry Winner: Asim Das of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town, for Stitadhi Sundar Satata Ajeya Why: The poem uses epic and mythopoeic imagery and references to posit the existence of hiatus in human history and existence. This is an obvious and relevant observation on human condition frozen when in a moment of crisis such as the world is in now. The only possible hope of redemption is in the unchangeable and incorruptible truth. Special mention: Sarbani Banerjee for Nistaran-adhyan and Gopal Lahiri for Konodin Jodi. Both are residents of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town. Best Cover Winner: CB Block Welfare Association Why: Women in masks in front of the goddess, come possibly for baran on Vijaya Dashami, is what last autumn’s Durga puja was about — continuity of tradition while conforming to Covid protocol. The use of an illustration by a young local talent (Pracheta Basu, a student of Class IV) sends a message of the puja and the puja souvenir being by the community and for the community. Special mention: Salt Lake BE (East) Puja committee and Animikha (C&D) Durgotsav Committee, New Town. Like every year, we have selected the three best pictures among those published in the “Click Your Township” column in the months since last year’s result. The snaps are a testimony to the wealth of photographic talent in the neighbourhood. Shriya Basu, AF Block Baisakhi Chakraborty, Sunrise Symphony, New Town Nilanjan Pathak, CA Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after scaling fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended flat after scaling fresh intra-day peaks on Friday amid a mixed trend in global markets.  After surging to a lifetime peak of 53,290.81 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 18.79 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 53,140.06, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 0.80 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,923.40.  HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, NTPC, ICICI Bank and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel and PowerGrid were among the gainers.  Domestic equities traded in a range bound with Nifty and Sensex hitting fresh all-time highs. However, profit booking IT after witnessing sharp recovery in recent days followed by selling pressure in financials dragged Nifty, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Pharma stocks were in focus followed by metals. Notably, buying momentum in midcap and smallcap stocks sustained led by expectations of strong earnings, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.33 per cent to USD 73.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
16-07-2021||Business||Zomato IPO oversubscribed 10.7 times on final day of sale||Zomato's initial public offer (IPO) was oversubscribed 10.7 times on the third and last day of the sale with institutional buyers pouring in to garb shares of the food delivery platform. The offer received bids for 770.07 crore equity shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore, stock exchange data showed. Retail investors sought 6.09 times the portion reserved for them. Against 12.95 crore shares reserved for retail individual investors, 78.87 crore shares were bid by 1300 hours. Non-institutional investors put in bids for 109.82 crore shares against their reserved portion of 19.42 crore. Qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) sought nearly 15 times their quota of 38.8 crore shares. The portion set aside for employees has been subscribed 42 per cent. The IPO, the biggest in India this year, opened for subscription on Wednesday in a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Zomato has already mobilised Rs 4,196.51 crore from 186 anchor investors on July 13, a day before the issue opened. The IPO size has been reduced to Rs 5,178.49 crore from Rs 9,375 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Paytm files draft papers for Rs 16,600 crore IPO with SEBI||Digital payments and financial services firm Paytm has filed a draft red herring prospectus for its proposed Rs 16,600 crore initial public offering (IPO). According to the document, the company plans to raise Rs 8,300 crore through fresh equity and another Rs 8,300 crore through offer-for-sale. The offer-for-sale proposes equity sale by the company's founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Alibaba group and its subsidiary firm Ant Financial, Elevation Capital, Saif Partners, BH International Holdings etc, according to the document. The draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) does not disclose the share price and the percentage of stake to be diluted by any of the shareholders in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points to touch record intra-day high in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ITC despite a largely negative trend in global markets.  After surging to a peak of 53,290.81 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 111.60 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 53,270.45 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 33.60 points or 0.21 per cent to 15,957.80.  ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Reliance Industries and HDFC.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Infosys and NTPC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 254.75 points or 0.48 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 53,158.85, and Nifty rose 70.25 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,924.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 264.77 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Notably, dovish remarks of Federal Reserve Chairman Powell in his testimony despite surge in inflation should offer comfort to global equities including India," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Benchmark Nifty, which was consolidating in the range of 15,600-15,900 for the last couple of weeks, is set to cross 16,000 levels shortly, he said, adding that higher crude prices, spread of delta plus variant globally and weakening INR could be a near risk for markets.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was trading in the positive territory.  Equities on Wall Street too ended on a negative note in overnight sessions.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.12 per cent to USD 73.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Success Gyan hosts a power packed Super Growth Summit with 15000+ participants||The Super Growth Summit saw enthusiastic participation from 15,000+ unique users from across 50+ cities over a Zoom Webinar with Keynotes from Gaur Gopal Das, Dr. John Demartini, Ashish Vidyarthi, Blair Singer, Surendran J, Rajiv Talreja, Siddharth Rajsekar, Mac Attram, Puja Puneet, Sawan Kapoor, Dr. Meghana Dikshit, Prachi Mayekar, M V Priyank, and Thaddeus Lawrence. In life and business, the most important stage that could potentially define future courses, is the initial stage of plantation or seeding. This stage is generally attributed to struggle and immense nurturing. The human offspring is said to be amongst one of the most underdeveloped offspring amongst the mammal family. In its initial days, there is a lot of care, attention and nurturing that is required from an external source. Although, the human offspring grows up to become one of the most capable and versatile animals in terms of thinking capacity, creativity, etc., in it’s initial stages this isn’t necessarily reflected immediately. It’s only after years of nurturing, teaching and attention that the offspring moves on the stages of surviving independently and fending for itself. A business or startup, could also be compared to these stages of growth or evolution of a human offspring, according to the organizers of the Super Growth Summit, Success Gyan.  In its nascent stage, a business or company may seem to be too weak or sensitive to overcome the struggle required to survive and eventually lead to success. It is at this stage that there is a need for external nurturing, care and expert advice that could help set a strong foundation for the life ahead. Success Gyan aims to do just that by bringing together world renowned leaders, mentors, trainers and coaches under one platform. By making best-in-class learning accessible to all, Success Gyan has truly hit a chord with the young Indian population that was reflected in the sheer turnout at the event that kicked off on a Saturday morning and ran along till the mid-evening. The Super Growth Summit saw 15,000+ unique users logging into a Zoom webinar eager to listen in to the keynotes from the most prominent speakers in the domain. The event kicked off with Siddharth Rajsekar, Master Digital Coach and Author of the Amazon Bestseller Book — ‘You Can Coach’,  assuming the role of host by introducing the energetic and charismatic Actor and National Film Award winner, Ashish Vidyarthi. Ashish managed to charge up the crowd with his ‘flawsome-awesome’ & ‘power-packed’ keynote that focused on motivating the viewers to take charge of their own lives in the realms of business, relationships and success by assuming the role of the prime-player in their own lives. Game-led interactions from Transformational Coach, Prachi Mayekar, followed soon after, which got the chat box buzzing with energy and enthusiasm, on an early Saturday morning. This truly reflected the interest levels of the participants that had tuned in from across geographical locations over one true motive -- ‘To Grow and Succeed In Life’. The theme of the event was elegantly carried forward by Thaddeus Lawrence, Integral Coach® & TEDx speaker, who tuned in from Singapore, to the participants through intimate analogies that involved overcoming mentally and physically challenging situations and circumstances. He carefully weaved these interpretations to match the similarities of the struggles that we are often faced with life, business and relationships. Dr. John Demartini, drove the audience through the psychology of winning and the mindset-shift required to truly progress through the stages of struggle and survive in a often challenging and cold world around us. Wellness coach and Sound Healer, M V Priyank, led a session on ‘Sound Healing’ and ‘Meditation Techniques’ that could be used to find warmth within oneself that is required to progress through the stages of struggle and survival. His unique expertise managed to put the participants in a truly meditative state, optimized to absorb all of the knowledge, energy and wisdom on display at the day-long event. Rajiv Talreja, Asia’s leading Business Coach, further broke down the core theme of the event, elucidating the challenges one faces while advancing through the stages of Struggle, Survival and Success. “Struggle is the stage of entrepreneurial journey where one isn’t paying themselves, while survival is the stage where you are able to pay yourself but end up being comfortable due to the lack of ambition. Success is the stage where you are able to not-only pay yourself but also loop-back to the business. This is only achieved by adopting a growth-mindset that approaches business problems and challenges through a ‘Never settle attitude”, he concluded. Rajiv’s insightful speech marked the progression of the event tonality to stages of success and growth. The most anticipated speaker at the event, Gaur Gopal Das, who is an Indian lifestyle coach, monk, motivational speaker and member of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), brought his ever calming presence and aura to the forum through his humorous, simple and impactful 21-minute addressal. “When a traveller was faced with the challenge of either giving up a raft that had previously  helped him overcome a river or get stuck in the forest that lay in front of him due to the girth of the tool. He had to let go of the raft. This is much like the learnings that you accumulate through the stages of struggle and survival. The same tools might not be applicable for the next stage of super growth. Learn to let go and detach yourself from the tools of the past and set yourself up to be ready for new and unprecedented challenges that may come your way. This is the true way to success and super growth”, the charismatic monk noted to conclude the event. Motivated by the positive turnout and feedback from the audience, Success Gyan also announced its plans to host the next Super Growth Summit on September 11th, 2021. Find out more at: https://www.supergrowthsummit.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Bengal: Rebate on stamp duty along with discount can boost realty sales||The rebate on stamp duty announced by the Bengal government, if equally matched by developers by way of discount, could boost the sales of residential properties in Calcutta, experts feel. Bengal has reduced stamp duty by 2 per cent and cut circle rate — a government pre-decided rate at which a property must be registered in a given location — by 10 per cent in its budget in July. When a similar announcement was made in Maharashtra in September, many developers extended a matching rebate to make a transaction ‘free’ of stamp duty payment altogether. The end result was record breaking sales and launches. Mumbai and Pune were the top two markets for the launch of projects and sale of apartments in India in the first six months of 2021. Most of it took place during the January-March period when the 2 per cent stamp duty rebate was effective. The last quarter of 2020-21 had a better sales volume when the rebate was 3 per cent. “Developers took steps to make it a lucrative proposition in Maharashtra,” said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India. Bengal became the third major state after Maharashtra and Karnataka to provide a fiscal incentive by way of a stamp duty reduction. While Maharashtra, like Bengal, announced an across-the-board reduction irrespective of the price point, Karnataka kept the sop limited to the affordable segment (up to Rs 45 lakh). Baijal argued that the Calcutta market is more likely to go the Mumbai way than Bangalore where the response was mild. In H1 2021, Calcutta witnessed sales of 5,115 residential units, a 74 per cent YoY increase over H1 2020. This is largely on account of the lower base of H1 2020 due to the washout quarter of Q2 2020 during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the uptick seen from the third quarter of 2020 got  moderated in the Q2 of 2021. Harshvardhan Neotia, chairman and managing director of Ambuja Realty, said matching cuts like Mumbai, if any, will be on a case to case basis. “The sops will encourage those who have bought a property but did not register it. It will also prompt the fence-sitters to decide by October, when the rebate window closes,” he said. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group and president of Credai Bengal, said unsold inventory in Calcutta is much less than Mumbai, suggesting less pressure on developers to sale at a discount. “Mumbai operates with higher margins. I do not see many opting for a matching cut,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry issues draft drone rules||The civil aviation ministry on Thursday issued draft drone rules to relax some of the existing norms. Under the draft rules, no pilot licence will be required for small drones (that weigh up to 2 kg) used for non-commercial use. Also, security clearance will no longer be required before issuing any registration or a licence. Further, the number of forms to be filled to operate drones in the country has been reduced to six in the draft rules compared with 25 forms mentioned in the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, the aviation ministry’s statement said. Among other measures, the draft said there would be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. The import of drones and drone components will be regulated by the DGFT. The fee for registration and approval has been reduced to nominal levels and de-linked from the size of the drone under the draft rules. The Drone Rules, 2021, once notified, will supersede the UAS Rules, 2021, which came into force on March 12. The ministry has sought the response of citizens on the draft by August 5. The draft comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of top ministers to discuss the formulation of a policy for the traffic management of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) or drones. The meeting was held in the aftermath of a drone attack on the Indian Air Force base in Jammu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||LIC IPO: Centre calls for Request for Proposals to appoint advisors||The government has said the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation would be “larger than any precedent”. The Centre on Thursday called for Request for Proposals (RFPs) to appoint merchant bankers, legal advisers, registrar & share transfer agents and advertisement agencies for the offering. “The potential size of the IPO is expected to be larger than any precedent in Indian markets. In order to achieve a successful IPO, it is the endeavour of the GoI to attract investment from institutional investors, both domestic and global, in addition to the retail investors,” said the RFQ document released by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). The last date for the bid submission is August 5 and  bids will open on August 6. The RFQ documents have mentioned that the listing of shares of LIC on bourses  would entail a part-sale of the government’s stake in LIC. But there is no mention of the percentage of the shares to be offloaded. “The percentage of paid-up equity to be issued/divested as part of the IPO will be determined based on the post-issue capital of LIC calculated in consonance with clause 19 (2) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR). A part of the public offering may be reserved for employees and policyholders of LIC,” the introduction to the documents mentioned. “Not more than one bid shall be submitted by one bidder or bidders having business relationship,” the official circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Banks reach out to Visa Worldwide after RBI crack down on Mastercard||Banks are reaching out to Visa Worldwide (Visa) after the Reserve Bank of India cracked down on Mastercard for failing to comply with its data storage norms. Lenders that had tied up with Mastercard as their principal payment system partner are now scrambling to join Visa. On Wednesday, the RBI barred Mastercard from taking on new customers — debit, credit or pre-paid — on its card network from July 22 as it had failed to comply with an April 2018 circular directing all system providers to ensure that the entire data relating to payment systems operated by them in the country “are stored in a system only in India”. The RBI had taken similar action against American Express and Diner’s Club in late April. On Thursday, RBL Bank said it had entered into an agreement with Visa to issue credit cards to its customers.  The bank will start issuing credit cards on the Visa payment network after the technology integration which is expected to take 8 to 10 weeks. “In the interim, our bank’s current run rate of approximately 100,000 new credit card issuances per month could potentially be impacted till such time that there is clarity from the regulator on issuing new credit cards on the Mastercard network or till the technical integration with Visa is complete,” RBL Bank added. It currently issues credit cards only on the Mastercard network. The private sector bank has around 30 lakh credit card customers and is the fifth largest issuer of such cards in India with a market share of around 5 per cent. However, its debit and pre-paid cards are enabled on other payment networks in addition to the Mastercard network. According to a Nomura report, RBL Bank, Yes Bank and Bajaj Finserv will be the hardest hit by RBI's action against Mastercard. The brokerage said HDFC Bank — one of the largest credit card issuers in the country — has 60 per cent of its card schemes tied to Mastercard, Amex and Diners. In the case of Axis Bank and ICICI Bank, this works out to about 35-36 per cent. “Mastercard is fully committed to our legal and regulatory obligations in the markets we operate in. Since the issuance of the RBI directive requiring on-soil storage of domestic payment transaction data in 2018, we have provided consistent updates and reports regarding our activities and compliance with the required stipulations. While we are disappointed with the stance taken by the RBI... we will continue to work with them to provide any additional details required to resolve their concerns,” Mastercard had said in a statement after the RBI action. The RBI had set an October 2018 compliance deadline for payment system providers after it issued its original circular in April that year. It said it had sent out repeated reminders to Mastercard and grew increasingly exasperated with its foot-dragging on the issue. Visa is unlikely to face regulatory action on this score as reports suggest that it has already complied with the RBI's data localisation rules. Initially, it had lobbied the banking regulator and the government along with the others seeking a relaxation of these rules. The RBI fobbed off the pressure and did not buy the argument that there was a need to establish a back-up data centre in another geography to mitigate the risk of data loss — which they had said was a standard procedure across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Wipro clocks 35.2 per cent growth in net profits in June quarter||Wipro on Thursday surpassed analyst estimates to clock a 35.2 per cent growth in net profits for the quarter ended June 2021 gaining from strong demand amid the pandemic. The Bangalore-based company posted a net profit of Rs 3,232.10 crore during the period compared with Rs 2,390.20 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Brokerages had expected the IT services firm to report net profits in the region of Rs 2,700-2,900 crore. Revenues for the quarter far exceeded the guidance made in April. Wipro had forecast revenues from its IT services business to be in the range of $2,195-2,238 million during the April-June quarter, which translated into a sequential growth of 2-4 per cent. On Thursday, it reported IT services revenues of $2,414.5 million, an increase of 12.2 per cent over the preceding three months and a 25.7 per cent jump over the year-ago period. For the quarter ended September 30, Wipro now expects the IT services business revenue to be in the range of $2,535-2,583 million, a sequential growth of 5-7 per cent. In rupee terms, its gross revenues came in at Rs 18,250 crore, an increase of 12.4 per cent over the previous quarter and a rise of 22.4 per cent over the same period of 2020-21. Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director of Wipro, said revenue growth on a constant currency basis during the April-June period was the best in 38 quarters. “The demand environment is robust and the overall pipeline is better than before. We continued to increase our participation in deals in the marketplace and there was a good mix of large, medium sized and smaller deals. In terms of the underlying performance, the numbers show significant traction across all markets,” he said. Wipro disclosed that during the period, it closed eight large deals, resulting in a total contract value of over $715 million. The banking, financial services & insurance (BFSI) segment showed a growth (in constant currency) of 31.3 per cent over the same period of the previous year.while manufacturing and communications rose 5 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Govt says effective corpus built to pay out GST dues this year||The Narendra Modi-government appears to have hollowed out the demand for a special meeting of the GST Council to discuss the shortfall in compensation cess payable to states after asserting on Thursday that it has built an effective corpus of Rs 2.59 lakh crore to pay out the dues this year. “The sum of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the government said in a press statement on Thursday after releasing a sum of Rs 75,000 crore to the states and Union territories under a back-to-back loan facility that has been created in lieu of GST compensation. The Rs 2.59-lakh-crore corpus will comprise borrowing by the Centre of Rs 1.59 lakh crore with another Rs 1 lakh crore expected to come out of the GST compensation cess that is levied on cars, tobacco and cigarettes, pan masalas, colas and certain grades of coal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had promised to convene a special meeting of the GST Council to discuss the contentious issue of GST compensation with states like Bengal claiming that they were not receiving their promised dues. The Centre has not explicitly said that the meeting will no longer be held. But even if it were held, it will try to cut the ground from the Opposition states’ argument that they are being short paid. The GST (Compensation to States) Act guarantees all states an annual growth rate of 14 per cent in their GST revenue in the first five years of implementation of GST beginning July 2017. It was introduced as a relief for states for the loss of revenues arising from the implementation of GST. The compensation cess is supposed to end in 2022 but states have been demanding an extension with no clearly spelt out sunset date for the levy. The quibble over the compensation shortfall is now likely to exacerbate with states scrambling to make their own calculations. Bengal finance Amit Mitra on June 5  in a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the Centre need to borrow Rs 2.13 lakh crore to make good the dues to the states. The top three recipients of Thursday’s payout are: Karnataka, Rs 8,542.17 crore; Maharashtra, Rs 6,501.11 crore; and Gujarat, Rs 6,151.10 crore. Bengal was granted Rs 3,030.73 crore. GST is a destination tax which means it has it highest incidence at the end points of consumption in the retail chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||India||Covid situation currently under control but can deteriorate; next 100-125 days are critical: Govt||The government on Friday said the recent slow decline in number of daily cases is a warning and though the situation is currently under control, it can deteriorate if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, and noted that the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people.  Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the question of the third wave keeps coming up because the population is still "very vulnerable" to the infection.  "We still have not reached the stage of herd immunity... we don't want to acquire herd immunity through infections. We are progressing in terms of vaccines and nearly 50 per cent of our most vulnerable group, above the age of 45 years, is protected. This will also impact mortality and it will come down, but there can be spread of infection. We are vulnerable. Virus is still around," he warned.  Paul said the next 100-125 days are critical.  "We need to be cautious...we have seen that our decline has slowed down and this is a warning to us but the situation is under control. This can worsen. But it is not in our hands to not let it worsen. These are the same tools (COVID-appropriate behaviour) that are being talked about. If we use them, then the third wave may not hit," he said.  "If we all decide then there won't be any third wave. As vaccination drives pick up further...(in) three, four months, then there is a possibility that we will be in a safe zone. But the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people. We have to remain cautious," he added.  Giving rise to fresh worries about the COVID-19 pandemic rearing its head again, the R-factor, which indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country, has risen recently leading to a sluggish pace in the decline of active cases, while Kerala and northeast states have emerged as regions of concern, an analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai.  Joint Secretary at the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said though the number of cases of COVID-19 have come down there are still some concerns.  "There are 47 districts in the country across 12 states and UTs where the positivity rate is more than 10 per cent. The states and UTs were Manipur, Kerala, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra and Puducherry," he said.  He further said that 73 districts are reporting more than 100 daily cases.  "The COVID-19 pandemic is still amidst us and even in limited geography but we are still battling the second wave," he said  Agarwal presented a study in which decline in mask usage can be seen.  "With the resumption of activities, decline in mask usage is being seen. We need to incorporate masks as the new normal in our lives," he said.  He also said community mobility data shows that there has been a rise in mobility in the country in comparison to May 20 when most of the country was under lockdown.  "It is important that as we are returning towards relaxation we must keep in mind the precautions that we have to take like the use of masks, maintaining two-feet distance and hand hygiene," he said.  Agarwal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday also urged states where COVID-19 cases are rising to take proactive measures to prevent a third wave and stressed on moving forward with the strategy of test, track, treat and 'tika (vaccine)'.  Agarwal said worldwide a surge in cases are being seen.  On April 29, when worldwide 9 lakh new cases were being reported now again a growth trajectory is being observed and in the whole world in the last 24 hours, 5,63,416 new cases have been reported and a surge can be seen.  "If we look at countries around us, we will see that countries like Myanmar, Indonesia, Malaysia and Bangladesh have been reporting a surge in cases," he said.  On slump in vaccination, Agarwal said the government has worked towards increasing production of vaccines, collaborated with manufacturers and the government has also given advanced visibility of next 15 days to states on what particular vaccine doses will be made available.  "The logistic management has to be linked at production and availability at field level and while we appreciate the concern of states to get more vaccine doses we must also appreciate how government of India on one side is increasing production and parallelly ensuring that 75 per cent of doses are given free of cost to states," he said.  Paul added that there can be some issues with fine-tuning and that will be worked upon.  "Whatever the availability of vaccines in a month, it is visible and we share it systematically. It is also right that this number increases. We are hopeful that the production will take place as per the roadmap. All kinds of assistance is being provided. Be rest assured. New vaccine candidates as well as the increasing stockpile is visible. Serum (Institute of India which manufactures Covishield) has increased its production in the last few weeks. There is a roadmap, there is an optimistic scenario and we are approaching it," he said.  On availability of moderna vaccine in the country, Paul said talks are going on.  "...to and fro (talks) are going on over the contractual specifics. Discussions have not yet concluded. We are making efforts as to it happens at the earliest. We are now expecting to hear from them anytime. Currently, they have to respond to some of the points we have made and we will take it forward," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman convenes meeting of party leaders ahead of Monsoon session||Ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning July 19, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has convened a meeting of leaders of various political parties on Saturday.  The meeting will be held at the official residence of the Vice President at 5 PM, sources said.  Over 40 leaders of different parties and ministers have so far confirmed their participation, they said.  The opposition is likely to raise various issues like price rice and inflation, Rafale, Covid management and state of the economy.  The Rajya Sabha has a new Leader of the House in Piyush Goyal, after Thaawarchand Gehlot resigned and became the Governor of Karnataka.  Goyal met former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and NCP leader Sharad Pawar on Friday and Anand Sharma on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||India Meteorological Department predicts heavy rainfall in country next week||A swelled up Mithi river forced the evacuation of 250 people in rain-battered Mumbai's Kurla area on Friday, even as the temperatures were above normal in several parts of north Indian plains in the absence of rainfall despite the revival of the Southwest Monsoon.  Very light rains and thundershowers occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh though, and a fresh warning of heavy showers was issued in Himachal Pradesh as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in several parts of the country, including the northern region, over the next six-seven days.  The meteorological department said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and heavy to very heavy falls over the western Himalayan region and Uttar Pradesh from July 17 to 20.  Heavy falls are also expected over Punjab, Haryana, east Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh from July 18 to 20 and isolated heavy rainfall over Delhi on July 18, it said, adding that isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Uttar Pradesh on July 18, Jammu on July 19, and Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19.  "Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning very likely at isolated places over Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and south Rajasthan during next 24 hours. They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoor," the IMD said.  It said widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are also very likely to continue over the west coast and remaining parts of west peninsular India except over Gujarat during the next six-seven days. Heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Konkan, Goa, ghat areas of central Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe during same period, the IMD said.  Heavy rainfall is also expected over northeast India, it added. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till July 19 which will decrease in intensity and distribution thereafter, the IMD said.  In Delhi, the maximum temperature settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's normal, on Friday, and the minimum temperature was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius.  The weatherman predicted partly cloudy skies with light rain or thundershowers for Saturday.  In Himachal Pradesh, the Met office issued a yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains, low hills and middle hills on Saturday. It also issued an orange warning for heavy to very heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning for July 18-20.  Several parts of the state received light to moderate rains during the day. Sarkaghat gauged 86 mm of rainfall, followed by 52 mm in Nadaun, 49 mm in Jogindernagar and 29 mm in Baijnath, 27 mm in Sujanpur Tira, 19 mm in Kasol, 16 mm in Hamirpur, 14 mm in Bhoranj, 13 in Rampur, 11 mm in Sarahan, 9 mm in Palampur and 4 mm in Mandi, the weather office said.  The maximum temperatures in Haryana and Punjab rose on Friday after a few days of respite brought about by monsoonal rains, with joint capital Chandigarh recording a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.  Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius and Hisar 38.1 degrees Celsius. In Rohtak, it was 37.3 degrees Celsius, 37.8 degrees Celsius in Gurgaon and 35 degrees Celsius in Karnal.  In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35.6 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 36.7 degrees Celsius and Patiala 36 degrees Celsius.  According to the Met department forecast for Haryana, heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18, 19 and 20. The forecast for Punjab says heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18, and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places on July 19 and 20.  In Uttar Pradesh, very light rains along with thundershowers occurred at isolated places. The temperature rose markedly in Moradabad division, while no large changes were seen in the remaining divisions of the state.  The highest maximum temperature in the state was 39.8 degrees Celsius, recorded at the Banda observatory, while the lowest minimum was 24.3 degrees Celsius, recorded at the Muzaffarnagar observatory.  In the western coast, heavy rains pounded Mumbai, especially its suburbs, since Friday morning.  Civic body officials said Mumbai island city recorded 55.3 mm rain as the Eastern and the Western suburbs received 135 mm and 140.5 mm downpour respectively between 4 am and 9 am.  Due to the downpour, several low-lying areas in the eastern and the western suburbs witnessed waterlogging, which led to traffic snarls on arterial roads.  As a result of water-logging, mainly between Sion and Vidya Vihar section on the Central Railway's main line, and Chunabhatti-Tikal Nagar section on the Harbour line, the suburban train services were badly affected.  Tulsi lake, one of the seven reservoirs that supply drinking water to the metropolis, overflowed due to heavy rains, officials said.  In Karnataka, a massive landslip occurred near a tunnel on the Kulshekar-Padil stretch of the railway track from Mangaluru to Thokur following heavy rains in the last few days, affecting all trains on the Konkan route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Reports claiming many Indian kids missed routine vaccinations due to Covid not based on facts: Govt   	||The government on Friday clarified that it has worked with states, union territories and development partners towards mitigating negative impacts of Covid-19, and was making efforts to ensure children receive life-saving vaccines under the Universal Immunization Programme. The clarification comes a day after Unicef said India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million. In a statement, the health ministry, without naming anyone, said there have been some media reports alleging that lakhs of Indian children may have missed their routine vaccinations due to disruptions caused by Covid-19, leading to an increased risk of future outbreaks and deaths. ”These reports are not based on facts and do not reflect the true picture,” the ministry said.      It further clarified that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the ministry has been focused towards maintaining essential services, including immunisation under the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP). ”The ministry along with all states and UTs and development partners, has worked towards mitigating negative impacts of Covid-19 and taking urgent actions to ensure that children receive life-saving vaccines under UIP,” the ministry said. Further, as a result of the commitment of the government and the public health workforce, the country has achieved 99 per cent DTP3 coverage in the first quarter of 2021 (January-March) which is the highest DTP3 coverage measured till date, it said. Unicef had on Thursday said that India – particularly hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic – had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million. Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Amarinder expresses reservation over Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief in letter to Sonia||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is learnt to have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing reservation over Navjot Singh Sidhu's possible appointment as the state party chief. The Punjab CM is learnt to have mentioned that there could be an adverse impact on the party's prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls by ignoring the old guard, according to Congress sources. In another development, Congress general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs at the AICC Harish Rawat is likely to meet Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Congress MP and senior party leader Manish Tewari gave details of the composition of the state's population, appearing to bat for a Hindu face for the post. There are reports that Sidhu is likely to be made the Punjab Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing two working presidents a Dalit and a Hindu face to balance the caste equations. The names of minister Vijay Inder Singla and MP Santokh Chaudhary are doing rounds for the post of working presidents. But Amarinder expressed his displeasure over Sidhu being given a key post, said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Central Vista project: Republic Day parade next year to be held on refurbished Rajpath||The Republic Day parade next year will be held on the refurbished Rajpath as the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is expected to be completed by this November, officials said on Friday. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who reviewed the status of construction works, said citizens will get an avenue that they will be proud of. ”Reviewed the status of ongoing construction works of Central Vista Avenue project with the secretary of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, officials of ministry and CPWD, contractor and architect Bimal Patel. The progress so far is satisfactory and on schedule. Citizens will get an avenue they will be proud of,” he tweeted. An official in the ministry said that the Rajpath redevelopment project includes large scale stonework, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks and horticulture work and sufficient space for parking. ”Twelve bridges on artificial ponds are being built. People visiting Rajpath will have an amazing experience. The redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue will be completed by November and the Republic Day parade next year will be held on the newly-developed Rajpath,” the official said. Infrastructure firm Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited has been executing the project as part of the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister residence and PMO, and new Vice President Enclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Haryana court denies bail to Jamia shooter in hate speech case||A Haryana court on Friday rejected the bail plea of a 19-year-old man arrested this week for allegedly making hate speeches - he allegedly made comments urging the abduction and killing of girls from a particular religious community at a gathering attended by Haryana BJP spokesperson and Karni Sena president Suraj Pal Amu, reports NDTV. The accused is the same person, identified as Rambhagat Gopal Sharma aka Ram Bhakt Gopal, who fired on anti-citizenship law protesters near Delhi's Jamia Millia University in January last year, injuring one student. He was then only 17 years old. Denying him bail, Judicial Magistrate of Pataudi Mohd Sageer said, “The consequences of these kind of activities may be far more dangerous and it may translate into communal violence." According to the NDTV report, the Gurgaon court said its "conscience was utterly shocked" on viewing a video recording of the incident, and that Indian society needed to tackle "... these kind of persons... who, if given a chance, would organise a mass murder to kill innocent lives based on their own religious hatred..." "The accused standing before the court is not a simple, innocent young boy knowing nothing... rather (his actions) show that (with) what he has done in the past.... now become capable of executing his hatred without fear... and that he can move the mass to involve his hatred." The court slammed the idea that 'free speech' and 'freedom of expression' meant controversial and incendiary comments, such as those allegedly made by the accused, were acceptable. "Freedom of speech is an integral part of any democratic country... however, this freedom has reasonable restrictions. None can be allowed to ignite fire... because he has freedom of speech and can direct hatred towards a particular group or religious community," the court declared. The court also reminded the police and state government of its constitutional duty - "to ensure that citizens of India, of any religion, faith or caste, should not feel unprotected... and that such hate-mongers cannot walk freely without fear". "The act of the accused, i.e., hate speech qua instigating abduction and killing of girls from a particular religious community, is itself a form of violence, and such people and inflammatory speeches are an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit," the court stressed. The accused was arrested on Monday and charged with attacks upon the religion of a particular group and for deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage a group's religious feelings. Arrested in January last year for firing upon a crowd of anti-CAA protesters in Delhi, he was out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Govt formalises registration process of vintage motor vehicles||Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said his ministry has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India, to promote and preserve the heritage of such vehicles. The Centre in November last year had said it intends to formalise the registration process of the vintage motor vehicles, and had sought public comments for proposed rules regarding this. “With an aim to preserve and promote the heritage of vintage vehicles, the MoRTH has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India,” Gadkari said in a series of tweets. With no existing rules for regulating the process of registration across different states, he said the new rules shall provide a hassle-free process along with salient features such as retention of old number for already-registered vehicles and a 'VA' series (unique registration mark) for fresh registrations. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had invited public comments for proposed rules on registering vintage vehicles. “The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has published GSR 734 (E) dated November 25, 2020, seeking comments and suggestions in regards to amendment to CMVR, 1989, relating to vintage motor vehicles,” it had said. CMVR stands for Central Motor Vehicles Rules. The draft rules define vintage motor vehicles as all those vehicles that are two-wheelers and four-wheelers (non-commercial and personal use) and are more than 50 years old from the date of their first registration (including imported vehicle). There is a restriction in the definition — no substantial overhaul of the vehicles that includes modification in chassis or body shell, and/or engine. A vintage motor vehicle is allowed to run on Indian roads only for display, technical research or taking part in a vintage car rally, refuelling and maintenance, exhibitions, vintage rallies, and to and fro to such exhibition or car rally. The government had said the objective is to preserve and promote the heritage of old vehicles in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Delhi BJP stages protest near Kejriwal's residence over water crisis ||Leaders and workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Delhi unit staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence in the Civil Lines area here on Friday over the water crisis in the national capital. Led by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, the protesters raised anti-government slogans and demanded that clean and pure drinking water be supplied. Gupta, Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and others first gathered at the Chandgi Ram Akhara near Ring Road and then marched towards the chief minister's residence on Flagstaff Road. The protesters were stopped around 500 metres from the chief minister's house by police, a BJP leader said. Addressing the gathering, Gupta alleged that schemes for water production and distribution announced in the last seven years have not yet started. The Delhi government is responsible for the water crisis in the city as it is in connivance with the tanker mafia, the BJP leader alleged. Later in a statement, the BJP claimed that during the protest, party workers tried to cut off the water supply to the CM's residence but the heavy presence of police there thwarted their attempt. ”Gupta alleged that Kejriwal seems to have forgotten many promises on the basis of which he came to power and rather, he is now eyeing other states for the political expansion of his party…he seems to be on political tourism to other states thereby conveniently forgetting all this,” the BJP alleged in the statement. The Delhi government has been blaming Haryana for the shortage of water in the city over the last few days. Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha had alleged that the Haryana government was releasing less water than prescribed for the national capital, thereby creating a shortage in some parts of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
16-07-2021||India||Rajnath Singh briefs Sharad Pawar, AK Antony on China issue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met Congress leader AK Antony and NCP chief Sharad Pawar and is learnt to have briefed them about the border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as the current situation in the region, people familiar with the development said. The former defence ministers were also provided with some details about India's military preparedness in the region during the meeting, which was also attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, they said. The meeting is seen as an effort by Singh to reach out to the Opposition ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning July 19. However, there was no official comment about the meeting. Earlier in the day, Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal also met opposition leaders, including Pawar and former prime minister Manmohan Singh. Congress has already indicated that it will raise the border row with China in the Parliament. While Antony served as India's defence minister from October 2006 to May 2014, Pawar held the post from June 1991 to March 1993. On Wednesday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe on the sidelines of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). During the talks, Jaishankar firmly conveyed to Wang that prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner" and rued that there was no forward movement since the disengagement in Pangong lake areas in February. At the meeting, the two foreign ministers agreed to hold the next round of military dialogue at the earliest to discuss all the remaining issues. There has been a stalemate in the disengagement process between the two militaries in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh after they withdrew troops and weapons from the Pangong lake areas in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the standoff. The standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh began in early May last year. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been maintaining that full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for the development of overall ties between the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||One killed in helicopter crash at Maharashtra's Jalgaon||One occupant was killed and another injured as a helicopter crashed on Friday evening in Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra, a police official said. The incident took place near Wardi village in the district's Chopda area, which is part of the Satpura mountain ranges, and information was received by authorities around 5:15 pm, he said. "One occupant was declared dead on arrival by hospital authorities while the second person has sustained injuries," he said. One of the occupants was a woman but it was not yet clear who was piloting the helicopter, he said. Later during the day, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia expressed shock over the crash and said that the "aircraft belonged to "NMIMS Academy of Aviation", which is based out of Dhule district. An investigation team is being rushed to the site of the crash, Scindia said on Twitter. "Unfortunately, we lost the flight instructor & the trainee is severely injured. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family & prayers for the trainee's quick recovery," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gets into chatty mode in bid to revamp social media outreach||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday signalled a shift in his social media outreach, going from mostly commentative to conversational with this simple poser: "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days?" Gandhi's communication on Twitter and maybe other social media platforms is set for a makeover and will get more interactive in the days to come, party insiders said. And the casual, informal question on Twitter is perhaps the first step towards that. Sources said the former Congress president, who has 19.3 million followers on Twitter, may in the next few days share on Twitter the books he is reading. Gandhi -- who usually posts trenchant comments about the government, makes observations on news developments of the day, tagging articles of interest, or condoles the death of a known person now wants his social media engagement to be more interactive so his connect with people increases, the sources added. Pratishtha Singh, a former Mahila Congress functionary, is playing a key role in reshaping his outreach on Twitter. The un-following of some Twitter handles, including of journalists and some of his staff, was also part of his social media revamp, the insiders said. On his birthday on June 19, Gandhi for the first time responded on Twitter to random people who wished him. He also replied to political leaders who had extended wishes to him on the social media platform. In less than an hour, Friday's open ended question on what his followers are reading saw more than 13,000 likes and 2,200 comments many trolling him and some responding earnestly with their book list. In the coming few days, more interactive engagements are in store from Gandhi's handle, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||B.S Yediyurappa in Delhi meets Narendra Modi on state issues||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa Friday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi here and requested him to facilitate early implementation of some pending state works including the Mekedatu dam project. Yediyurappa, who is visiting the national capital amid speculations about a leadership change in the state, sidestepped reporters' questions on the issue. "I don't know. You have to tell," he told the reporters with a smile. "I requested the PM to facilitate for early implementation of some state works. He has agreed for all." Asked if the Mekedatu dam project across the Cauvery river was also discussed, he said "all issues" came up. The CM said he would share the details of the meeting on Saturday before returning to Bengaluru. Before meeting the PM, the CM said he would call on some of the Center's key ministers including Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh on Saturday. He also told reporters before the meeting that the state has got every right to implement the Mekedatu project and will start the work. "They (TN) have been opposing us since the beginning but we have got our rights. I request them not to disturb us." He also assured Tamil Nadu that the implementation of the proposed project will not create any problem to them. "I have written to them (TN CM) about the matter, but they are not letting us (implement the project)." "There is no need to have confusion. I want to assure our state that we will cent percent implement the Mekedatu project," he added. On a likely Cabinet rejig in the BJP-ruled state, Yediyurappa said before meeting the PM, "I will tell you if any discussion (happens) with seniors over the restructuring or expansion of the Cabinet." No state minister is accompanying the chief minister during his trip. However, his son B Y Vijayendra has come. The Rs 9,000-crore Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project across the Cauvery river in Ramanagara district aims at utilising 4.75 TMC of water for drinking purposes in Bengaluru and neighbouring areas besides generating 400 MW power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi starts two-day Lucknow tour with silent protest against BJP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived at Lucknow on a two-day election-preparation visit to a rousing reception by party workers, and started with a silent protest before a Mahatma Gandhi statute against the BJP government in the state. The party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge reached Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in the afternoon and moved in a procession through the main roads of the state capital to the Hazratganj GPO Park Gandhi statue and garlanded it. After that, she sat on a silent protest before the statue against the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state. She was joined by her party leaders including state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu. Lallu said, "Women are not safe in the state. Priyankaji is sitting on a maun vrat (silent protest) at the feet of Mahatma Gandhi for ending this jungle raj and to uproot this dictatorial government." Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Misra alleged widespread irregularities during the recent panchayat polls, especially flagging "the treatment given to women". "The party national general secretary is sitting on the maun vrat against the sad state of affairs in the state," Misra said. Priyanka Gandhi's visit to the state comes as it prepares for the Assembly polls early next year. She faces an uphill task of reviving the party to a position of strength in the politically crucial state where the Congress was relegated to margins in the 2017 polls, swept by the BJP. As she moved through the roads of the city after her arrival at the airport, Congress workers warmly welcomed her, showering flower petals at various places. Ashok Singh, the Convenor of Media and Communication Department of Uttar Pradesh Congress, said Priyanka Gandhi reached Hazratganj via Alambagh, Charbagh and Bapu Bhawan. He said she will hold a meeting with the state executive, office-bearers and district and city unit presidents on Friday at the Congress officer. After that, she will also meet with various farmer organisations. Priyanka Gandhi will also meet the block Congress presidents of Amethi and Rae Bareli on Saturday, the second day of her tour, and hold a meeting with the office-bearers of the 'Berozgar Manch', a body representing the unemployed. She will also hold a meeting with former MPs, ex-MLAs, former district and city presidents and former heads of frontal organisations and departments and members of zila panchayats and block heads. She is scheduled to return to Delhi Saturday evening, Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Disastrous to vaccinate anyone without trials, especially kids: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Friday said it would be a disaster if COVID-19 vaccines are administered, especially to children, without clinical trials and asked the Centre that it should take steps to quickly vaccinate kids of below 18 years of age once the trials are over as the whole nation is waiting for it. The court was informed by the Centre that clinical trials for the vaccines for children under 18 years of age are going on and on the verge of completion and that a policy will be formed by the government and children will be vaccinated when experts give permission. "Let the trials be done, otherwise it would be a disaster if vaccines are administered without trials that too in case of children," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh observed. "Once trials are over, you quickly apply to children. The whole country is waiting," it added and listed the matter for further hearing on September 6. The high court was hearing a PIL filed on behalf of a minor which sought directions for the immediate vaccination of those in the 12-17 age group on the ground that there were fears a likely third wave of COVID-19 could affect them more. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila which is developing DNA vaccines has concluded its clinical trial for between the age group of 12 to 18 years of age and subject to the statutory permission, the same may be available in near future for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years of age. The Centre, in the affidavit filed through standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, said vaccination is the top most priority of the government and all efforts are being made to achieve an objective of 100 per cent vaccination in the shortest time possible keeping the available resources in mind and availability of vaccine doses into consideration. It said from May 1, onwards under the new liberalised pricing and accelerated national COVID vaccination strategy, all citizens above the age of 18 years including parents of children who are residing in Delhi are already eligible for the vaccination. The Centre said on May 12, Drug Controller General of India has permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on the healthy volunteers between 2 to 18 years of age for its vaccine Covaxin. Senior advocate Kailash Vasudev, representing the petitioner, said vaccines are being administered to children of the age group of 8 to 18 years in various countries and the court may ask the authorities to conclude the process in a time bound manner. To this, the bench said the government was saying that trials are going on and there cannot be a time bound schedule for a research. "They are only asking for a breathing time. Everybody is working," the bench said, adding that looking into the stand taken by the Centre that the trials are going on and are at the verge of completion, list the petition on September 6. Meanwhile, the court disposed of another petition seeking to vaccinate class 10th and 12th students since they had to appear for board exams. The court noted that trials for vaccines for children are already going on and that the CBSE has cancelled the exams and now there are no offline mode of examination for students of class 10th and 12th this year. "Looking into these two facts we see no reason to entertain this petition at this stage. Liberty is given to the petitioner to move an appropriate authority for the grievances in future, the bench said. When the petitioner's counsel said the children will need to appear for competitive exams, the bench said they can approach the court at that time. The first PIL was filed seeking directions for immediate vaccination of 12-17 year-old children on the ground that there was an apprehension that a likely third wave of COVID-19 could affect them more. The petition has also sought priority in vaccination to parents of children up to 17 years of age as several kids were orphaned after their parents succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave. There are two petitioners in the matter -- the first is a minor represented through her mother and the second is a mother of a minor child. The petition has claimed that according to the data of number of persons infected between April 2021 to May 2021, the number of reported cases where children were infected "has risen tremendously" than last year. It has alleged that the vaccine policy of India has failed to factor in children or parents of children for vaccination and the Centre and Delhi government have also failed to prepare a national plan for taking of the minors during the present pandemic. "That globally, countries have fully recognised the importance of vaccinating children, alongside adults, to curb, mitigate the ill effects of the present pandemic and have accordingly and effectively taken measures. "Vaccines for children are being produced and administered in countries such as Canada, United States of America (USA), for children between the ages of 12-17 years," it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||How Amir Syed’s Animated Times Engages Over A Million Comic Book Fans Every Month||It’s not easy being a class apart. In an industry like the entertainment sector, competition is even more cut throat. And the sites that report on the updates on your favorite Marvel and DC superheroes? They are a dime a dozen. Most of them remain obscure, with barely a bragging presence in the field. And even against such incredibly well stacked odds, Amir Syed’s Animated Times has succeeded in creating a niche that serves a million strong fan base and counting. This is the story of a lone man and his dream of creating  Animated Times. How could anyone consider running an entertainment site as a full time career? No one could make it this way. Stop this and focus on something more real, tangible. These are a few comments Amir Syed had been hearing. A hardcore fan of comic books and superheroes, Syed wanted to start a business of his own ever since he was 12. He barely had any support, starting from scratch when he first launched the website. With a motley skeleton crew, Animated Times hoisted its flag back in 2017. In 4 years, the site which has its HQ in Lucknow, has amassed almost a million followers on Facebook. “Why Animated Times is growing”, says Syed,” is because of the strong community building around the niche”. The site’s social media reach and engagement would make even the bigger players sweat. It enjoys millions of fans it engages with on a daily basis via various facebook pages like Official Avengers Group, and Marvel DC and Everything Nerdy. This forms the core of their strategy since these groups have fans that rave in length about everything pop-culture. This creates additional buzz and formidable earned media. The strategy is simple and self-sustaining, banking on Animated Times’ endearing ability to create viral content. In a country that has more than half a billion comic book fans, the global comic book industry which is worth $7.14 Billion USD finds a very strong footing for the future. India consistently ranks in the top 5 biggest contributors to both Marvel and DC movies. In Asia, India is one of the biggest markets for superhero movies after China, Japan, and South Korea.That was not the case just a few years ago. Amii Syed’s idea of a site reporting on all things pop culture was ridiculed. No one’s laughing at him now. The site posts frequent updates on everything under the sky related to the entertainment industry. And it is regularly lauded by the fans for its originality and creativity. How does Animated Times keep its cogs running while simultaneously ensuring costs remain low, you ask? The answer is simple yet not that easy to execute. Animated Times banks on hiring writers with deep ingrained knowledge in the comic book scene. Instead of hiring veterans, it banks on younger writers with a knack to think outside the box. Animated Times is a tightly run ship. Nothing is left to chance. It is one of India’s first ever sites that reports on Anime, an industry that is gaining popularity just like the superhero genre did a few years ago. It is all a matter of long term, calculated risks. And Animated Times is reaping the rewards of the dividends from those gambles. “The road is long and arduous no doubt”, says Syed. Armed with a creative team of writers, video artists and content creators, he believes Animated Times will surely become a force of nature in the Indian entertainment-media space. But the journey doesn’t stop there. Animated Times intends to take not just India but the global entertainment geek culture by storm. And from the looks of it, it seems to be in the right direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||One of the most affordable luxury car rental company in Dubai :  MasterKey Rent A Car||Travel industry in the last couple of decades have grown tremendously. A recent survey done in the unites states showed that the younger age group of population preferred renting a car more than 50% of times then the other age groups, also vis-vis about purchasing of a new car. No doubt the world has growing population of youngsters who are not behind at all in trying new things and experimenting with cutting-edge technologies and advances. It now has become easier for the new age customer to have things easily available as compared to the ones earlier. The world of millennials and Gen Z’s have taken over with their creative and innovative ideas, companies, services and much more. One niche segment which has progressed tremendously in recent time is the car rental services. More and more entrepreneurs are investing in such start ups and it is gaining humongous popularity all across the world. Let’s read about a car rental company which has propelled themselves in achieving the customers trust and is getting more recognition across UAE- MasterKey Rent A Car. MasterKey Rent A Car have swiftly adapted to growing needs of the consumers and improvised to offer better quality, cost, and energy efficient options to not only sustain but also to excel in the niche segment of car rentals. With tremendous growth and potential of this segment to grow exponentially in coming years, MasterKey Rent A Car have decided to excel in offering of premium and luxury car to its customers. MasterKey Rent A Car has put their right foot forward to enter the segment and further develop their strong hold within the market by offering a wide range of luxurious and exotic cars to cream of crowd. They have provided great impetus to travel industry and mobility services across UAE with their creative collection of premium, exotic, superfast luxury cars. The Brand that they have created for themselves in the market have enormously skyrocketed their revenues and boost sales. Driven more by the values and the task rather than money, MasterKey Rent A Car promises to offer best in class services to its customers. Saving time, offering pick up and drop services, 24*7 road-side assistance, car insurance, Wi-Fi services and GPS systems are some of the notable aspects that comes along their offerings. The customer can choose from more than 60+ exotic cars to be rented/hired. Some of the top cars include- Ferrari, Mercedes, Rolls Royce, Bentley, Lamborghini, Range Rover, Porsche, Maserati etc. Whoa! That’s some fuel for the next gen car lover and enthusiastic. Providing the best ever user experience through their services, MasterKey Rent A Car have become a household name in no time across UAE and is gaining popularity day by day. One of their USP is that they are the only one in Dubai to take transaction via Bitcoin or any other digital coins likes crypto, Ethereum etc. More power to endless driving and long drives for passionate car lovers. For more info, do follow them on Instagram @mkrentacar and visit their website https://mkrentacar.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Leave Congress if you are scared, Rahul tells members||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said those who were afraid of facing the reality and the BJP were free to leave the party, while fearless leaders outside the Congress should be brought in. Addressing social media workers of the party at an online event, Gandhi said those who were afraid had left the party and cited the example of Jyotiraditya Scindia. "There are many people who are not scared, but are outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in, and those scared within our party should be shunted out," he told the social media workers. "They are RSS people and they should go, let them enjoy. We do not want them, they are not needed. We want fearless people. This is our ideology. This is my basic message to you," he also said. Citing the example of Scindia, sources said he told the workers, "He had to save his house and he got scared and he joined the RSS." A number of senior Congress leaders have quit the party to join the BJP in the recent past. These include Scindia and Jitin Prasada. Maharashtra Congress leaders Narayan Rane and Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil had also quit in 2019, besides actor Khushboo Sundar. This is the first time Gandhi addressed around 3,500 party workers of the Congress social media department through video conference using Zoom. Gandhi also interacted personally with around 10 young workers from different fields, the party sources said. He also gave them the message that he was always with them. He asked the social media members not to be afraid of talking to him as they were a part of his family. "You are talking to your brother and you should not be scared," he told them. "You should not be scared and you will never see me being afraid," he said, adding that the Congress wants to give equal rights to all but the RSS wants to benefit only a few. Senior party leader and former Telangana chief Uttam Kumar Reddy quoted Mahatma Gandhi to say that Rahul Gandhi was following in his footsteps. "'The enemy is fear. We think it is hate; but, it is fear' ~ Mahatma Gandhi. "Our leader Shri Rahul Gandhi following in the footsteps of the Mahatma. To defeat the hate propagated by the RSS-BJP, the Congress needs fearless people, not cowards," Reddy tweeted, sharing a video of Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Allegations against Teltumbde prima facie true, says court||A special court here has said that there was sufficient material to show that the allegations against activist Anand Teltumbde, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, were prima facie true. The court has also said it does not find the accusations against Teltumbde to be "inherently improbable" or "wholly unbelievable", and prima facie he was involved in furthering activities of a banned organisation. Special judge D E Kothalikar, presiding over matters probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), made the observations while rejecting Teltumbde's bail application on July 12, although the detailed order was made available on Friday. "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of e -mails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicane, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable, the court said. "On the contrary, I have no hesitation to conclude that there is sufficient material to enable the court reach to prima facie conclusion that the accusations made against the applicant (Teltumbde) are prima facie true," the judge noted. The court further said there is no hitch to record prima facie satisfaction that there is material against the applicant to show his complicity in the crime. It also noted that evidence and documents submitted by the prosecution prima facie indicate that the applicant was prima facie involved in furthering activities of the banned organisation. The NIA had earlier claimed that Teltumbde was an active member of CPI (Maoist) and propagated its activities. "I hold that there is prima facie ample material on record which would reveal active role and participation of the applicant," the court said. Among other grounds, Teltumbde's lawyer, had urged the court to consider the aspect that the probe in the crime has already been completed and the applicant is a well-qualified person. The court, however, cited a Supreme Court order and noted that the fact that that the charge sheet has been submitted against the applicant cannot be used in favour of the applicant, rather it would go against him. "As stated earlier, the courts considering the bail application are required to maintain a fine balance between the societal interest vis-a-vis personal liberty of the accused, by adhering to the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence. "In this background, the contention of the applicant that his educational qualification and social background, needs to be considered while deciding bail application, is liable to be discarded, the judge observed. Teltumbde, arrested by the NIA in April last year, had in January 2021 filed a bail application stating that the theory of the prosecution that he was "waging a war or attempting to wage a war or abetting others to wage a war or incite the public is humbug." Teltumbde is presently lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
16-07-2021||India||ED attaches assets  of Anil Deshmukh worth about Rs 4 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) Friday said it has attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore in connection with its money laundering probe in an extortion-cum-bribery case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his family. A provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) attaching a residential flat worth Rs 1.54 crore in Mumbai's Worli, and 25 land parcels valued at Rs 2.67 crore in Dhutum village in Raigad district. The central probe agency alleged the attached properties are "beneficially owned" by Deshmukh. The 72-year-old NCP leader has skipped at least three Enforcement Directorate (ED) summonses for questioning in this case. His son Hrishikesh and wife were also summoned by the federal probe agency but they too refused to depose. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April this year. The ED claimed its probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police (now-suspended)." "Further, with the help of Delhi-based dummy companies, Deshmukh family laundered the tainted money of Rs 4.18 crore and projected it as untainted by showing the same as amount received in the Trust namely Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha," the ED claimed. It said the Worli flat is "beneficially owned" by Deshmukh but is registered in the name of his wife. "It was found that the entire payment (for the flat) was made through cash only in 2004, however, sale deed was done in the month of February, 2020 when Anil Deshmukh was home minister of Maharashtra." "Deshmukh family has acquired 50 per cent ownership in Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd including its assets like land and shops totally valued at approximately Rs 5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying amount of Rs 17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap, it said. Deshmukh has denied in the past any wrongdoing in these instances and his lawyers have called the ED action unjustified. He recently approached the Supreme Court with a petition seeking protection from any coercive action by the ED. He had said Param Bir Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner. The agency had last month raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from those of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case over Param Bir Singh's allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery. After he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED had earlier claimed in the court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). Waze is lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai in connection with a NIA case related to the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The ED said Waze also recorded his statement, saying he attended a meeting at the official residence of the then home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and was asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Delta variant behind most breakthrough clinical Covid-19 cases, says study||The Delta variant of SARS-COV-2 was behind majority of clinical cases of breakthrough infection of Covid-19 but only 9.8 per cent cases required hospitalisation and fatality was observed in only 0.4 per cent cases, according to a new ICMR study. Breakthrough infection is if one gets infected even after immunisation. The study, the largest and first nation-wide study of post-vaccination breakthrough infections from India, said its analysis shows that the vaccination does provide reduction in hospital admission and mortality. "Therefore, enhancing the vaccination drive and immunising the populations quickly would be the most important strategy to prevent further deadly waves of the Covid-19 and would reduce the burden on the health care system," the study said. Two new SARS-CoV-2 variants Delta AY.1 and AY.2 were also identified in these study samples. "Delta AY.1 and AY.2 is characterized by the presence of K417N mutation in the spike protein region. K417N, E484K, L452R, and E484Q are the mutations known to disrupt receptor binding domain (RBD) binding capacity and make them more infectious by immune escape mechanisms against the current vaccines. This indicates improved virus fitness to evade immune responses and survive against the vaccines," the study said. For the study, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) collected 677 clinical samples (throat swab/nasal swabs) of individuals who had received two doses and one dose of vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin,) and tested positive for COVID-19, from 17 states and Union Territories of the country. This study indicated that the majority of the clinical cases in the breakthrough were infected with the Delta variant and only 9.8 per cent cases required hospitalization while fatality was observed in only 0.4 per cent cases. "The overall majority (86.09 per cent) of the breakthrough infections were caused by the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of SARS-CoV-2 in different regions of India except for the northern region where the Alpha variant predominated," the study said. The present study revealed the infection among breakthrough cases predominantly occurred through Delta variants indicating its high community transmission during March-June followed by Alpha and Kappa variants. In the study, 67 cases (9.8 per cent) required hospitalization and fatality was observed in only three cases (0.4 per cent). The 17 states and Union Territories from where the samples were collected are Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Puducherry, New Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. The study found that southern, western, eastern and north-western regions of India predominantly reported breakthrough infections from mainly Delta and then Kappa variant of SARS-CoV-2. Out of the 677 patients analysed, 85 acquired Covid-19 infection after taking the first dose of the vaccine, while 592 were infected after receiving both doses of the vaccine. A total of 604 patients had received Covishield vaccine, 71 had received Covaxin and two had received Sinopharm vaccine. A total of 482 cases (71 per cent) were symptomatic with one or more symptoms, while 29 per cent had asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||T-Series managing director Bhushan Kumar booked for rape||Mumbai police have registered a case against T-Series company's managing director Bhushan Kumar, son of music baron late Gulshan Kumar, for allegedly raping a woman on the promise of providing a job to her, an official said on Friday. The offence was registered at D N Nagar police station in Andheri (West) on the basis of the complaint lodged by the 30-year-old woman, he said. However, the police did not give details about when the alleged crime took place. As per the complaint, Bhushan Kumar allegedly raped the woman on the pretext of providing a job to her in some projects of his own company, the official said. The woman said she was cheated by him and hence she approached the police, he added. According to him, Kumar has been booked under IPC sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation), T-Series is a music record label and film production company founded by Gulshan Kumar, also known as the 'Cassette king', who was shot dead in 1997 in Andheri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Heavy downpour pounds Mumbai as city records 253.3 mm rainfall||Around 250 residents of a slum-dominated area in Mumbai's Kurla were evacuated on Friday morning as the Mithi river swelled up following heavy rains in the city and its suburbs, which also affected the local train services, officials said. However, as the water level of the river later subsided, these people returned to their places, they said. People residing in Kranti Nagar, a slum-dominated area in Kurla West, located along the bank of Mithi river, were shifted to nearby municipal schools after its water level touched 3.7 metres in the morning with its danger mark being 4 metres, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Mithi river originates from Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivali and meets the Arabian sea at Mahim creek. During the 2005 Mumbai flooding, areas around the Mithi river were the most affected and Army had to be called in to rescue and shift locals. Hundreds of people had died in the floods that year. The official said that after the rains took a break following the evacuation of people, the Mithi river's water level went down to two metres from 3.7 metres. After that, most of the evacuated people returned to their places. Heavy rain pounded Mumbai, especially its suburbs, since early morning, the BMC officials said, adding that Mumbai island city recorded 55.3 mm rain, while 135 mm and 140.5 mm rain in Eastern and Western suburbs, respectively between 4 am to 9 am. A civic official said that the H-East administrative ward of the BMC, which includes areas like Bandra east and Khar east, recorded the highest rainfall of 186.9 mm, followed by 175.5 mm rain in the M-west ward that includes Shivaji Nagar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas during those five hours. Due to the downpour, several low-lying areas in the eastern and western suburbs witnessed water-logging, which led to traffic snarls on the arterial roads. As a result of water-logging, mainly between Sion and Vidya Vihar section on the Central Railway's mainline, and Chunabhatti-Tikal Nagar section on the Harbour line, the suburban train services were badly affected. A Central Railway spokesperson said the suburban services on both these lines were hit due to water-logging and it led to the bunching of trains. Due to this, suburban services ran behind schedule and the operations of some long-distance trains were also hit, he said. Mumbai has received 253.3 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8 am on Friday, making it the city's third-highest single-day rainfall in July in the last 12 years, the IMD data has revealed. This 24-hour period rainfall was recorded by India Meteorological Department's Santacruz observatory in the state capital. On July 15, 2009, Mumbai had received 274.1 mm rainfall, while on July 2, 2019, it had recorded 376.2 mm rainfall, the IMD records showed. Another observatory in Mumbai - Colaba - however, recorded only 12.8 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period till Friday morning. Both the observatories also pointed out that Mumbai has received more rains than its average rainfall. The Santacruz observatory has reported a departure of 609.1 mm rainfall as it has recorded 1,544.9 mm rainfall since June 1. Similarly, the Colaba weather station has reported a departure of 132.68 mm rainfall as it has received 1,068.4 mm rainfall since June 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi takes jibe at Modi over praise of UP govt's Covid handling||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for praising the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis, saying his "certificate" cannot hide the truth of the Yogi Adityanath dispensation's "cruelty, negligence and mismanagement" during the second wave of the coronavirus. Modi, during his visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, praised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis and said the way it had controlled the second wave was "unprecedented". "Modi ji's certificate cannot hide the truth of Yogi government's aggressive cruelty, negligence and mismanagement during the second wave of coronavirus spread in Uttar Pradesh," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "People faced enormous hardships, helplessness alone. This truth can be forgotten by Modi ji, Yogi ji, but not by those who suffered the pain of coronavirus," the Congress general secretary in-charge UP said.  Describing the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in combating COVID-19 as "commendable", the prime minister had said the state's population is more than a dozen big countries but the way "it has controlled the second wave of coronavirus and stopped its spread is unprecedented".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Afghanistan||Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize winning Indian photojournalist who worked for Reuters news agency, was killed on Friday in Afghanistan while covering the fierce fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban militants near a border crossing with Pakistan in Kandahar province. Siddiqui, 38, was on an assignment covering the clashes in the volatile Kandahar region, as the US withdraws its forces from Afghanistan ahead of the August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden. He is is survived by his wife Rike and two young children. Afghan special forces had been fighting to retake the main market area of Spin Boldak in Kandahar province when Siddiqui and a senior Afghan officer were killed in what they described as Taliban crossfire, an Afghan commander told Reuters. "We are deeply saddened to learn that our photographer, Danish Siddiqui, has been killed in Afghanistan," Reuters President Michael Friedenberg and Editor-in-Chief Alessandra Galloni said in a statement. He was embedded with Afghanitan special forces in Kandahar province when they came under attack on Friday morning. "Danish was an outstanding, Pulitzer prize-winning journalist, a devoted husband and father, and a much-loved colleague. Our thoughts are with his family at this terrible time, they said. "We are urgently seeking more information, working with authorities in the region," the statement said. In New Delhi, the Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, while responding to media queries, said that "Our Ambassador in Kabul is in touch with Afghan authorities. We are keeping his family informed of the developments." Afghanistan's ambassador to India, Farid Mamundzay, said he was deeply disturbed by the news of "the killing of a friend". "I met him 2 weeks ago before his departure to Kabul. Condolences to his family & Reuters," Mamundzay tweeted. With foreign troops withdrawing from Afghanistan after 20 years, the Taliban are rapidly capturing territory from government forces across the country, sparking fears of a potential civil war. The killing of Siddiqui comes as the Taliban captured Spin Boldak district in Kandahar, near a key border post with Pakistan, this week. Fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. Pakistan this week closed down the Friendship Gate crossing at the Chaman border in Balochistan province following reports of Taliban fighters taking control of the key border crossing point Spin Boldak in Afghanistan. Clashes between the government forces and the Taliban have intensified since US troops began to withdraw from the country. The Taliban recently claimed their fighters had retaken 85 per cent of territory in Afghanistan - a figure disputed by the government. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a total of 53 journalists have been killed in Afghanistan between 1992 and 2021. Siddiqui was based in Mumbai. He had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the Photography staff of Reuters news agency. In 2018, Siddiqui won the prestigious Pulitzer Prize in feature photography. He won it alongside a colleague and five others for their work documenting the violence faced by Myanmar's minority Rohingya community. Siddiqui graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia in 2007. He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism, and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. The photojournalist was the head of Reuters' multimedia team in India. His heartbreaking drone images of funeral pyres during Covid's brutal second wave in India had spotlighted global attention on the country. He had also reported on anti-CAA protests in India and won his Pulitzer for his reports on the Rohingya camps in 2018. Friends and colleagues described a man who cared deeply about the stories he covered, carrying out meticulous research before embarking on assignments and always focusing on the people caught up in the news. "Even in breaking news cycles he would think about humanising a story, and you see that so often in his pictures, including those that won the Pulitzer and stories we have done in the last few years," said Devjyot Ghoshal, a Reuters correspondent based in New Delhi and a neighbour of Siddiqui. "Covering the Delhi riots together and the Covid-19 pandemic more recently – his most compelling images were about people, isolating the human element." Siddiqui graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia in 2007. He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism, and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. This comes as the Taliban captured Spin Boldak district in Kandahar this week. Fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||PM asks states with rising Covid cases to take proactive steps to prevent third wave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged states where Covid-19 cases are rising to take proactive measures to prevent a third wave and stressed on moving forward with the strategy of test, track, treat and 'tika (vaccine)'. Modi said apprehensions about a third wave of the coronavirus are being expressed with number of cases in some states a matter of concern. During an interaction with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, he said that 80 per cent of the new Covid cases last week were from these states. Rise in Covid cases in Maharashtra and Kerala is a matter of grave concern for the country, Modi said. It is very important that the states, where cases are increasing, should take proactive measures to prevent any possibility of a third wave, the prime minister said. "We have to move forward with our strategy of test, track, treat and tika," Modi said, adding that special attention needs to be paid to micro-containment zones. Emphasising on the need to prevent crowds from gathering at public places, Modi said there is a need to be aware, alert and strict in this regard. He said funds are being made available to all states for making available new intensive care unit (ICU) beds, increasing testing capacity and for all other needs. Recently, the central government released an emergency COVID-19 response package of more than Rs 23,000 crore, Modi pointed out. The prime minister on Tuesday had interacted with chief ministers of eight North-Eastern states, another region of concern, through video conferencing, and had said the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to deal with the pandemic. He had also said that it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||SC asks Uttar Pradesh to reconsider holding even symbolic Kanwar Yatra||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to apprise it by July 19 on whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a symbolic Kanwar Yatra in the state, saying the right to life is paramount. "We are of prima facie view that it concerns all of us and is at the heart of the fundamental right to life. The health of citizens of India and right to life is paramount, all other sentiments whether being religious is subservient to this basic fundamental right," said the court, placing the matter for hearing on Monday. A bench of Justices RF Nariman and B R Gavai said that it is of the prima facie view that all kinds of sentiments are subservient to Article 21 of the Constitution. "We can give you one more opportunity to consider holding yatra physically at all. This or else we pass an order. We are all Indians and this suo motu has been taken up as Article 21 applies to all of us. Either you reconsider to have it at all or we deliver," the bench said. It said the Uttar Pradesh government cannot be allowed to hold Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid. The top court's direction came after the Uttar Pradesh government told the bench that it has decided after relevant discussions to hold a symbolic Kanwar Yatra with appropriate Covid restrictions. "The UP disaster Management Authority discussed this issue and said those who undertake yatra must be fully vaccinated. Gangajal is being kept at tankers at locations," CS Vaidyanathan, appearing for the state, told the SC. To this, Justice Nariman replied, "We all are citizens of India Article 21- right to life applies to all. UP cannot go ahead with physical yatra." Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre told the top court that states shall not be allowed to hold Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid and arrangements for Ganga water should be made by tankers at specified places. The counsel for Uttarakhand told the top court that it has by its notification has decided to ban Kanwar Yatra for this year due to Covid-19. On July 14, the top court had taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow 'Kanwar Yatra' amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and sought responses from the state as well as the Centre "given the disparate political voices" on the matter. It had referred to the statement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that not even a bit of compromise can be made on Covid-19 containment and said the citizens were perplexed about the happenings in view of the fact that the UP government has allowed the religious 'yatra' commencing from July 25. It had issued notices to the Centre and the state governments of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The fortnight-long yatra which begins with the onset of the month of Shravan by the Hindu calendar goes on till the first week of August and sees a large gathering of Kanwariyas in Haridwar in Uttarakhand from neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect the holy waters of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||SC to implement system for safe digital transmission of bail orders to jails across country||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would implement a system for safe digital transmission of its bail orders to jails across the country as despite the grant of such relief, authorities wait for authentic orders to release prisoners. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the secretary general of the apex court to submit a proposal on the scheme which can be followed and said this may be implemented in a month. It asked the states to respond on availability of internet connection in jails across nation as without this facility transmission of such orders to prisons will not be possible. It also appointed senior advocate Dushyant Dave as an amicus curiae for assisting it implementing the scheme. The top court on July 13 had taken suo motu cognizance of delay on the part of Uttar Pradesh authorities in releasing 13 prisoners who were granted bail by it on July 8. The convicts, who were juveniles at the time of offence, have been lodged in Agra Central jail for periods ranging from around 14 to 22 years in a murder case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
16-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets Sonia Gandhi amid infighting in Punjab Congress||Amid continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi. The meeting comes ahead of the party's Punjab unit revamp and amid reports that Sidhu may get a key role in the organisation. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat also attended the meeting with Sidhu, sources said. According to sources, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has expressed his resentment over Sidhu being given a key role. AICC general secretary Rawat had, however, denied such reports. Rawat had maintained that the central leadership was working out a peace formula where both Singh and Sidhu could work together to help the party win in the Punjab Assembly polls next year. Both the leaders are at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other. Notably, both Singh and Sidhu have held parallel meetings in Chandigarh with their loyalists. While the chief minister has met some party MPs, MLAs and ministers, Sidhu is learnt to have met Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, and some MLAs close to him at Randhawa's residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Over 41.10 crore Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs, informs Centre||Over 41.10 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states and union territories, and more than 2.51 crore jabs are available with them and private hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Friday. In a statement, the ministry said 52,90,640 more doses are in the process of being supplied. "More than 41.10 crore (41,10,38,530) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs (union territories) so far, through all sources, and a further 52,90,640 doses are in the pipeline," it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 38,58,75,958 doses, according to data available at 8 am, the ministry said. It said that 2,51,62,572 Covid vaccine doses -- balance and unutilised -- are still available with states and UTs, and private hospitals. The new phase of the universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination programme started on June 21 and under it, the central government made inoculation free of cost for all adults. Vaccines were earlier free for people above 45 years of age. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them the vaccines, the ministry said. In the new phase of the drive, the Union government will procure and supply free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs. it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||India logs almost 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 542 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,949 new Covid-19 cases, which took the infection tally to 3,10,26,829, while the death toll reached 4,12,531 with 542 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have declined to 4,30,422 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that a decrease of 1,619 has been recorded in the number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 19,55,910 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,00,23,239, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.99 per cent. The positivity rate has been less than three per cent for 25 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.14 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has increased to 3,01,83,876, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The vaccine doses administered so far has reached 39.53 crore under the nationwide inoculation drive against COVID-19. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 542 new fatalities included 170 deaths from Maharashtra and 87 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 4,12,531 deaths have been reported in the country, including 1,26,560 from Maharashtra, 36,037 from Karnataka, 33,606 from Tamil Nadu, 25,022 from Delhi, 22,705 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,970 from West Bengal and 16,212 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Three dead as villagers fall into a well in Madhya Pradesh||In a tragic incident, more than 30 people fell into a well while trying to rescue a boy in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district on Thursday, the police said. At least three people have died and nineteen people have been rescued and rushed to a hospital. The villagers reportedly fell into the well when the villagers were trying to rescue a boy who had fallen in the well earlier. As per officials, the parapet wall around the well collapsed due to the weight of people who were trying to rescue the boy. The well is around 50 feet deep with a water level of about 20 feet, news agency PTI reported quoting locals. The incident took place at Ganj Basoda, about 50 kilometres from the district headquarters. Speaking on the incident, Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan said that the rescue operation is on and he is in regular touch with the concerned officials. "I am constantly in touch with the administration at the site of the incident and am continuously monitoring the rescue operations. As the representative of the state government, Vidisha's in-charge minister Vishwas Sarang was present at the spot throughout the night. Under his supervision the rescue teams are engaged in rescuing the trapped people," he said. "The National Disaster Management Force and State Disaster Management Force have been pressed into action. Inspector General, Zone, and other senior officials have also reached the spot. "I am in touch with the concerned officials," Chouhan told the media. The villagers were trying to rescue a boy who fell into the well around 9 pm on Thursday. While some people climbed down to rescue her, others were standing on the parapet wall around it to help them, a police official said. The wall suddenly crashed, throwing those standing on it into the water, he said. Around 11 pm, a tractor engaged in the rescue operation, along with four policemen, skidded into the well when the area around it caved in, news agency PTI said quoting eyewitnesses. The Chief Minister has also ordered a high-level inquiry and instructed the officials to ensure the best possible medical treatment for the victims. Chouhan also announced a compensation of ₹ 5 lakh each to the family of the victims. Those injured will be given ₹ 50,000 and provided free treatment facility, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in a residential area of the city on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Danmar area, falling along Safakadal-Soura road, here in the early hours of Friday following information about the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened firing towards security forces positions which was retaliated. Two militants were killed in the ensuing gunfight, the official said, adding the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was being ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Arun Shourie moves Supreme Court against sedition law||Veteran journalist and former Union minister Arun Shourie on Thursday petitioned the Supreme Court challenging the sedition law’s constitutionality and relevance in modern-day India, joining a growing clamour against the colonial-era legislation. In a joint petition with NGO Common Cause, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, Shourie complained that Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code was increasingly being abused against citizens who disagree with those in power. The petition argued that despite the Supreme Court’s 1962 Kedar Nath Singh judgment having upheld the provision’s constitutional validity, several subsequent apex court verdicts by larger benches had upheld the freedom of speech and expression. “Further, the judgment of this hon’ble court in Kedar Nath failed to take note of judgment of constitutional bench in Superintendent Central Prison v Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (1960) wherein it was held that (a) only aggravated disturbance of ‘public order’ as opposed to mere ‘law and order’ could be used to restrict freedom of speech and expression and (b) there should be direct and proximate connection between the instigation and the aggravated disruption of public order,” the petition says. This principle was affirmed by the apex court in Rangarajan v P. Jagjivan Ram (1989) and Shreya Singhal v Union of India (2015), the petition says. According to the Kedar Nath judgment, the offence of sedition is complete if the activities tend to create public disorder or disturbance of law and order or public peace. “By casting ‘the net’ too wide the interpretation given in Kedar Nath falls foul of the judgment of this hon’ble court in Superintendent Central Prison v Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (1960).… Sedition has come to be heavily abused with cases being filed against citizens for exercising their freedom of speech and expression on the basis of the literal definition that is available to law-enforcement authorities on the statute books,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Bihar: Covid-19 deaths could be higher than state govt figures ||A survey conducted by the CPI-ML in Bihar on Covid-19 deaths has indicated the toll could be 18 to 20 times higher than the figures made public by the state government. The party is planning to submit its report to Patna High Court and also table it in the Assembly along with video and documented evidence. A CPI-ML team, including its politburo member Kavita Krishnan and several others, toured 10 out of 38 districts to ascertain the number of fatalities during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May this year. “We focused on the districts where we have a strong presence and where our members have been elected as MLAs. Our team went to around 1,000 villages to conduct a survey of how many people died with Covid-19 symptoms like fever, cough and breathing trouble. We are shocked to find that the toll could be 18 to 20 times more than the figures released by the state government,” CPI-ML Bihar secretary Kunal told The Telegraph. According to data released by the Bihar government, the state has registered over 723,570 Covid-19 cases and 9,621 deaths so far. The authenticity of the virus death toll had been questioned by various individuals and organisations who moved the high court. The high court also noticed inconsistencies in the death figures reported by different government agencies and directed the Nitish Kumar dispensation to conduct an audit. It led to an overnight revision of the Covid-19 casualties from 5,478 to 9,429 in June — a 73 per cent jump in the numbers. “The survey report is unnerving. We are going to submit it to the high court and also table it in the Assembly in the upcoming monsoon session. It will include statements and video recordings of the family members of those who lost their lives to the coronavirus. We will press for action on the issue, improvement in medical facilities and compensation to the next of kin of the deceased,” Kunal, who goes by one name, said. Though he asserted that he would make the entire report public after submitting it to the high court and the Assembly, he gave a glimpse of how bad the Covid-19 situation could be in the state, especially in rural areas. “Our team conducted the survey in 344 villages of Bhojpur district. We found that 2,113 people died there during April-May this year. Of them, 1,840 victims had symptoms of Covid-19 while the rest 273 died due to other causes. On the other hand, the state government data show that only 94 people died of Covid in these villages. There is a vast difference between the government data and the ground reality,” Kunal said. The CPI-ML has started a campaign to help the family members of Covid-19 victims submit applications at the block level to claim Rs 4 lakh compensation announced by Nitish for each pandemic death. The report also says very few patients managed to reach hospitals. The lack of facilities, scarcity of oxygen, doctors and medicines, the fear of isolation, as well as, not getting the bodies of the victims, and poverty were some of the reasons that kept people away from the hospitals. “At many hospitals, the patients were not tested for Covid-19 despite having symptoms. They were treated for typhoid. In many cases the hospitals have not mentioned anything about diagnosis or the cause in death certificates. There are also cases in which the family members of the deceased either threw away or burnt the documents provided by the hospitals,” a part of the survey report stated. Some portions of the report also throw light on the plight of the families that have lost their sole breadwinner to Covid-19. The party is now planning to expand the survey to other districts of Bihar in a bid to help the pandemic victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Afghan president Ashraf Ghani in Tashkent||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in Tashkent on Thursday on the sidelines of the Central Asia-South Asia Connectivity Summit, continuing with his series of engagements on that country. Nothing much was officially revealed about what transpired at the meeting except what the minister himself posted on Twitter. “Pleased to call on President @ashrafghani. Discussed the current situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,” Jaishankar tweeted. This meeting comes close on the heels of Jaishankar’s interaction with Afghanistan’s foreign minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, on Wednesday on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meet. There, too, Jaishankar had underlined the need for ensuring that Afghanistan’s future is not a return to its past; adding that the world will not legitimise seizure of power by violence and force. The meetings with the Afghan leadership comes at a time when India has evacuated its staff from the Kandahar consulate with the Taliban making advances in Afghanistan’s second largest city in the south near the Pakistan border. Jaishankar also met homeland security adviser to US President Joe Biden, Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, and the US’s special representative for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, who are in Tashkent for the connectivity conference which will also focus on Afghanistan given its centrality to land routes from Central to South Asia. Reports from Kabul indicate that the Taliban has fired a large number of mortars at the Salma Dam, funded and constructed by India in Herat in western Afghanistan. There was no report of any extensive damage to the project, also known as the Afghan-India Friendship Dam, but given Pakistan’s relations with the Taliban, India is conscious of its vulnerabilities. Unlike China and Russia, India has not yet got any public assurance from the Taliban that its vast investments in Afghanistan will be protected as fighting intensifies across the country in the wake of the pullout by US troops after two decades. Concerned about the fate of its investments in Afghanistan, India has apparently opened channels of communications with the Taliban; reversing its decades-old policy of not dealing with the outfit. With India investing heavily in the reconstruction of Afghanistan over the past decade-and-a-half, the Narendra Modi government appears to have adopted a pragmatic approach to secure Indian investments. India has 550 community development projects across all 34 provinces of the strife-torn country, and these cannot be sustained without the support of the Afghan government which right now appears to be fighting a losing battle with the Taliban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Unicef: India has highest number of under-vaccinated children||Disruptions in routine childhood vaccinations during the Covid-19 pandemic have undone years of gains in South Asia, a UN agency said on Thursday amid estimates that show India had three million “zero-dose” children in 2020 — the highest in the world. India, which also had the largest count of partially protected children — 3.5 million, or a 66 per cent increase over the previous year — is among 10 countries that accounted for 62 per cent of under-vaccinated children worldwide, Unicef said. About 25 million children are born in India every year. Most countries in South Asia experienced drop in childhood vaccination rates with the rates for the three full doses against diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) falling by 9 percentage points in Nepal, 7 percentage points in Pakistan and 6 percentage points in India. “It is heartbreaking to see this reversal in child vaccinations due to Covid-19 in a region where tremendous progress was being made. This is a huge setback for children in South Asia,” George Laryae-Adjei, Unicef’s regional director in South Asia, said in a statement. Unicef’s expression of concern coincides with the release on Thursday of the first global and regional estimates of childhood vaccination disruptions suggesting that 30 million children worldwide missed DTP doses while 27 million missed a dose of measles-containing vaccine (MCV) during 2020. While routine childhood vaccinations seek to protect children from a range of infections, including tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, measles, polio, hepatitis-B, Haemophilus influenzae-B and rotavirus, both the assessments examined disruptions in DTP and MCV. At nearly 4.4 million in 2020, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination over the past 10 years, Unicef said. More than 3 million of these “zero-dose” children were in India. Coverage of the first dose of the measles vaccines in South Asia fell from 92 per cent in 2019 to 88 per cent in 2020, well below the 95 per cent recommended by the World Health Organisation as needed to protect children from measles. “Today, the biggest health threat to children in South Asia is not from Covid-19, but from childhood diseases, which continue to kill children in the region,” Laryae-Adjei said, adding that governments need to invest in maternal and child health services. Public health experts have attributed the Covid-triggered disruptions to multiple reasons — shutdown or shortened timings of health facilities, lack of transport during lockdowns, while some families may have delayed seeking healthcare because of safety concerns. India’s childhood vaccination programme had in May 2020 introduced special strategies to ensure that children receive the due doses even during the Covid-19 pandemic through campaigns aimed at parents to encourage vaccinations, outreach sessions in cities and villages, and a special drive in February-March 2021 that administered vaccines to over 900,000 children who had missed doses. “Gradual but steady recovery appears to be underway,” Jonathan Mosser, a public health specialist and assistant professor of health metrics sciences at the University of Washington and his colleagues said in their study estimating global disruptions published in The Lancet on Thursday. But the researchers have cautioned that several factors such as the ongoing Covid-19 transmission, the emergence of new coronavirus variants and a focus on the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines could “easily stall or reverse these trends”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Narendra Modi gushes with praise for Yogi Adityanath's governance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded Yogi Adityanath’s “unprecedented” success in tackling the Covid second wave and provided a ringing endorsement of the chief minister’s handling of law and order, particularly crimes against women. At the peak of the second wave in May, Allahabad High Court had described the death of Covid patients in the state because of lack of oxygen supply as a “criminal act” and “not less than a genocide” by those in charge. The word “unprecedented” was at the time used mostly to describe the hundreds of bodies floating down the Ganga or buried in the sand on its banks. Adityanath’s reign has also been marked by brutal rapes and murders in Unnao and Hathras, and violence at last week’s block pramukh elections that too was described as “unprecedented” by the Opposition. “The mutant coronavirus attacked dangerously with full force but Kashi and Uttar Pradesh efficiently faced such a huge crisis. The way Uttar Pradesh controlled the second Covid wave and stopped its spread was unprecedented,” Modi said on the Banaras Hindu University grounds during a trip to his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi. “Yogiji is moving fast in the direction of forging a modern Uttar Pradesh. There is rule of law in Uttar Pradesh. Mafia raj and terrorism, which were out of control in the past, are now in the grip of the law. Those who targeted sisters and daughters cannot escape the law.” The latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau lists 59,853 crimes against women and 7,444 cases of child sexual abuse in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, the highest in the country on both counts. Modi’s praise for Adityanath comes at a time hoardings have been put up in Delhi showing the two of them and declaring Uttar Pradesh the “No. 1” state — a rare instance of large-scale promotion of a chief minister outside his turf. Yet Adityanath’s chair had appeared shaky recently after only 30 per cent of the BJP-supported candidates won the zilla panchayat and block development council seats — the top two tiers of the panchayat system — while Samajwadi-supported nominees won 45 per cent. The chief minister was summoned to Delhi in late June, with sources claiming he was asked to explain the defeat as well as his highhanded functioning that was triggering dissidence and his Covid mismanagement that was giving Modi a bad press globally. However, the BJP later managed to win 66 zilla panchayat chairpersons’ seats out of 75 and 635 block pramukh seats out of 825 amid allegations of violence, intimidation and abductions of voters — all elected representatives. This appears to have turned the tide for Adityanath, with the BJP leadership throwing its weight behind him in the run-up to the Assembly elections, due next March, which is expected to be a barometer for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. On Thursday, Modi devoted the bulk of his half-hour speech to hailing Adityanath, who sat on the dais and was seen clapping whenever the Prime Minister praised him. “Many medical colleges are in various stages of construction in Uttar Pradesh. Work is in progress to build 550 oxygen plants. Today I inaugurated 14 oxygen plants in Varanasi alone,” the Prime Minister said. Modi inaugurated or laid the foundation stones for projects worth Rs 1,500 crore for Varanasi, which included roads, sewers and beautification drives. He inaugurated a renovated convention centre that has been renamed from Lokmanya Tilak Hall to Rudraksh. Modi claimed he was developing Varanasi while maintaining the pilgrimage city’s traditional sanctity. “While keeping its uniqueness intact, Varanasi is moving fast on the path of development. Unprecedented development is going on, whether it’s the construction of the national highway or flyovers, removal of the knots of tangled electrical wires, solving the problems of drinking water or sewers, or the development of tourism. It’s our wish and priority to clean and beautify Mother Ganga,” Modi said. Saurabh Tiwari, a Varanasi-based advocate who accuses the Modi and Adityanath governments of destroying Varanasi’s original character and has filed a case with the National Green Tribunal, said: “Varanasi’s alleyways have been destroyed and the sewers blocked in the name of beautifying the roads. Actually, they are more into commercialising the city.” He added: “The Ganga was never so polluted in Varanasi. Untreated sewage is flowing into the river these days.” Tiwari said the faecal coliform bacteria count per 100ml of river water was 71 million at the Varun-Ganga confluence, 52 million at the Assi-Ganga confluence, and 140,000 at Assi Ghat. “The permissible limit is 500 per 100ml of water,” Tiwari has said in his petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
16-07-2021||India||Supreme Court prods Centre to scrap colonial era sedition law||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed astonishment that the colonial-era sedition law had not been repealed yet and prodded the Centre to scrap it, indicating it would otherwise go on to decide the provision’s constitutional validity. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana appeared to endorse the allegation by the government’s critics that the provision was being increasingly misused to silence dissent. “If some party doesn’t want to hear the voice of other party, they may use this type of law and implicate other people.” Justice Ramana underlined that the Narendra Modi government had repealed several archaic laws (about 200) and wondered why the sedition law had survived. “Mr Attorney-General, is the sedition law of colonial times, which was used to suppress the freedom movement, still needed 75 years after Independence?” he said. Justice Ramana cited how the British had used the sedition law — Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code — against Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. “The government has been taking out stale laws from the statute books — then why has this law not been considered?” Justice Ramana underlined that conviction rate under this section is very low. “The alarming numbers of misuse can be compared to a carpenter who has been asked to use a saw to cut a tree but he goes on to cut down the entire forest,” he said. “It’s a serious question for individuals. There may be cases where some factionist may use the law against his opponent,” he added. Accountability worry Justice Ramana also broached the subject of the executive continuing to invoke laws struck down by the apex court as unconstitutional, citing the instance of Section 66A of the IT Act that criminalised “objectionable” content. “Take the 66A IT Act. Thousands of cases are registered even after (the provision) being struck down. If any policeman wants to fix somebody he can invoke 124A. Also, today everybody is a little scared when this section is invoked. These are all issues which need to be looked into,” he said. “Our concern is misuse of the law, and there seems to be no accountability of the executive.” The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that it would like to have the government’s views on the matter. Venugopal urged the court not to strike the law down and, instead, individually segregate the cases of misuse and lay down guidelines to prevent such misuse. But the top court issued a formal notice to the Centre on the separate petitions moved by Major General (retired) S.G. Vombatkere and the Editors Guild of India challenging the constitutionality of the sedition law. On July 12, another bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit had sought the Centre’s response to a similar petition filed by two journalists from Manipur and Chhattisgarh, both booked for sedition. Clubbing plea Venugopal referred to the July 12 order passed by the other bench that had sought the government’s response and was slated to hear the matter on July 27. He suggested the present petitions be clubbed together with the other petition. Justice Ramana said the bench would examine whether the petitions should be clubbed. Advocate P.B. Suresh, appearing for Vombatkere, argued against clubbing, saying his client’s case stood on a different footing. Vombatkere’s plea is that despite the five-judge Kedar Nath Singh verdict of 1962 upholding the constitutional validity of Section 124A, the challenge survives because the 11-judge decision in R.C. Cooper (1970), the nine-judge ruling in Justice Puttaswamy (2017) and various other constitution bench judgments had upheld free speech and privacy as fundamental rights. Senior advocate Shyam Divan referred to the Editors Guild’s petition, saying it had not just challenged the sedition law but detailed its increasing misuse. Justice Ramana said the bench would examine all the sedition cases pending with the apex court and, if necessary, place them all before a particular bench. He also remarked that Vombatkere’s petition could not be taken lightly. “The petitioner is somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country for his service. We cannot say it is a motivated petition,” he told Venugopal. Vombatkere’s petition, filed through advocate Prasanna S, has argued that the sedition law runs counter to Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution (freedom of speech) read with Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty). Against the 1962 judgment upholding Section 124A, he has cited not just the 1970 (R.C. Cooper) and 2017 (Puttaswamy) judgments but also Indira Gandhi v Raj Narain 1975 (five judges), Maneka Gandhi v Union of India 1978 (seven judges), and I.R. Coelho v State of Tamil Nadu (2007). Mehta said the government would submit a detailed response. “Once you receive our reply, your Lordships’ workload would be reduced.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Sedition crusader Vombatkere also fought Aadhaar card compulsion||Major General (retd) S.G. Vombatkere, whom the Chief Justice of India on Thursday lauded as “somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country” as a soldier, has been a veteran also of many battles to uphold the nation’s constitutional values. The 79-year-old has not just challenged the constitutionality of the sedition law —which provided the context for the CJI’s remark — but also contested the earlier government decisions to make the Aadhaar card mandatory for a range of transactions and to create a National Population Register (NPR) for the ostensible purpose of identifying illegal immigrants. While the Supreme Court had in 2017 read down the Aadhaar provision saying it could not be made mandatory except for the PDS scheme, it is yet to decide on the batch of petitions challenging the new citizenship matrix that includes the NPR, National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. Vombatkere had also been among the 150-odd military veterans who had in 2019 written to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing concern at the “politicisation” of the armed forces. The context was BJP campaigners’ use of expressions like “Modi ji ki sena” to describe the military in their bid to milk the Balakot airstrike and the 2016 “surgical strikes” to win votes for the party in the 2019 general election. Contacted by The Telegraph at his home in Mysore, Karnataka, Vombatkere declined to comment on the Supreme Court’s decision to admit his petition or Chief Justice N.V. Ramana’s compliment. “The petitioner is somebody who has sacrificed his whole life for the country for his service. We cannot say it is a motivated petition,” Justice Ramana had observed. “Sorry, I would not like to comment on the issue as it is sub judice,” Vombatkere told this newspaper. “As the matter is before the court I would not like to comment. Kindly excuse me.” Vombatkere had served the army for 35 years, rising to the rank of major general. He had retired as additional director-general in charge of discipline and vigilance at army headquarters, New Delhi. His petition in the apex court argues that the Constitution guarantees freedom of speech and expression, subject only to “reasonable restrictions” on the limited grounds of the interests of India’s sovereignty, integrity and security, friendly relations with foreign countries, public order, decency and morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation and the like. However, the sedition law “makes every speech or expression that ‘brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India’ a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment”, the petition says. It contends that “a statute criminalising expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions of ‘disaffection towards government’ etc is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression... and causes (a) constitutionally impermissible ‘chilling effect’ on speech”. The petition recalls that the apex court had in the 1962 Kedar Nath judgment upheld the validity of the sedition law, but only after reading down the provision to mean that only comments that intended or tended to cause violence were punishable. “It is submitted that the march of the times and the development of the law has to be taken into account in dealing with such a question now, unconstrained by the Kedar Nath holding. It is submitted that Kedar Nath reasoning has to be understood as the ratio in an era where the reading of fundamental rights was rather restrictive,” the petition says. “There has been a sea change in understanding the scope, extent and the interrelationship of fundamental rights....” Citing a host of constitution bench judgments since 1962, the petition says: “Each of these decisions now establish(es) that fundamental rights in the Constitution are not to be read as isolated silos or as watertight compartments; but are to be read as if the content of each fundamental right animates the other. “The reasonableness of the restriction of free speech... will need to (be) considered afresh considering procedural as well as substantive due process embodied in Articles 14 (equality) and 21 (life and liberty).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Congress plans to appoint Sidhu as Punjab unit president ||The Congress central leadership appears to have made up its mind to appoint the rebellious Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab unit president amid a fierce fratricidal strife that may have significantly weakened the party in the state. The formal announcement may come within the next couple of days, granting Sidhu his wish for a leadership role in the upcoming Assembly elections. Though chief minister Amarinder Singh, who is bitterly opposed to the cricketer turned politician, will remain at the helm, the central leadership is clearly investing more in Sidhu whose popularity among the people has soared because of the sacrilege issue that he has so forcefully raised. There will still be a balancing act with two working presidents, probably Hindus including a Dalit, to prevent the BJP’s traditional voters from shifting towards the main challenger, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws has badly dented the BJP’s support base — primarily Hindus — and the Congress wants to slice away a major chunk of that vote. Both the chief minister and the PCC president being Sikh doesn’t appear to give out an inclusive message. The Congress, which had been seeing the Punjab elections next year as a cakewalk because of the farmers’ protest, has suddenly got sucked into the vortex of an internal feud. Sidhu had been publicly accusing the chief minister of complicity with the Badal family (of the Akali Dal) and deliberate inaction in the 2015 case of alleged desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing at Faridkot, bringing the government and the party into disrepute. The controversies damaged Amarinder’s image also which, many senior leaders believe, was on a gradual decline because of non-fulfilment of promises and an autocratic style of functioning. A Punjab Congress leader told The Telegraph: “The national media has failed to gauge the extent of damage to the Captain’s (Amarinder) reputation over the past few years. But for the farmers’ agitation, his game would have been over long ago. Captain has an entirely different image here. There was no question of him being projected as the party’s face in this election. It is all his own doing; he invited trouble for himself. Had he performed well as chief minister, Sidhu couldn’t have attacked him publicly and survived.” Sidhu is popular among the masses but not among the Congress leaders and MLAs. “He is also a loner,” said a party MP, pointing to Sidhu’s apparent arrogance and immaturity while conceding that he was in a position to draw crowds and fetch votes for the party. The central leadership might have received that input through surveys before bulldozing the chief minister’s strong objection to his appointment as the state chief. Rahul Gandhi was still cautious but Priyanka Gandhi is said to have forced the decision. A majority of the leaders, however, are apprehensive about conflicts and mishaps as expecting a perfect coordination between Sidhu and Amarinder during the election campaign would be like asking for the moon. Sidhu would like to have a say in appointments in party and candidate selection, which may become a major cause for confrontation with the chief minister. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s job doesn’t end by appointing Sidhu as the state chief and they will have to steer the ship through turbulent waters till the elections, many believe. The task of managing contradictions will be easier if the Congress manages to resolve the core issue of the party’s national president within the next few weeks. The vacuum has created fertile ground for wild speculation and rumours; the news of Kamal Nath being made the party’s working president created a huge buzz throughout the day on Thursday. What triggered the speculation was a meeting between Nath and Sonia Gandhi. It is no secret that Nath has emerged as Sonia’s main trouble-shooter after Ahmed Patel’s demise and he would indeed get an important role in the party if Rahul finally refuses to return as president. The formula of four vice-presidents or one working president to assist Sonia is very much on the table for several months now. A Congress general secretary said: “I have answered over a hundred calls today on Kamal Nath becoming party president despite being completely in the dark about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt extends partial lockdown till July-end||The Odisha government has decided to continue the partial lockdown in the state till the month-end as a precautionary measure. Announcing this here on Thursday, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra said the decision was prompted by the statistics on the Covid-19 cases which still remain high in some areas including Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. However, the government will relax the lockdown conditions with the 20 category A districts, where the number of cases are comparatively low, gaining the most. Under the new guidelines that come into effect from 6am on Friday shops in the Category A districts will remain open from 7am to 8pm while they will be allowed to do business from 7am to 5pm in  Category B districts, most of them in the coastal belt with high case load. However, the weekend shutdowns, which will come into effect from 5pm on Fridays and will continue till 6am on Monday in Category B districts. Bus services will resume across the state but no buses will be allowed to Puri till July 25 in view of Ratha Yatra. In the other districts, buses will ply with their full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed. The government has also decided to open saloons, spas and beauty parlours but restrictions on outdoor gatherings will continue. No public meetings or religious gatherings are allowed in the state which reported 66 new deaths due to Covid infection on Thursday taking the total death toll in the pandemic to 4,861. The highest number of 21 fatalities have been reported from Khordha district while 10 each were from Bargarh and Sundargarh, eight from Balasore, seven from Sambalpur, two each from Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj and one each from Bolangir, Cuttack, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Kalahandi and Puri. The Covid positive tally in Odisha also rose to 9,47,859 with as many as 2,110 more people testing positive for the virus on Thursday. The number of active cases in the state has reached 22,299. Khordha district reported the highest 458 cases in the past 24 hours, followed by Cuttack (323), Balasore (168), Kendrapara (132), Puri (113), Mayurbhanj (99) and Jajpur (92).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||Covid: Govt asks states for 'quick gap analysis’ of health-infra||The Union health ministry on Thursday asked states to “conduct a quick gap analysis” of their healthcare infrastructure that could be addressed through the Rs 23,123-crore Emergency Covid-19 Response Package-2 approved by the Union cabinet last week. Health ministry officials, during a videoconference to discuss preparations to bolster healthcare infrastructure, told state officials to identify their specific needs and send their expenditure proposals to enable approvals and sanctions from the Centre. The package, intended for implementation between July 2021 and March 2022 with Rs 15,000 crore provided by the Centre and Rs 8,123 crore being the share of states, will seek to expand India’s capacity to manage Covid-19 and enhance paediatric care services. The package is designed to help states augment Covid-19 care services at the district and sub-district level by adding paediatric care units, intensive care unit beds, oxygen storage tanks, testing facilities and ambulances wherever gaps exist. The Union cabinet had approved the package on July 8, two months after the peak of India’s second Covid-19 wave that had overwhelmed the country’s healthcare infrastructure. Many patients had died after hospitals ran short of beds or oxygen. Health officials during the meeting advised states to conduct a gap analysis for various such infrastructure components, including their information technology infrastructure readiness, and establish hub-and-spoke models for teleconsultations to improve Covid-19 care services. Critical care medicine specialists have cautioned that shortages in staff experienced in critical care services in many rural districts across the country are likely to make teleconsultations unavoidable to render effective treatment. Under the ECRP-2, the Centre plans to establish dedicated paediatric units in all 736 districts, add 20,000 ICU beds in the public healthcare system, of which 20 per cent would be paediatric beds, install 1,050 medical oxygen storage tanks, and introduce 8,800 new ambulances. Health officials have also asked states to procure and augment stocks of medicines required to treat Covid-19, using the health ministry’s guidelines on procurement and buffer stocks that states need to establish. “States must come up with their own assessments based on stocks and costs involved,” the health ministry said. A clinician and public health specialist familiar with rural healthcare services said any move to augment healthcare infrastructure is welcome. While adding physical infrastructure such as beds or ambulances would help, plans to shore up healthcare also need to focus on medical staff, the specialist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||India||China not responding to Indian requests to schedule fresh talks||The Chinese army is neither responding to Indian requests to schedule fresh talks nor showing any commitment to restoring status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, sources in India’s security establishment said. A newspaper article claimed a fresh clash had occurred in May in the Galwan Valley with no clarity on casualties, but the Indian army denied the claim. On Wednesday, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar too articulated India’s disappointment at China’s failure to work towards further disengagement. His comments came at a meeting with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Indian sources reiterated the growing apprehension that the Chinese were working to establish a “revised status quo” and therefore seemed uninterested in honouring their word to disengage from friction points. “The Chinese have shown no signs of reversing their positions along the LAC. It’s evident they want to establish a revised status quo that will enable them to hold on to their newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The Chinese, he said, had so far not responded to requests for a fresh date for another round of military talks. Eleven rounds of talks since June last year have provided no breakthroughs. “They don’t seem interested in corps-commander-level talks,” the official said. In an article published in Business Standard on Wednesday, former Colonel Ajai Shukla reported an alleged clash between Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley in May, close to where India lost 20 soldiers on June 15 last year while inflicting an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese. The report said it was not clear whether any casualties occurred this time. The alleged clash took place “when PLA soldiers set up a tent at the bend of the Galwan River near PP14. India demanded it be removed as it was in the buffer area that both sides had agreed to,” the article said. The Indian army denied any clash, saying the report was “riddled with inaccuracies and misinformation”. The Chinese have so far refused to disengage from the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. They have retreated partially in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake while staying well within India-claimed lines and getting the Indian troops to step back an equal distance within their own territory. After Wednesday’s meeting in Dushanbe, Jaishanker tweeted that the discussions had focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the western sector. “Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the senior military commanders,” the tweet said. A defence ministry official said: “The situation along the LAC continues to be fraught amid a massive deployment by the Chinese and mirror deployment by India to avert any further incursion.” India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Madhyamik marksheets to be released on July 20||With board exams having been cancelled in West Bengal due to the Covid-19 situation, at par with several other states, students of Class 10 will soon be given score sheets which have been prepared after taking into consideration their Class 9 result and internal assessment marks, a notification here said on Friday.  Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, said in the notification that the marksheets will be released on July 20 following a press meet.  "There will be no merit list this time. Class 10 (Madhyamik) candidates can download the score sheet by logging on to designated websites from 10 am on Tuesday," Ganguly said in the notification.  He had earlier said that experts, after discussions, have decided on an evaluation criterion, going by which 50 per cent marks will be derived from Class 9 annual exam result, and the remaining 50 per cent from internal assessment.  "Equal emphasis will be given on the Class 9 annual exam marks and the internal formative assessment score of every subject in Class 10," Ganguly had said.  The date of birth and registration number of the candidate will have to be typed to access the score sheet.  Over 12 lakh students were slated to appear for Madhyamik examination this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu attends Assembly hearing on Mukul's disqualification plea, may move court||Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday attended the hearing on a petition seeking Mukul Roy's disqualification as an MLA at Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay's chamber and said that a decision should be taken in the matter at the earliest. He also said that the saffron party may move the court, if necessary. Adhikari had recently submitted a 64-page document to the speaker demanding immediate disqualification of Roy as MLA under the anti-defection law on the grounds that he has won an Assembly seat on a BJP ticket but switched over to the TMC shortly after. The BJP MLA from Nandigram, along with other legislators, had staged a walkout in the Assembly last week in protest against Roy's appointment as Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. Emerging out of the speaker's chamber, on the premises of the Assembly, Adhikari told reporters, "We would want a specific time frame within which the hearing will be completed. We want Roy to get disqualified as soon as possible. We are considering our legal options... The party may move the court." The senior BJP leader, who had also switched camps ahead of the state elections, said all documents, audio clips and video footage backing our demand have been placed before the speaker. "We have already provided a 64-page dossier to the office of the speaker. The process of hearing should not take too long. We have great respect for the speaker's chair but past experiences have made us sceptics. "Over the last 10 years, there had been at least 50 cases of such defections in West Bengal. Not much happened... We don't have confidence in this (TMC) government." Adhikari further said that July 30 has been fixed as the next date of hearing. Asked about the development during Friday's hearing, he said, "The BJP will not go into technicalities... We have been asked to attend the hearing again on July 30." Sources in the Assembly said the speaker sought certain clarifications from Adhikari during the hearing. Roy, however, but didn't talk to media persons after the hearing. The legislator attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee as its chairman, during the day. No BJP MLA was present at the session. TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, when approached, said the speaker has just taken cognizance of the complaint against Mukul Roy. "There is no question of any acknowledgment of the BJP's stand by the speaker. The hearing has only begun," the Rajya Sabha MP said. He further hailed the move of Lok Sabha secretariat to send notices to turncoat MPs Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal, who crossed over to the BJP from the TMC before the polls. "Our party has sought the disqualification of Adhikari and Mondal as MPs to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. We are happy that the process to hear their cases has started. Let's hope for a positive outcome," the TMC deputy leader in the Upper House said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Deeply hurt, will take action, says Jyotipriya on NHRC accusation||Taking umbrage at the fact that his name has been included in the "list of notorious criminals" by the NHRC panel which prepared a report on post-poll violence in Bengal, forest minister Jyotipriya Mallick on Friday said he was exploring his legal options. Several other TMC MLAs, whose names featured in the list, claimed that a deliberate attempt was being made to tarnish the image of their party. Mallick, a three-time MLA from Habra in North 24 Parganas, said, "I am deeply hurt by the accusation. Leave alone an FIR, if anyone finds a general diary against me in any police station of West Bengal, I will reward that person. "Steps will be taken in accordance with the law, a defamation suit will be filed in court if required." An inquiry panel, formed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) chairman on a direction of the Calcutta High Court, has stated in its report that the situation in the state of Bengal is a "manifestation of law of ruler, instead of rule of law". The report, which was submitted before the high court on July 13, also recommended a CBI probe into "grievous offences like murder and rape". An annexure of the document has named several TMC leaders as "notorious criminals", including the forest minister, Canning Purba MLA Saukat Molla, Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmick, former Dinhata legislator Udayan Guha and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election agent in Nandigram constituency, Sheikh Sufiyan. Echoing Mallick, the Naihati MLA said that the "list smacks of vindictiveness". "There is no criminal case against me... This was a deliberate attempt on the part of the commission to malign the TMC," Bhowmick, a three-time MLA from Naihati, said. Guha, on his part, alleged that an NHRC team had visited the houses of the ones who had attacked him at Dinhata in Cooch Behar, but not his home, although it is "situated a stone's throw away". Accusing the NHRC committee of having adopted a "partisan attitude", Sufiyan said the panel has acted at the behest of the BJP and Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MPs press Election Commission for Assembly bypolls ||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday said if the Election Commission of India could hold eight-phase Bengal polls when the positive confirmation rate reached 33 per cent by Phase 8, there was no ground to withhold the pending Assembly bypolls when that rate came down to 1.5 per cent. A delegation of six Trinamul MPs urged the commission’s full bench to declare the Bengal bypolls at once. “In April 2021, during which time polls were conducted in eights phases spread across the month, there was a steep rise in daily cases of Covid-19 in West Bengal. From the middle of April 2021, at the peak of elections, the daily cases rose from approximately 6,000 cases daily to 17,000 cases,” it wrote in its memorandum to the commission. The delegation comprised MPs Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Saugata Roy, Kalyan Banerjee, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Derek O’Brien and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. “Despite the rise in Covid-19 cases and our repeated requests, the remaining phases of the polls were not clubbed together, as the ECI concluded that it was safe to conduct elections. The number of cases is at least 17 times lower now with fewer than 831 cases reported till July 14, 2021,” it added. The commission has not responded to queries on the meeting. On Thursday, Mamata said chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had already informed the commission formally of the state’s willingness and preparedness for the conduct of not only the bypolls to two Rajya Sabha seats but also to the seven Assembly segments. “Because there is no contiguity in the case of these seven seats, isolated seats…. There are many areas across the state with zero new cases. For instance, Bhowanipore, I was going through a Calcutta Municipal Corporation report… there are zero new infections in many wards. Arrey baba, here, in those seven constituencies, there is nothing at all. I was seeing yesterday, zero, zero, zero, shawb!” said Mamata. On Thursday, MP Roy said all three commissioners, secretary-general Umesh Sinha, and deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain — whom Trinamul had formally accused of bias towards the BJP — were present. “The EC showed us district-wise charts of where all vacant constituencies in the country are…. They said they have a national outlook and can’t be state-specific, but assured us that the EC would hold elections according to its constitutional mandate after considering all pros and cons,” said Roy. “The EC also said it would seek suggestions from parties on restrictions on campaigning in view of the pandemic. If asked, our party will respond appropriately. Our leader has been clear that elections should not endanger the lives of people,” he added. The BJP replaced its chief minister in Uttarakhand, who sought to be elected in a by-poll from the state where the Assembly has less than a year of its term left. Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, mandates the commission to fill vacancies in Parliament and the state legislatures through by-polls within six months from the date of their occurrence, provided that the remainder of the term of the new member is one year or more. Mamata faces no such challenge, as the Bengal Assembly has its entire five-year term ahead. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the elections on account of health concerns, has to be elected to the Assembly. However, there have been doubts over whether Mitra would continue, as he no longer wants to be in active, electoral politics on account of his failing health. The Bengal Assembly did, earlier this month, approve Mamata’s idea for reviving the Upper House, the Vidhan Parishad, abolished in 1969. But its revival – with the necessity of central approval – might not be possible within six months. “Why they (the BJP) are scared? The provisions are very clear…. We are not asking for anything illegal,” said the Trinamul chief on Thursday, responding to queries on the BJP’s resistance to the by-polls. “They know that they will lose every election. That is why. They are worried for that. We are not. They have already lost. Now there is no need for shouting. They should keep mum,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee taunts PM Modi’s praise for UP law & order ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for upholding the Uttar Pradesh government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19 and praising the law and order in the northern state. Modi lavished praise on the Yogi Adityanath government on Covid and law and order during a programme at the Prime Minister’s Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday. The Bengal chief minister said UP as a state was “out of rule of law” and referred to the heinous incidents of rapes at Unnao and Hathras. “Prime Minister knows very well what is going on in UP. There is no rule of law…UP, it is out of the rule of law and…regarding Covid, what is the record? How many persons died? Can they show us any records? Or the government of India...UP is their baby that is why it is safe? How are the dead bodies coming through Ganga? They have just sent the dead bodies through Ganga…Our Holy Ganges, they carried all the dead bodies and it is coming through UP to Bihar to Bengal…,” Mamata said at Nabanna. She claimed that the Bengal government had recovered eight corpses from the Ganga, which had come floating down from Uttar Pradesh. “…In Bengal, we also recovered eight bodies. There are so many we do not know their fate…” Mamata accused the UP government of disrespecting the corpses and said instead of cremating the bodies, they were dumped in the river. “And, now they are praising,” Mamata said. The Trinamul Congress supremo announced that she would be visiting Delhi sometime soon. Although she didn’t give a date for her visit, party sources said Mamata would be in Delhi between July 24 and 30 when the monsoon session of Parliament would be in full swing. If she gets time, Mamata will also meet President Ramnath Kovind and the prime minister. “We shall see whose appointments we get…,” she added. Mamata is supposed to meet A-listed national leaders such as Congress’s Sonia Gandhi and AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal. These meetings will happen in close coordination with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and poll consultant Prashant Kishor shall also be a part of these sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of nine fishermen recovered from capsized trawler, one missing||Bodies of nine of 10 fishermen, who had been trapped in the trawler that capsized in the Bay of Bengal while returning to the shore in South 24-Parganas early on Wednesday, were recovered on Thursday. On July 11, the trawler Haimavati had left Fraserganj to catch Hilsa with 12 on board. It capsized on Wednesday morning, 25km off from the coast of Fraserganj, in the midst of sudden strong waves. Two fishermen who had jumped out of the trawler were rescued by a nearby boat. Ten other fishermen, who were asleep, got trapped inside. Late on Wednesday, the trawler was dragged to Baliara harbour by six other boats. The bodies of nine fishermen were recovered from the bottom cabin of the trawler after pumping out water. One fisherman is still missing. On Thursday afternoon, the bodies were handed over to the families of the victims after an autopsy. As of Thursday evening, the body of Anadi Sashmal could not be traced despite an aerial search conducted by the Indian Coast Guard. “One person is still missing. The search operation to trace him is going on with the support of the Indian Coast Guard,” said Jayanta Kumar Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine). State fisheries minister Akhil Giri on Thursday met family members of nine victims at the Namkhana block development office and handed them cheques of Rs 2 lakh each as ex-gratia announced by the state government. Other relief materials were also handed over to the families. Giri mentioned that a stretch of hidden alluvial land had surfaced along the coast and it could have caused the accident by virtue of concealing the true water level, which was less than what the boatman would have expected. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Giri said: “Fishermen have told me about a navigation problem in the channel close to the coastal line. It is a big problem and we will find a way out. A meeting in this regard will be held on July 22 where fishermen’s organisations will also be present. Our aim is to avert the recurrence of such accidents.” Sources in the state administration said a team from the fisheries department would talk to the two surviving fishermen who were operating the trawler during the accident to discern whether erroneous steering had caused the accident. “Correct navigation is a vital security aspect, and can often lead to accidents. We always advise trawler owners to engage experienced people, but norms are flouted and unfortunately we don’t have any official mechanism to ensure the same. Over the past two years, around 150 fishermen either died or went missing while fishing in deep sea owing to bad weather or accidents, but the exact reason behind such accidents remains mostly unknown,” said a senior official of fisheries department in Namkhana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal needs 1.5 crore doses a month: Mamata writes to Modi ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Centre to send at least 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to the state every month and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him that Bengal was facing a problem in carrying out the inoculation drive because of irregular supply of doses from Delhi. “We need at least 1.5 crore vaccine doses every month to complete vaccination of all eligible persons in the state at the earliest. Even if we get 2 crore doses a month, it would take about six months to complete the vaccination drive,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata said the state had administered a total of 2.5 crore doses of vaccines, of which 1.8 crore were first doses. “This means only 70 lakh of about 7 crore eligible people (above 18 years) have been fully vaccinated. So, we could give two doses of vaccines to only 10 per cent of the eligible persons, which is too meagre to prevent the spread of the virus if the third wave hits. That is why the chief minister is worried,” said a senior government official. In her letter to the Prime Minister, the chief minister mentioned that the state was administering around 3 lakh doses a day but it was also becoming very tough to maintain the pace because of irregular supply of vaccines. Mamata also wrote that the state was not getting vaccines according to its requirements even though the Centre promised to supply more vaccine doses to the state. “As per intimation received from the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, the state has been allocated 73 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the month of July, 2021. But unfortunately, 25 lakh doses have only been received till date in the current month,” the chief minister wrote. Mamata also pointed out that the state could not use its full potential of administering 10 lakh vaccines a day only because of the shortage. “We have a capacity that can vaccinate more than 10 lakh people every day, provided sufficient quantities of vaccine is made available,” the letter reads. In her letter, Mamata urged Modi to give instructions to increase supply of vaccines to the state so that a substantial portion of the population could be vaccinated before the third wave. “As per our assessment, the state needs around 11.5 crore more doses.... Hence, we would earnestly request you to kindly give necessary instructions so that Covid-19 vaccination supply to our state is increased,” the chief minister wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 891 new Covid-19 cases, 12 fresh fatalities||Bengal on Thursday reported the 25th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 1,089 recoveries, 891 infections and a dozen deaths. With Calcutta logging 76 infections and North 24-Parganas 92, Thursday was the eighth successive day since the second wave struck when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections, while North Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia logged single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Thursday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases fell by 210 on Thursday to 13,637. Of the 12 deaths, two were in Calcutta and one from North 24-Parganas. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Birbhum, West Burdwan, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas reported just one each. “Even about six weeks ago, the daily death toll was around 150, with some districts reporting 40-50 deaths each. We have come a long way since,” said a minister. “We successfully managed to arrest fatalities in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets, which collectively have nearly 16,200 (over 90 per cent) of the total 17,970 deaths,” he added. The 61-75 age bracket of the infected has a mortality rate of 3.43, but nearly 7,500 (41.7 per cent) of the total deaths. In Bengal, around 12,100 (67.3 per cent) of the total deaths were of infected males. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. In the key parameter of case growth — percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that — Bengal is 24th on the list of states, with case growth falling by 47.8 per cent. Bengal has been able to maintain a case growth of –40 to –60 for weeks. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.91 per cent, with the national rate at 97.25. The state now has a total of over 15.15 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.84 lakh recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Initiative to prepare masterplans to save Digha and Sunderbans||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government had taken up an initiative to prepare masterplans for the Sunderbans and Digha to minimise the damage the two areas faced on a regular basis because of natural calamities like cyclones. “We have set up a committee comprising 24 members to find out ways to save the Sunderbans and Digha. The masterplans would give us a direction on which we can work to save the areas from natural disasters they face regularly,” Mamata said at Nabanna on Thursday. The chief minister said the state government had taken three plans — short-term, mid-term and long-term — to help people of these two areas after Cyclone Yaas had hit them in May. “We have given relief to the affected, we have collected compensation claims through Duare Tran programme and we have started sending compensation to the bank accounts of the affected,” she said. Mamata said the state government had already spent Rs 364.3 crore to give compensation to 1.91 lakh people in the affected areas. In addition to this, the state government has spent another Rs 230 crore to give compensation to the affected farmers across the state. Sources said the state government would send some more compensation to the affected and would develop flood shelters in the coastal districts as soon as the state government got some funds from the Centre. Mamata also inaugurated a programme virtually at Digha where 54 vendors were given trolleys as their kiosks had been damaged during Yaas. Moreover, the state government has repaired 114 damaged stalls located near the beach in Digha. These stalls had been damaged severely in Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||National Human Rights Commission lists minister as goon, CM fumes||A report filed by the National Human Rights Commission’s probe committee before Calcutta High Court on alleged post-poll results violence in Bengal has named several current and former lawmakers of the Trinamul Congress, including a senior minister, in its list of 123 “notorious criminals/goons”, besides echoing many of the BJP’s concerns and demands. The list of names is part of an annexure to the report. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called the NHRC’s committee “a great liar”, accusing it of distorting facts. “The pre-poll matter, they say post-poll violence. (It was) Pre-poll violence, it (the administration) was under the Election Commission, not with us. What they are raising, maximum… this was pre-poll. That also we don’t support. But that time, it was not with us… the law and order machinery was with the Election Commission, please understand this,” said Mamata. The list includes the likes of Jyotipriya Mullick, Trinamul’s key leader from North 24-Parganas and forest and non-conventional and renewable energy sources minister, former Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha, Burdwan South MLA Khokan Das, Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik, Canning East MLA Saokat Molla and Mamata’s Nandigram election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. Mullick, a lawyer, said he was “extremely hurt and ashamed” that the NHRC had done this to him, allegedly without having conducted its due diligence, at the BJP’s behest. Mullick threatened to sue the NHRC over the “false, fabricated framing”. A special five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court led by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on June 18 expressed dissatisfaction over the “ongoing post-poll violence” in Bengal. It directed the NHRC chairperson — currently Justice (retired) Arun Kumar Mishra — to set up a committee and send it to Bengal to inquire into the post-poll violence and file a report before the court. “They (the committee) are speaking just like a great liar. Sorry, liar is an unparliamentary word. They are misleading the people and distorting the facts. When the court will give us the time, we will file our affidavit and give our opinion to the honourable court,” Mamata said. She demanded answers on why the report for the court had been circulated widely and made public even before it featured in a hearing. The chief minister accused the committee of having disrespected the court thereby, out of “political vendetta”. “(What is it) if it is not political vendetta? Only to malign the people of Bengal, because they (the BJP) have lost the election.” In a statement, the NHRC rejected allegations regarding the leak of the report, pointing out it was already available with all parties concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC adjourns hearing of Narada case till August 16||Calcutta High Court on Thursday adjourned hearing in the Narada case till August 16. The five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal is hearing the case related to the arrest of two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor by the CBI on May 17 and affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak. The CBI has accused the chief minister of creating disturbance in the investigation on the day of the arrest. The law minister has been charged with trying to influence the lower court hearing the bail plea of the arrested leaders. Both Mamata and Ghatak filed affidavits contesting the charges of the CBI. When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, counsels for Mamata and Ghatak said they would be busy with legislative affairs and sought the adjournment of the hearing. The bench granted their prayers and adjourned the hearing till August 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang resigns from Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction||Binay Tamang on Thursday resigned from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction he had formed in and headed since 2017, a decision that is likely to redraw political contours in the sharply divided hill politics. Tamang announced his decision at a media conference in Darjeeling. “I am resigning from the post of party president and also as an ordinary member of the Morcha,” Tamang said. He added that he would hand over the Morcha flag and forward a copy of his resignation letter to Bimal Gurung, the founder president of the Morcha, against whom Tamang had revolted four years back. Tamang’s decision to forward the resignation letter to Gurung indicated that his growing difference with Anit Thapa, general secretary of his faction, was the prime reason behind his resignation. Several Morcha leaders this correspondent spoke to said Thapa’s rise in importance within the party after he headed the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration — Tamang had resigned as the head of the GTA to contest the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly byelection — had sowed the seeds of factionalism. Within an hour of the resignation announcement, Tamang was removed from the faction’s WhatsApp group, a clear indication that his decision was accepted by Thapa, who, however, termed the resignation as a “surprise”. In the nearly 45-minute-long media address, Tamang cited a number of reasons for the resignation. At one point, he said he had sniffed a conspiracy since January 2019 to remove him from hill politics by “national forces” and abetted by people inside and outside his party. However, in the resignation letter addressed to party vice-president Satish Pokhrel and Thapa, Tamang said it was his “moral responsibility to resign from the post of the president” following the electoral losses in 2019 and 2021. In the last Bengal Assembly elections, the BJP and its allies had polled 39.2 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills followed by Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha which secured 32.9 per cent and Gurung’s faction that bagged 20.6 per cent. Tamang also blamed some party leaders. “Most party functionaries are not serious in organisational matters and played a double standard role (during elections) leading to the loss,” wrote Tamang. The Morcha leader, who decided to ally with the Trinamul Congress in 2017 when Gurung was with the BJP, said three “rumours” were being floated by his rivals. “Rumours are being spread that I was in touch with the BJP. Some said I would join hands with Bimal Gurung while another theory was that I would join Trinamul,” said Tamang, who virtually ruled out all the three options. Tamang said he had been in politics for 33 years, first with the GNLF till 1999, and then with the Morcha from 2007 onwards. He added that he would start the “third chapter” of his political journey. “I will start the third chapter of my political career. But please don’t ask me the details right away. I will announce it at an appropriate time,” said Tamang. Gurung didn’t waste any time in welcoming Tamang to his old party. “Bhai (Binay Tamang) was among the six core leaders behind the formation of our party in 2007. In politics, there are no permanent friends and enemies. Our doors are always welcome (for him),” said Gurung. Tamang justified his decision to hand over the flag to the “original owner (Gurung)” on the grounds that he had taken the decision to revolt against Gurung only to “save the party, people and the hills”. “I will hand over the party flag to the original owner. I request Anit bhai and others not to address the faction as Binay faction anymore,” said Tamang. In the recent polls, Calcutta High Court had allowed both the Morcha factions to use the words “Bimal faction” and “Binay faction”. Tamang said his decision to hand over a copy of his resignation letter to Gurung was prompted by the court’s earlier verdict. “I will also inform Calcutta High Court about my resignation,” said Tamang. Thapa said it was Tamang who had requested him in 2017 to start a new political culture to save the hills. “I respect Binay Tamang and I will continue to follow his principles. I will work with the state government for the betterment of the hills,” said Thapa. Thapa has decided to hold a meeting of the central committee in Kurseong on Friday to discuss the new political development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
16-07-2021||North East||Earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hits Assam||An earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hit several districts of Assam on Friday morning, an official bulletin said. There was no immediate report of any loss of life or damage to property, it said. The earthquake took place at 8.39 am and the epicentre was at Nagaon in central Assam, the National Center for Seismology said. The depth of the earthquake was 10 km, it said. According to the bulletin, the place of occurrence was 40 km west of Tezpur on the northern bank of Brahmaputra river. Panic-stricken people ran out of their homes as the quake struck the state. Northeastern states fall in the high seismic zone and earthquakes frequently hit the region. A 6.4 magnitude quake had shaken the region on April 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-07-2021||North East||Assam: Himanta vows to continue fight against drug trafficking||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has cited the drug trafficking problem portrayed in the film Udta Punjab to convey the gravity of the situation triggered by the transit of drugs through his state. After veteran AGP legislator Prodip Hazarika raised the issue of drug trafficking during the Zero Hour in the Assembly on Wednesday, Sarma made a strong pitch for the ongoing statewide crackdown against the trafficking and consumption of drugs in his 29-minute speech. The chief minister referred to the 2016 film starring Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Kareena Kapoor and Diljit Dosanjh, which showed the devastating impact of drug trade in the northern state, to flag the emerging threat to Assam from drug trafficking and its use. “We had seen the movie Udta Punjab. We had seen the Punjab situation... We were unknowingly moving towards a situation showcased in Udta Punjab. A section is using drugs to destroy our whole society. We are witnessing activities similar to the underworld we see in Hindi movies,” Sarma said, highlighting the challenges posed by drug trafficking on families and youth. Drugs mainly enter Mizoram and Manipur through the bordering areas with Myanmar and pass through Nagaland and Assam to the rest of the country. Assam police have been trying to check their entry with the help of the neighbouring states. Justifying the ongoing crackdown on drug trafficking, Sarma said their availability had increased which was evident from the arrest and seizure of drugs in the past two months. The BJP-led alliance was re-elected for a second straight term on May 2. Sarma took charge on May 10. “There were operations against drug trafficking earlier as well. In 2016 we seized 10kg heroin and in 2020 27kg... In the past two months alone we have seized 27kg heroin. This shows the growing availability of drugs. So far we have registered 1,120 cases, arrested 1,857, seized 27kg heroin, 12,823kg ganja, 41kg opium, 78000 bottles of cough syrup, over 13.1 lakh tablets... fake currency worth Rs 15,000 and Rs 1.8 crore in cash... One drug peddler has been killed in an encounter and seven injured,” Sarma said. He claimed that there will be efforts to derail the ongoing crackdown by attacking the police force because of the “big money” involved in the drug trade. “There will be zero-tolerance towards criminals and drug traffickers. This fight will continue. But there will be no compromise (on checking drug trade) as long as I am the chief minister. There will be zero-tolerance towards drug trafficking,” Sarma said, throwing his weight behind the police accused of being trigger-happy given the rise in encounters involving accused/criminals. Sarma appealed to the MLAs to support the police in this endeavour by being present during the burning down of seized drugs on July 17 and 18 in Karbi Anglong, Golaghat, Nagaon and Hojai districts. “I will be present in all the four functions,” he said. Accusing militant outfits, “except Ulfa (I)”, of being involved in the drug trade and using addicts to do their bidding, Sarma asserted informers/sources will be protected at all costs. He also assured that officers from the assistant sub-inspector to inspector rank or any policeman would receive out of turn promotion for their outstanding performance in the fight against drugs. He said there are a few in the police force involved in the drug trade but there were also people like Borsing Bey, a home guard who was given the job of a police constable for his role in seizure of drugs worth Rs 12 crore. Opposition Congress MLA Rakibul Hussain supported the government’s drive but appealed to the ruling dispensation to ensure the fight is taken to “its logical end and not left midway”. Hussain also said an impression has gained ground that encounters have increased to get publicity for the police but all operations should be conducted within the ambit of law. He urged the government to set up rehabilitation centres for addicts or else the fight against drugs will go down the drain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-07-2021||North East||Opposition mounts against Assam govt’s proposed cattle ‘preservation’ law ||Opposition is mounting against the Assam government’s proposed cattle “preservation” law with concerns being raised about the possibility of farmers’ income dwindling because of the planned bans and restrictions. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, tabled in the Assembly by chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday, aims to regulate the “slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle” by repealing the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. The bill proposes to impose stringent restrictions on the sale of beef and the transport of cattle, sharply increases the punishment for cattle slaughter and transport of cattle without permit and appears to suggest that no permit will be given for cow slaughter. Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi on Thursday said he was “out-and-out” opposed to the proposed law because it would adversely affect “our farmers, irrespective of their religion”. “There will be no amendment demand from our side. We are looking for a device through which we can speak against the bill in the House. Let there be an open debate. As a farmer I can only say that the bill in its present avatar will affect our farmers, irrespective of their religion,” he said. The bill is likely to come up for discussion in the Assembly on Monday. Gogoi said: “For a farmer from my village, cattle is big business. He sells at the cattle market the animals that are not productive or if he has in excess. There are big cattle markets in upper Assam. These markets will close down once this bill is passed. If the markets close down, how will our farmers sustain themselves? They sell their cattle to get their sons and daughters admitted to colleges. That will stop. “This is why I oppose the bill out and out. Seeking amendments will mean I support the bill.… How can I support a bill that will affect our farmers? It will also push up the price of all kinds of meat in the state” The bill says beef and beef products will no longer be permitted to be sold and consumed in specified areas. Beef is widely consumed in the region, which has a large Christian population. Assam, which has a 34 per cent Muslim population and where beef consumption is prevalent, is the first northeastern state to propose such restrictions. The bulk of the cattle that is sold at the animal markets is meant for slaughter as they have become unproductive or suffered irreversible injury or deformity. If the farmers fail to sell their cattle because of what appears to be a ban on cow slaughter and the multiple area- and religion-based restrictions on the slaughter of other forms of cattle and the stringent conditions on transit permits, they will lose out on a substantial source of income. Added to this will be the financial burden of feeding the unproductive cattle. Moreover, the instances of cow vigilantism and lynchings in other BJP-ruled states on unfounded suspicion of slaughter and possession of beef are expected to hang heavy on those wanting to sell cattle. A farmer in lower Assam said: “Buyers will not buy cattle for its meat because of the stringent restrictions on the sale of beef and beef products, thereby bringing down the price of cattle….. Although slaughter is not completely banned, the restrictions will be discouraging for the trade. In such a scenario, the farmers and owners will have to either maintain the cattle by paying from his pocket or abandon them — in both cases he loses money.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dual challenge||Exclusion is not uncommon in India’s healthcare system. Worryingly, this kind of exclusion has been exacerbated by the pandemic. A pertinent example to illustrate this point would be the slowing down in India’s efforts to detect and treat tuberculosis and other serious ailments because of the dominance of the coronavirus on healthcare policy and interventions. The first half of 2021 witnessed a 25 per cent fall in the count of new tuberculosis patients in comparison to the same period in 2019; this decline has sparked fears among experts that patients are going undiagnosed because most of the available medical resources are being routed to tackle Covid-19. This, however, is not the only challenge. A report in The Lancet has now revealed that the rate of non-communicable neurological disorders and neurological injuries of the total disease burden — strokes, dementia, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, Parkinson’s disease and so on — has more than doubled between 1990 and 2019. The battle ahead will be tough and twofold. Studies have shown that ‘lifestyle diseases’ claim more lives in India than their infectious counterparts. An ageing population, urban congestion, poor diet and hygiene, lack of exercise as well as climate change are some of the factors that have aggravated the risk. Second, given its evolving, highly-infectious variants, Covid — comorbidities exacerbate its risks — will remain a challenge in spite of the presence of vaccines. The dual threat must be met with robust investments. Dedicated systems of scrutiny and care — disease-specific funding, trained medical personnel, reliable supply chains, efficient care facilities, roping in of private players — must be conceived and implemented. Some of these measures would address the existing paucities in disease surveillance systems and poor access to diagnostic services and insurance. This must be accompanied by an unambiguous signal in favour of changes in lifestyle. The use of bicycles, the taxing of packaged food or introducing nutritious food in dietary preferences need to be contemplated. The edifice of a strong nation does not rest on hollow political signals. It can only be built by safeguarding the health of its citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Jackie Chan wants to join Chinese Communist Party; UP population control bill||New plan Sir — The actor, Jackie Chan, has expressed his desire to join the Chinese Communist Party. While this explains his controversial stance of 2019 when he backed the crackdown in Hong Kong by the Chinese government, many are baffled by this change as Chan had participated in a pro-democracy concert at Tiananmen Square in 1989. It is not that Chan cannot change his opinion; rather being able to change one’s position based on personal agenda or plans seems to have become the mark of a politician, and Chan has just ticked that box. Sudipta Chaki,Calcutta Think again Sir — The draft bill on population control and stabilization released by the Uttar Pradesh government does not inspire confidence in its objective and design (“Unbalanced”, July 13). It is reminiscent of forced family planning, the infamous idea of Sanjay Gandhi, that was implemented on a massive scale during the Emergency. Coercive methods for inculcating family planning like introducing incentivizing or punishing laws are likely to become counterproductive in the long run. The draft bill is lacking in sensitivity, creativity and practicality when it comes to addressing the problem at hand. It must be shelved. The focus on reducing infant mortality rate, women’s emancipation, raising the standards of education and healthcare has effectively brought down the total fertility rates in several southern states. The UP government should take a cue from states like Kerala and Andhra Pradesh and emulate the proven methods of attaining a stable TFR. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The new population policy released by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, has stated that it aims to ensure a population balance among communities. Given that the ruling dispensation in the state has always prioritized religious polarization, it is difficult to believe this claim, especially with the state assembly election only months away. The draft bill which has invited public feedback makes it clear that the government prefers to use punishment as a means of population control. Any policy or law that arms governments with unbridled power over citizens is erroneous. In this case, there is another fundamental point to consider — India is not threatened by a ‘population explosion’ at the moment. The success of India’s southern states in containing population growth indicates that economic growth as well as attention to education, health and empowerment of women work better in disincentivizing larger families than punitive measures. A penal population policy also tends to exclude the poor and the marginalized. In order to bring down the fertility rate, the UP government should focus on the education and empowerment of women and respecting their choices. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: All the same||The rhetoric of the uniform civil code has had a long history in India. One of the guiding principles pertaining to the UCC is that of equality before law and it is a pity that the code is yet to be implemented. However, uniformity, history shows, can be complicated, not simple. Otherwise India would have progressed some way in formulating the UCC that the Constitution makers had hoped for in Article 44. The Supreme Court brought up the issue more than once, but most recently it was the Delhi High Court that reportedly expressed the need for it. Although Indian law is uniform in many civil matters as in the Sale of Goods Act, Indian Contract Act, Indian Evidence Act and so on, marriage, divorce, adoption and inheritance can be governed by personal laws that differ among faiths. This raises unnecessary difficulties, felt the Delhi High Court, when sitting on a dispute over a divorce petition of a couple belonging to the Meena community of Rajasthan. The court reportedly felt that society was becoming more ‘homogenous’ with the dissipation of barriers between castes, communities and religions, and that young people getting married across such barriers should not be troubled by personal laws. Even beyond the courts, there exist powerful arguments in favour of a UCC not only because a uniform law in marriage or divorce is the mark of a secular, civilized country, but also because such uniformity would provide security and protection for women, who are most vulnerable under personal laws. Yet the issue is complicated. Uniformity must be balanced on India’s diversity. Can ‘homogeneity’ be desirable under a government that pushes a majoritarian agenda? Its thrust for ‘oneness’ appears to turn on divisive strategies that make barriers between castes and religions more visible. It would find helpful the Delhi High Court’s direction that its decision be communicated to the ministry of law and justice for appropriate action, because the UCC was one of the three main promises in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto. The other two were the Ram temple and the revocation of Article 370. The BJP’s appropriation of the UCC project has unnerved many who would support it otherwise, even women’s groups which are critical of personal laws. Perceived to be Hindutvavadi and patriarchal, the BJP-led government’s formulation of the UCC may alienate sections of society beyond minority communities. To comply with the Delhi High Court’s suggestion, the government must first cultivate the people’s trust in a good cause if it wishes to disarm popular resistance. That seems distant at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Covid: Go to war armed with data||The death toll in the second wave of the Covid crisis in India has garnered international attention because of its sheer number. In spite of the paucity of Covid-19-related data in India, even a cursory look at the death data shows that people who contracted Covid-19 with comorbidities are more likely to die. The health statistics clearly indicate that India is a country of comorbidities and thus sitting on the volcano of an epidemic. One in six people with diabetes in the world is from India. According to International Diabetes Federation’s Diabetes Atlas, 2019 — a document that provides and projects data on the prevalence of diabetes — about 10.4 per cent of Indians aged between 20 and 79 years are diabetic. The prevalence of diabetes is 11.8 per cent in people aged above 50 years according to a survey released by the ministry of health and family welfare in India. The recent round of National Sample Survey data on health, too, indicates a disturbing trend: about 11.6 per cent people in rural areas and 20.8 per cent in urban areas are ailing with endocrine or metabolic diseases. During both the waves, cities have been the epicentres of the pandemic, and cities are also the sites of high comorbidities. According to the National Family Health Survey-5, about 24.3 per cent of men aged 15 or above in Calcutta have high or very high blood sugar levels; the rate is only slightly less for females. High levels of hypertension inflate the Covid-induced mortality rate; about 23 per cent of men in Mumbai and Calcutta suffer from hypertension; again, women fare a little better than men. With 135 million people, the prevalence of obesity and being overweight have reached alarming proportions. This is inextricably linked to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. In these broad categories of ailments, according to NSS data, cardiovascular diseases afflict 13.8 per cent people in rural areas and about 21.9 per cent people in urban areas. Similarly, the rate for respiratory diseases hovers at around 10 per cent in both urban and rural areas. These are the deep-rooted causes that led to the extreme death toll in India. If one considers the figures of the first wave of the pandemic in West Bengal, data show that till August at least 2,851 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 died. Comorbidities were present in 2,483 patients, that is around 87 per cent of those who died. With comorbidities accounting for nearly 90 per cent of Covid-19-related deaths in West Bengal, the state government conducted a survey of people with comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases so that the death rate could be reduced with appropriate interventions. Yet, the trend continued during the deadly second wave: of the total deaths till the first week of June 2021, about 70.5 per cent patients had comorbidities. Data further reveal that hypertension tops the list of the most fatal comorbidities, followed by diabetes and cardiac diseases. Almost three out of ten patients had suffered from hypertension, and almost one-fourth were diabetic, with women being ahead of men in both ailments. About one in 10 of those deceased owing to Covid-19 had cardiac diseases; the rate for women was 7.87 per cent in this case. A door-to-door survey by Asha workers on the status of comorbidities in rural areas was conducted across the state; similar work was done in urban areas by health workers. The exercise was useful in identifying the most vulnerable people; real-time data helped reduce the mortality rates. The more or less similar mortality rates in both waves in spite of the data could be explained by the prolonged elections in the state. But the data could be utilized for health interventions in the immediate future as well as to enhance preparedness to thwart the third wave. This approach can also be nationally emulated to chart out public health interventions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s changing caste equations||Three important aspects were in focus during the Bengal elections. First, there was the nature of ‘competitive populism’ spearheaded by the two charismatic leaders of Indian politics, Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee. Second, the entry of Hindutva in Bengal’s body politic. Finally, there was the politics of caste that this side of the country had not witnessed before. Two types of caste-based movements have been integral to the spectrum of Indian politics. There are movements and resistance emerging organically from the bottom of the social ladder demanding transformative, redistributive change. Then there is the caste-based discourse superimposed on the political set-up by leaders in a bid to organize their respective campaigns. It would not be wrong to say that the recent caste-based churning in Bengal is an example of the second type.\During the recent assembly elections, political parties were hell-bent on extracting political legitimacy from caste groups, a tendency that was not part of Bengal’s political culture because caste had not been politicized, at least in public. These attempts by the political parties may not have achieved their intended goal but they have, nonetheless, situated caste within Bengal’s political matrix. Caste politics has an unconventional character in the state. This is because it is so enmeshed within the social fabric and day-to-day practices that it becomes nearly invisible. It is for this reason that liberal academia did not accept caste to be a decisive factor in determining political equations in Bengal. The difficulty in comprehending Bengal’s caste dimension can be attributed to two reasons. First, there isn’t a strict separation between the Hindu religion and the religious inclination of Namashudras and Rajbanshis, the two largest weaker social groups in the state. In northern, central and southern India, leaders like Kanshi Ram, Jyoti Rao Phule, B.R. Ambedkar and Periyar, among others, offered a strong critique of Hinduism. Historically, Bengal has lacked such attempts. Secondly, there is no dialogue within oppressed social groups since the leaders of these groups have seldom attempted to create space for an organized movement to counter caste discrimination. Consequently, caste did not become a political concern in a concrete form. The reason behind the Trinamul Congress’s formidable victory can be attributed to the political landscape of a state that remains a party society. Socio-political churns are regulated and controlled by the party machinery. The legitimacy of the party has also led to a concomitant decline in interest in caste. Very little has thus been written on the condition of weaker social groups in the post-Yaas (cyclone) period; there has been minimal evaluation of the merits of election promises of the ruling party concerning outreach programmes towards weaker caste groups. Caste’s tenuous grip on Bengal is thus the result of the absence of queries relevant to caste on a daily basis. There is also the absence of caste leadership; after Jogendranath Mandal, Bengal has hardly had a leader with a pan-Bengal influence. However, with Manoranjan Byapari in the Vidhan Sabha and also the administrative head of the Dalit Sahitya Academy, the future of weaker social groups may get a desirable direction. As for the first challenge — the absence of questions pertaining to caste in everyday life — the Hinduized social space of Bengal needs to be stirred. For this to happen, the Dalit Sahitya Academy must play a crucial role. The institution should branch out in each and every district to make people aware of the deep-rooted discrimination toward lower caste groups by conducting literary and cultural events. These strategies could help politicize Bengal’s social space. In order to achieve greater redistributive justice, the future of caste politics in West Bengal would have to establish a link between the social and the political spheres. Representative caste politics is the first step towards justice and a holistic counter-narrative against caste discrimination could lead to not only material upliftment but also greater respect and dignity for weaker social constituencies. Such a cultural transformation can only be possible with corresponding attitudinal change among the people. This is exactly where the Dalit Sahitya Academy can play a critical role in shaping the future of Bengal’s socio-political space. For the first time in Bengal’s history, the political condition is fertile to launch an assault on the edifice of caste. This is because there is a state government that is, in a way, open and sympathetic toward these ascriptive identities and has put in place a desirable candidate to head the Dalit Sahitya Academy. This is the perfect time to reconcile the social and the political to make caste truly invisible in form and content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Devil’s advocates||Ayub Khan, Pakistan’s first military dictator, was once asked by a close associate how he made the error in judgement of approving ‘Operation Gibraltar’ that led to the 1965 war with India and, ultimately, his downfall. Operation Gibraltar was a plan to infiltrate the Kashmir Valley with large numbers of Pakistani troops in the guise of freedom fighters. This would, the expectation was, catalyze an insurrection and popular revolt and end Indian occupation in Kashmir. Ayub Khan was assured by his sycophants and by the foreign ministry (led, at the time, by Z.A. Bhutto) that India would not widen the conflict, which would remain confined to the Kashmir Valley and parts of Jammu. Gibraltar was launched sometime in early August 1965. A month later, Indian forces had crossed the international border in Punjab and were on the outskirts of Lahore. Pakistan, many in the country legitimately felt, had expected to fight for Kashmir but, instead, was battling for its survival. Three assumptions had underwritten the plan: there would be an insurrection in the Valley; India would not launch a counter-attack on Pakistan-occupied Kashmir; and, finally, that it would not launch an offensive across the international border. As it happened, all those assumptions were wrong and were belied. So the question somewhat naturally arose: why did Ayub Khan launch Operation Gibraltar so naively? Many reasons were advanced then and one that gathered traction is that hubris on account of an earlier conflict in Kutch in which Pakistan felt it had gained the upper hand had bred a false overconfidence. Similarly, there was an over-assessment of Indian weakness after the 1962 India-China conflict and this further added to the sense of overconfidence. Hubris certainly plays a major part in all errors in judgment flowing from overconfidence. Yet, this was not entirely convincing to many in Pakistan and, possibly, that is what led to the question being put to Ayub Khan. The answer is revealing. Ayub Khan said, “My error was not to have established a counter syndicate.” A ‘counter syndicate’ is military staff college terminology for having the benefit of a contrarian or opposing point of view. This is an old tradition within the armed forces. When drawing up an operational plan, an opposing group is set up to find weaknesses in the approach being adopted so that it can be defeated. Being alive to these weaknesses leads to modifications and strengthens the original plan. The origins of this possibly lie in military thinkers recognizing the real dangers of groupthink in hierarchical, tightly-disciplined organizations. The risks of groupthink are widely recognized, even if theoretically. Counter syndicates have now evolved, deepened and changed beyond the tactical limits of operational military planning. These now approach the status of a discipline in itself under the rubric of ‘Red Teaming’. The basic idea is to build contrarian thinking, critical approaches and dissenting views into any planning approach or in any system or project development. Their remit is also wider. As opposed to two groups emerging from a similar mindset and shared assumptions, as happens in counter syndicates in military staff colleges, a Red Team methodology is much more radical with every starting point left open for fundamental questioning from a multidisciplinary point of view. In the United States of America, after the 9/11 attacks in particular, Red Teaming became a kind of new mantra especially for security and intelligence organizations. The premise was that a new world had emerged and there should be teams, preferably from outside the system, tasked to think the unthinkable as a critical input into any policy. Notwithstanding this, the US record of intelligence and military failure — Iraq and Afghanistan are examples — remains significant. The point, therefore, is also of decision-making authorities first being willing to encourage critical and contrarian thinking and, then, being open to receiving, incorporating and considering such dissenting inputs. Encouraging contrarian thinking within established hierarchies and mindsets has some interesting historical antecedents. In medieval Europe, the Vatican had an office known as advocatus diaboli — the ‘devil’s advocate’. His mandate was a curious but possibly essential one — to discredit and debunk potential candidates for beatification or sainthood. This meant being sceptical about a candidate’s moral character, looking for flaws in the evidence in favour of sainthood, and debunking miracles attributed to him or her. The office no longer exists but traces of its methodology continue, possibly in a different form. Thus, Christopher Hitchens, a bitter critic of Mother Teresa, was asked by the Vatican to present evidence against her as part of her canonization process. The point simply is that groupthink has a kind of inevitability to it in most organizations and the challenge for policy-makers should be to find ways to evade it. Clearly, this can only happen if policy-makers are prepared to have their assumptions questioned and their favoured positions shaken. It is certainly not easy. Another cocky military dictator in Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, had intruded deep across the Line of Control in Kargil in 1999, trapped in his own assumptions that India would negotiate rather than fight to evict the intrusion. It was a fatally flawed assumption. But Musharraf in his own hubris was even more blind than Ayub Khan to the perils of unquestioned assumptions: “Too much analysis tends to paralysis” was a favoured malapropism of his. Groupthink in his set-up extended beyond military matters with consequences that are still there to see. With some justification, one of Pakistan’s most prominent military contrarians, Air Marshal Asghar Khan, had titled a book We have Learnt Nothing from History in 2005. Much, in fact, depends on the policy-makers themselves and, here, traditional wisdom and modern management thinking may converge to a greater extent than expected. Call it ‘Red Teaming’ or by whatever other name, the point is that the absence of informed dissent accelerates the rush to hubris. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and Singapore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Missing woman's body found in a well at Hazaribagh lake||Hazaribagh: The body of NTPC's additional general manager Subhash Prasad Gupta’s wife was found from a well in Hazaribagh after she went missing on Wednesday. Investigation revealed that Ranjeeta Gupta, 39, was the victim of an accident during her morning walk where she fell into the well. Sources said the family lives in a rented house on Lake Road. Ranjeeta was in the habit of going on a morning walk every day to the Hazaribagh Lake. On Wednesday, when she didn’t return, her husband Subhash went out in search of her. But not finding her anywhere, he rushed to Lohsigna outpost informing officials about his missing wife and requesting them to launch a search. But all efforts to find her failed. On Thursday evening, relatives spotted flowers in a carrybag near a well at Hazaribagh Lake. They suspected that Ranjeeta might have fallen into the well as it did not have a boundary wall. A search was started in the well and soon her dead body was fished out. Relatives said she may have slipped and fallen into the well while trying to cross the road in a hurried manner. Police officials said this was a tragic incident and they have registered a case of unnatural death. “We have handed over the body to relatives after the post mortem,” they added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: The Jharkhand government is promoting duck farming among tribals to augment their income under its scheme called Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna said sources. A total of 37 tribal families from the villages of Dhadhu, Basiya and Oley Paath under the Balumath block in Latehar district were given 15 ducklings each under the Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna said Dr Suryavansh Thakur, the Balumath block animal husbandry officer. A total of 555 ducklings were distributed among the 37 tribal families at the rate of 15 ducklings each family. Among the 15 ducklings thirteen are females and two are males. The ducklings are 15 days old and in good health. It takes 45 to 60 days to become adult said the veterinarian Thakur. The breed of the duckling is popular Indian Runner which has a long survival and adaptability traits. Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna is a 90 percent subsidised income generating scheme where a beneficiary is to pool in his or her 10 per cent of money. The 15 ducklings cost Rs 1,670 which has 90 per cent subsidy worth Rs 1,503 and a beneficiary pools in his 167 rupees as his 10 per cent contribution said the veterinarian Thakur. Sources said the tribal are encouraged to have ducks which, if reared properly, can provide Rs 200 a week to a tribal family. Vetenarian Thakur said the ducks are vulnerable to bacterial infection and hence 37 tribal families who have been given 15 ducklings each have been advised to have a neat and clean space for the ducklings and the ducks. As ducks are a social animal it is a curse if they are forced to live single and hence ducks are always given in a dozen or so that ensures their survival. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Twin facilities introduced at Tata Steel Jharia plant||Tata Steel’s Jharia division commissioned two new facilities on Thursday including a 2 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA) capacity Coal Preparation Plant and 400 kilovolt-ampere (kVA) Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) system for its Main Mechanical Ventilator at Jamadoba Colliery. The twin facilities were inaugurated on Thursday at Jharia by D.B. Sundararamam, Vice President (Raw Materials), Tata Steel in the presence of  Mr Sanjay Rajoria, General Manager, Jharia Division, Tata Steel. The facilities are in line with its mechanisation and modernisation programme. “Introduction of appropriate technology is key to the success of underground mining. At Tata Steel, we leverage our innovation capabilities, technology leadership with focus on safety and sustainability to create long-term value. State-of-the-art beneficiation plant not only addresses issues like productivity, safety and environment but at the same time ensures production of coal at a competitive price,” Sundararamam said. “Built from cutting-edge technology, the 2 MTPA Coal Preparation Plant has been transformed from the oldest running washery in Asia (in operation since 1952) to one of the most modern washeries across the globe,” reads a press release sent by Tata Steel this afternoon. The washery (also known as Coal Preparation Plant) is a major upgradation from conventional set-up that packs Dense Media Cyclone circuit for coarse, intermediate circuit for reflux classifier and flotation for fines circuit to improve production efficiency. This is also the first washery in the country with a 100% dewatering facility built within the plant, thereby completely eliminating the need for a tailing pond, auto sprinklers and dry fog systems. The giant UPS installed today, meanwhile provides uninterrupted power supply to the 450 horsepower mine fan and automatically changes over during power failure from DVC and keeps it running for 40 minutes, giving enough time for power restoration or change-over to captive supply. The battery back-up UPS is the first of its kind in the country for any mine ventilation fan”further claimed in the press release and added that the set up is expected to enhance the safety and ergonomics within the mines and will also provide a more comfortable environment for the miners to work. Tata Steel’s Jharia Division has earlier introduced Chair Lift Man Riding System, Cooling plant, Low Capacity and Low Cost Continuous Miner with the haulage system as part of its modernization effort of underground mining in the country. This apart Jharia Division has taken several initiatives for automation and digitalization which helped in improving operational excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city records first dengue case since 2019||A 29-year-old woman who was admitted in Tata Main Hospital on Tuesday has tested positive for dengue on Friday. East Singhbhum district officer for integrated disease surveillance (IDS), Sahir Pall confirmed about the detection of dengue in the steel city. "The patient who has tested dengue positive on Friday is a 29-year-old woman. She is a resident of ECC Flat area in Kadma and is presently admitted in the Tata Main Hospital, "said Pall to The Telegraph Online. The district IDS officer said this was the first dengue case here in the steel city this year and now they will have to deal with both dengue and pandemic Covid-19. He pointed out no case of dengue had been reported from the city in 2020. "The district health department will have to call a meeting of health and sanitation officials so that necessary steps can be taken to stop the disease from getting spread, "Pall said. A person who falls victim to dengue develops symptoms like high fever, headache, pain in muscles and joints as well as rashes. In severe cases the patient suffers from bleeding and shock which may become life threatening. Dengue is caused due to the bite of the Aedes Aegypti mosquito which breeds in stagnant rain water. Despite the city reeling under the deadly coronavirus infections, the management of Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd which maintains the city had started a drive against the stagnant waters in residential areas from the month of May. Ironically, the first case of dengue was detected from ECC Flat area which comes under the Tata Steel command area. Generally, the vector-borne disease like dengue remains dominant in the steel city's fringe area like Bhuiyandih, Parsudih, Bagbera and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||World Snake Day: steel city rescue team felicitated by forest division||The steel city's snake rescue team was honoured by the Jamshedpur forest division for their contribution towards the society at a function at Patel Bagan in Sundarnagar on Friday. The Jamshedpur forest division organised the programme as part of a week-long Van Mahotsav as well as World Snake Day. World Snake Day is an important day when it comes to increasing awareness about the different species of snake all around the world. Snakes tend to have a negative connotation. A lot of people are scared of snakes. Snakes are important in the ecosystem. There are more than 3,500 species of snakes out of which around 600 are venomous. There are only 200 species of snake that pose a considerable risk to human life. JMM's Potka legislator Sanjeev Sardar felicitated the team by presenting a snake rescue kit. Jamshedpur forest division DFO Mamta Proyaradshi and other forest personnel were present at the occasion. The kit included a tong, hook and a bag. The snake rescue team of Mithilesh Srivastava also known as Chhotu, Tarun Kalindi alias Chiku, Rahul Singh, Veer Gope and Bishnu Srivastava. Rajni Lahal, also a member, could not make it to the felicitation programme. Sardar appreciated the work being done by the snake rescue team and said the members were an important part of the society. "The snake rescue team is not only saving the snakes from being killed but also spreading awareness about the dos and don'ts while spotting a reptile. I feel happy presenting the team a snake rescue kit," he added. Five hundred saplings were also sown at Patel Bagan during the event. Mithilesh Sriuvastava, a veteran snake catcher, thanked the MLA and Jamshedpur forest division and said the team was trying to increase the members of the group. "We are only six members, including a woman. We are trying hard to increase the number of members so that we can effectively cover the city and its surrounding pockets," he added. Sometimes it is seen that people even kill non-venomous snakes. "People kill snakes due to lack of awareness. Fear forces them to kill snakes. We spread awareness and ask people to contact us instead of killing the reptiles. We reach to rescue snakes once we receive calls. The snakes are rescued and released in the jungles," said Veer Gope, a team member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Harassment charges against former driver of health minister Banna Gupta||A 34-year-old woman on Friday approached senior SP M. Tamil Vanan complaining about inaction of Kadma thana in arresting the former driver of health minister Banna Gupta in a harassment case registered on the instruction of the civil court. The victim, a mother of two minor girls, is being allegedly harassed by the driver Munna Singh repeatedly after a case was registered with the Kadma thana against him. According to the victim, the accused Munna had befriended her in 2012 and had developed a relationship promising to marry her. "Not only did Munna physically exploit me but also took Rs 6.5 lakh on the pretext of buying an excavator. But after getting the money, he snapped ties and evaded paying my money back," she said. The victim said the Kadma police had not accepted the FIR which she wanted to lodge against Munna in April, leading her to knock at the door of the court in May. Though the case was registered a month ago, the police are yet to arrest the accused. As Vanan was not in the office, the victim met the deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-II) Kamal Kishore and submitted a petition demanding his arrest. "Initially, the Kadma thana did not accept my FIR and when I filed a complaint with the court, leading the court to instruct the Kadma thana for registering the case, the police were not arresting the accused. I wanted to know from a senior police officer exactly why the accused is not being arrested, "said the woman. The victim who is a resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma said since the case was registered with the Kadma thana, the accused Munna Singh is visiting her house and pressuring her to withdraw the case. The OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur admitted a case has been registered against Munna Singh on a court complaint. "As the case has been registered under SC/ST Act besides other sections, the case is being investigated by DSP (Headquarters-II) Kamal Kishore. Necessary action will be taken against the accused once the investigation is over, " said Thakur to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||For the first time this season, Jharkhand logs deficit rainfall ||For the first time this monsoon, Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase on Friday with the state recording a shortfall of one per cent . Statistics revealed that against a normal of 364.9 mm, the state has so far recorded 360.3 mm rain. According to Met data, as many as 50 per cent districts, ie, 12 out of 24, figure in the rain deficit list as of Friday. The districts that are facing a rain deficit are Chatra,  Bokaro, Garhwa, Godda,  Gumla,  Khunti, Latehar , Ranchi,  Pakur, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum. Chatra and Gumla are facing the maximum rain deficit of 32 and 29 per cent respectively. Notably, around mid-June, soon after the onset of the south-east monsoon, the surplus rain in Jharkhand had touched 109 per cent. At that time, the monsoon was described as being "vigorous" in nature. Towards the end of June, the rainfall activity over the state reduced as the monsoon entered into a weak phase. Monsoon revived and became active around July 7, resulting in widespread rain till July 11. After that rainfall activity again got gradually reduced. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said reduced rainfall during the past few days led to the deficit. "Most districts of Jharkhand have been experiencing very light rain for the last few days. The reduced rainfall activity has led to deficit rain in several districts, " he said. Only five IMD observatories across the state, those at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Arki in Khunti, Panchet in Dhanbad , Kuru in Lohardaga, Mandar in Ranchi and Palkot in Gumla, recorded light rain during the past 24 hours. Weathermen said no significant whether system prevails over the state and that southerly wind was dominating for the last two days. The Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of light to moderate thundershowers activity accompanied by lightning at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next three days. Weathermen said most districts would witness cloudy sky with one or two spells of light rain. Met data suggests that due to reduced rainfall activity the day's readings witnessed a rise. On Friday, most districts recorded a maximum temperature of two to three notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get Calcutta-style food vending zones||Nightlife in steel city is all set to change post-Covid as the district administration has planned to bring about vending zones similar to the street food markets in Calcutta. To begin with, the administration has identified two places at Sakchi for the vending zones. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, whose brain-child is the food vending zones concept, even carried out spot inspection for it along with the special officer, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Krishna Kumar on Wednesday. The places where the food vending zones are proposed to be set up are the area near Jubilee Park's Sakchi gate and the place in front of the landmark Bashant Cinema. "Food vendors are operating in a scattered way at a number of places which remain crowded with people. But we want them to do their business in an organised and decent way so that it may get convenient for the people and will also give a decent look to the city, "said Kumar. The deputy commissioner said they have already started talks with Tata Steel to make the sheds at the two places in Sakchi. "It may take three months or so for getting the sheds ready and by that time the spell of Covid must have been over. With the food vending zones in place, the people of the steel city may enjoy the same ambience like the people do at the street food markets in Calcutta during the night," Kumar pointed out. He said they are going to get the food vending zone concept executed at Sakchi now, but they have plans to set up three similar vending zones elsewhere in the city for which the work of site selection is on. During the spot inspection at Sakchi, the deputy commissioner talked to the food vendors as well as the customers and advised them to strictly follow Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand T20 tournament from Saturday, matches to be livestreamed ||Enthused by the success of its first edition, Jharkhand T20 will be held this year too, from July 17 to August 3, with matches being livestreamed to compensate for the bar on spectators because of the ongoing Covid pandemic. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) has said 33 matches will be played during the tournament and there will be two matches a day. The semi-finals are slated for August 2, followed by finals the next day. All matches can be viewed on the Fan Code app from 9am-5pm. The tournament will have six teams vying for the championship trophy. “This tournament is strictly for registered state players and there is no franchise owner or prize money involved. Neither will there be mentors,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. He said JSCA was taking all necessary precautions to ensure strict adherence to Covid guidelines. “All the officials and players will enter the premises after undergoing requisite tests and registration. Thereafter, they will need to report to the medical desk where they would need to submit their CCovid (RT-PCR negative) reports. After the submission, a personal sanitization kit shall be handed over to them,” he said, adding that detailed SOPs had been dispatched to all stakeholders of the tournament. All players and match officials will camp inside the stadium premises till the end of the tournament as a safety measure. “However, if any member is required to step out of the stadium complex due to unavoidable circumstances, he is required to obtain prior permission in writing from the JSCA secretary. Upon his return, he shall be isolated from the rest of the squad and medically assessed before being allowed back in the team environment,” reads the SOP. As for training and match play, all players/support staff will require to arrive dressed and ready to train/officiate/play matches to minimise the use of dressing rooms, washrooms and common areas. “Use of washrooms and dressing rooms/match official’s room for post-training activities (showers, recovery, etc.) shall be minimised with a “arrive, train, depart” policy. Anyone requiring to use the shower can carry their own liquid soap bottles to the ground,” says the SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis tally reaches 100-mark in Jharkhand||The mucormycosis tally in Jharkhand reached the 100-mark on Thursday after two suspected patients were diagnosed with the fungal infection, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), East Singhbhum and Giridih reported one each of the two confirmed cases, which took the tally to 22 in East Singhbhum and six in Giridih. So far, the state has reported 100 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus, and 30 patients have died. The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 failed to gain pace on Thursday despite fresh supplies of vaccines from the Centre. Provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted that the state managed to vaccinate hardly 40,000 residents on the day. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccines was administered to 27,998 residents while the second jab was administered to 11,547 beneficiaries. More than 22,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got jabbed on the day. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 336 as at least 62 Covid patients recovered on Thursday while 54 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state, the health department stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. At least nine districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Pakur, Khunti, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while Bokaro reported the highest spike of 14 cases. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported five cases against 10 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 42. At least 10 recoveries against eight fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 48, the NHM bulletin further stated. Jharkhand on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,649 residents and about 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties and the toll in the state remained 5120. Ranchi, as per government data, has reported 1585 Covid deaths, the highest among the districts. On the other hand, as many as 1040 residents have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum. The doubling rate of cases in the state reached 5421.40 days against the national average of 779.99 days on Thursday, while the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Brinda Karat accuses NIA of custodial ‘killing’ of Stan Swamy||CPM politburo member Brinda Karat termed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) a “national criminal agency”, accusing it of the custodial “killing” of Father Stan Swamy. “It is not NIA — National Investigation Agency — but NCA — national criminal agency — as it is responsible for the killing of Fr Stan Swamy. All of us know that not a single officer in the NIA moves without orders from (Union home minister) Amit Shah and it is clear who is behind the death of Fr Stan Swamy,” Brinda said during a march to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi in the afternoon to protest the death of the octogenarian and ailing Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist while awaiting bail in judicial custody in Mumbai on July 5. “We demand a judicial probe into the custodial killing of Fr Stan Swamy and the lodging of an FIR against those responsible,” the CPM leader added. A former Rajya Sabha member from Bengal, Brinda accused the NIA of fabricating and implicating rights activists in false cases. “The NIA is used to target rights activists, academics and writers who have raised voices of dissent against the Centre, and despite their fragile health they are lodged behind bars on fabricated charges and the NIA is constantly opposing their bail despite some of them being in jail for several months,” she said. “The same thing happened with Fr Stan Swamy, too, and he was denied basic medical facilities despite repeated pleas in a NIA special court,” Brinda added. She warned that the joint agitation by rights activists, social organisation and trade unions would intensify if the Centre did not accede to their demand for a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. The Hemant Soren government should review the cases of poor tribals who are languishing in jails in Jharkhand for petty crimes and release them, Brinda said. Fr Stan had fought to get such prisoners, accused of collecting fuel and fodder from forests, released. Brinda said many of these cases had not been heard for years. “Releasing such undertrial prisoners will be like paying a genuine tribute to Fr Stan Swamy,” she said. Fr Stan, who had been suffering from Parkinson’s disease, had been in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi on October 8 by the NIA. He was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), which he had later challenged in court. An NIA special court denied Fr Stan bail on four occasions, with the elderly priest having cited health issues and poor medical facilities at the jail. Fr Stan died while undergoing treatment at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Nearly 400 rights activists, supporters of non-BJP parties, student and trade union members under the aegis of the newly formed Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha marched from Shahid Chowk in Ranchi to the Raj Bhavan carrying placards and shouting slogans demanding justice for Fr Stan. Later, tribal rights activist and writer Dayamani Barla, former CPI MP Bhubaneshwar Mehta and a few CPM leaders submitted a memorandum to new governor Ramesh Bais around 2.30pm. The memorandum calls for a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, punishment for those found responsible, grant of “martyr” status for him, recommending his name for the Bharat Ratna, immediate release of all rights activists, social workers and academics imprisoned on false charges under the UAPA and repeal of the “draconian” law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand salutes Stan Swamy’s fight for the oppressed classes||Father Stan Swamy was likened to tribal icon Birsa Munda and Jesus Christ at a memorial service on Thursday for his untiring fight for the cause of the oppressed and eventual victimisation and death. Speaking at the service, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren referred to the “martyrdom” of Birsa Munda and Fr Stan. “Jharkhand has never been behind in martyrdom; people have seen the likes of Bhagwan Birsa Munda and Fr Stan Swamy,” Soren said. Birsa Munda had fought the British during the tribal movement. He was arrested along with other activists in criminal cases foisted on them by the Raj and died in prison while awaiting trial on June 9, 1900. Fr Stan, accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, died in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail in judicial custody. “The coming generations should know that Fr Stan Swamy had always been sensitive towards Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and when the time came, he stood up for them and did not succumb to the oppressors,” Soren said. At the memorial service at Bagaicha, the social integration centre at Namkum near Ranchi that the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist had founded and where he lived, the chief minister’s voice choked with emotion as he said: “Fr Stan Swamy is not among us. Had he not been arrested he would have been with us. I had met him once but didn’t realise then the enormity of his long (nearly five-decade) struggle for tribals and the oppressed.” Taking a dig at the Centre and certain media outlets, Soren said: “The present ruling system is adding new chapters of suppression in the country by arresting under the UAPA those who raise the voice of dissent. Several writers, student leaders and social workers are facing consequences for speaking against injustice, and the big media channels remain silent as they do not consider those who raise their voice for Adivasis, Dalits and the oppressed as important.” Soren added: “His life was not easy and he always chose to guide and empower people. Such people come once in ages and leave an indelible mark through their actions. As a chief minister from the tribal community, I am duty bound to implement any scheme keeping in mind its impact on tribals, Dalits and the marginalised.” Felix Toppo, who was named as the Ranchi Archbishop by Pope Francis in June 2018 and installed in August the same year, paid tributes to Fr Stan by drawing a parallel with Jesus Christ. “Fr Stan Swamy was one such great man who decided to imbibe the teachings of Jesus Christ and followed in his footprints. Like Jesus Christ who raised his voice for the poor and the oppressed, faced opposition and false charges, and was tortured and crucified, Fr Stan Swamy spoke for the tribals, especially on displacement and the usurping of land and illegal detentions, was opposed, tortured in jail on fabricated charges, and finally died in custody,” Fr Felix said. The archbishop said a true homage to Fr Stan would be to imbibe his ideals and take up the cause of the poor and the oppressed in the face of any opposition. Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas offered two proposals to the chief minister. “The UAPA — a draconian act which does not even allow a sick person bail on medical grounds — is not required for our country…. Using the UAPA only to take advantage of it for politics is not appropriate. I would request the chief minister to kindly discuss this topic with other chief ministers,” Bishop Mascarenhas said. “Sedition cases have been continuing since the time of the British. To use this law made by outsiders against our countrymen and arrest them is not appropriate. All sedition cases on (the) Pathalgadi (movement by tribals) and other such cases should be lifted and there should be freedom of expression,” he added. Welfare economist and social scientist Jean Dreze described Fr Stan as a close friend. “I knew him for the last 15 years. Since he was already 70 years old by then, I have only experienced a small glimpse of his life. We met often during struggles and protests. He was an ideal social activist, showing simplicity and courage,” Dreze said. “I learnt something from him, to love the oppressed, the powerless, the Adivasis, Dalits, women. He was full of love but he was also angry with all injustice. He wanted struggle, not service. He had this philosophy of only standing with the oppressed and exploited who would stand up for themselves. I think we all need to learn, understand and continue his work.” Tributes were also paid by old associates of Fr Stan, Sway Ajita S. George from the Brinda Institute of Research and Social Action, Ranchi, and Father Tony Herbert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||13-year-old drowns while bathing in Subarnarekha ||A 13-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath at Baridih ghatna in Subernarekha River along the Sidhgora thana area of the city on Thursday afternoon. The victim, Ankit Sharma, drowned in the swollen river alongside three of his friends at about 1pm on Thursday. The victim was a resident of Meera Road in Baridih Bustee, just 500 metres away from the river ghat. Though the deceased's friend succeeded in rushing him to MGM Medical College Hospital in an auto-rickshaw, but on reaching the hospital, the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. A doctor who attended to Ankit said that had he been given necessary therapy like chest compressions followed by breath-giving repeatedly on the spot, then perhaps he would have survived. "But instead of giving the drowning victim the necessary therapy, his friends brought him to the medical college hospital by travelling about 8km. The boys who brought him here must not be aware about the therapy, "said the doctor to The Telegraph Online. The OC of Sidhgora thana, Ravi Ranjan Prasad Singh confirmed the death. "The victim's father Umesh Sharma has in a statement said that his son had gone to take bath in the river along with his friends and drowned accidentally. We have seized the body and have shifted it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post mortem, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. "My son would hardly go to take bath in the river, but he went over to the river ghat on being asked by his friends who reside in the same locality,” said bereaved Umesh Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Kafeel Khan flags child delivery risks, holds free medical camp in Jharkhand ||Paediatrician Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur doctor who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and has emerged as a symbol of resistance against State oppression, held a free medical camp for children here on Thursday. “This is my eighth camp in Jharkhand and I will attend two more — one at Madhupur and another at Godda — this time,” Khan told The Telegraph. The Ranchi camp, held at the Haj House, was the 94th held across the country in the past three months, since Khan and a like-minded doctor Harjit Singh launched a child-health initiative called “Doctors on Road” on April 14, he said. “We organise these camps in rural and slum areas where they need medical assistance more and also try our best to provide the required medicines,” Khan said. He added that they organise the camps with help from the Smile Foundation and also local NGOs that extend logistic support. “The healthcare system is usually poor in such areas but things have become worse during the pandemic, affecting newborns the maximum,” Khan said. “Earlier, about 70 per cent of the total deliveries would be institutional deliveries. But the percentage dropped drastically during the pandemic when untrained maids handled deliveries at home that created many health problems,” he said. He said some of these deliveries at home may lead to birth asphyxia that may later turn into cerebral palsy. “There were two such babies among the first 10 I examined here,” the child specialist said to strengthen his observation. He said such cases may also happen at rural health centres or small hospitals where a paediatrician may not be immediately available at the time of birth. Asked about the diseases he found among the children residing in rural areas and slums, Khan said: “Half of our rural children are malnourished and that, in turn, makes them vulnerable.” “Besides, almost half the women in reproductive age group are anaemic which also makes the situation complicated,” he added. “We examine around 300 children on an average and also give them medicines at these camps,” Khan said, adding that he is usually joined by other doctors who volunteer at the camps. “Dr Khan was alone but still attended to about 155 children single-handedly,” said Tanweer Ahmad, founder of The Friends of Weaker Sections, a local NGO that helped organise the Ranchi camp. Khan, who had been accused of the deaths of 70 children from oxygen shortage in August 2017 while serving as an academic doctor at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College and Hospital, was eventually acquitted of all charges but re-arrested under the National Security Act for his controversial speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act at Aligarh Muslim University early last year. After seven months in Mathura jail, he was released on September 1, 2020, after Allahabad High Court dropped charges against him terming his arrest “illegal”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
