17-07-2021||Calcutta||IRCTC plan a 'fishy affair' on Rupnarayan bank as Hilsa season kicks in ||Monsoon ushers in relief from the hot and humid summers everywhere, and for Bengalis it also brings with it a silver lining on their plates in the form of the delectable Hilsa fish, usually savoured steamed, smoked, deep fried, or with mustard paste. In an attempt to cash in on this fervent love for the seasonal delight, the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has organised a daylong tour from Calcutta to Kolaghat for a gastronomical treat on the banks of Rupnarayan river, with unlimited supply of Hilsa, locally referred to as Ilish. The first such day-trip will be held on July 25 with a maximum of 20 tourists, IRCTC eastern zonal head Debasish Chanda said. "Visitors will be taken to the banks of Rupnarayan river in luxury mini buses, which will depart from Esplanade at 10.30 am. They will be offered a light snack during the travel," he said. On reaching Kolaghat, which is around 75 km from here, each of them will be offered a welcome drink. "A sumptuous lunch will be waiting for them, where various preparations of the silver-scaled fish will be on offer. The spread will include 'Ilish pulao' and 'Bhapa ilish' among other items," Chanda told PTI. On the return journey, the visitors will also be given a tour of the Radha Madhav temple and author Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay's house at Deulti, he noted. The trip will cost Rs 2,999 per person, the IRCTC official said. "As of now, we have zeroed in on four dates for conducting the tour -- July 25, August 8, August 22 and September 5," Chanda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||ED impostor arrested after bid to cheat Trinamul MP||A man who allegedly impersonated an Enforcement Directorate officer and offered help to Trinamul MP Santanu Sen in lieu of money to “settle” cases Sen said he did not know about, has been arrested. Police said Sen mentioned in the complaint lodged with Karaya police station that he was first approached by the alleged imposter on July 1 and informed that “several cases” had been pending against the MP with the central agency. “The caller identified himself as Santanu Maitra, senior special investigating officer of the ED. He told Sen that he would settle the cases against him for money,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The matter was brought to the notice of Calcutta police and an investigation suggested that the real name of the accused was Chandan Roy, 38, a resident of Dum Dum. “He was not in any way linked to the central agency,” the officer said. On advice of the police, Sen fixed a meeting with the accused. He told Roy that he would send an assistant to the meeting. However, instead of Sen’s assistant, cops had gone to meet Roy. The accused was picked up from the Esplanade bus terminus on Thursday night. Sen said he was thankful to Calcutta police for the “prompt action”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik results will be announced on July 20||The results of Madhyamik 2020 will be announced on July 20. The results will be available on websites from 10am on July 20. The websites where the results can be accessed include www.wbbs.wb.gov.in, http://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametc.com, www.anandabazar.com, www.telegraphindia.com, www.abpeducation.com, www.indiaresults.com, www.results.shiksha and Wb10.abplive.com. One has to enter his or her registration number and date of birth to know the results. Examinees can pre-register their registration numbers and mobile numbers on exametc.com to get the results on SMS for free, said an official of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. They can also download the mobile app “Madhyamik Result 2021” from Google play store or www.results.shiksha to know their results for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||JEE: 92,695 examinees will write first physical exam after 2nd wave||As many as 92,695 examinees will write the Bengal JEE on Saturday in what will be the first public examination to be held at exam centres this year. The state JEE, conducted to shortlist candidates for engineering and pharmacy courses in Bengal, will be held at 274 centres across the state. Here are the rules of the exams: Exam begins At 11am. Arrival time Examinees have been advised to arrive at the centre at least half an hour before the start of the exam. They must be certain about the location of the centre and means to commute as some travel restrictions are still in place. Things to carry Candidates must wear masks and bring their own hand sanitiser. They must carry the admit card, a copy of the colour photograph that was uploaded on the online application and an original photo identity card. Checks at centres A state JEE board official said the examinees would have to undergo thermal gun inspection at the centre for body temperature. The candidate will be segregated if he or she is found to be running a temperature. The board’s guideline says such candidates must be allowed to write the test from an isolated facility set up at the centre. Exam time Paper-1 (mathematics) will be held from 11am to 1pm. Paper-II (physics and chemistry) will be held from 2pm to 4pm. Invigilators The invigilators have been advised to wear N-95 masks, gloves and carry hand sanitiser. A guideline by the board on safety measures says: “If any candidate needs a mask, the invigilator should provide. Hand sanitiser should be kept in the examination hall for use as and when required.” The invigilator and the centre-in-charge have to ensure that the number of examinees in a room does not exceed 28. Transport An Eastern Railway official said JEE examinees would be allowed to board staff special suburban trains and Metro trains. “A candidate will have to produce the admit card and buy a ticket to board a suburban train,” the official said. To board Metro trains, examinees have to produce admit cards and carry smart cards. Some social groups have organised special buses for examinees. Centres The practice of allocating centres closest to the applicants’ homes was followed in this year’s JEE to curtail the use of public transport. The number of centres has also been raised, an official of the board said. The school service commission will hold in-person interviews from July 19 for recruitment of upper primary teachers for Class VI to VIII. Education minister Bratya Basu said the interviews will be held in phases because of the pandemic. Candidates can download the intimation letter for the interview from the commission’s website www.westbengalssc.com. Candidates are required to have a set of photocopies of all relevant testimonials along with the corresponding originals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Excise department seeks explanation from HHI for serving liquor after 8pm||The excise department has sought an explanation from Hotel Hindustan International (HHI) for allegedly serving liquor beyond the government stipulated time of 8pm in a suite on the sixth floor. Officers in the excise department said the Saturday night party at the AJC Bose Road hotel was held at the bar before it was shifted to the suite post-8pm. A state government order on Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut by 8pm. Excise officials who would not be named said when a team of officers reached the sixth floor, the hotel authorities allegedly switched off the corridor lights and the hotel’s manager remained unavailable despite saying he would be there within a few minutes. Asked for comment, an HHI spokesperson told this newspaper: “We have nothing to say as of now. I will let you know when my bosses tell me something.” A senior officer of the excise department said: “We have reasons to believe that liquor was served inside the suite and accordingly the raid was carried out under specific provisions of excise rules. The hotel authorities will have to explain whether they had served liquor in the sixth-floor suite after 8pm or the liquor was sourced from outside.” The excise department said it had sought CCTV footage from the sixth-floor corridor. One footage that the hotel authorities submitted on Friday was said to be hazy. “They said a large part of the hotel has remained shut during the pandemic and some CCTVs have developed snags resulting in blurred images,” the officer said. Officers from the excise department are believed to have visited the hotel around 9pm on Saturday, some four hours before a team of officers of the detective department of Calcutta police raided The Park, where a late night party was allegedly going on in violation of Covid curbs. In all, 37 persons were arrested from the Park Street hotel and several items, including liquor bottles, glasses and a DJ console were seized. An FIR was lodged with Park Street police station under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. On Friday, officers of the detective department spoke to senior officials of The Park to try and understand whether the hotel had played any role in making arrangements for the late night party in violation of restrictions imposed by the state government. “Some hotel employees claimed that they were not aware that some guests, who had booked rooms on the second and third floors, had planned to organise a party late at night,” said an officer. “We might need to question a few other officials again.” The Park has been barred from serving alcohol till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Police ask govt offices to comply with beacon rules ||Police have written to all offices of the state and central governments in the city to comply with the beacon rules issued by the Bengal government. A notification issued by the state transport department in 2014 — which the police said was the last beacon-related one issued — has been circulated so that all government offices are aware about the ranks eligible for beacon-fitted vehicles, the police said. The list has been circulated across the 25 traffic guards with instructions to “first request and then prosecute” if government officials are found using beacons in violation of rules. Recently, cops had requested an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner posted in the customs department to remove the beacon from his vehicle because his designation did not make him eligible for one. The officer immediately removed the beacon, officers said. In a letter to the 53 state government departments, Lalbazar has cited recent “instances of unauthorised use of such beacon-fitted vehicles… which tantamounts to the violation of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court… as well as sections 108(2) CMVR and 226(3) WBMVR”. “In light of the above, you are requested to direct the concerned officer in your department dealing with the deployment of beacon-fitted vehicles, to go through the notification… and take necessary action accordingly,” the letter said. In the communication to the central government offices, the police have made the same request and asked if there is any order by the Centre on this matter. Several cops said it was not easy to implement the beacon rules in a city where there is rampant misuse of beacons and flashers. Cops on the road often come in for a lot of flak if they try to stop a beacon-fitted vehicle and seek details of the persons inside. “Keeping all factors in mind, the sergeants have been asked to first request if any government official is found to use a beacon without being entitled to it. In case of repeated offence, we will have to prosecute,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. According to a state transport department notification issued on June 19, 2014, the governor, chief minister, chief justice of the high court, Assembly speaker, cabinet ministers of the state government, leader of the opposition in the Assembly and judges of the high court are eligible to use red beacons and flashers on their vehicles. There are other categories authorised to use beacons with and without flashers. An officer said the Centre had amended the list in 2017 but in the absence of a notification by the state mentioning the amendment, the city police were sticking to the notification issued by the state in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic blow: 71-year-old widow commits suicide in Haridevpur ||A 71-year-old widow, who was a pensioner and the lone earning member in the family that included an unemployed son and a daughter, is believed to have ended her life consuming bathroom cleaner at her home in Haridevpur on Thursday morning. Police said Swapna Bhowmick’s son had been engaged in odd jobs and was unemployed for a long time because of the pandemic. Family members and neighbours have told the police that the family’s financial condition had driven the elderly woman to suicide. Swapna used to live with her two unmarried children — Rabindranath, 51, and Ruma, 44 — in a rented apartment on the ground floor of a building on Bhuban Mohan Roy Road in Haridevpur. The police said she was found whimpering in pain at the apartment on Thursday morning. “Her son was the first to be alerted by the sound. He rushed in and found his mother lying on the floor. An open bottle of a bathroom cleaner was lying nearby. The woman was crying, her son told us,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. She was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where she died. “We learnt during the investigation that she was very depressed because of the family’s financial conditions, and more so because her son became jobless during the pandemic,” the officer said. “No suicide note has been found. It was apparent from the statement of the woman’s son and daughter that their financial conditions had driven her to suicide.” In the recent past, a man who had lost job at a pharmaceutical company and was supplying polythene bags to grocery stores in the city had ended his life. A couple who had bought four-wheelers and given them out on rent to be used as app cabs had committed suicide last year as they were unable to repay the car loan. More recently, a woman had committed suicide as she was apparently depressed because of inadequate income of her husband, whose salary was lesser than the monthly rent of their apartment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro Railway resumes services for all on Friday ||Metro Railway resumed services for all on Friday after a gap of 61 days. Officials said the footfall was high during the morning and evening rush hours. A passenger who boarded a train at Esplanade in the evening said all seats were occupied and physical distancing could hardly be maintained because of the number of passengers. Metro ferried 1,28,957 passengers on Friday. “Most of the passengers were travelling for work. In such a situation it is difficult to control the number of people and enforce social distancing,” said an RPF officer. The carrier ran 192 trains on Friday. The number will be 208 from Monday and trains will be available at an interval of six minutes. “The 208 trains will run from Monday to Friday between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash, from 8am to 8pm,” a Metro official said. On Saturdays, 104 maintenance special trains will run for essential staff. There will be no service on Sundays. Before the pandemic, Metro would run 288 trains from Monday to Friday. The number of trains had been increased gradually since the service resumed in September after remaining suspended for close to six months as a precaution against Covid. The count rose to 258 in April. “We had increased the train count gradually and we will do so even now,” a Metro official said. Debjani Bhattacharya, who commutes between Dum Dum and Esplanade, is looking forward to an increase in the number of trains because that will ensure safer travel. “Commuters are cautious because of the pandemic but it is not possible to maintain physical distancing given the number of passengers. More trains are likely to lessen the commuter load on each,” she said. Forty-eight trains will run on the East-West Metro corridor from 8am to 8pm from Monday to Friday, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Civic body asks health department  to allot more doses to vaccination centres||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is vaccinating around 30,000 people a day but nearly 25 per cent of them are from outside the Calcutta municipal area, officials said. This highlights the fact that if vaccines have been scarce in Calcutta, they have been scarcer outside the city’s boundary. The civic body has asked the state health department to allot more doses to its Covid vaccination centres because they are not only vaccinating Calcuttans but also a large number of people from districts. “If the vaccination of the entire population of Calcutta is to be expedited, more doses are required for the city,” a civic official said. “Over the past 10 days or so, thanks to shortage of doses, we have not been able to vaccinate more than 30,000 people a day on average. We have found that about 25 to 30 per cent of the people who are getting vaccinated at our clinics are from Sonarpur, Baruipur, Bidhannagar, Barasat and other places in adjoining districts,” a senior doctor at the CMC said. “We have requested the health department to allot us more doses.” The Telegraph reported on Friday that erratic supply of Covid vaccines had hobbled the inoculation drive in Calcutta. Only about nine lakh of the targeted 60 lakh people in the city have received two doses till date. According to the CoWIN portal, where all Covid vaccinations are registered, over 39 lakh doses have been administered in Calcutta till 8pm on Friday. The figure includes the doses administered from government as well as private centres but the majority of them were given from CMC clinics. “More than a quarter of the people getting the shot at CMC clinics are not residents of the city. While allocating doses to us, one needs to keep in mind that we are inoculating a sizeable number of people from districts daily,” a CMC official said. Several households in Calcutta have domestic workers who come from adjoining districts such as North and South 24-Parganas. Also, a large number of people with blue-collar or white-collar jobs in Calcutta are from outside the city. Many of these people have taken their jabs in Calcutta as the vaccination infrastructure in the places they are from is not as robust as it is in the city. The CMC runs as many as 190 Covid vaccination centres. “Our domestic help comes from Lakshmikantapur in South 24-Parganas. She took both her jabs from a CMC centre. It was easier for her to take the jabs here because there are many centres in Calcutta. In Lakshmikantapur there are only a handful,” said a Gariahat resident. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury told The Telegraph that vaccination of those who come to work in Calcutta is as important as vaccinating those who stay in the city. “Huge numbers of people come to work in Calcutta from neighbouring districts. If they are not fully vaccinated, they could become carriers of the virus and spread it to others. These people can also take back the infection to their places of residence and become spreaders of the disease there. It is absolutely necessary to vaccinate them,” said Chowdhury, a member of the Covid task force of the state government. Civic doctors said the CMC had to discontinue bookings at its clinics through WhatsApp chatbot because many of the recipients who booked their slots were from outside the Calcutta municipal area, a trend that many ward coordinators had objected to. “The ward coordinators complained that many people in their wards had to stand in queues while people from elsewhere took the jabs after booking slots through the chatbot,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
17-07-2021||Business||Ola Electric gets 1 lakh bookings for upcoming e-scoters||Ola Electric on Saturday said it has received around 1 lakh bookings for its upcoming scooter within the first 24 hours of initiating the process. The company had opened booking for its electric scooter in the evening of July 15. "I am thrilled by the tremendous response from customers across India for our first electric vehicle. The unprecedented demand is a clear indicator of shifting consumer preferences to EVs. This is a huge step forward in our mission to transition the world to sustainable mobility," Ola Chairman and Group CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said in a statement. Ola claims the electric scooter would be class leading in terms of speed, range, boot space as well as technology. The company has stated that the model would be priced aggressively to make it widely accessible. Ola plans to reveal the features and price of the scooter in the coming days. The scooter will be made-in-India for the world. It would be manufactured at the company's two-wheeler factory, being built in Tamil Nadu. The first phase of the Ola Futurefactory is nearing completion and will be operationalised soon, while the full capacity of 10 million vehicles per annum will be built by next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Reliance Retail to acquire 40.95% stake in Just Dial for Rs 3,497 crore||Mukesh Ambani on Friday took another step in his inorganic growth path with Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) set to acquire a controlling stake in local search engine platform Just Dial Ltd for Rs 3,497 crore. RRVL, which is the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Friday executed definitive agreements with Just Dial and its founder V.S.S. Mani and others. Consequently, Just Dial will make a preferential allotment of 2.11 crore equity shares to RRVL at Rs 1,022.25 apiece for Rs 2,165 crore. Further, the RIL subsidiary will acquire 1.3 crore equity shares from Mani at Rs 1,020 apiece for Rs 1,332 crore. It also intends to acquire up to 2.17 crore equity shares, representing 26 per cent in Just Dial, from its minority shareholders through an open offer for Rs 2,222 crore. If the open offer is successful, the total consideration would rise to Rs 5,719 crore. The preferential offer price of Rs 1,022.25 represents a discount of almost 5 per cent to the closing price of the Just Dial share on the BSE on Friday. Sources close to RIL said the acquisition will help it in its B2B and B2C initiatives and is in synergy with some of its other buyouts such as UrbanLadder last year. “Reliance is excited to partner Justdial and V.S.S. Mani, a first-generation entrepreneur, who has created a strong business through his business acumen and perseverance. The investment in Just Dial underlines our commitment to New Commerce by boosting the digital ecosystem for millions of our partner merchants, micro, small and medium enterprises. We look forward to working with the highly experienced management team of Just Dial as we expand the business going forward,” said Isha Ambani, director of RRVL. A statement from RIL said V.S.S. Mani will continue as the managing director and chief executive officer to lead Just Dial through the next phase of growth. The company added that the capital infused by RRVL will help to drive the growth and expansion of Just Dial into a comprehensive local listing and commerce platform. The investments are expected to benefit Just Dial’s existing database of around 30.4 million listings and its consumer traffic of around 129 million quarterly unique users as on March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||India expresses concerns over high oil prices to Saudi, UAE||India has expressed its concern over high oil prices to Saudi Arabia and the UAE as it is adding to the inflationary pressure on an economy struck by the coronavirus. Petroleum minister Hardeep Puri is in talks with the UAE to press for a reduction in the rate on long-term supply contracts. Puri’s predecessor, Dharmendra Pradhan, was rebuffed by the Saudis when he had approached them for a similar cut. A day after he spoke to his UAE counterpart, Puri spoke to Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman al Saud, minister of energy of Saudi Arabia. He had on Saturday spoken to his Qatari counterpart. Puri in a tweet said he “conveyed my desire to work with Prince Abdulaziz to bring greater predictability and calm in the global oil markets, and also to see hydrocarbons become more affordable”. Favourable terms During the talks, sources said India tried to press for favourable contract terms and also to end the Asian premium charged by Riyadh. This premium is the extra the Asian countries pay to Opec even as the oil cartel sells crude to the US and Europe at a discount. State oil producer Saudi Aramco last week had set the August official selling price for the flagship Arab light crude at $2.70 a barrel, higher than the Oman/Dubai average for Asia and up 80 cents from July. However, it is selling the light crude at a  discount of $1.10 a barrel against Brent for August compared with a discount of $1.90 for July. Indian companies buy two-thirds of their purchases on term or fixed annual contracts, which ensure assured supplies but the pricing and other terms favour only the seller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||TCG to set up petrochemicals hub in Tamil Nadu, with B. Anand as CEO||The Chatterjee Group’s long cherished dream of building a refinery-to-petrochemical complex is finally taking wings. After acquiring the crucial assets of Nagarjuna Oil Corporation Ltd in Tamil Nadu from a bankruptcy court for Rs 600 crore, TCG has appointed B. Anand as the chief executive officer to take the project forward. Anand, who will take charge from September, was the CEO of Nayara Energy, erstwhile Essar Oil. TCG will soon launch the petrochemical project at Cuddalore, 175 kilometres south of Chennai, under the leadership of Anand, a statement from TCG said. He will also head the business of developing and implementing large scale polymer projects with sustainability focus, including oil-to-polymer complexes, across India and globally, the statement added. The development comes a year after HPL acquired Lummus Technology, a leading technology provider to process industries, including petrochemical complexes, with Rhone Capital. Cuddalore project NOCL has brought in 2,158 acres of contiguous, unlitigated land under the fold of TCG with access to a port with deep draft and railway links. The initial plan will be to build a petrochemical complex to replicate the success of HPL and MCPI (formerly Mitsubishi PTA) in Bengal. These plants will initially be based on imported raw material naphtha and paraxylene to make polymer, chemical and PTA for the local and export markets. In the second phase, a crude oil refinery will be built focusing on producing naphtha and paraxylene, in contrast to the usual practice of producing fuels. TCG is said to be in talks with global majors for a strategic tie-up, which may call for $8-10 billion in phased manner. Welcoming Anand’s appointment, Purnendu Chatterjee, founder and chairman of TCG Group, said, “His understanding of the petrochemical business and vision to bring growth and synergy within the sector with best-in-class process technologies, sustainability initiatives and managing global stakeholders is something that we are aligned with and wish to drive together.” Later Anand added: “With our first petrochemical project underway soon, the promise to bring cleaner and greener solutions to the Indian sector is encouraging.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Paytm files draft papers for India's largest IPO with Sebi||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for the country’s biggest initial public offering (IPO) of Rs 16,600 crore. The company will issue fresh shares worth Rs 8,300 crore, while the existing shareholders will offload their stakes worth another Rs 8,300 crore. The company also retains the option to undertake a pre-IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore, subject to relevant approvals. If this placement is completed, the size of the fresh issue will be reduced to that extent. At present, Coal India holds the record for India’s largest IPO of over Rs 15,199 crore in 2010. The top five shareholders of One97 Communications are ANT Financial through Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V (29.6 per cent), SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Ltd or SoftBank Vision Fund (18.3 per cent) and SAIF III Mauritius Company Ltd (12.1 per cent), Vijay Shekhar Sharma (9.6 per cent) and Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Pvt Ltd (7.2 per cent). Some of the shareholders who will sell part of their holding are Sharma, ANT Financial, Alibaba, SAIF Partners and SoftBank, the offer document showed. One97 Communications said the issue proceeds will be utilised to strengthen its payment ecosystem. The company will utilise Rs 4,300 crore to acquire and retain consumers and merchants and provide them with greater access to technology and financial services. It will invest Rs 2,000 crore in new business initiatives, acquisitions and strategic partnerships. The company had posted revenues of Rs 3,232 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 3,281 crore in the following fiscal. However, its topline came down to Rs 2,802 crore in 2020-21. Zomato offer response Zomato’s IPO got subscribed by more than 38 times on its third and final day. Zomato received bids for 2,751.25 crore shares against 71.92 crore shares on offer, stock exchange data showed. Institutional investors, who shied away in the first two days of the IPO, bid several times over the number of shares reserved for them. While qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) bid almost 52 times the quota reserved for them, non-institutional investors sought 640 crore shares against their quota of 19.43 crore. Retail investors bid 7.45 times against the 12.95 crore shares reserved for them. The portion reserved for employees was subscribed by 0.62 times. Delhivery-FedEx deal FedEx Express, a subsidiary of leading global express transportation company FedEx Corp, will invest $100 million in e-commerce logistics platform Delhivery. FedEx Express India and Delhivery have entered into equity and commercial agreements that will utilise their combined strengths to unlock India’s international trade potential. The transaction is subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Investors will get option to block securities in demat accounts: Sebi||Investors will soon have the option to block securities on their respective demat accounts for any sale transaction. In a circular issued on Friday, market regulator Sebi said the new mechanism would be available from August 1. This is linked to the early pay-in (EPI) system where a party meets the obligation before the designated due date. In such cases, margins need not be collected from the party. With the block mechanism, shares of a client intending to make a sale transaction will be blocked in the client’s demat account in favour of the clearing corporation concerned. If the sale transaction is not executed, the shares will remain in the client’s demat account and will be unblocked at the end of the trading day. The proposed facility is optional and the EPI mechanism will also continue, Sebi said. The watchdog’s latest decision comes after it received representations from clients undertaking sale transactions. Depositories and clearing corporations will have to put in place an appropriate system  to make available the block mechanism, Sebi added. The securities lying in a demat account will be blocked either by the client using the depository’s online system or eDIS mandate or through the  depository participant based on physical DIS (delivery instruction slip) given by the  client or the power of attorney (PoA) holder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India expects retail inflation to slacken in third quarter||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the price situation to improve in the third quarter. Retail inflation, or inflation based on the consumer rice index (CPI), stood at 6.26 per cent June which is above the 6-per-cent tolerance level of the RBI for the second month in succession with inflation at 6.3 per cent in May. With a firm crude oil price, the apprehension in the markets is that inflation is likely to stay elevated. However, the RBI in its latest monthly report on the state of the economy has pinned its hopes on the kharif crop to temper prices. The central bank said that while inflation ruled above the tolerance range during June-November 2020 and moved above the upper bound in May and June, the “sense is that inflation will persist at these elevated levels for some months before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in markets’’. The RBI pointed out that the pick-up in inflation was driven largely by adverse supply shocks because of the disruptions caused by the pandemic. There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by supply side measures. “Elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect,” the RBI said. “Furthermore, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape. Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2021-22, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident,” it observed. Higher deficit Veteran banker K.V. Kamath said on Friday that it is time for the Centre to become ‘‘brave’’ and stretch the fiscal deficit target it set for itself in this year’s budget. He said benign interest rates of under 8 per cent and abundant liquidity are also necessary to seize what he called as a 25-year growth runway opportunity awaiting the country. Kamath was speaking at an event in Mumbai organised by the IMC Chamber of Commerce. The government has targeted to get the fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent for 2021-22 in the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||India||Kanwar yatra cancelled by Kanwar Sanghs on appeal of  UP government||The annual Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh has been cancelled this year, a senior government official said here on Saturday night.  The development came a day after the Supreme Court said it cannot allow the Uttar Pradesh government "to hold 100 per cent physical Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid", stressing that sentiments, including religious, are subservient to the Right to Life.  "The Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled by the Kanwar Sanghs on the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government," Additional Chief Secretary Information Navneet Sehgal said on Sunday.  The yatra was scheduled to start on July 25.  The Uttarakhand government has already called off the Kanwar Yatra citing fears expressed by experts of a possible third wave of the pandemic and the risk posed by such gatherings.  The yatra goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees called kanwariyas' travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar.  The Centre had told the top court that the state governments must not permit any kind of Kanwar yatra because of the pandemic and arrangements should be made for water from the Ganges to be available through tankers at designated places.  On Friday, the Supreme Court which had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a "symbolic" Kanwar Yatra.  Hours after a nudge from the Supreme Court on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government had said it is talking with "kanwar sanghs" to take the right decision on the annual yatra and reminded that the organisations themselves decided to cancel it last year.  In a statement, the UP government had said that it was preparing itself for every situation for the Kanwar Yatra, scheduled to start from July 25.  "Officers have been asked to talk to 'kanwar sanghs' so that a right decision could be taken. The officers are also apprising them of the Covid situation.  "The government feels that religious sentiments should not be hurt and also there should be the safety of people. Last year, 'kanwar sanghs' after talks with the government themselves decided to cancel the yatra," it had said.  A Supreme Court bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai had said the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution is paramount and asked the Uttar Pradesh government whether it was willing to reconsider its decision to hold a yatra at all.  "We are of the view that this is a matter which concerns every one of us as citizens of India and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution.  "The health of the citizenry of India and their right to life are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right," the bench had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Maharashtra's daily infection tally goes up with 8,172 new Covid-19 cases in a day||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,172 new COVID-19 cases and 124 deaths which took the state's infection tally to 62,05,190 and death toll to 1,26,851, the health department said in a release.  As many as 8,950 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the total of recovered persons to 59,74,594. The state has a recovery rate of 96.28 per cent.  The case fatality rate stood at 2.04 per cent, while there are 1,00,429 active cases in the state, the release said.  There are 5,77,615 people in home quarantine while 4,156 people are in institutional quarantine.  With 2,20,851 samples tested since Friday evening, the tally of coronavirus tests conducted in the state rose to 4,52,60,468.  Mumbai city reported 469 COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking its caseload to 7,30,703 and death toll to 15,690.  The larger Mumbai division that covers neighbouring satellite towns reported 1,512 cases and 29 deaths. The division's case tally rose to 16,24,459 and death toll to 33,231.  Nashik division reported 979 cases and seven deaths, while the Pune division added 2,493 cases and 29 deaths. Out of 29 deaths, 16 were reported from Satara district alone.  Kolhapur division added 2,635 new cases and 48 deaths. Aurangabad division reported 170 cases and one death, while Latur division recorded 291 cases and seven deaths.  Akola division reported 51 cases and zero deaths, while Nagpur division recorded 41 new cases and three fatalities.  Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 62,05,190; New cases 8,172; Total deaths 1,26,851; Recoveries 59,74,594; Active cases 1,00,429; Total tests 4,52,60,468.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Odisha government decides to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from July 26||With slight improvement of the corona situation, the Odisha government on Saturday decided to reopen schools for classes 10 and 12 from July 26, a senior official said.  School and Mass Education Department Principal Secretary Satyabrata Sahu said that offline Matric Exams (class 10) will be held from July 30 to August 5 in the state adhering to Covid protocols.  The decision to resume classroom teaching for the two classes was made keeping in mind the problems faced by students in online mode due to poor internet connectivity, Sahu said.  He said the decision will be applicable for both the government and non-government schools across the state.  However, it is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes in schools.  Along with classes 10 and 12, the present online mode of teaching will continue for all classes, he said.  "We have been able to reach out to 40 per cent of students via online teaching while the remaining 60 per cent are yet to be connected. These students have lost 150 days of regular teaching days," Sahu said.  He told reporters that schools will function from 10 am to 1:30 pm and there will be no lunch break.  Replying to a question, Sahu said, "If the Covid-19 situation improves, schools will also reopen for class 9 by August 16. The schools will be sanitised one week prior to the reopening."  However, an official note issued by the department said that district collectors will take a final call on reopening of schools after reviewing local Covid situation.  The state government is also planning to reopen schools for class 11 students from September 15 after completion of admission into Plus II courses, it said.  All teachers will be vaccinated on a priority basis before schools are reopened and District Education Officers have been instructed to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols are strictly followed.  Sahu said that the department will issue a comprehensive Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of institutions.  The state government will introduce the Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) methodology for evaluation of students' performance in classes 9 and 10 from the academic year 2021-22.  Odisha's new assessment criteria will be on the line of CBSE and other education boards in the country.  According to the provision of the CCE, in the 2021-22 academic year, the department has decided to conduct four formative (short) and two summative assessments. The four formative assessments will be held in the second weeks of September, November, January and March.  The final examinations will be held as usual in the month of March.  Sahu also said that the Council of Higher Secondary Education is also planning to start the CCE system at the Plus II level. The performance of students in practical and projects will also be evaluated continuously throughout the academic year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Hoax RDX threat onboard Dubai-Mumbai flight, security beefed up at Mumbal international airport||A call about the presence of RDX onboard a Dubai-Mumbai flight was received on Saturday afternoon, following which security was beefed at the international airport in the city. It was later turned out to be a hoax, a Mumbai Police official said. The call that RDX was placed onboard the flight was received by officials at the ATC tower around 3.40 pm, the official said. He said Mumbai Police was immediately informed and security at the airport was beefed up. The flight was checked thoroughly after landing by the police and security agencies but nothing suspicious was found onboard, he said. After investigation, it was found to be a hoax call, he said. Another flight that landed at the Mumbai international airport from Dubai in the evening was also checked but no RDX was found onboard, another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
17-07-2021||India||Candle light vigils to pay homage to photojournalist Danish Siddiqui||Candle light vigils were held at the Press Club of India and Jamia Millia Islamia here on Saturday to pay homage to Pulitzer Prize winner photojournalist Danish Siddiqui. Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes between Afghanistan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar on Friday. He was covering the situation in Kandahar. While holding a candle light meeting at the Press Club of India, Working News Cameraman Association (WNCA) president S N Sinha said that Siddiqui scaled the heights of his profession while documenting wars, riots and human suffering. "He worked with passion and dedication about the stories he covered and always focused on the people caught up in difficult circumstances," Sinha said in a statement. The WNCA expressed concern over the "growing trend of attack on media persons while doing their professional duties". "...Media fraternity is always working as frontline warriors and working under increasing threat and it's a matter of deep concern to the working journalists and democratic world," it said in a statement. Jamia Millia alumnus Md Meharban along with mass communication student Srijan Chawla organised a candle light vigil, attended by over 500 people, outside the university's gate number 17. Meharban remembered Siddiqui who was his college senior and mentor in the profession. Siddiqui's work as a photojournalist with Reuters news agency since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. Based in Mumbai, he had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the photography staff of the news agency. He graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK MCRC in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, he switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Covid-19 can make a person more susceptible to tuberculosis, says health ministry||Covid-19 can make a person more susceptible to developing active tuberculosis as it is an "opportunistic" infection like black fungus but currently there is not enough evidence to suggest TB cases have risen due to the viral disease, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry said notification of tuberculosis cases had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 due to Covid-related restrictions and special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case findings. In a statement, the Health Ministry said there have been some news reports alleging that a sudden rise in TB cases have been noticed among patients infected with Covid-19 recently, leaving doctors, who have been receiving around a dozen similar cases every day, worried. "It is clarified that tuberculosis screening for all Covid-19 patients and Covid-19 screening for all diagnosed TB patients has been recommended by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," it said. The ministry said SARS-CoV-2 infection can make an individual more susceptible to developing active TB disease, as it is an "opportunistic infection like black fungus". There is not enough evidence currently to suggest that there has been an increase in TB cases due to Covid-19 or due to increased case finding efforts, it said, adding states and Union Territories have been asked for convergence in efforts for better surveillance and finding of TB and Covid-19 cases as early as August 2020. Also, the health ministry has issued multiple advisories and guidance reiterating the need for bi-directional screening of TB-Covidand TB-ILI/SARI. "Due to the impact of Covid-related restrictions, case notifications for TB had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 but special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case finding in OPD settings as well as through active case finding campaigns in the community by all states." The dual morbidity of tuberculosis and Covid-19 can be further highlighted through the fact that both diseases are known to be infectious and primarily attack the lungs, presenting similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. But TB has a longer incubation period and a slower onset of disease, the health ministry said. "Furthermore, TB bacilli can be present in humans in a dormant state and has the potential to start multiplying when the individual's immunity is compromised for any reason. "The same is applicable in a post-Covid scenario when an individual may develop decreased immunity due to the virus itself or due to the treatment, especially immune-suppressants like steroids," the Health Ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Priyanka ducks queries on being Cong’s CM face for UP polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday refused to commit on contesting polls in future or be the party's CM face in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year. The Congress leader, who is on a two-day visit here, said her party will continue to raise people’s issues. When asked if she will contest elections in future, Priyanka told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri, “We will see”. When asked if she will be the party’s CM face for the UP polls, the Congress leader said, “Should I tell you everything now.” On what would be her party’s strategy, Priyanka said wherever there is problem or pain, they will go and stand with people. “In the past year and a half, our party has raised the strongest voice. We have hit the roads; our party workers have courted arrest. Rest of the parties have not spoken so much nor they came out (on streets) as compared to us, and we will continue with this,” she said. Priyanka was in Lakhimpur Kheri to meet two women workers of the Samajwadi Party with whom BJP activists had allegedly misbehaved during the recent block panchayat chief elections. She demanded repolling at places where violence took place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Bombay HC seeks details of vaccine distribution from Centre||The Bombay High Court on Saturday directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing the manner and methods of allocating COVID-19 vaccines to states. A division bench of Chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni passed this direction while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Yogeeta Vanzara, a city resident, who raised concerns over issues faced by the public in obtaining COVID-19 vaccination appointments through the CoWin portal. Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Jamsheed Master informed the court that at present only 14 lakh people in Mumbai have been fully vaccinated, while 50 lakh have received the first dose of the vaccine. "Merely 6 per cent of the city's population is fully vaccinated," Master said, adding at this rate, it would take three to four years for each citizen to be fully vaccinated. The bench noted that it cannot direct the Union government on the issue of allocation of vaccines, as it was a pan-India policy. However, the court directed the Centre to explain the manner in which vaccine orders are placed with the manufacturers and the timeline of vaccine delivery. The Union government also has to explain the manner in which it makes the vaccine doses available to various states. The state, through an affidavit, informed the court that it collects vaccines three times a week after being intimated by the manufacturer, following which the doses are then distributed to vaccination centres across the state. However, the affidavit did not specify the quantity of vaccines the state collects. The bench directed the Maharashtra State Family Welfare Bureau which is responsible for allocating doses across the state to file an affidavit stating when it receives a communication from the Centre and why it cannot inform the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in advance about the exact number of doses allocated. The petitioner's advocate sought that the Serum Institute of India that manufactures Covishield vaccine and Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin vaccine to be added as respondents since they are the vaccine makers in India. To this, the Chief Justice said, Let the Union government file an affidavit, then we will consider adding them as respondents. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on August 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Delhi Airport's Terminal T2 to open from July 22||The T2 terminal of the Delhi international airport will resume operations from July 22, two months after it was shut down due to significant drop in domestic air traffic owing to the COVID-19 pandemic's second wave, a statement said on Saturday. The resumption of operations at T2 from July 22 onwards will be with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to around 280 movements by August-end, the statement of Delhi airport's operator DIAL said. Currently, only the T3 terminal of the Delhi airport is handling flight operations. "The T2 terminal will resume operations with IndiGo's 2000-2999 series flights and entire operations of GoAir, and is expecting to witness around 25,000 passenger footfall in the initial phase," the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) stated. About 27 counters 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - will be available to cater to the passengers of respective flights, it said. The decision to resume T2 operations was taken after the Delhi airport started witnessing gradual growth in passenger footfall post relaxation in lockdown and travel norms by various states since June this year, it noted. The T2 terminal had started handling flight operations on October 1 last year. It was shut down on May 18 this year as the number of flights dropped dramatically due to the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Mayawati's potshot at Amarinder Singh's letter to Modi on farmers||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday targeted Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The letter written by the Congress CM of Punjab to the PM, expressing various apprehensions about the farmers' agitation is a conspiracy to defame the movement of the farmers, who are sacrificing their lives to get the new agricultural laws repealed, and pursue electoral politics under its guise. This is most unfair," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Taking the Centre's cooperation on challenges faced by the government of a border state is not unreasonable, but pursuing selfish electoral politics under its garb and defaming the farmers' movement are something the public understands well, Mayawati added. "The Congress is not going to reap any benefit by doing this," she said. Singh had on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resume talks with agitating farmers, sending him a letter that cited "cross-border threat" by ISI-backed groups ahead of the state assembly polls. In the letter, the chief minister cited "heightened cross-border threat and increased drone and other terrorist activities by ISI-backed groups, including plans by Khalistani outfits to target certain farmer leaders". He warned that powers across the border "may try to play upon the charged emotions of our proud, sincere, and hardworking farmers" of Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui's death draws ire of international media, Amnesty||Prominent global media watchdogs and a rights group have condemned the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, demanding a thorough probe into his killing and urging the authorities to do more to protect members of the press. Siddiqui, 38, was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. He was injured on Thursday night while accompanying Afghan soldiers who were attacked and succumbed to his injuries on Friday. Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe. Reacting to the Indian journalist's death, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), the New York-based independent, non-profit organisation, urged the Afghan authorities to conduct a swift and thorough investigation into the killing of Siddiqui and do everything in their power to protect members of the press. The death today of Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui is a tragic notice that even as the US and its partners withdraw forces, journalists will continue to work in Afghanistan, documenting whatever comes next at great risk to their lives, said Steven Butler, CPJ's Asia programme coordinator, in Washington, D.C. Combatants need to take responsibility for safeguarding journalists, as dozens of journalists have been killed in this conflict, with little or no accountability, Butler said. The International Press Institute, a global network of media professionals, on Friday mourned the death of Siddiqui and termed it an immense loss for journalism. IPI is incredibly saddened to learn of the death of Danish Siddiqui, one of the most accomplished photojournalists of our age. Journalism has suffered an immense loss. We send our solidarity to his family and colleagues, the Vienna-based IPI said in a tweet. "As a member of the Reuters team, he brilliantly chronicled some of the biggest international news events in recent years, with his images reaching millions around the globe and bringing him well-deserved recognition, IPI Deputy Director Scott Griffen said in a statement. Danish's death is a reminder of the enormous risks that journalists face in conflict zones as they work to bring the news to the world. Afghanistan, in particular, remains an especially dangerous environment for the press, a situation we fear will escalate with the ongoing withdrawal of foreign forces from the country, Griffen said. Siddiqui is the fifth journalist to be killed in Afghanistan this year. Three women media workers, who worked for the Enkass radio network, were killed on March 2 in Nangahar province, and on January 1, a journalist was shot dead in Ghor province, the IPI said in a report. Journalists in Afghanistan are extremely concerned over their safety following the rapid withdrawal of US and NATO troops. The safety of female journalists in Afghanistan is especially tenuous. According to the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee, 20 per cent of Afghan women journalists have quit or lost their jobs in the past few months because of the attacks and killings, it said. Amnesty International said the news of Siddiqui's killing was deeply shocking as it shared its condolences with his family, friends and colleagues. The news of the killing of Danish Siddiqui is deeply shocking. We share our condolences with his family, friends and colleagues. Danish Siddiqui was a brave photojournalist, known for his searing images that carefully chronicled some of the worst humanitarian crises around the world, said Samira Hamidi, Amnesty International's South Asia regional campaigner. To preserve the fundamental right to freedom of expression and ensure public access to reliable information, reporters engaged in professional missions in areas of armed conflict must be provided with better protection measures by the authorities, Hamidi said in a statement. According to a report by Reporters without Borders (RSF), a total of 937 journalists have been killed over the past decade, with 50 journalists losing their lives in 2020, most of them deliberately targeted. The report compiled by the Paris-based media watchdog said it had tallied 50 cases of journalists killed in connection with their work in 2020 (from January 1 to December 15), adding that this figure is very similar to 2019 (when 53 journalists were killed), although fewer journalists worked in the field last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), 65 journalists and human rights defenders have lost their lives since 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||DU to start registration process for UG programmes on August 2||The Delhi University will start the registration process of the 65,000 seats for undergraduate courses at its colleges on August 2 and is likely to announce the first cut-off list between September 7 and 10, acting vice chancellor P C Joshi announced on Saturday. The registration process for 20,000 postgraduate (PG) seats and for the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) courses will begin on July 26, he said. The last date for registration of PG programmes is August 21 and for UG programmes is August 31. "To make the admission process hassle-free, a dedicated portal for admissions will be launched soon. This will facilitate students to fill the forms, pay fee and check all details without any problem from the comfort of their home," the VC said. University officials present at the press conference said admission for the sports quota will be done on the basis of certificates like last year. "We have had an intensive meeting of our education committee and have now come up with the dates for admission for this academic session," the VC said. The admission process will be completely online like last year, he added. Joshi said the registration process for MPhil and PhD will also begin on July 26 and the last date will be August 21. "The admission to undergraduate courses will be merit-based, like previous year. There will be no change in the eligibility criteria for the candidates," he said. Like last year, the admission process will be completely online this year too and efforts will be made to make it smooth, he said. The varsity has also decided that there will be no change in the registration fees for merit-based and entrance-based admissions. The varsity said the first cut off will be released in the first week of September and academic session will begin latest by the second week of October. "We are hoping to release first cut-off list between September 7 and 10. Admission process is likely to be completed in September. We are anticipating the start of the new academic session from October 1 but if the process takes more time, then we are planning to start it latest by October 18 this year," Rajiv Gupta, chairperson Admissions, who was also present in the press conference, said. Last year Delhi University's academic session started on October 18. University's cut-off had been soaring for past few years for UG courses. Last year cut-offs has gone as high as 100 per cent for some colleges. Last year Lady Sri Ram College for Commerce had released its cut off-list at 100 per cent for some honours UG courses. The board exams were cancelled this year due to Covid and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had said it will be adopting 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for class 12 students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. "We have faith in the marking system of the CBSE and we will honour it. We are constantly in touch with our colleges regarding modalities of cut-offs. A calendar regarding release of cut-off dates will also be issued soon," Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||UP Police lodge FIR against state Cong chief for silent protest against BJP||A case has been registered against three persons, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who sat on a silent protest in front of a Mahatma Gandhi statue in Lucknow along with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, police said on Saturday. The case has been registered for damaging public property, sitting on protest without permission and without giving prior information, Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur said. Gandhi, on a two-day visit to Lucknow, had protested along with other party members in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at GPO Park on Friday. Police said the Congress workers damaged an iron net structure located in the GPO Park, and violated the Epidemic Act, during the protest. "The FIR has been registered against UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress leaders Ved Prakash Tripathi and Diljit Singh, and 500-600 unidentified party workers. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is not named in the FIR, Thakur told PTI. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said Gandhi sat on the silent protest to highlight the atrocities on women, anarchy of the administration and police. "Women are not safe in the state. Priyankaji sat on a maun vrat' (silent protest) at the feet of Mahatma Gandhi for ending this jungle raj and to uproot this dictatorial government, Lallu said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui's father remembers 'calm and quiet son'||"He was an extremely emotional person," said Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui in a voice full of grief and pride as he remembered his "brilliant and dashing" photojournalist son, Danish Siddiqui. Danish Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes in Spin Boldak district in Afghanistan's Kandahar on Friday, Tolo News quoted sources as saying. It said fierce fighting has been going on in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. The Indian journalist was covering the situation in Kandahar. "He was a very calm and quiet, a very loving son. He loved children a lot. A very emotional person," the retired Jamia professor said a day after the grim news of Danish Siddiqui's death, something no father would want to hear in his life, reached Delhi. Talking about his work that required him to be in life-threatening situations, Akhtar Siddiqui said the family got used to his work life over the years. "We used to tell him in the beginning what was the need for such a job, but we almost got used to it. He'd tell us they have security, they travel with full protection. We only told him to maintain all precautions," he told PTI. In the last one year, Danish Siddiqui extensively covered the COVID-19 pandemic across the country. "He was a brilliant and dashing chap. He had a lot of commitment towards his work, passion to face challenges. Even during the pandemic, Delhi riots, he reported the facts despite the challenges," he said. "Passionate and energetic" as a child, Akhtar Siddiqui remembered, Danish would finish with perfection whatever he set his mind to. "He was extraordinarily courageous," the father said before his voice trailed off. Danish Siddiqui's work as a photojournalist with Reuters news agency since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. Based in Mumbai, he had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the photography staff of the news agency. He graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK MCRC in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, he switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
17-07-2021||India||Any decision by Congress president acceptable to all: Amarinder after meeting Rawat||Any decision taken by the Congress president will be acceptable to all, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday after meeting AICC general secretary and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat. Rawat flew down to Chandigarh as tensions escalate in the Congress' Punjab unit over differences between Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu. There is intense speculation that the cricketer-turned politician may be appointed state Congress chief. Rawat reached Chandigarh in a chopper around 12 noon and went straight to the chief minister's farm house in Mohali. The visit is being seen as an effort to placate Amarinder, who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. He is learnt to have said that giving the post of state party chief to Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, would upset the party's senior leaders representing the Hindu community and harm the party's prospects in the 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Kejriwal writes to Modi, pitches for Bharat Rantna for Sunderlal Bahuguna||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to bestow Bharat Ratna on noted environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna as the country celebrates its 75th anniversary year of independence. The letter written by Kejriwal on Saturday said, "We believe presenting Bharat Ratna to Sunderlal Bahuguna will yield honour for the award itself." Bahuguna, known for his lifelong work to conserve nature in the hill state of Uttarakhand, started "Chipko Andolan" to save trees from being cut that spread to other states as well. He passed away at the age of 94 on May 21 this year. Kejriwal had raised the demand for Bharat Ratna on Friday at a programme organised at Delhi Vidhan Sabha to pay homage to the world-renowned environmentalist. "In this 75th year of independence of the country as we are honouring freedom fighters and those eminent personalities who gave a right direction to the nation, I request you on the behalf of Delhi government to felicitate Sunderlal Bahuguna with Bharat Ratna," it read. Bahuguna dedicated himself to the cause of environment conservation by sensing the imminent threat to the world, at a time when it was exploiting the nature with closed eyes and environment conservation was absent in global discourse, Kejriwal said. He had cautioned that humans have committed error to treat nature as private property and unchecked exploitation was going to cause various anomalies and problems, said the Chief Minister. "I hope that you will consider this request by Delhi government and take a proper decision in this regard as soon as possible," Kejriwal wrote to Modi. It is the good fortune of the people of India that a personality like Sunderlal Bahuguna was born here as his entire life is inspiring for all of us, the CM said. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi has demanded Bharat Ratna for Bahuguna, who hailed from Uttarakhand which is going to Assembly polls next year. The party has been actively engaged in preparations for the elections. Kejriwal said a portrait of Bahuguna has been installed in Delhi Assembly so that his life and work of environment protection inspires and guides policymakers of Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar amid unrest in the state||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, amid mounting speculation over whether the party will appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the next head of its state unit. After the meeting, which lasted more than half-an-hour, Sidhu said Jakhar is his elder brother and a guiding force. Jakhar, in turn, described Sidhu as a capable man. Sidhu left his residence in Patiala and reached Jakhar's residence in Panchkula about 65 km away at around 10:45 am, an aide said. The meeting comes in the backdrop of simmering tensions in the Punjab Congress following differences between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu. On Friday, Sidhu met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi in an apparent bid to arrive at a truce formula over the state unit revamp. Also present at the meeting were AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and Rahul Gandhi. Sources said reports of Sidhu's elevation had irked Amarinder Singh and he had written to Sonia Gandhi expressing strong resentment over the developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||New academic session for varsities to begin from October 1: UGC||The new academic session in universities and colleges across the county will begin from October 1 while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses begins only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and all state boards. "It is expected that all school boards will declare their results for class 12 exams by July 31. If there is any delay in declaration of the result of qualifying exams, the new academic session may begin by October 18," the UGC said in the new guidelines. The commission has clarified that the teaching-learning process must continue in offline, online or blended mode. "The institutions may plan for classes, breaks, conduct of examinations, semester break etc. during October 1 to July 31, following necessary protocols and advisories issued by central and state governments from time to time in view of COVID-19 pandemic," the guidelines said. In view of the financial hardships faced by parents during the pandemic, the commission has asked varsities and HEIs to ensure fee is fully refunded in cases of cancellation of admission or migration of students. It has also been made mandatory for universities and colleges to conduct final year or end term exams by August 31. The exams can be conducted in either offline, online or in blended mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Sharad Pawar meets Narendra Modi for nearly an hour||NCP president Sharad Pawar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday. The Prime Minister's Office tweeted a picture of their meeting but shared no details about their talks. "Rajya Sabha MP Shri Sharad Pawar met PM Narendra Modi," it tweeted along with a photo of the meeting between the two leaders. According to a report by ndtv.com that quoted sources, the meeting lasted for nearly 50 minutes. The meeting comes two days before Parliament's Monsoon session that starts on Monday. Later in the day, the NCP said that the meeting was a scheduled one to discuss amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, among other things, and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies were aware of it. Addressing a press conference, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said that AICC general secretary H K Patil was told about this scheduled meeting when he and other Congress leaders met Pawar in Mumbai recently. Even Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was apprised of this meeting," he added. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in Maharashtra as part of the MVA government that was formed after the 2019 Assembly elections. Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted a picture of the meeting between Pawar and Modi that lasted nearly an hour, during which they held talks on a number of issues. Malik said, "Amendments to Banking Regulation Act would hurt the co-operative sector banks since more powers were given to the RBI and while cooperative banks faced restrictions in power. Cooperation is a state subject...Pawar has been discussing the issue with all the stakeholders." "He (Pawar) had spoken to the PM over phone and it was decided to meet whenever he is in Delhi," he said. The NCP leader said that Pawar also raised the issue of Covid-19 handling and the process of vaccination during the meeting. "Yesterday, CM Uddhav Thackeray had told the PM that a national policy to stop crowding at public places should be framed," he said. Malik, however, rejected reports that Pawar had met BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis in Delhi. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who is in Delhi, told reporters that he wasn't aware of any meeting between Pawar and Fadnavis. "There is no politics in Pawar-Modi meeting. There can be discussions on various issues other than politics," Raut said. Meanwhile, the NCP also released a letter written by Pawar to Modi, in which he has said that although the objectives behind the amendments to the Banking Regulation Act are laudable, they do little to promote the well-being and growth of the cooperative sector. Pawar submitted the letter to Modi during their meeting on Saturday. "You recently advised the rural youth to engage in micro, small and medium size businesses along with their farming activities so as to make them atmanirbhar' under the adverse climatic conditions. The cooperative banks can contribute to this cause since they have expertise of lending to these first time borrowers and contribute more than 23 percent of their advances of rs 3.04 lakh crore to small and micro industries, he said. The growth of this sector is crucial to the holistic development of the country and all efforts should be made to encourage this sector, the former Union minister added. "The aims and objectives of the amended Act are well-intentioned and many provisions are necessary. The erring board and management must definitely be acted upon strictly and depositors' interest should be protected, but at the same time it should be ensured that while doing so, the cooperative principles laid down in the Constitution are not sacrificed at the altar of over-zealous regulation," Pawar said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Govt to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield, Covaxin at revised rates||The Centre has placed an order to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield and Covaxin to be supplied between August and December this year, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, official sources said. They said 37.5 crore of Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India and 28.5 crore Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech will be procured by December. "An order to procure 66 crore more doses of COVID-19 vaccines--Covishield and Covaxin--to be supplied between August and December, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, has been placed," the source said. The price of each dose of Covishield amounts to Rs 215.25 and Covaxin Rs 225.75, including taxes, it said. The Union health ministry which was procuring both the vaccines at Rs 150 per dose, had indicated that the prices would be revised after the new COVID-19 vaccine procurement policy came into effect from June 21. Under the new policy, the ministry will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the drug manufacturers in the country. While the Centre has asked both the vaccine manufacturing firms to scale up their production, the manufacturers had indicated that getting Rs 150 for each dose while making investments to ramp up the production was not viable for them, sources said. The Union government had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 per cent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including of funding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. Domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to provide 25 per cent of their monthly production of vaccines to private hospitals. According to the revised guidelines which came into effect from June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry had said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance, it said. More than 41.69 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources, the health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Modi's defence policy for India ensures no one can challenge its borders: Shah||India's security policy was either "influenced or was overlapping" with the foreign policy and it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Shah was delivering the 'Rustamji memorial lecture' and it was being attended by personnel and officers of the Border Security Force (BSF). He also gave way gallantry medals to serving personnel and for those killed in the line of duty from the country's largest frontier force. "I used to think if there is a security policy of this country or not? Till Narendra Modi became the prime minister we did not have any independent security policy," Shah said. "It was either influenced by foreign policy or it was overlapping with the foreign policy," he said. After Narendra Modi became prime minister, the country got an independent security policy, he added. "Our idea is to have peaceful relations with all but if someone disturbs our borders, if someone challenges our sovereignty, the priority of our security policy is that such an attempt will be replied in the same language," Shah said. He said this security policy was a "big achievement" as the country wanted such a good plan. "I believe without this (security policy) neither the country can progress nor democracy can prosper," the home minister said "Modiji (PM) has done this big job. I do not want to give examples as it is well known," he said adding the policy was made operational on the ground by his government. Shah also declared that his government is working to ensure that there "will be no gap in the fencing" along India's borders by 2022. He said about three per cent of the country's border was unfenced at present and this has left a "big space" for infiltration of terrorists and other border crimes like smuggling of arms, ammunition and narcotics among others. The home minister said India will soon develop indigenous counter-drone technology which is being carried out by technical organisations like the DRDO and some other agencies. His comments come in the backdrop of the first time drone attack on the IAF station in Jammu last month where two unmanned aerial vehicles dropped bombs injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building inside. The minister added that the security and technology development establishment was also working on artificial intelligence and robotic technologies as part of a long drawn project. The about 2.65 lakh personnel strong, the BSF guards over 6,300 kms of Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The memorial lecture and investiture ceremony is an annual affair to remember the contribution of its first chief or director general (DG) K F Rustamji. A officer of the 1938 batch of the British time Imperial Police, Rustamji headed the BSF for nine years. He died in 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa meets BJP president JP Nadda||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday met BJP president J P Nadda in New Delhi and said he has been told to strengthen the party and bring it back to power in the state. The chief minister has said that he will also meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh. "We discussed about the development of the party in the state. He asked me to give special emphasis on bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. The same was told by the prime minister also. A detailed discussion happened," Yediyurappa said after meeting Nadda. He said that these are the responsibilities the BJP chief has given to him. On Friday, Yediyurappa had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed pending state works, including Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river. The meetings come at a time political circles are abuzz with speculations of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister. Yediyurappa on Saturday dismissed rumours about his resignation, saying it is not at all true. On the meeting with Nadda, he said, "I've discussed in detail about the development of the party in the state and the country. He has given so many instructions to me. He has a good about opinion about me. I'll work for the party and come back to power again in Karnataka."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||MP well collapse: PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to kin of each deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of those killed in the well collapse incident in Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the incident. Eleven persons died, while 19 others were brought out alive from the well, in which several people had fallen while trying to rescue a boy in Vidisha district of the state. "Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives," Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) late on Friday night. Rashtrapati Bhavan's tweet quoting Kovind on Saturday morning said, "Deeply saddened by the heartbreaking news of the death of many people in the accident in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. I wish success to all the rescue efforts and extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families." On Friday, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that families of the deceased would be given financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each, while the injured would be provided Rs 50,000 each and free medical treatment. In a 24-hour long operation that ended late on Friday night, 11 bodies were recovered and 19 persons were brought out alive from the well in Lal Patar village in Ganj Basoda area of Vidisha. The incident took place on Thursday night when the parapet wall of the well collapsed. To make things worse, a tractor deployed for the rescue operation skidded into the well with four policemen. According to local people, the well is around 50 feet deep and had about 20 feet of water. Ravi, a teenage boy, fell into the well, after which some people climbed down to rescue him, while others were standing on the surrounding parapet wall to help them. However, they fell into water when that wall caved in, eyewitnesses said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa dismisses rumours about his resignation, says not at all true||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's visit to Delhi has sparked rumours of his replacement as he is about to complete two years in office this month, even as the 79-year-old BJP veteran dismissed the speculation on Saturday as "not at all true" and said he has been asked to strengthen the party in the southern state.  Describing his two-day visit to Delhi as successful, Yediyurappa said the central leaders of the BJP have asked him to continue as the chief minister and that there was no discussion on a leadership change.  He also said the BJP leadership has asked him to strengthen the party in Karnataka so that it wins the upcoming elections.  While the Assembly polls in Karnataka are slated in 2023, the Lok Sabha election will be held in 2024.  Yediyurappa met Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and BJP chief J P Nadda on Saturday, a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The meetings come at a time when political circles are abuzz with speculation of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister after he completes two years in office on July 26.  Yediyurappa said the discussions at these meetings revolved around strengthening the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka and ensuring that it returns to power in the state.  "We discussed about the development of the party in the state. He asked me to give special emphasis on bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. The same was told by the prime minister also. A detailed discussion took place," Yediyurappa said after his meeting with Nadda.  He said his meeting with Singh was on similar lines and added that Shah told him: "We will win cent per cent in Uttar Pradesh and in Karnataka, there is a bright future and we are with you."  "He (Shah) has asked us to work hard in Karnataka and ensure more seats in the Lok Sabha polls. He has asked me to take the responsibility of strengthening the party in Karnataka. (Shah said) our blessings are with you," the chief minister said after meeting the Union home minister.  Earlier, talking to reporters at the Karnataka Bhavan here, Yediyurappa dismissed the speculation about his resignation, saying there is no truth in these rumours.  "Not at all. Not at all," he said when asked if he had resigned.  On his meeting with Nadda, Yediyurappa said, "I have discussed in detail about the development of the party in the state and the country."  "He has given so many instructions to me. He has a good opinion about me. I will work for the party and come back to power again in Karnataka," he said.  On the issue of his resignation, the chief minister said there is no question of hiding it. "That situation has not yet come," he added.  "So far, no one has been asked to resign. If there is any news, there is no value to it," Yediyurappa said.  "It is the duty of a chief minister to come to Delhi to discuss state issues and get clearances. I will come again in the first week of August," he said.  After his meetings with Nadda and Singh, Yediyurappa enjoyed a plate of idli and vada along with coffee at the Sagar Ratna restaurant in Hotel Ashoka, near the Karnataka Bhavan.  He went to the restaurant with his son B Y Vijayendra, grandson Shashidhar Mardi, MLC Lehar Singh and personal secretary Girish Hosur.  After the meal, the chief minister had left for the airport to return to Bengaluru as his appointment with Shah was not confirmed. But on his way, he got a call from Shah's office and went to meet the Union home minister.  After meeting Shah, Yediyurappa left for the airport.  After landing in Bengaluru, he told reporters that the central leaders of the BJP have asked him to continue as the chief minister and there was no discussion on a leadership change.  "The central leaders have asked me to continue as the chief minister and strengthen the party. It is our duty to follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of a leadership change," Yediyurappa said.  Denying that any discussion took place on alternative leadership, he asserted that there is no dearth of substitute leaders in the saffron party.  However, the chief minister maintained that the party has given him a responsibility and he will work to strengthen the BJP in the southern state by taking everyone along.  Yediyurappa met the prime minister on Friday and discussed the pending projects in the state, including the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river.  The speculation of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister is doing the rounds following repeated open remarks by some disgruntled leaders within the Karnataka BJP targeting him and his family with accusations of corruption and interference in the administration, which have embarrassed the party and the government, despite warnings of disciplinary action by the leadership.  Another section of the party is demanding the replacement of Yediyurappa citing his age and the need of projecting a new chief ministerial face ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, sources had said.  On a possible cabinet rejig, Yediyurappa, before meeting Modi, told reporters, "I will tell you if there is any such discussion with (party) seniors over the restructuring or expansion of the cabinet."  An official statement issued after the Friday meeting between Modi and Yediyurappa had said the chief minister discussed various state issues with the prime minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
17-07-2021||India||Clear morning in Delhi, temperature a notch above normal||Delhiites woke up to a clear morning on Saturday with the minimum temperature settling at 28.2 degrees Celsius, a notch above season's normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has, however, predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the city on Sunday. The minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official reading of the city, was 28.2 degrees Celsius, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 75 per cent, it said. The weather man has predicted partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers later in the day, while the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 37 degrees Celsius. The city had received the first rain of the monsoon season on Tuesday, 16 days after the usual date of June 27. On Friday, the minimum temperature in the national capital was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||India records over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 560 casualties in a day||India recorded 38,079 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,10,64,908, while the death toll reached 4,13,091 with 560 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have declined to 4,24,025 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active COVID-19 cases have decreased by 6,397 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,98,715 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,20,21,954. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent and it has been less than three per cent for 26 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.10 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 3,02,27,792, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 39.96 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 560 new fatalities included 167 deaths from Maharashtra and 130 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 4,13,091 deaths have been reported in the country, including 1,26,727 from Maharashtra, 36,079 from Karnataka, 33,652 from Tamil Nadu, 25,023 from Delhi, 22,711 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,980 from West Bengal and 16,215 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Will ban this year’s Kanwar Yatra if UP govt doesn't: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would ban this year’s Kanwar Yatra pilgrimage if the Uttar Pradesh government didn’t do so, asserting that religious sentiments were “subservient” to people’s fundamental right to health and life. The court’s firm stand in the face of the Yogi Adityanath government’s reluctance to ban the annual Yatra came amid fears that the pilgrimage could fuel a third wave of Covid much as the April Kumbh Mela had helped spread the devastating second wave. Some 3.5 crore Shiva devotees had participated in the Kanwar Yatra in 2019 but state governments had prevented the pilgrimage last year owing to the Covid outbreak. “The health of the citizenry of India and their right to ‘life’ are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right,” the bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai said. At the hearing, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government had opposed the conduct of the Yatra, thus isolating the Adityanath government which had said it wanted to allow the pilgrimage amid “stringent” restrictions. When solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the Uttar Pradesh government must not allow the pilgrims to travel to Hardwar and bring back Ganga water to bathe Shiva idols, Justice Nariman remarked: “State of UP cannot go ahead with it — 100 per cent.” Senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, pleaded that only a limited number of devotees who had been vaccinated or could produce negative RT-PCR reports would be allowed to participate in the Yatra. “Mr Vaidyanathan, either we pass the orders directly (banning the Yatra) or give you one more opportunity to reconsider holding the Yatra physically,” the bench orally observed. “The pandemic affects all of us. We are all citizens of India. This suo motu case is taken because Article 21 (right to life) applies to all of us and we have to safeguard it.” Vaidyanathan then sought permission to seek further instructions from the Uttar Pradesh government. The bench then posted the next hearing to Monday. Its written order said: “We are of the view that this is a matter which concerns every one of us as citizens of India, and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution.” The bench had on Wednesday issued suo motu notices to the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments on the subject of banning the Kanwar Yatra. It had said it was “disturbed” at the “disparate” views expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other political leaders on large gatherings during the pandemic. The apex court had referred to news reports quoting Modi as saying it was up to the people to stop a third wave and that the country could not compromise “even a bit”. But, as the court noted, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to allow the Yatra while the Uttarakhand government had banned it. The Uttar Pradesh government’s affidavit had said that officials would try to persuade the local Kanwar Sanghs to withhold the pilgrimage. If anyone still insisted on going ahead “due to compelling religious reasons”, they “should apply for permission”. Apart from having to furnish vaccination certificates or negative test reports from the previous three days, the pilgrims would have to follow a strict Covid protocol, the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Civil society organisations urge US to designate India as a 'country of particular concern'||Over 30 civil society organisations from around the world on Thursday issued a joint resolution urging the US state department to designate India as a “country of particular concern” (CPC) and sanction officials and others promoting religious discrimination and open persecution of non-Hindus. The resolution was adopted at the inaugural International Religious Freedom Summit in the US where interfaith leaders expressed disappointment at the Joe Biden administration avoiding criticism of the Indian government for allowing discrimination on its watch. The CPC tag is accorded by the US secretary of state, under authority delegated by the President, to a country guilty of particularly severe violations of religious freedom under the International Religious Freedom Act. When the secretary of state designates a CPC, the US Congress is notified. Where non-economic policy options designed to bring about cessation of the particularly severe violations of religious freedom have reasonably been exhausted, an economic measure is expected to be imposed. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) had in its report last year recommended to the state department that India be designated as a CPC, which would have put the country in league with Saudi Arabia, China, Pakistan, Iran and other such nations. The state department did not oblige. At the International Religious Freedom Summit, a US senator and two members of the House of Representatives too voiced concern about the situation in India while speaking at a panel discussion on “Religious Freedom in India: Challenges and Opportunities”. “I remain seriously concerned about the Indian government’s commitment to protecting the rights of minorities, including the 200 million Muslims in India,” Senator Ed Markley said. “The government’s targeting of social and political activities and crackdown on free speech and their religiously motivated discrimination against minorities cannot be viewed in isolation as escalating nationalism threatens to undermine India’s longstanding oath to democratic values.” Referring to reports of the targeting of minorities, Congresswoman Marie Newman said: “India’s equity and standing in the eyes of the world are severely damaged already. Freedom House has downgraded its rating for India’s democracy from being free to partly free. That is heartbreaking. Persecution of entire sections of society, especially when backed by governments, is a recipe for a future filled with disaster. We must do better. We must pressure both our adversaries and our allies to support human rights around the world.” Another member of the House of Representatives, Andy Levin, who is also a member of the foreign affairs committee, said: “Why would I be so critical and so publicly critical of a country that I love? The answer is it is because I love India that I am committed to ending these attacks on its people. It is because I am so passionate in my support for the vibrant democracy I came to know as a young man that I want to see that democracy flourish for generations to come.” The resolution by the 30 organisations takes note of how it’s possible to target minorities with impunity in India. It notes the harassment of marginalised communities, the love jihad narrative, the anti-conversion laws, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that has been widely found to be discriminatory. It also records the history of the RSS. The organisations have urged the US state department to designate India as a CPC under the guidelines of the USCIRF — an independent, bipartisan federal body created under the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act to monitor the universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Rahul: Leave Congress if you fear RSS, join if you don’t||Rahul Gandhi on Friday said fearless people who were opposed to the RSS-BJP needed to be inducted into the Congress while those in the party who were scared must be shown the door. Addressing around 3,000 social media volunteers of the Congress through videoconference, Rahul said: “There are lots of people outside the Congress who are not frightened by the RSS-BJP. They need to be brought into the Congress. And those among us who are scared need to be shown the door. Let them go, we don’t need such people. Go to the RSS, have fun. We need fearless people. That’s our ideology.” He was explaining the strength of the Congress ideology that had inspired many tall leaders across the world and wondered whether anybody had ever heard of any great personality proclaiming he or she had been inspired by the RSS’s principles. Rahul recalled what Nelson Mandela had said when he visited the anti-apartheid revolutionary with Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra: “We developed the confidence that we can fight because the Congress fought the British with truth and non-violence.” Rahul asked if the world had ever discussed RSS leaders M.S. Golwalkar and V.D. Savarkar. The Congress MP conceded it might be a long battle but asserted that the party was prepared to do whatever was required to save the country. He also named former confidante Jyotiraditya Scindia while responding to a question about the people who were quitting the Congress. Insisting that fear was the primary factor, he said: “Scindiaji dar gaye (Scindia got scared). What will happen to my palace, my money… he went. He joined the RSS. We need people who are willing to fight the RSS, not surrender to the RSS.” Although the interaction was not open to the media, those who attended the session said Rahul stressed how crucial social media was at a time when the mainstream media was “frightened” and not doing its duty. He said that while the Narendra Modi government had managed to suppress the voice of the mainstream media, it was not easy to control social media, which was bringing out the truth. Rahul and his close associates suspect that many Congress leaders are scared of possible vindictive actions by the Modi government and so refuse to go beyond a point in attacking them. One of the causes for the perceived distrust between entrenched senior leaders and the younger lot was the suspicion that the veterans were “compromised”. This perception received a jolt when young leaders supposed to be close to Rahul — Scindia and Jitin Prasada — crossed over to the BJP. Scindia didn’t only defect, he pulled down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and installed the BJP, which had been rejected by the people in the elections. Rahul had in his letter announcing his resignation from the Congress president’s post in 2019 hinted at lack of support from senior leaders, arguing that he often felt he was fighting alone. Many senior leaders were not on the same page with him on his single-minded attack on Modi over the Rafale deal. Many veterans don’t appreciate his blunt attacks on industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani, arguing that a centrist party like the Congress needed to have an understanding with the corporate. Some of these leaders also believe that the exodus from the Congress is because of a drift in the party, not the “fear” Rahul has been talking about. But it is true that many Congress leaders in Gujarat and Maharashtra defected to the BJP after they were allegedly hounded by central agencies. Notable defections in Bengal and Assam were also triggered by purported abnormal pressure exerted on them by investigative agencies. Even the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party of Uttar Pradesh were accused of being subdued because of pressure from the central government. Major defections from the Telugu Desam Party in Andhra Pradesh that bolstered the BJP’s strength in the Rajya Sabha also came amidst speculation on similar coercion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Amarinder's opposition to Sidhu elevation forces fire-fighting||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s firm opposition to the planned elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state Congress president has forced the central leadership to undertake yet another agonising round of fire-fighting. The formula, worked out after weeks of reconciliation efforts, has almost come to a naught as neither side is willing to give up. While Sidhu becoming state chief was anyway unacceptable to the chief minister, his apparent hostile gesture of holding a separate meeting with supporters, which included some ministers and MLAs, left Amarinder seething with rage. Amarinder also met with his supporters at a farm house and conveyed his feelings to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The situation was so explosive that Sidhu was summoned to Delhi on Friday morning for a meeting with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. What transpired at the meeting was not known but general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, told reporters no final decision on Sidhu’s appointment had been taken and efforts to address any misgivings were on. He said Sonia was yet to give her stamp of approval to the final decision. Party leaders were in the dark about the negotiations as Sonia is now directly dealing with both Amarinder and Sidhu but there were enough indications of enduring conflict between the two groups. Party MP Manish Tewari, who is the chief minister’s choice for heading the state unit, sent out an unambiguous message through a tweet: “Demographics of Punjab: Sikhs: 57.75 per cent, Hindus: 38.49 per cent, Dalits: 31.94 per cent (Sikh & Hindus). Punjab is both progressive & secular. BUT balancing social interest groups is key. Equality is the basis of social justice.” The emphasis was on the substantial presence of Hindus, which meant giving both the key posts — chief minister and party chief – to Sikhs from the same district, may not be wise. The balancing act with two working presidents from Hindu communities may not have the desired effect as both Amarinder and Sidhu will be seen as the party’s face. The chief minister wants a Hindu or a Dalit as state chief, a proposal that kills two birds with one stone. While Sidhu will be denied the key post, the party’s social engineering messaging is also taken care of. But the problem is that Sidhu is not ready for anything less. Offers like working president or campaign committee chairman have been given to him but he is hell-bent on a position that brings him on a par with the chief minister. The leadership skills of Sonia and Rahul will be tested in this tussle and will have an impact on factional feuds in other states as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||SC sets up electronic system for transmission of court orders||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Friday announced the setting up of an “innovative” and “revolutionising” electronic system of transmission of court orders in a fast and secure manner, following complaints of delay in implementation of bail orders. The top court said the country can no longer live in an era where pigeons were used for transmitting information as it involved the fundamental rights of prisoners’ immediate release after being ordered by a competent court. CJI Ramana, heading a bench also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and A.S. Bopanna, while announcing the new system, remarked: “In this age of information and technology we are still looking at the skies for pigeons to communicate orders.” The court also directed that those prisoners who had been given interim bail or parole in terms of its May 7 order need not surrender until further orders. “Prisoners are waiting for the Supreme Court orders to be sent by post. We have ordered release in some matters and they were not released since they did not receive authentic copy order. This is too much,” Justice Ramana said. Presently, the court orders are transmitted through courier, postal service and hand delivery, leading to considerable delay. A number of advocates have also complained that their clients despite being directed to be released continue to be incarcerated in jails as the orders are not reaching the prison authorities in time. Recently, the apex court had directed the release of 13 prisoners from Agra jail, but they were actually released only four days after the court’s order. The delay occurred apparently because the prison authorities took time to verify the authenticity of the order. During Friday’s proceedings, Justice Ramana said the top court was contemplating a system under which bail orders are sent electronically to jail authorities, so as to facilitate their immediate release. The Supreme Court registry was directed by the bench to prepare a detailed report of a scheme for delivery of its orders for execution to all concerned through a secure, credible and authentic channel. Christened as Faster (Fast and Secure Transmission of Electronic Records), the innovative scheme has been conceived for the instantaneous delivery of orders passed by the apex court to prisons concerned, district courts, high courts, as the case may be, through a secure communication channel. This will save time and effort and will ensure that there are no delays in implementation of the orders passed by the Supreme Court. The secretary-general of the Supreme Court was asked to submit a comprehensive report on formulating a scheme within two weeks. The apex court had last year taken suo moto cognisance of congested prisons and had directed the release of prisoners on parole or interim bail on a case to case basis. The bench, while stating that prisoners released on interim bail and parole orders need not surrender until further orders, asked states and Union Territories to place on record the criteria adopted for the release of prisoners on interim bail or parole. The order came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, assisting the court as amicus curiae, told the bench that there was no consolidated information on the criteria followed for the release of  prisoners by the states and Union Territories. The bench also asked the states and Union Territories to explain the availability Internet infrastructure in their respective jails so as to ensure seamless transmission of the court orders to the prison authorities concerned. At present there are an estimated 1,339 prisons in the country housing a total of 4.60 lakh-odd prisoners. In March last year, the apex court had directed the states and its instrumentalities to set up high-powered committees to decide on the temporary release of prisoners either on parole or bail. However, it was ordered that only those prisoners who were serving a sentence or are likely to sentenced for offences for less than seven years were to be considered for release. The committees were entrusted with the task of deciding the releases on a case to case basis. On May 7, the top court had said there was a need to de-congest prisons across the country to prevent further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, by grant of temporary bail or parole to a certain class of prisoners. However, CJI Ramana heading the bench had said that the task of deciding the release of prisoners on a case to case basis should be better left to the district legal services authorities and the local district judges. The matter would be taken up for further hearing in the first week of August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Jaishankar flags connectivity issues with Central Asia and Eurasia ||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Friday flagged the connectivity issues India has with Central Asia and Eurasia because of Islamabad’s stance on transit trade agreements and Beijing’s disrespect for India’s sovereignty. He did not name Pakistan or China. Addressing the plenary session of the Central and South Asia Connectivity Conference in Tashkent, Jaishankar said: “The challenge we face is that politics, vested interests and instability can be formidable impediments to its realisation.” He added: “There are lessons too from our experiences that need to be understood. The real issues are of mindsets, not of disputes. Blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one. A one-sided view of trade rights and obligations can never work. No serious connectivity can ever be a one-way street.” It was clear that Jaishankar’s target was Islamabad, which has not allowed the Afghanistan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement to be a two-way street. While Afghanistan is allowed to send its goods by land through Pakistan to India, Islamabad does not allow India to export to Afghanistan via the land route, which would have given India access beyond Afghanistan to Central Asia. Further, according to Jaishankar, building connectivity is an act of trust and must, at the minimum, conform to international law. “Respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations,” he said. This was an allusion to China. India objects to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor running through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The corridor is a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China’s ambitious connectivity project linking East Asia to Europe. Although China had invited India to join the BRI, a throwback to the ancient Silk Route, New Delhi decided to stay away, citing sovereignty and territorial integrity issues as the corridor runs through PoK. Given how the four-decade-old strife in Afghanistan has affected transit projects including gas pipelines, Jaishankar also emphasised that development and prosperity go hand in hand with peace and security. “For reliable connectivity within and through Afghanistan, the world must have confidence in its governance. Our connectivity deliberations expect predictability, efficiency and observance of norms of our time as its foundation,” he said. He was articulating the growing worldwide concern at the situation in land-locked Afghanistan with the Taliban gaining control over large swathes of territory after the US withdrawal. The meeting also saw a heated exchange between Pakistan and Afghanistan, with President Ashraf Ghani accusing Islamabad of continuing its links with the Taliban. Ghani said over 10,000 jihadi fighters had entered Afghanistan over the last month and that Islamabad had failed to convince the Taliban to participate seriously in peace talks. He was alluding to pro-Taliban elements celebrating the destruction of assets in Afghanistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is attending the conference, expressed disappointment at Ghani blaming Islamabad for the situation in Afghanistan. He said Pakistan had faced the blowback of the conflict in Afghanistan and knew that it would also face the effects of the recent turbulence in its neighbourhood. Imran added that the Taliban were no longer willing to compromise after the US set a date for troops withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Even single Covid-19 vaccine doses protected against death: ICMR||Even single doses of Covid-19 vaccines provided recipients significant protection against death during the country’s second wave of the pandemic, a top health official said on Friday, citing a Tamil Nadu study that underlines the need to rapidly expand coverage amid limited supplies. The study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found that a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine provided recipients 82 per cent protection from death, while two doses increased vaccine effectiveness to 95 per cent. “Here is real-life data, not research data. Real-life data from the second wave that was driven by the Delta variant. The effectiveness (of vaccines) to prevent death is huge,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group guiding the Centre’s vaccination policy. Public health experts have listed the Delta variant of coronavirus — first detected in India — among key factors that contributed to the speed and size of the second wave of the pandemic in which daily new infections rose 46-fold from 9,000 in mid-February to over 414,000 in early May. The study that counted coronavirus deaths among Tamil Nadu police staff is the third large assessment of vaccine effectiveness in India after similar comparisons of Covid-19 outcomes among healthcare workers at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and among police personnel in Punjab. The ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, recorded 20 deaths (1.17 per 1,000) among 17,059 unvaccinated staff, seven deaths (0.21 per 1,000) among 32,792 who had received one dose, and four deaths (0.06 per 1,000) among 67,673 who had received both doses. Those numbers translate into 82 per cent vaccine effectiveness after one dose and 95 per cent after two doses. The findings point to potential gains — or lives saved — if more people were vaccinated, but the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, constrained by slow supplies, is progressing at a pace much slower than what it could be. The campaign has administered nearly 400 million doses, but only 79 million people — eight per cent of the 944 million eligible — have been fully vaccinated with two doses. India is currently administering four million doses daily instead of more than eight million needed to complete vaccinations by the year-end. Health officials have expressed hope that rigorous adherence to Covid-linked precautions — such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds — by people across the country as well as a gradual increase in vaccination coverage might avert a possible third wave. India’s daily new Covid-19 cases have declined steadily over the past eight weeks to around 40,000. However, pockets of widespread infections, where 10 per cent or larger suspected cases tested are found positive, persist, which include nine districts in Manipur, eight in Kerala, six in Rajasthan, five each in Meghalaya and Mizoram, three each in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Sikkim, two in Tripura, and one each in Assam, Maharashtra, and Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Hooch death whiff in dry Bihar||At least eight persons have lost their lives in West Champaran district of dry Bihar over the past three days after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Residents of the affected areas — Deorwa, Jogia, Bagahi and several other villages under Lauria and Ramnagar police stations — said the toll was between 16 and 20. Several people are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the state and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, they said. “We got information around 7.30pm on Thursday that eight persons have died in suspicious circumstances in Deorwa, Jogia and Bagahi villages over the past two to three days. We also came to know that some people are being treated at private nursing homes. We rushed there to investigate the matter,” West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the villagers insisted that the deceased were ill and denied the cause of death was liquor consumption. When they were asked for prescriptions, the family members of only two of the victims could produce documents, he said. One victim was on dialysis while another had an ailing heart. The rest of the deaths appeared suspicious, he said. However, the district administration got information that one person, identified as Muhammad Mumtaz, was being treated at a private hospital. A few officials were sent to meet him where his cousin said Muhammad fell ill after consuming liquor. “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the information. We have been conducting raids since last (Thursday) night. A few people have been detained so far. A medical team has also been dispatched to the area to deal with any emergency,” Kumar said. The district magistrate said that deaths caused by drinking spurious liquor could be proved either by investigation or medical examination. He, however, said the last rites of all the deceased have been performed, which was proving to be an obstacle in determining the cause of deaths. Asked if there were any plans to exhume bodies to conduct tests, Kumar denied. Sources said the family members of the deceased hurriedly cremated or buried the bodies according to their customs without informing the police or the local administration allegedly out of fear of retribution for violating the liquor ban. The family members were also afraid that the police would exhume the bodies for investigation, they said. A few others said that the local police and administration officials allegedly threatened them of dire consequences if they lodged a case or complained to the senior officers. A few residents alleged that the area was a hotbed of illicit liquor brewing and gambling. Champaran range deputy inspector-general Lalan Mohan Prasad claimed the deaths occurred due to liquor consumption. “We have got the names of eight persons who died. There could be others who lost their lives after drinking hooch. We have registered an FIR with Lauria police station. Further investigation is on,” Prasad told this newspaper. Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad attacked the Nitish Kumar government on Friday over the deaths. “Thousands of people are dying in Bihar after consuming spurious liquor due to good governance’s prohibition. Those in power are running a parallel economy worth Rs 20,000 crore due to prohibition. Lakhs of Dalits and poor people are in jail in the name of liquor ban. The police have become corrupt and cruel,” Lalu said. There have been a series of hooch-related deaths in Bihar since chief minister Nitish brought a law to ban liquor manufacturing, trade and consumption in the state in 2016. Sources said that lacklustre policing and a nexus between law enforcement agencies and liquor mafia were the main reasons behind the illegal sale and consumption of liquor. At least 22 people have lost their lives in separate hooch tragedies in Kaimur, Muzaffarpur and Nawada districts this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
17-07-2021||India||Covid: Naveen seeks 95% jab allocation from the Centre||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sought 95 per cent vaccine allocation for the state from the Centre. Naveen raised the demand on Friday during a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was also attended by chief ministers from other states. The chief minister argued that Odisha had been performing very well on the vaccination front with its waste percentage being the lowest in the country. Naveen, however, said that due to low presence of private hospitals in the state, lifting of the vaccines by these hospitals from the 25 per cent quota has been comparatively less. Recalling his earlier communication with the central government on the issue, he said that Odisha had written to the Government of India to increase the allocation of vaccines to the state government to 95 per cent and reduce the allocation to private hospitals to 5 per cent. He said this would help the state increase the pace of vaccination. Voicing his concern over the anticipated third wave of Covid likely to impact children, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to accord priority to vaccines for this age group. “I would like to request that the vaccines for the age group — 12-18 years may be prioritised and rolled out at the earliest,” he proposed. As it is Odisha has been making preparations to face the possible third wave of the pandemic with focus on upgrading the health infrastructure for children. While special paediatric wards in hospitals are being set up doctors are being specially trained to deal with the possible complications that might be seen among children affected by the new mutant of the coronavirus. At the same time an all out effort is being made to ramp up the vaccination drive which was hit recently by shortage of vaccines. The drive had to be halted in several districts. Officials, however, hope that the drive would be back on the track soon with fresh supply of vaccines reaching the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande hospitalised with lung infection, condition critical||West Bengal minister Sadhan Pande has been hospitalised with a severe lung infection, a Health official said on Saturday.  The condition of the Consumer Affairs and Self Help and Self Employment minister is "very critical" and he has been put on ventilator support at the ICU of a private hospital in Kolkata, he said.  The septuagenarian was rushed to the hospital late on Friday night in a semi-conscious state after he complained of chest pain and breathlessness, the official said.  Pande's oxygen saturation is quite low and doctors are keeping a constant watch on him, hospital sources said.  A four-member medical team which includes an endocrinologist has been constituted to treat Pande, who has several comorbidities like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and renal disorders, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal JEE held smoothly in offline mode amid Covid-19 situation||Over 90 per cent of the total 92,695 candidates sat for the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) at 274 centres on Saturday, as the first offline public examination held in the state this year amid the pandemic situation went off smoothly.  An official of the West Bengal JEE Board said that the candidates wrote Mathematics and Physics-Chemistry papers in two halves, with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining a five-feet distance between them.  "Over 90 per cent of the 92,695 candidates, including some from outside the state, who were enrolled for the WBJEE turned up for the exams.  "To maintain social distancing, two candidates were seated on long benches with a five-feet gap between them, and one on the shorter ones. The number of examinees in each room did not exceed 28," the official said.  The Mathematics paper in the first half and the Physics-Chemistry paper in the second were of two hours each and the exams passed off smoothly, he said.  WBJEE is conducted to shortlist candidates aspiring to study in engineering colleges in the state.  Examinees were allowed to board staff-special trains if they carried admit cards with them.  However, many of them claimed that the number of public transport vehicles at Sealdah, Howrah and Kolkata terminal railway stations were fewer, and they had to shell out a huge amount of money to reach the examination venues on time.  The Kolkata Police came to the help of two candidates from Bihar who had mistakenly turned up at the Jadavpur University main campus instead of the JU Salt Lake campus for the exams.  A social organisation pressed into service a few buses, hired from private operators, to ferry candidates for free in Kolkata and Howrah.  The COVID positivity rate in West Bengal has declined to 1.54 per cent, as 14,191 patients of the 15.13-lakh tally are undergoing treatment, while 17,944 people have succumbed to the infection, and 14.81 lakh have recovered from the disease thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Private hospitals question regulator on capping test rates ||Nineteen major private hospitals in Calcutta  have informed the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that they are not bound by its “purported” order  fixing upper limits on pathological and radiological tests,  while also questioning the basis and validity of the order. Represented by the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, the hospitals noted that the association received the "order" on fixing rates via WhatsApp on July 2. The association, in its letter to the commission secretary on July 6, has also demanded the commission  explain how the rates had been decided. “… disclose all the documents evidencing the formation of opinion including the documents in relation to the appointment, terms of reference, the decision-making process and the suggestions of the two expert committees referred to in the said order to demonstrate how these orders have been arrived at,” reads the letter. The association has also questioned how the commission  decided on the rate caps being applicable to only those hospitals with more than 150 beds. The letter worded in legalese, reminds the commission of its powers and functions under the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency Act), 2017. While the commission is empowered under  section 38 (A) of the Act to regulate fixing of rates or charges for treatment of patients in indoor and outdoor departments,  section 52 of the same Act clarifies that it will have to do so with prior approval from the state government. The association representing private hospitals  claims that the commission has violated the provision. "No such approval of the state government by notification is forthcoming in the present case which renders any exercise of power under Section 38 of the said Act a nullity and therefore non-est and void ab initio,” reads the letter. The association has reminded the commission  that it can only “make regulations” and “not pass orders”. “Even assuming, without admitting, that the said 'order' is valid, the exercise of power under Section 38 has to be construed reasonably and cannot be used arbitrarily to fix rates,” the association states in its letter. The association letter also states that none of the member hospitals was heard by the two committees (the letter calls it "purported committees"). “The entire process, which is opaque,  is in violation of the inalienable principles of natural justice which is a part and parcel of Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” says the letter. The hospitals have reasoned that those accreditated with the Joint Commission International (JCI) and the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare (NABH) require stringent quality control protocol even for the most basic tests and those measures have an impact on the cost pricing. “… the same rate has been fixed arbitrarily without any rational basis. The proposed uniform rates are discriminatory and amount to treating unequals equally and will deny equality in treatment of those similarly placed as against those otherwise placed,” the letter says in the section called submissions. The rates fixed by the commission, says the association, are “unjust, baseless and do not reflect due application of mind to relevant considerations, contrary to accepted industry practices” before giving a point-by-point explanation on why it opposes the rates. The hospitals say tests like the 128-position emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) scanning systems, 3 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), catheterization laboratories require significant “cost absorption” and “infrastructural investment” along with trained manpower which have not been “reflected in arbitrary rates fixed by the commission.” The commission, which had announced the order was to come into effect immediately, is yet to respond to the hotel association's letter. The association has demanded the order be withdrawn and/or rescinded, and sought an opportunity to be heard “through counsel.” The commission secretary, Arshad Hasan Warsi, has promised to talk to the hospital association. "The Commission will hear them soon online.  Most of the hospitals are in agreement as the rates are very much  reasonable and in some cases almost the same as prevalent," said Warsi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||New postgraduate and diploma courses at Alipurduar University ||Ten new postgraduate courses and nine diploma courses in other subjects would be introduced at the Alipurduar University in the upcoming academic session, Mahendranath Roy, the vicechancellor of the sixmonthold varsity, said hereon Friday. “Initially, we had approval for PG courses in four subjects but now, we have received approval for PG courses in 10 other subjects and can also introduce oneyearlong diploma courses in nine other subjects from the state higher education department. It is indeed a major development and will benefit hundreds of students of Alipurduar and adjoining districts,” said Roy. Roy said that there would be 20 seats each for oneyearlong diploma course, while the number of seats may vary from 10 to 25 for PG subjects. Among the diploma cours¬es that would be introduced at the varsity, include manage¬ment in  diploma inteamanagement, forestrymanagement, tourism managementand hotel, and courses diploma inon folk culture, songs and dances of Rajbanshi, Adivasi, Mech, Ne¬pali and Rava communities. The 10 new traditional subjects which would be introduced for the twoyearpostgraduate courses include botany, zoolo¬gy, maths, Bengali, Sanskrit, political science, philosophy, economics, commerce and ge¬ography. Earlier, the varsity had got approval for PG cours¬es in English, history, chem¬istry and biology. “We will start the admission process in a couple of months,” the VC said. Meanwhile, in Murshidab¬ad, educationists and membe¬rs of the civil society have de¬manded that postgraduate co¬urses in Arabic be introduced at Murshidabad University, set up last year. There are 25 colleges in Murshidabad amo¬ng which undergraduate cou¬rses in Arabic are taught in 14. Every year, 500 to 700 students complete their UG course in this subject, said Sheikh Abir Hossain, an educationist. “However, out of the 14 subjects in which postgraduate courses have been introduced at the varsity from this year, Arabic is not there. We want this subject, along with some other subjects like Islamic studies, to be introduced at the varsity immediately. This would create an option for hundreds of students who want to pursue higher studies in Arabic,” he said. Hossain mentioned that they are readying a mass petition on the issue and will send it to the state education minister and to Sujata Bagchi, the vicechancellor of the varsity, said: “This is our first academic ye¬ar. We have introduced as ma¬ny as 14 subjects. We need pro¬per infrastructure and faculty to start a PG course in Arabic. It will be done in due course.” Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||EVM scan in Bengal Assembly bypoll zones||The chief electoral officer of Bengal on Friday wrote to the election officers in districts where Assembly bypolls are due to start the first level of checking of EVMs and VVPATs. An official at Nabanna read significance in the initiative by the CEO, Ariz Aftab, as it came a day after a Trinamul Congress delegation had met the full bench of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi seeking immediate bypolls. “This is significant as one can say that the EC has officially started proceedings to hold the bypolls in the state,” said a source. In Bengal, bypolls are supposed to be held in seven Assembly segments because of deaths of candidates or resignation of sitting MLAs. The bypolls became relevant only because Mamata Banerjee has to be elected by November 5 to continue as the chief minister. The CEO on Friday wrote letters to the district election officers of Cooch Behar, Calcutta South, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and Nadia, asking them to start first level checking of the EVMs and VVPATs. “In these five areas, bypolls are due in one segment each. In Murshidabad, bypolls have to be held in two segments,” said a source. Sources said as elections were not held in Murshidabad, there was no need to check the EVMs and VVPATs. “But in all other five segments, elections were held and later the seats fell vacant. So, EVMs have to be kept ready before the bypolls,” said a source. A section of officials, however, said the first level of checking of EVMs and VVPATs did not mean that the bypolls would be held on time. “The EC is keeping itself prepared. But holding of polls would depend on several other factors, like the Covid situation,” said a senior official. The Election Commission on Friday issued a notification for a bypoll to a vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9. The bypoll was necessitated by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi. The term of the seat is until 2026. The byelection will be held on August 9 and nominations will open on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu: BJP to move court with appeal to implement anti-defection law against Mukul  ||Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday said the BJP was preparing to move court with an appeal to implement the anti-defection law against Mukul Roy, who had switched to the Trinamul Congress after being elected as an MLA on the lotus symbol. Adhikari said the BJP would also urge the court to set a deadline for the Speaker of the Bengal Assembly to conclude the hearing on his application for Roy’s disqualification. On the basis of Adhikari’s appeal, Speaker Biman Banerjee called for the first hearing on Friday. Adhikari and two other BJP MLAs, Ambika Roy and Sudip Mukherjee, attended the hearing, which lasted for hardly four minutes. A source said Banerjee had pointed out some technical faults and asked Adhikari to return with a rectified application on July 30. The source added the “technical anomalies” could’ve been overlooked and by pointing them out, Banerjee was trying to delay the process. On the basis of this assumption and “past experiences”, the BJP has decided to move court. “We have no faith in the system run by the Trinamul Congress…We will speak to the legal cell of the BJP and senior lawyers and we will take refuge in court… We will request the court to implement the anti-defection law in Bengal…And if a hearing (in the Assembly) is to be conducted, the court must fix a deadline for its completion…,” Adhikari told journalists after the hearing. He added since there was documented proof available and Roy had been elected as the PAC chairman with support from Trinamul, there mustn’t be much “lingering” on the issue. “We have seen when the Left legislative party had complained about Dipali Biswas switching to Trinamul, 23 hearings were held…But it was never concluded. Hence, we don’t trust this system,” Adhikari said. Incidentally, Adhikari is said to have played a key role in the defection of Biswas from the CPM to Trinamul in 2018. She later switched to the BJP, yet again with Adhikari’s help, in 2020. She had won from the Gazole seat in 2016. Sunil Mondal, the MP from Burdwan East seat, told this newspaper that he was not a member of BJP. Mondal had switched from Trinamul to the BJP in December 2020 along with Adhikari. However, after the Assembly poll debacle for the BJP, he reportedly fell out with the Nandigram MLA. “I’m still a Trinamul MP. I don’t have a single document that can prove that I’m a BJP member, because I’m not. Neither am I an office-bearer of the BJP,” Mondal said. Trinamul had recently expedited the process of implementing the anti-defection law against Mondal and Sisir Adhikari, Suvendu’s father, who had switched to the BJP. Both of them were sent notices on Thursday asking them to explain why the law shouldn’t be implemented against them. In such a circumstance, Mondal claimed that he remained a Trinamul MP. Partha Chatterjee, the minister for parliamentary affairs, announced the names of the chairpersons of eight Assembly standing committees from which BJP MLAs had resigned. He named Sudipto Roy, Humayun Kabir, Pannalal Halder, Abdul Khalek Mollah, Rukbanur Rehman, Tapan Dasgupta, Ashok Chattopadhyay and Madan Mitra as the new chairmen of these committees. The Standing Committees will meet from July 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal|| Faulty design turns vessels into death traps||Repeated incidents of trawler mishaps in the Sunderbans has brought the design of vessels under the scanner and the state government has decided to come up with a boat model that will help in better navigation on rivers and sea in Bengal. In the past few years, over 100 fishermen lost their lives with the latest accident happening in the Bay of Bengal off Frazerganj in South 24-Parganas on Wednesday claiming 10 lives. While trying to find out the reason for Wednesday morning’s mishap, officials of the state fisheries department at a meeting with fishermen’s organisations zeroed in on the navigation problem that vessels with a distinct V-shape at the bottom faced while moving through highly-silted coastal channels of Bay of Bengal. While the fishermen’s organisations have appealed to the state government for clearing the silted channel where their trawlers often get trapped or capsized after hitting the submerged alluvial land, the Bengal government has been considering to write to the Cochin-based Central Institute of Fisheries Technologies (CIFT) to design a new model of fishing boat that can navigate better on rivers and sea in Bengal. “Silted stretches of rivers and sea channels have emerged as a major problem for fishermen. Our officials have also realised the problem. We will have a thorough discussion on the issue at a meeting to be held at the district magistrate’s office on July 22. The issue of writing to the Central Institute of Fisheries Technologies will also be finalised there,” fisheries minister Akhil Giri told The Telegraph. Sources said during the initial discussion at the Namkhana BDO office, senior officials of the fisheries department pointed out that boats from South 24-Parganas are mostly V-shaped at the bottom, whereas fishermen in Digha-Sankarpur use vessels that tend to get oval at the bottom. “The coastal areas of the Sunderbans and Digha are different with sea channels in South 24-Parganas distinctly narrower than those in East Midnapore. This creates problems for trawlers and the distinct V-shape at the bottom gets easily stuck in the silt. Boats with an oval shape at the bottom glide over depleted water zones without getting stuck in the silt. This is the reason why the number of boats capsizing in East Midnapore is far less than those on South 24-Parganas,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Jayanta Kumar Pradhan. Sources said in the past five years, 35 boats that had sailed from South 24-Parganas capsized killing 125 fishermen. During the same time, the corresponding figure of boat accidents in East Midnapore is five and nine people have lost their lives. Speaking to The Telegraph, Giri said: “The V-shaped boats are basically model popular in Bangladesh where the problem of navigation is less. Officials of our department had discouraged fishermen from using V-shaped boats, but higher manufacturing costs of oval shaped boats came in the way.” “We have over 10,000 fishing boats in operation in South 24-Parganas. So even if the new model is introduced, it will be difficult to replace the old V-shaped boats overnight. We will discuss with the CIFT to propose a more financially viable trawler model for fishermen in the region,” Giri added. Members of West Bengal United Fishermen’s Association, who have been invited to attend the July 22 meeting, have welcomed the government's initiative. Sources in the fisheries department said a few years ago they had written to the CIFT for a new model for Bengal fishermen, but the endeavour did not materialise. Baiju M.V, a senior scientist at Kerala’s CIFT and an expert in marine fishing technology, however, reiterated the “stability” features of boats. “Fishing boat making requires expertise. It is not an easy job. Unfortunately, the stability features of the boat often gets ignored in the unorganised fishing sector. Stability is the basic safety aspect of a fishing boat,” Baiju told The Telegraph over phone. Apart from navigation issues, the government is considering training trawler operators. Officials said when driving an auto required a license, trawler operators should be imparted training. This, an official said, would help bring down incidents of trawler mishaps. “After a spate of boat capsizing incidents, the Bengal government had in 2018 formulated guidelines for trawlers and fishermen on following safe shipping routes. But errant fishermen often flout the guidelines leading to mishaps. The guidelines need to be implemented properly,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Four persons crushed to death on highway near Murshidabad||Four persons were crushed to death when a stone chip-laden truck careened into a tea stall off a state highway near Murshidabad’s Bhalkundi village early on Friday. Eyewitnesses said the truck, which was heading to Behrampore from Rampurhat in Birbhum along the Rampurhat-Sherpur state highway, driving recklessly at a high speed apparently lost control and ran over several persons and the tea stall, before being stopped by a large tree. The incident occurred around 6am. “Four persons died on the spot, and the shop was completely destroyed. The gathering was much larger though, and it could have been far worse had it not been for a few people who spotted the errant vehicle and ran for their lives,” said Rakibul Sheikh, a witness. The deceased have been identified as Hefjul Sheikh, 62, Al-Amin Sheikh, 65, Ujjal Sheikh, 18 and Prakash Marjit, 32 — all local farmers. Sources said two injured were rushed to Khargram Block Hospital. Later, they were referred to the Murshidabad Medical College and Kandi Sub-divisional Hospital, respectively. “Their condition is critical,” said a source. Police said the truck had been seized, but the driver, whose identity was ascertained, was absconding. “We have started a case against the driver. Prima facie, it seems that he had fallen asleep at the wheel,” said district police chief K. Sabari Raj Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||CPM wields Bengal govt policy to oppose DPL land sale||The CPM is using a 2015 land policy of the Mamata Banerjee government to oppose the decision to sell off or lease out unused land of Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) to make the loss-making power utility financially viable. In 2015, the Bengal cabinet had approved a policy in which it was stated that all those encroaching upon government land for five years or more would be given longterm settlement rights to the plots. Industrialists had then questioned the policy as they thought it would lead to problems over land availability for industrial and public purpose projects. Armed with the 2015 land policy of the state government, CPM workers in Durgapur on Thursday began a door-to-door survey to identify the number of longtime settlers on DPL land and collect data about their whereabouts. “We are collecting details of the people staying on DPL land for a long time. We are collecting their name, age, details of their family members and source of income. Most of them have already got the drinking water supply connection in their locality and also electricity connection in households from DPL,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. He said the settlers, who are now being described as “encroachers” by the DPL, had been given power and drinking water connections after the government decided to legalise long-term settlers in 2015 and on the eve of the 2017 civic polls in Durgapur. “The government now is in a hurry to sell the land to its handpicked private parties for realty projects and wants to evict people living here for a long time. By doing this they are going against their own policy. We want the government to give them long-term settlement rights but it wants to evict them,” said Roy Sarkar. The CPM on Thursday held a mass convention to rally people’s support against the “eviction drive” and on Wednesday the party had submitted a deputation to the subdivisional officer to register its opposition to the government’s move. The BJP, too, hit the streets on the issue on Thursday. “The government wants to evict people by labelling them as encroachers. The government is actually trying to destroy DPL, the lifeline of Durgapur,” said Chandrasekhar Banerjee, a BJP leader in Durgapur. Opposition parties have launched their protests at a time when the DPL is conducting a digital survey on its “encroached” lands with the help of drone cameras to avoid resistance. “Initially we began a door-to-door survey but apprehending law-and-order issues we decided to take the help of drone cameras,” said a DPL official. Sources in DPL said around 25,000 “illegal settlers” have been occupying around 200acre land of DPL. The CPM, too, has estimated a similar number of people living on DPL land. Sources in the district administration said the drive to evict “encroachers” in such large numbers would not be an easy job. “The Opposition will surely make it an issue for political gains and that will help illegal occupants to resist the eviction drive,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic body to develop alternative road along Mahananda river to reduce traffic congestion||Gautam Deb, the chairperson of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Friday held a meeting with senior officials of different departments over various infrastructural projects in Siliguri. Deb mentioned that the SMC will build a 10km alternative road along the bank of the Mahananda river to ease the traffic load of Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road, two principal thoroughfares of the town and connect these roads through a bridge that will come up in the Surya Sen Park area located on the left bank of the Mahananda. The alternative road, which would be developed with the help of Rail India Technical and Economic Services Private Limited (RITES), will. “The SMC will develop a 10km alternative road along the bank of the Mahananda river to reduce traffic congestion on Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road and connect these roads through a bridge that will come up in the Surya Sen Park area located on the left bank of the Mahananda. The Rail India Technical and Economic Services Private Limited (RITES) I had been to Calcutta recently and there, I had a meeting with representatives of RITES. Based on our consultation, theyhas carried out a survey and come up with a plan to develop the alternative road and bridge that will connect the two roadsthe Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road,” said Deb. On Friday, he held a highlevel meeting with senior officials of state PWD, irrigation, PHE, the Teesta Barrage Project, WBSEDCL and Siliguri Metropolitan Police. At the meeting, it was also decided to dismantle an arm of the DBRCD flyover of the city and construct a doublelane arm that would help in. “We are planning to construct a double lane arm of the DBRCD flyover to ease vehicular movement along Station Feeder Road. A proposal in this regard will be sent to the chief minister and to the state urban development and municipal affairs department soonOfficials of RITES will shortly carry out a survey for the proposed project,” he added. It has also been decided to Among other decisions which were made include the decision to shift the local bus stand now near Siliguri Town station to Tinbatti More. from of the city, which is beside now, (on southern end of Siliguri). “Private buses bound for Calcutta and Bihar will be shifted to Paribahan Nagar, (in the northwest end of the city) while buses running between Siliguri and Jalpaiguri will depart from PC Mittal Bus Terminus (which is in the northeastern parts of Siliguri),” the chairperson said. The civic body has planned to use the land of the A source said that the civic body would use the land of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation at Tinbatti More for a terminus of private buses. “The deputy director of the NBSTC has taken up the issue with the state transport department so that the land can be used as a terminus of private buses,” said a source. Deb also spoke with officials of PHE and irrigation for a new drinking water project of the city. In Siliguri, a larger drinking water project is required to cater to the population that has witnessed an unprecedented growth during the past couple of decades.A plan to draw water from the Teesta to a new filtration plant that would be set up on the outskirts of Siliguri was also discussed. “Experts at the state PHE department have already prepared a detailed project report for the drinking water project. The idea is to draw water from the Teesta to a new filtration plant that would be set up on the outskirts of the city.The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 470 crores and the proposal has been sent to the municipal affairs department for approval,” Deb said. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said here on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 882 active cases, 10 deaths||Bengal on Friday reported the 26th consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 1,025 recoveries, 882 infections and 10 deaths. Friday was the 12th consecutive day of less than 1,000 new infections being detected. The Covid-19 death count of 10 reported on Friday was the lowest since April 9, 98 days ago. The total of active cases fell by 153 on Friday to 13,484. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.93 per cent, with the national rate at 97.26. Of the 10 deaths, two were from the city. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while North 24-Parganas reported just one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. The state now has a total of over 15.16 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.85 lakh recoveries and 17,980 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa elected as acting president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction||Anit Thapa was on Friday elected the “acting president” of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction that had been headed by Binay Tamang who had resigned from the party a day earlier. Thapa seemed to have tightened his grip on the faction where majority of central committee members backed him. The meeting to elect Thapa was held in Kurseong. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesman for the party, said: “Anit Thapa will be the acting president of the party as we need to adhere to some technicalities to appoint a full-fledged president. The process will be duly followed.” Thapa will also continue to discharge his responsibility as the general secretary. “We will now work as ‘we’ and not as individuals in the party,” said Thapa soon after taking control of the party and reversed his former party president Binay Tamang’s media gag on party leaders and the dissolution of various committees of the faction. “All the previous committees that were dissolved will be reinstated with immediate effect,” added Thapa. On June 16, Tamang had said the party would no longer have a spokesman and that only he would issue media statements or designate some leader to do so on a particular day. Tamang had also dissolved the subdivisional committees of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and constituency committee of Mirik and Soureni. Tamang had also decided to personally monitor the central and district committees of the women and youth wings, too. Even though the growing difference between Thapa and Tamang is being cited as a catalyst for the new political development, Thapa on Friday said he had sent a message to Tamang after his resignation announcement stating that Tamang should at least have placed his grievances with the central committee before leaving party leaders and followers high and dry. Most of the central committee leaders and representative of the 23 frontal organisations of the party attended Thapa’s meeting. Ruden Sada Lepcha, Kalimpong MLA, prominently present. “All pointers suggests that Thapa is ready to ready to lead this faction sans Tamang,” said an observer. Breaking down and weeping seem to be the new flavour of the season for politicians in the Darjeeling hills. On Friday Bimal Gurung could not hold his emotions when he received the party flag from Tamang at his Patlebas office in Darjeeling. The flag was accepted by Gurung at 11.19 am, a time he always maintains to undertake important events. Tamang, too, had wept when he had announced his decision to hand over the flag to Gurung on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel issues notification for byelection to vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9||The Election Commission of India on Friday issued a notification for a bypoll to a vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Bengal on August 9. The bypoll to the Upper House was announced a day after the Trinamul Congress had demanded byelections to seven Assembly seats in the state. The Rajya Sabha bypoll was necessitated by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi following his exit from Trinamul in February. He joined the BJP in March. The term of the seat is until 2026. The byelection will be held on August 9 and nominations will open on July 22. Trinamul has the numbers to elect its own member to the Upper House. The six-month deadline for the EC to conduct the vacant RS seat will end on August 12. In Bengal, one more RS seat is vacant following the resignation of Manas Bhunia. He quit the seat after being elected as a Trinamul MLA. The EC has time until November 6 to fill the vacancy. In the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, the EC had deferred all polls in May. Unlike the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, Rajya Sabha elections are indirect as only MLAs need to cast their votes. No campaigning or deployment of large numbers of polling personnel is required. In May, the EC had indefinitely deferred a Rajya Sabha election in Kerala. Earlier this month, the Bengal government had told the EC that the situation was conducive to both the RS and the Assembly bypolls. The EC hasn’t, however, announced any decision on the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Dooars: Plea for Rapid Antigen Test for tourists||Resort owners in the Dooars have demanded that the administration conduct Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) of tourists at kiosks which can be set up at entry points. A delegation of resort owners on Friday met Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu with the demand. “We had earlier seen the administration carrying out random RAT tests in marketplaces and busy areas. A similar step can be taken to screen tourists visiting the region. Kiosks for the RAT tests can be set up at tourist spots in the Dooars and entry points. It would be convenient for tourists then as they would no longer have to carry RTPCR negative reports. Staff at the resorts and homestays can also be screened regularly,” said Mahasweta Roy, assistant secretary, Gorumara Tourism Welfare Association. On Wednesday, the Jalpaiguri district administration has issued a notification mentioning that only tourists, who were fully vaccinated or carrying RTPCR negative reports issued not before 48 hours of their travel could check into hotels, resorts and homestays. The notification led to a number of cancellations as a section of tourists who took the first dose or were yet to be vaccinated were apprehensive of travelling to the Dooars because the RTPCR certificates would be considered invalid if there was any delay in their arrival because of transport issues. Basu, the district magistrate, said the proposal |could be considered but |transporters and railway authorities needed to be consulted. “A detailed plan has to be drawn in consultation with different departments and the stakeholders. Only then can this process be initiated. We will soon speak to the persons concerned to check out the feasibility of the plan,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum: Vaccine and test riders for tourists to check Covid spread||The Birbhum district administration has asked hotel and resort owners at Santiniketan and other tourism hubs to ensure proof of both doses of Covid-19 vaccination or a negative RT-PCR test report, not older than 72 hours from arrival, before allotting accommodation at their properties. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Chandra Ray issued an order on Thursday evening and it was circulated to all tourist destinations, including Santiniketan, in a bid to curb the outbreak amid fears of a third wave. “All hotels and resorts at all tourist spots of Birbhum, including Santiniketan, have to abide by the directive and have been asked to cooperate with the administration to get a grip on the infection,” said Ray. Hoteliers have been asked to keep a copy of the proof of vaccination or the Covid-19 negative report before the tourists enter their properties. Before Birbhum, the administration in two other famed tourism hubs in the state — Digha and Darjeeling — took similar measures. On Friday, the Bankura district administration also issued an identical directive to ensure such proof for anyone visiting hotels or resorts in the district. Sources said the flow of tourists increased exponentially after several special trains started running from Calcutta and some of the strict restrictions that the state government had imposed during the peak of the second wave were relaxed. The rural market of Sonajhuri, a top draw for tourists as a weekend destination for rural art and crafts, has also been reopened. “It is true that the order is good for the safety of our areas. But the main problem is the long gap (of at least 84 days) between the two doses of Covishield and the dire crisis of vaccines for the 18-44 age bracket. We think these directions would lessen the flow of tourists,” said Prosenjit Chowdhury, secretary of the Bolpur-Santiniketan Hoteliers’ Association. The restrictions have been imposed for the Tarapith Kali temple in Rampurhat as well. The temple attracts pilgrims from neighbouring Bihar and Jharkhand in large numbers, besides all over Bengal. Hoteliers in Tarapith have pleaded with the district administration to ensure immediate testing of tourists who were vaccinated but forgot to carry the proof or to arrange for verification on the basis of their identity documentation. “It is a good order to protect the district from the third wave. We would request authorities to allow the tourists for a test or a confirmation through the government portal, if someone forgets to carry the proof,” said Sunil Giri, president of the Tarapith Hoteliers’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Casual staff of Malda Medical College and Hospital on ceasework||Over 170 contractual employees working in different departments of Malda Medical College and Hospital launched a ceasework and demonstration on Friday after the principal’s office had issued a notice, saying they would not be paid salaries from August because of paucity of funds. The notice was issued on Thursday afternoon. “This is nothing but a move to retrench us. Many of us have been working here for 10 to 12 years. Our services were engaged throughout the Covid-19 pandemic also. Any move to remove us from our jobs is disappointing,” said Priya Singha, a contractual employee who works in the office of the superintendent of the MMCH. Another employee who participated in the demonstration said the casual staff had taken several initiatives in the past few years to make their jobs permanent. “But nothing has happened so far. At this point, the state government and the MMCH authorities should see that we work till the age of 60 and are not retrenched. We will continue the movement till our demand is met,” he said. Sources at the MMCH said around 12 lakh was spent every month to pay salaries to the temporary employees. “We do not have adequate funds to pay their salaries. We have somehow arranged funds to pay them for July but from August and onwards, it would not be possible for us to pay them unless we receive additional cash from the state government. We have informed senior officials of the state health department about the issue,” said Partha Pratim Mukherjee, principal, MMCH. Asked whether the absence of the contractual employees — none of them joined their duties on Friday — was affecting different works at the facility, Mukherjee said the situation was being monitored. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda who is also the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti at the MMCH, said: “We are waiting for necessary instructions from the state health department to take any further decision.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||West Bengal||Nimta rehabilitation centre faces torture slur||Family members of several patients admitted to a rehabilitation centre at Nimta in North 24-Parganas have alleged that the authorities tortured them physically and mentally, denied them food over trivial issues and served them poor quality food. Family members of the inmates spoke on condition of anonymity and out of concern for the patients who are recovering at the facility from drug addiction. The allegations against the centre come in the backdrop of the killing of Birati resident Partha Raha, 49, by a section of officials on Tuesday night. Partha was allegedly beaten to death for secretly calling up his brother to inform him about the ill-treatment meted out to the patients. Police had arrested the two accused officials, Subhankar Mondal and Subhashis Chakraborty, on murder charge, while the owner of the Su-Drishti Darshan Rehabilitation Centre, Apu Bagal, is still untraceable. “Some officials are so brutal that they do not even bother to use wooden sticks to beat the inmates, many of whom are not mentally stable enough owing to their history of addiction to drugs. The voice of their pain will remain confined inside the concrete walls of the centre forever and would have never reached the world unless Partha Raha had died,” the family member of an inmate said. “My elder brother became a drug addict a few years ago. We admitted him to the rehabilitation centre last year. He was trying hard to return to normal life and recovering well. He was scheduled to return home on Thursday,” said Pranab Raha, the brother of the deceased. The police and family sources said Partha was actually scheduled to return home on Tuesday. However, the trip was cancelled owing to a request from the facility’s owner, a family source said. “Dada was quite puzzled and lost in despair because of the delay to return home. He called up home on Tuesday and urged me to bring him back fast as staying at the centre had become unbearable because of torture. But officials came to know about the secret call as well as the complaint about ill-treatment. This angered the officials who tied my elder brother with a rope and thrashed him mercilessly with sticks and hard objects,” said Pranab. “A regular scanning on the activities of these privately-run centres by the administration could stop these atrocities and tortures,” said another family member. A senior official of deputy commissioner’s (south) office of the Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “While checking the veracity of the allegations, many inmates personally confirmed to us that the officials used to torture them physically. This is quite horrible.” “We have arrested two officials and are trying to track down the owner as well for his statement,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
17-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forgotten food||Bengalis were torn between salivating and gloating when steaming plates of panta bhaat, alu bhorta and maachh bhaja were served by a contestant of Bangladeshi-origin at the grand finale of MasterChef Australia. There are whispers that while some Bengalis rushed to the kitchen to try out bowls of this proletarian, hence niche, delicacy, some — those with the Bengali version of the stiff upper lip — were left shocked at the decision to push rice gruel, a staple cooked with leftovers in poorer households, under the spotlight. Their derision is suggestive of a fact that cannot be masked by either aroma or flavour: the world of food is a distinctly segregated territory in which some dishes, usually the ones endorsed by rich and powerful nations, culinary cultures and people, have permanent seats at the high table of global cuisine. Thus paella and risotto — panta bhaat’s Spanish and Italian cousins, respectively — have gone chic and are being wolfed down by patrons in Michelin-starred restaurants. Yet, it took the world a while to discover the humbler paterfamilias of the clan. This hierarchy of tastes must be examined in the wider context. Cuisines, integral to culture, are, ironically, reliable mirrors of cultural and ethnic prejudices and fault lines. India — home to a dizzying array of dishes — is a convincing example of food fetishes. While the north chomps on chhole bhature, dal makhani and tandoori chicken, a day in the southern part of the country is incomplete without tucking into dosas and vadas. Meanwhile, the east salivates at fish curry, and the west cannot have enough of theplas and poha. But fetishes are seldom representative; they can be severely exclusionary, rendering invisible local — especially indigenous — food and its history. The market, that iniquitous platform under capitalism, has done its bit to push to the margins already-marginalized food. Fermented rice, celebrated as a health drink and gruel by India’s adivasis, is unlikely to be marketed as a palatable product for the urban, uninformed stomach under the spell of the basmati. A prevailing fallacy among cultural commentators is to view parochialism as being synonymous with regional sentiments. Yet, as Bengal’s panta bhaat has just shown, the provincial can essentially serve as capital to ignite interest — scholarly and mundane — in the vanishing dishes that ought to make up India’s food map. What is getting erased, from plates and public imagination, transcends food. The effacement has serious real-life consequences. Consumption patterns have a bearing on agricultural productivity. A study by the Central Rice Research Institute in Cuttack shows that the rising popularity of basmati is driving towards extinction a mind-boggling 2,00,000 indigenous rice varieties that are far more nutritious than the polished basmati. Owing to their widespread acceptability and export value, specific kinds of rice and wheat are prioritized by the State — be it in the public distribution system, mid-day meals or even scientific research. This has edged out indigenous food items like millet that are packed with benefits. A survey shows that between 1983 and 2011, changing dietary patterns reduced iron intake in India by 21 per cent in rural areas. Then there is the massive, under-reported ecological devastation that is decimating India’s original superfoods. Not just panta bhaat but little-known millets, shoots and other forgotten food must all make it to the high table, which needs to be wider, not higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Rishabh Pant tests Covid positive, Modi's praise for Adityanath||Sudden chance Sir — It is really unfortunate that the Indian wicket-keeper and batsman, Rishabh Pant, and a member of the men’s cricket team’s support staff have tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of the five-match Test series against England. However, with Pant not playing, K.L. Rahul would likely get to be the wicket-keeper for India in the practice match against the Combined Counties from July 20. If Rahul plays and scores 50-odd runs and gets some catches, the problem of the opening slot could be solved for India. Rahul and the team deserve the nation’s support during the Test series. N. Mahadevan,Chennai In bad taste Sir — When the prime minister, Narendra Modi, recently applauded the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, for his ‘remarkable’ management of the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the state, he was trying to pat his own back and forge a positive narrative of his own ‘achievements’ in the handling of the pandemic. By doing so, he made a mockery of the countless deaths witnessed in the state — the disturbing images of corpses of suspected Covid patients floating in the Ganga or buried in the sands of the river’s banks are a testimony. It is well known that Adityanath’s government made a huge mess of the Covid-19 situation in UP. By lauding him for an ‘achievement’ he can lay no claim to, Modi betrayed his own insensitivity to the pain of those who not only lost their loved ones owing to the failure of the state government to provide timely medical care, but were also denied the chance to give their dead a dignified cremation or burial. The disturbing visuals had triggered global outrage at the appalling state of public health infrastructure in UP, where several hospitals reportedly refused to admit patients gasping for breath. Many died waiting for a bed. The prime minister ought to have remembered that his own senior cabinet minister, Santosh Gangwar — he was recently replaced as Union minister of state for labour in the cabinet reshuffle — had written a letter to Adityanath expressing deep concern at the dismal healthcare infrastructure in UP. A sitting minister from UP, too, had shared Gangwar’s concern. By boasting that the UP government has vaccinated the highest number of persons in the country, the prime minister is misleading the nation. He is suppressing the fact that UP’s vaccination record has been one of the lowest in the country in terms of population. One would expect the prime minister of India to be more honest on matters concerning citizens’ lives and deaths. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — It was both laughable and frightening to witness Narendra Modi lavish praise on Yogi Adityanath’s handling of the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, especially when the state government not only allowed thousands of patients to die from the lack of medical care and oxygen but also cracked down on ordinary citizens trying to seek help online. Perhaps that is the ‘handling’ of the situation that Modi admires? After all, brutality and the hiding of the truth are common in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. Radhika Seshan,Delhi Sir — Narendra Modi’s praise of Yogi Adityanath ought not to be taken seriously. The latter is unlikely to take ‘stepmotherly’ treatment from the prime minister lying down. When he was summoned to Delhi recently to meet Modi, it must have become clear to the latter that, unlike L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, Adityanath is not a pushover. As such, Modi is handling him with kid gloves. Perhaps a mutual scratching of backs has been agreed upon? Radheshyam Sharma,Calcutta Sir — One wonders if Narendra Modi based his high opinion of Yogi Adityanath’s Covid-19 interventions in UP upon a panoramic, aerial view of the state through rose-tinted goggles. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Time for celebrations: Fourth of July||The United States of America celebrated its 246th Independence Day this July 4. It was one of the first major holidays and nationwide celebrations since the easing of Covid restrictions. More than half the country’s adults are fully vaccinated and were busy planning and attending firework-viewing parties and cookouts — something that was sorely missed last year. The White House celebrated Fourth of July, and also marked the country’s progress on the fight against the virus. It was one of the largest events hosted since the pandemic. “Today, all across this nation, we can say with confidence: America is coming back together,” the president, Joe Biden, remarked outside the White House. “Two hundred and forty-five years ago, we declared our independence from a distant king. Today, we’re closer than ever to declaring our independence from a deadly virus.” Around 1,000 people attended the event hosted on the South Lawn, including military families and families of essential workers. Boston, Philadelphia and New York City are the top attractions for visitors during the celebrations. NYC’s Macy’s fireworks show is the largest in the country, often viewed from the Brooklyn Bridge. The famous July 4 Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest also took place with the winner, the 37-year-old Joey Chestnut, eating 76 hot dogs in 10 minutes. He beat his previous year’s record by one hot dog. The stadium was packed with around 5,000 people all eagerly watching him wolf down the dogs. A tasty affair Grubhub, the popular food delivery app, just released its third annual report of trending foods after analysing and studying customer orders from the past six months. It reports an overall increase in plant-based food requests with plant-based sausage wrap trending at the top. Its popularity has increased 549 per cent. Bubble milk tea, an Asian drink with tapioca pearls, came second with over 500 per cent increase. On its heels were Birria tacos — a Mexican adobo flavoured goat or beef stew, not unlike the Bengali mangshor jhol. The report also dives into favourite food by city. For example, app requests and trends show that NYC craves a toasted Monte Cristo panini, on the top of the list in Washington, DC is jumbo lump crab cake, Los Angeles enjoys its beef barbacoa taco while Chicago, the home of the deep dish pizza, saw nearly 700 per cent increase in demand for thin crust pizza. The forecast expects this summer to see a rise in the popularity of loaded chicken nachos, barbecue pork quesadilla and watermelon slushies. The reports are based on studying millions of online food orders. Another food trending now, although less research-based, is pasta chips, which made its way to the top on TikTok. It became famous through a food blogger, whose post garnered two million views and, ever since, videos under #PastaChips have over 361 million views. You boil farfalle pasta, add grated Parmesan, olive oil, garlic and onion powder to the bowl, then air-fry until the contents crisp up into chips. Proud moment New York City is opening up a museum to be dedicated to the LGBTQIA+ community and its history. The museum, named The American LGBTQ+ Museum, is formed as an expansion of the New-York Historical Society museum and library and is scheduled to start programmes and hire an executive director sometime soon. The idea was conceptualized in 2017 and approved in 2018 by the New York City Council. The website describes a study conducted with 3,200 people from the LGBTQ+ community, including historians, students, academics, and the general public across different demographics. It also says that the mission of the museum is “to advance LGBTQ+ equality through the lens of social justice movements, including, but not limited to, race, gender, class, immigration, and disability” through its exhibits and events. The museum focuses on highlighting the community’s experiences through the intersection of different identities. The museum will have a “core” section while everything else will be dynamic to avoid an exclusionary view of history. This section will highlight the history of NYC and some key moments in LGBTQ+ history. This is the first museum of its kind in the city. The Leslie-Lohman Museum of Art in SoHo also highlights LGBTQ+ voices, but it focuses only on art.Stay out Airbnb, the popular “home away from home” vacation rental app, has expanded in its unique and creative offerings during Covid and continued to do so even as travel restrictions were lifted. Just recently, it partnered with New York Mets’ Citi Field stadium where you can stay overnight at the VIP suite created at the stadium itself and watch two back-to-back games on July 28. Guests who are lucky enough to get a booking also get unlimited classic stadium park food such as hot dogs, sodas and Cracker Jack popcorn. To top it all, guests will get a signed baseball from the team players. Just last week the Airbnb co-founder and CEO, Brian Chesky, was appointed to the United States Travel and Tourism Board. According to Airbnb’s site, from July to September last year, there was a 128 per cent increase in guest reviews mentioning “relocation”, “relocate”, “remote work” and “trying a new neighborhood” compared to the same time the previous year. People have been looking for more rural, larger spaces, and trying to move out of cities, with provisions to work remotely. Airbnb reports that Park City (Utah), Steamboat Springs (Colorado) and Durham (North Carolina) are among the top trending destinations for remote work. In terms of vacations, stays like cabins and cottages crack the top five space types for 2021 trips, replacing villas and townhouses from 2020. Footnote Considering that dating is hard, the popular dating app, Bumble, is opening a restaurant in NYC’s Nolita neighbourhood called Bumble Brew. It will start with breakfast service and soon move to dinner and lunch. The decor reflects the app’s yellow and black theme and includes music by female artists. Now it does not seem far-fetched to think that once a pair agrees on a date the app would suggest its own date spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Second assassination||I first visited Ahmedabad in 1979, and in the following decade went back often for both professional and personal reasons. Then I began research on Gandhi, and my attachment to the city deepened even more. In the summer of 2002, on my first trip back after the horrific riots that had taken place earlier that year, I naturally went to the Sabarmati Ashram, where I spent some time talking to one of the Trustees, a quiet, self-effacing man who had spent thirty years in the service of Gandhi. In the course of our conversation, he told me that the Gujarat riots of 2002 were “the second assassination of Mahatma Gandhi”. The person under whose watch those riots took place, the then chief minister, Narendra Modi, was entirely educated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, an organization whose sectarian, xenophobic ideology is utterly at odds with the capacious and open-minded worldview of Gandhi himself. Modi grew up venerating the sarsanghchalak of the RSS, M.S. Golwalkar, whose detestation of Gandhi is a matter of public record. In a speech in December 1947, Golwalkar remarked: “Mahatma Gandhi could not mislead them any longer. We have the means whereby such men can be immediately silenced, but it is our tradition not to be inimical to Hindus. If we are compelled, we will have to resort to that course too.” For Modi, Golwalkar was ‘Pujniya Shri Guruji’, most revered Teacher and Master. Through much of his career, he held Golwalkar in enormous regard while scarcely sparing a thought for Gandhi. In his years as chief minister, Narendra Modi visited Sabarmati Ashram infrequently. However, after he became prime minister, he developed a keen interest in the place. He has personally escorted to Gandhi’s ashram, among others, the prime ministers of Japan and Israel and the presidents of China and the United States of America. Several of the Ashram’s Trustees have a deep knowledge of Gandhi’s life, as do members of the staff. But instead of asking one of these experts to show the foreign dignitary around, Modi — a man trained in the school of Gandhi-baiters and Gandhi-haters — insisted on doing so himself. The cameraperson was instructed to have only the Indian prime minister and the visiting head of state in the frame, the better to show Modi gesturing with his hands towards various landmarks in the Ashram — the hut where Gandhi stayed, the ground where he prayed, his spinning wheel — while talking with apparent authority on the Mahatma, his life, and his message. How does one explain the prime minister’s new-found desire to publicly associate with Gandhi? It appears that Modi’s desire for personal glory has superseded old political loyalties and ideological affiliations. The RSS remains deeply ambivalent about Gandhi. Modi bhakts on social media are nakedly hostile to Gandhi. But Modi himself knows that Gandhi remains, to use the contemporary argot, the Indian ‘brand’ most visible and most appreciated around the world. So, whether it be Japan, China, Israel or France, or America or Russia or Germany, if Modi wants to make an impression he must cynically, instrumentally, have Gandhi by his side. For all his interest in the Sabarmati Ashram since he became prime minister, the moral and ideological distance between Gandhi and Modi may be forever unbridgeable. A prime minister whose party cannot number a single Muslim among its 300-odd Lok Sabha MPs, and whose government passes a raft of discriminatory legislations stigmatizing Muslims, practises a politics that Gandhi, the prophet of inter-faith harmony, abhorred and opposed all his life. A man who has so extravagantly embroidered his personal history, whose regime systematically doctors statistics with regard to economics, health and all else, is worlds removed from the person who proclaimed ‘Satyameva Jayate’, truth shall prevail. In fact, so ubiquitous has been this regime’s lying and dissembling that a writer I know says that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s motto should be ‘Asatyameva Jayate’ — through falsehood we shall triumph. Truth, transparency, and religious pluralism, that was Gandhi. Deceit, secrecy, and majoritarianism — that is Modi. How then can the latter claim any kinship with the former? Logic and morality suggest that he cannot, but power and ambition mandate that he must. That is why, in the latest and most egregious attempt to whitewash Modi’s dark record by association with Gandhi’s name, we now have on the anvil a lavishly-funded, State-directed project to radically reshape the Sabarmati Ashram on the pretext of making it a ‘world-class memorial’ to the Mahatma. My life is my message, said Gandhi. Unlike Modi, he did not need a stadium named after himself, or capitals redesigned to obliterate the image of past rulers and superimpose his own, to assure himself a place in history. The Sabarmati Ashram as it stands today is a perfectly adequate memorial to Gandhi and what he stood for. The charming low buildings existing still from Gandhi’s time, the trees and the birds, the open ingress and lack of guards or of an entry fee, the absence of policemen in khaki carrying rifles or even batons, the view of the river — all these give the place a special, welcoming character absent in every other monument or museum in India today. Of the five ashrams that Gandhi established, two in South Africa and three in India, Sabarmati is unquestionably the most significant. Millions of people from all over India, and across the world, have visited this ashram over the years. No one comes away without being moved by the beauty and simplicity of the surroundings as much as by the historic associations they carry. When a regime known for its aesthetic barbarism and its worship of monumentalism uses the word, ‘world-class’, in connection with the Sabarmati Ashram, it sends shivers down the spine. That the chosen instrument of this ‘upgradation’ is the architect, Bimal Patel, makes one more nervous still. Patel’s work is undistinguished. His cold, concrete structures are cut of a cloth very different from that which marks the homes and dwellings in Gandhi’s ashrams in Sabarmati and Sevagram. Bimal Patel is apparently the only architect the prime minister has heard of. As with other sarkari projects in Delhi, Varanasi, and Ahmedabad, here too Patel has been assigned the makeover of the Sabarmati Ashram almost automatically. Modi has also deputed, to work on the project, some Gujarat civil servants whom he likewise personally trusts. The plan for ‘redevelopment’ was drafted by Modi’s inner circle with no inputs from architects knowledgeable about conservation and heritage, and without consulting Gandhians or scholars either. Even the Trustees of the Ashram were kept entirely in the dark about the plan and its contents. The Modi plan for Sabarmati is steeped in secrecy and characterized by cronyism. It is in striking contrast to an earlier (and admirably modest) intervention that dates to the 1960s. When the then Trustees decided that the Ashram needed a small museum, they chose not a fellow Gujarati but Charles Correa from Bombay. That the architect was from a different religion and a different part of India were in keeping with Gandhi’s own lack of parochialism. Besides, he was an architect whose work was widely admired. Built on the human scale, with spacious corridors open to the elements and trees all around it, the museum designed by Charles Correa blends quite beautifully with the structures of Gandhi’s own time. An Amdavadi colleague jokes that while we may fortunately never have One Nation, One Party, we are heading in the direction of One Nation, One Architect. Now, if a billionaire wishes to have the same man (or woman) design his beach house, his town house, his mountain house, and his desert house, paying for them all with his personal funds, there can be no moral objection. But if a single architect gets awarded all prestigious State projects, paid for by the taxpayer, then there is indeed a problem. It is only in authoritarian States that particular architects have come to be associated with particular leaders and their cults of personality. That the same person can be seen as uniquely qualified to re-design an ancient temple city, a modern capital, and Gandhi’s ashram is a commentary on the nepotism and cronyism of the Modi regime. Indian architecture, and India itself, deserve better. In a better or braver world, Modi and his cronies would not be able to get away with their vandalism. Sadly, the Trust that runs the Sabarmati Ashram today is composed of ageing men and women, who all live in Gujarat, and thus cannot speak out for fear that they or their families will be victimized by a government known for its vindictiveness. So the plans as forged by Modi and his cronies will go ahead. Knowing the man as we do, there will be nothing in them that is not self-interested. Modi is not ‘redeveloping’ Sabarmati out of love or regard for the Mahatma, but to seek to burnish his own image and rewrite his past. The ongoing despoilation of New Delhi’s Central Vista has been widely criticized. However, from an ethical point of view, the proposed despoilation of the Sabarmati Ashram is even more worrisome. As an elected prime minister, Modi has some legitimacy in erecting structures — however ugly and costly — on public land in the capital. The case of Sabarmati is altogether different. The Sabarmati Ashram and Gandhi belong not to Ahmedabad, not to Gujarat, not even to India, but to every human being born or unborn. A politician whose entire life’s work has been antithetical to Gandhi’s, and an architect whose prime qualification is proximity to that politician, have no right to mess around with the most hallowed of all the places associated with the Mahatma. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI holds virtual annual convocation for batch of 2019-21||One of the country's premier B-school XLRI, hosted its 65th annual convocation on Saturday evening. The virtual convocation ceremony was held to bid a final farewell to the 2019-21 batch. Sandeep Kataria, global CEO, Bata Corporation, graced the convocation ceremony as the chief guest. T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI  managing director Tata Steel, Fr. Paul Fernandes, director of XLRI,  Ashis K. Pani, dean, academics at XLRI, graduating students and their parents connected virtually. On this significant day, 506 XLRI students virtually received their graduating certificates and medals, including  178 and  181 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM, and HRM; 101  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Program; 06 students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  40 students of the 2018- 2021 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). On the occasion T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors, XLRI, in his address said,  "It is indeed a privilege for me to witness the 65th Convocation ceremony as the chairman of the Governing Board . XLRI was established in 1949, soon after India gained Independence, and for over seven decades has consistently striven to uphold its mission to help shape competent business leaders yet upholding high personal values and societal concerns. The industrial township of Jamshedpur is indeed fortunate to have such a progressive management school that offers much more than management-centric education programs. XLRI has always placed high importance on its students adopting ethical conduct, cultivating a values-driven culture, and shaping an integral character formation of its students." Congratulating the students on their graduation day, Narendran said, "It is rare that we come across multiple large challenges in such a short period - a life-threatening pandemic, climate weirding as a consequence of climate change and an economic downturn. In these trying times, I wish each of you all the very best in all your future endeavors, and I urge you to remember these times shall also pass, and we shall overcome these challenges as a business school, as a nation, and as a global family." Fr. Paul Fernandes, director, XLRI, congratulated the graduating students and advised them to uphold the values they have imbibed at XLRI  to be responsible leaders who are extraordinary professionals with a sensitive conscience. "It is indeed my pleasure to extend a warm welcome to all of you. This is the second time the convocation is being held virtually due to Covid restrictions. We would have been delighted to see all of you on the campus witnessing the graduates receiving your medals and diplomas physically. We are proud of your achievements and brilliant accomplishments, and my heartfelt appreciation to the faculty and staff of XLRI for assisting you on your academic journey, "he said. This year XLRI conferred the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace on Sandeep Kataria, Global CEO, Bata Corporation. He also delivered the convocation address. Accepting the medal Kataria said, "I am truly humbled and feel privileged to accept the Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace.  I want to express my gratitude to the governing board of XLRI for bestowing on me the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace. While any recognition is a privilege, one received from the alma mater is truly special. I am told that I am the first alumni to be bestowed upon this honour and while I humbly accept this esteemed medal, I am sure there are many more deserving alumni members. We will be seeing more familiar names on this list soon”. Delivering the convocation address to the students he said, " Hearty congratulations as you graduate from this prestigious and outstanding institution. Despite the challenges that the pandemic has thrown at you, I am sure through your hard work and innovativeness, along with ample help from the hard-working faculty members, you have grown tremendously. You are ready to take on the new normal." Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honor of the Late Sir Jehangir Ghandy, former Chairman of the Board of Governors- XLRI is awarded to those business leaders who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organizations and also impacted the growth of our nation in a significant way. The medal was instituted by XLRI in gratitude for Sir Jehangir Ghandy's yeoman contribution to XLRI and the society at large. One of the oldest medals instituted by a higher education institution, the medal is awarded during XLRIs annual convocation ceremony to recognize outstanding contributions in the field of industrial and social peace in the country. In the past years, the medal was conferred on eminent business leaders like  N R Narayana Murthy, chairman emeritus, and chief Mentor, Infosys Technologies Ltd. in 2012, Shiv Nadar, founder and chairman HCL and Shiv Nadar Foundation in 2013,  Arundhati Bhattacharya, former chairman, State Bank of India in 2014,  Mallika Srinivasan, chairman and CEO, TAFE (Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited) in 2015,  Sunil Kant Munjal, joint managing director of Hero MotoCorp and chairman, Hero Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. in 2016,  Adi Godrej, chairman, The Godrej Group in 2017,  Anu Aga, former Chairperson of Thermax Ltd in 2019 and Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two new walk-in coolers double Jharkhand's vaccine storage capacity||Two new walk-in coolers, inaugurated at the National Health Mission’s (NHM) vaccine store at Namkum in Ranchi on Saturday, will double the vaccine storage capacity of Jharkhand and help intensify the ongoing immunisation programme against Covid-19, officials said. “The new walk-in coolers will double our vaccine storage capacity and help us in strengthening the statewide immunisation programme against Covid-19,” said NHM director Umashankar Singh. Until Saturday, the state had three walk-in coolers of 16 cubic meter capacity each which could store a maximum of 10 lakh vaccine doses at a time, an engineer working with the NHM’s cold storage system said. The new walk-in coolers are 40 cubic meter in size and each of them can accommodate at least six lakh vaccine doses, the official added. “With the addition of these two bigger walk-in coolers, we will be able to store around 22-25 lakh doses of vaccines at a time,” the NHM engineer, not entitled to speak to the media, said. Walk-in coolers are used for storing vaccines at a temperature of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius, optimum for vaccine storage in Indian climate. Covishield and Covaxin, the two Indian vaccines delivered from the Centre to the state, should be stored within these temperatures in order to ensure efficacy. Jharkhand is likely to receive at least 12 lakh more doses of vaccines this month and the vaccine supply from the Centre is also likely to gain momentum in the days to come, officials said. Having a storage capacity of more than 20 lakh doses will help the state in terms of logistics to step up the immunisation programme. As per latest data with NHM, the state has about 1.75 lakh doses of vaccines in stock. So far, Jharkhand has inoculated over 81 lakh residents against Covid-19. Amid the fear of a possible third wave of Covid-19, health experts in the state have said that intensifying the vaccination campaign was the only way to prevent fatalities in future. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, on July 21, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day. Besides the two walk-in coolers, the NHM director also inaugurated a walk-in freezer on Saturday, which will help in storage of polio vaccines during campaigns to be run in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Commander of banned rebel outfit killed in encounter in West Singhbhum||The zonal commander of banned outfit People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI) was killed in an encounter with paramilitary forces under Gudri thana area in West Singhbhum district about 180 km away from here on Friday night. The slain PLFI zonal commander, Sanichar Surin, 38, was carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head. The encounter took place at Badakesel jungle under rebel-infested Gudri thana area bordering Khunti district at about 9.30 pm. Additional superintendent of police, West Singhbhum, Umesh Kumar confirmed the killing of Sanichar Surin in an encounter with the police and paramilitary forces. "Sanichar Surin who was zonal commander of the outlawed PLFI and was carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head has been gunned down in an encounter with the police and paramilitary forces in Gudri thana area on Friday late night.  A police contingent led by West Singhbhum SP, Ajay Linda, which had gone to Gudri for carrying out a joint operation with the neighbouring Khunti police is yet to return," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online.  The additional SP said the police and paramilitary forces had conducted a combing operation in the Badakesel jungle where the encounter took place. He said, therefore, it is still not clear whether the police have recovered any firearms or anything from the encounter site. According to police sources, police in Rania thana area of the Khunti district came to know about the PLFI squad's presence in a jungle near Pending village on the Khunti-West Singhbhum border on Friday evening. "On getting the information, the Khunti police carried out an operation causing an encounter at Pending jungle. But the rebels had retreated in the face of superior firepower of the paramilitary forces. By that time, the police and paramilitary forces from the West Singhbhum also joined the Khunti police and carried out a search operation," said a senior police officer. Later in the night when the search operation was still on, the police and paramilitary forces were shot at from the adjoining Badakesel. In retaliation, the police and paramilitary forces opened fire, causing one of the rebels to get killed. The police officer said the identity of the killed rebel could be established on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand upset with Border Roads Organisation for flouting norms while hiring labour||The Jharkhand government has questioned Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on the welfare of the state's migrant workers engaged in its projects and accused the central agency of failing to comply with mutually agreed terms for employing labour from the state. The state labour, employment, training & skill development department secretray, Pravin Kumar Toppo, sent a strongly-worded letter to BRO director Lt Gen Rajeev Chaudhary on Friday seeking details of the current workforce hired from Jharkhand. It has asked BRO for the total number of migrant workers it has engaged so far, the condition under which they were working, details of those who had died between March, 2020 and June 30, 2021 amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the nature of compensation paid to them. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s office released the contents of the letter on Saturday and expressed its concern over the role of middlemen in engaging workers and inadequate pay given by BRO. “In regard to the yearly induction of casual paid labourers (CLPs) from Jharkhand by BRO, the state government has been informed about thousands of migrant workers working as CLPs since March 2021. We have received multiple reports, including from media, about the precarious living and working conditions faced by our workers during the second wave of Covid-19, including the deaths of 11 CLPs during an avalanche in Uttrakhand in April. This comes as a surprise to us considering the mutually agreed upon terms of engagement of CLPs between both the parties last year,” Toppo said in his letter. As per the terms of reference signed by BRO and the Jharkhand government on June 13, 2020 for the engagement of paid labourers from 2021-22 onwards, it was agreed that BRO would apply for registration as an "establishment" in accordance with existing rules of the state government. It was also decided that an MoU would be signed between both the parties following the approval of the defence ministry (BRO is under the defence ministery) for inter-state migration of workmen. BRO had also agreed to comply with all the provisions of Jharkhand's Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act-1979 for inducting 11,815 workers as CLP through the mutually agreed framework. “However, it is surprising that migrant workers from Dumka are being taken for BRO projects through mates (middlemen), which is in violation of the mutually agreed terms, and without the knowledge of the state government,” noted Toppo. “By when does BRO intend to apply as an 'Employing Establishment' under Inter State Migrant Workmen Act 1979/Occupational Safety Health and Working Conditions Code-2020 with the state government for yearly induction of migrant workers? When does BRO intend to share a draft of the MoU for discussion with the state government and sign? How many migrant workers have died since March last year working on projects, and what the compensation paid? What are the current number of workers engaged in BRO projects, their status and entitlements provided?,” Toppo has asked in his letter. The labour secretray concluded his letter by reiterating the state government's commitment to upholding the rights and dignity of workers who toil hard to serve the country by  working in remote border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand teen inches closer to International Master title at chess meet||Jharkhand's Vatsal Singhania inched closer to the International Master title with a satisfactory performance at an International Open Tournament which concluded at Paracin in Serbia on Friday. The 18-year steel city-based Vatsal, a FIDE Master and arguably the best chess hand in Jharkhand, earned his second IM norm in Paracin. He scored 5.5 points out of 9 rounds with a performance rating of 2500. He scored three wins, including one over top seed Armenian GM Ter-Sahakyan Samvel  in the second round, drew 5 games against 3 IM's and 2 FIDE Master's.  Vatsal added 32 Elo rating points. His present rating is 2371, said All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an IM. The teen scored his first IM norm after clinching the title at the Marienbad Open held in Czechoslovakia from January 18 to 25 last year. Vatsal needs to earn one more IM norm and must also have a 2,400-plus international rating to be eligible for an IM. A player needs an international rating of 2,500 to become a Grandmaster (GM). Vatsal, who was a student of Carmel Junior College in Sonari, decided to relocate to Chennai in 2017 to pursue his chess prospects under Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh. He won his maiden international title at the Commonwealth Chess Championship in New Delhi in 2017. He also participated in the World Youth Chess Championship held in Montevideo, Uruguay, the same year. The promising chess player has played four Open tournaments at Barcelona in Spain in 2017 besides finishing third (Under-18 section) in the Aerrflot Open International Tournament in Moscow, also in 2017. He was adjudged the best junior player below international rating 2200 in Cannes, France, in 2018. Vatsal also bagged three team gold medals in rapid, blitz and standard formats, besides an individual silver in standard format, at the Asian Youth Chess Championship held in Chiang Mai, Thailand, in April 2018. He became eligible for a FIDE Master title (accorded by The Fédération Internationale des Échecs) for his performance in Thailand. FIDE Master ranks below the title of International Master but ahead of Candidate Master. The most usual way for a player to qualify for the FIDE Master title is by achieving an Elo rating of 2300 or more. Vatsal, who idolises Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand gets unwavering support from his parents Anil and Asha Singhania. His mother accompanies him to most of the offshore tournaments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau farmer busts myths, grows apples in hot climate||A farmer from Sarsout panchayat under Harihurganj block has proven that apples can be grown at a hot place like Palamau where the temperature  ranges between 42 degrees Celsius and 44 degrees Celsius. Ajay Mehta said that various experiments in apple genomics have broken the myth that apples grow only in cold, wet climates like Himachal Pradesh and Kashmir. He asserted it can be grown in hotter places too. Sources said the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Hyderabad has played a major role in getting apples out of the wrap of the cold and wet climate category fruit. Ajay said he opted for apple growing here in 2019 with only 15 trees and this July he has enough apples hanging in his apple trees. He made it clear this yield is not for any commercial gains but to reassure himself that apple growing is possible in Palamau in future. A renowned apple farmer, Harimans Sharma of Himachal Pradesh, couriered him 25 apple saplings in 2019 said Mehta. He used 15 apple saplings here in Palamau and 10 in his other farm house in Bihar's Aurangabad district where all these 10 apple saplings withered for 'various reasons'. The apples in Palamau will be ready for consumption by the end of July. Sources said the apples face stiff resistance from the guava and papaya in Jharkhand as the middle class family's first choice is guava and papaya which come in plenty and are affordable price wise. Mehta said he is growing Thai Pink variety of guava in 60 acres of land with 42,000 guava trees at his Sarsout panchayat and sells his guavas in Bihar and UP. He said around 100 quintal a day of Thai Pink guavas goes out for sale now. The market price of his guava is Rs35 to Rs40 a kilo. Mehta has one complaint. He has not been given any support by the state or the district administration in his progressive farming. About the impact of the Coronavirus on his fruit business he said, "It has broken the system in the hardest way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
