18-07-2021||Calcutta||Five duped of Rs 3 crore with loan promise||A man and a woman have been arrested for allegedly duping at least five men from Bengal of over Rs 3 crore. The two allegedly introduced themselves as senior officials of a Delhi-based non-banking financial company and made false promises of arranging a loan of Rs 50 crore for them. Police said the two accused who were put up in star hotels in the city, with the five men paying for their lodging, were picked up from a south Calcutta hotel early on Friday. “The complainant and his friends are from Burdwan. They had been promised Rs 50 crore as a loan from a financial institute at a lucrative rate of interest. They were asked to part with more than Rs 3 crore in instalments as processing fee for granting the loan,” said an officer in Lalbazar. The accused were identified as Ramnivas Shukla and Shirley John. The two were produced in a city court and have been remanded in police custody. Cops have started a case of cheating and forgery. An officer said initially, the complainant and his friends did not realise the fraud and kept paying money as the loan’s processing fee. The men also kept arranging star hotel accommodations in the city for the fraudsters and paid their hotel bills, the police said. Only recently, when the two asked the men for more money, the five realised they were being cheated. Last week, Calcutta police arrested the branch manager of a private bank for allegedly running a non-banking financial company with her husband, allegedly making false promises of high returns if people deposited their money with them. An elderly couple, who had invested over Rs 1 crore with them, had lodged a complaint, based on which the woman was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Nakhoda Masjid to hold two special prayers for Id-ul-Azha||Nakhoda Masjid has decided to hold two special prayers for Id-ul-Azha instead of one that was held pre-pandemic, a member of the mosque’s board of trustees said on Saturday. The extra prayer will allow those who used to offer their Id prayers on Red Road, which has been cancelled, to offer the namaz in a mosque. Tipu Sultan Masjid will not allow any congregation outside the mosque. The Id-ul-Azha, also called Bakr Id, will be spent with caution both by the mosque authorities as well as families. This would be the fourth Id — Id-ul-Fitr of 2020 and 2021, and Id-ul-Azha of 2020 and 2021 — since the Covid-19 pandemic started in India last year. Celebrating Id has never been what it was till 2019, rued the families as well the mosque authorities. “We will be having two special Id-ul-Azha prayers at our mosque on Wednesday. Usually, we had one special prayer. We are organising two prayers because the Red Road prayers have been cancelled. A number of people who used to pray in the open on Red Road would like to offer their namaz at our mosque,” said Nasser Ebrahim, one of the trustees of Nakhoda Masjid. “If we had only one prayer, it could have led to overcrowding....” Hafiz Mohammad Haroon Rashid, the assistant imam of Tipu Sultan Masjid, said the mosque has taken a decision to not allow any congregation for Id prayers outside the mosque. “It becomes difficult to control the crowd if any congregation is allowed outside,” said Rashid. Many families did not pray at the mosque during Id-ul-Fitr in May to avoid being in a crowd. Some of them said they preferred to offer namaz with a select few friends and family members on the terrace than praying inside the closed environs of a mosque. Some families have also avoided the Qurbani as the distribution of meat would have meant visiting relatives, many of whom have elderly members at their homes. Park Circus resident Bilal Khan will spend his Id indoors. He has also asked his relatives not to visit their home to greet his 75-year-old mother, which has been the custom for years. Instead, they would do a video call. “A big part of Id is about meeting and greeting, followed by a feast. That will not happen this year,” Khan, who lives in the family’s seven-decade old home at Park Circus, said. Khan had offered the last Id prayers on the terrace of the family home with his brothers and friends. They had timed it in a way that it coincided with the prayers being offered at the nearest mosque. Shaikh Sohail, a resident of Kidderpore, had offered the Id-ul-Fitr prayers with his father, uncle and cousin at the terrace in May. He plans to do the same on Wednesday. “My father is 75 and I do not want to expose him to a crowd...,” said Sohail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Two men arrested with pangolin scales on Bentinck Street||Pangolin scales weighing over 3kg and 38 claws were seized from two men in an app cab on Bentinck Street by a joint team of the Calcutta police’s detective department (wildlife wing) and the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) on Saturday. The International Union for Conservation of Nature lists the Chinese pangolin as a critically endangered species. Based on a tip-off, WCCB officials and officers from the detective department intercepted the cab. “It seems that multiple pangolins were hunted for quite some time and their claws and scales taken off,” said Agni Mitra, regional deputy director, WCCB. The two men — identified as Satish Kumar Chouhan, 37, and Basant Kumar Saw, 35 — were produced in a court that sent them to custody. A forest department official said pangolin scales were valued at nearly Rs 3 lakh a kilo in the grey market. The babies were born to a yellow anaconda at the zoo on July 11. The mother is one of the four yellow anacondas that were brought to Alipore in June 2019 from the Madras Crocodile Bank and Centre for Herpetology in Mamallapuram, near Chennai, where they had been bred in captivity. Most snakes lay eggs. But some, like anacondas, give birth to babies. The babies weigh between 100 and 150g and are around a foot long. “The enclosure that we built for the anacondas, comprising water bodies, rocks and swamps, helped in the breeding,” said a zoo official. y||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Bihar students reach JEE centres with help from Calcutta Police||Two students who came to the city from Bihar to take the Bengal joint entrance examination reached the test centre at Jadavpur University on Saturday morning, little realising that they were supposed to go to the university’s Salt Lake campus, 14km away. Manish Kumar, 19, who came from Patna, and Irfan Ansari, 18, from Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas, Bihar, had seen Jadavpur University on their admit cards and assumed they had to go to Jadavpur. Upon realising, the two were seen panicking at the bus stop opposite Jadavpur police station and sergeant Niloy Halder of Jadavpur traffic guard approached them offering help. “They had limited time and money. We arranged for one of our office staff to accompany them on a motorcycle. They managed to reach the Salt Lake campus on time,” said a traffic department officer. Rajib Bandopadhayay, the centre in-charge of the university’s Salt Lake campus, said all 279 candidates reached the venue before the start of exam at 11am. But for such minor glitches, the exam went off smoothly and around 74,000 examinees wrote the pen-and-paper test at 274 centres in Bengal. The first public examination amid the pandemic saw many candidates using private transport and app cabs to reach the centres because of the Covid-induced travel restrictions, said a higher education department official. At JU’s main campus centre, candidates were allowed to enter from 9.20am, said Anupam Debsarkar, a centre in-charge. “The JEE board instructed us to open the centre from 9.30am. But we opened 10 minutes earlier as candidates were required to undergo thermal scanning while maintaining the physical distance.” Registrar Snehamanju Basu and other officials stood guard to check that examinees wore masks and carried hand sanitisers. The board instructed those managing the centres to provide examinees the protective gear in case they did not have them. “We accommodated 28 examinees in each room, maintaining a distance of 5 metres between two candidates. Each bench had only one candidate,” said Basu. A JEE board official said they had allocated centres closest to the applicants’ homes to curtail the use of public transport. “Even if they had to use private transport, they did not have to travel much,” said the official. The results will be published by August 14. A three-phased centralised online counselling will be held by September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||HHI officials summoned by excise department for ‘hearing’ next week||The excise department has summoned senior officials of Hotel Hindustan International (HHI) to appear for a “hearing “ early next week. The department, during the “hearing”, would want to know from the hotel authorities whether liquor was served to a suite on the hotel’s sixth floor after 8pm last Saturday in violation of the Covid-19 norms. Last Saturday around 9pm, a team of senior officials from the excise department had raided the hotel on AJC Bose Road following information that a party had shifted from the hotel’s bar to a suite on the sixth floor after 8pm. HHI had allegedly made all arrangements for shifting the venue from the bar to the suite. The hotel has declined comment on the allegations. “During the hearing session, we would want to know what the hotel authorities have to say about our findings that liquor was served beyond stipulated time last Saturday on a sixth-floor suite,” said a senior official of the excise department. “Such hearings follow when we detect deviation  from rules.” The department had earlier sought CCTV footage of the sixth-floor corridor and the lobby from that day. The hotel apparently said it could not retrieve the footage since the machines were malfunctioning. The excise department has not barred HHI from serving liquor. It has imposed such a bar on The Park after police arrested 37 persons from a late night party at the Park Street address early on Sunday morning. The detective department of Calcutta police, which is probing the alleged violation of the government’s norms at The Park, has summoned senior hotel officials for questioning at Lalbazar on Monday. “The hotel’s management would have to clearly explain its position about last Saturday night’s party. We will record statements of each of the staff and then crosscheck it with the ones who have given their statements to us earlier,” said a senior police officer. Security and patrol personnel have been increased on the Maidan for evening walkers from Saturday. Police officers said extra patrol vans have been deployed in the area between 4pm and late evening — when many Calcuttans go to the stretch for walks. The move comes in wake of multiple snatchings on the Maidan. Three morning walkers were robbed and one was injured with a knife and the butt of a gun. Morning patrol had already been stepped up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Shift from physical to online classes dents pen sale||The pen is no longer mighty. A glowing screen in front and the keyboard or a stylus have replaced the traditional pen and paper combination for students, teachers and  even for a clerk in an office alike. The prolonged closure of schools and colleges and curtailed attendance in offices because of the pandemic have led to a steep decline in the demand for pens, said makers, sellers and users. A senior official of Linc Pen and Plastics, one of the biggest manufacturers of pens and stationeries in India, said before the pandemic, the company used to sell around 20 lakh pens every month in Calcutta alone. “In May this year, we sold around two lakh pens in Calcutta.” The company started reaching out to general grocery stores to arrest the slump. The shift from physical classroom to online classes is one of the biggest contributors to the decline in the use of pens. When in school, everything was by default on pen and paper. But now classes are online, students often record the classes and hardly use a pen. Ahana Ghosh, a Class XI student of a school in Behala, needed at least three pens every month. Now she needs one. “I do not have to note down all the lessons,” she said. “In school, teachers objected if we didn’t take notes. Now, the teacher posts a PDF copy of the lessons,” said a Class VIII student of a city school. Students still have to write exams on paper and send scanned copies to teachers. The decline in the use of pens is stark among teachers, who are checking assignments on phones, laptops or any other devices. “I do my corrections mostly on the phone,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St  Xavier’s Collegiate School. For want of resources, many students have been left out of the ambit of online classes. Private tuitions have also shifted to the online mode. These factors have added to the further decline in the usage of pens. Dhruba Ghosh, who teaches English in a New Alipore School, said: “I needed two to three red pens every month. Now, one pen serves me for two months.” Schools usually buy stationery, including pens, round-the-year. But this has gone down during the pandemic. “Assignments are happening online and so are corrections. So, the purchase of stationery, including pens, has gone down,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. Usually, schools would keep a stock of stationery for their teachers and administrative staff. “Since the teachers are not coming to school the consumption has gone down,” said The New-town School founder-director Sunil Agarwal. Both government and private offices are functioning with a limited number of staff, leading to a decline in the use of stationeries. The office of a pharmaceutical company in central Calcutta has been functioning with 10 people, compared to the full strength of around 35. “Hence, the use of pens has gone down,” said a senior executive of the firm. Khokan Chanda, a pen distributor who lives off the Jadavpur-EM Bypass connector, used to stock up pens worth Rs 30,000 every month before the pandemic. “I used to sell 700-800 pens every week. Now, selling 20 has become a challenge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Business||Stock exchanges examining preferential share issue to parent: LIC Housing Finance||LIC Housing Finance on Saturday said the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange have sought a  clarification on the proposed preferential allotment to parent Life Insurance Corporation of India. This clarification sought by the bourses is a fallout of market regulator Sebi last month asking PNB Housing Finance to put on hold its Rs 4,000-crore deal with the Carlyle group. According to Sebi, the move was ultra-vires of its articles of association (AoA) which say that in the case of such an allotment, the valuation must be done from a registered valuer. Sebi’s decision has been challenged by PNB Housing in the Securities Appellate Tribunal. At the hearing recently, the senior counsel for PNB Housing had said a couple of other firms had also priced their preferential issues on the basis of Sebi’s ICDR rules and there was no objection from the regulator. Sebi recently began a preliminary enquiry into the preferential issue of LIC Housing Finance and another listed firm and it had asked the stock exchanges to examine the proposed allotment. Last month, LIC Housing Finance had said that its parent will infuse an equity capital of about Rs 2,334.70 crore by picking up an additional stake. The company was proposing to issue shares at Rs 514.25 apiece to the promoter and the plan was to issue preferential shares up to 4,54,00,000 through a private placement to LIC. For this, an extraordinary general meeting EGM will be held on July 19 to seek the nod of its shareholders. LIC Housing Finance had then said that the issue price at Rs 514.25 per share is the price calculated under Sebi regulations, 2018. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, the company disclosed that it received communication from both the bourses on July 12 seeking clarifications on compliance with the provisions of its AOA. “The company has clarified that there is no violation of the provisions of AoA as the price has been determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of the AoA as well as the Companies Act, 2013 and Sebi (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018,” LIC Housing Finance said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
18-07-2021||Business||Covid-19 second wave affects microfinance industry ||The second wave of the Covid pandemic has affected the microfinance industry which estimates an adverse impact on the collection efficiency and delinquency levels at the end of June compared with that at the end of March. Collection efficiency for the microfinance industry had reached around 90 per cent at the end of March. The delinquency levels (30 days past due) on an industry basis, which includes NBFC-MFIs, banks, small finance banks, NBFCs and non-profit MFIs, was 9.12 per cent as of March 31, 2021, improving from 13.23 per cent as of December 31, 2020. The top 10 states, led by Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Assam and Rajasthan, account for 83 per cent of the gross loan portfolio of the microfinance industry and most of them announced restrictions from mid-April onwards to curb the spread of the virus. “In Bengal, a lot of economic activity in Calcutta and the districts depend upon the availability of transport systems. With restrictions, we find lesser collection levels. Similar situation in Maharashtra in places around Pune and some pockets in western Maharashtra,” said P. Satish, executive director of microfinance industry body Sa-Dhan. “The effect of the second wave in terms of human cost was high because there was unfortunate loss of life of staff members and their families and borrowers and their families,” said Satish. City-based Bandhan Bank, which has a substantial loan book in the microfinance segment, has reported to bourses a dip in its collection efficiency to 72 per cent in the micro finance loan book at the end of June from 95 per cent in March. “There have been localised lockdowns to prevent the spread of the second wave which intensified from the second half of April to May. It has started ebbing and most states are gradually opening up,” said Manoj Nambiar, managing director and board member of Arohan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
18-07-2021||Business||HDFC Bank Q1 net profit up 16.1 per cent to Rs 7,729.6 crore; falls short of estimates||HDFC Bank, the country’s largest private sector lender, on Saturday missed estimates for the quarter ended June 2021 because of a spike in provisions. Net profits came in at Rs 7,729.6 crore, a 16.1 per cent increase over Rs 6,658.62 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Analysts had expected the bank to post profits of around Rs 7,900 crore. Provisions jumped to Rs 4,830.84 crore from Rs 3,891.52 crore in the year-ago period, a rise of 24 per cent. Further, the asset quality also deteriorated with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rising to 1.47 per cent from 1.32 per cent sequentially and 1.36 per cent in the April-June 2020 quarter. In absolute terms, the gross NPAs stood at Rs 17,098.51 crore against Rs 15,086 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 13,773.46 crore in the year-ago period. Provisions and contingencies for the quarter included specific loan loss provision of Rs 4,219.7 crore and general and other provisions of Rs 611.1 crore. The lender said that the second wave of Covid-19 disrupted business activities for close to two-thirds of the quarter, leading to a decrease in efficiency in collection efforts and a higher level of provision. The bank disclosed in its notes to accounts that it implemented a one-time restructuring (according to the RBI’s August 2020 circular) for 3,36,107 accounts where the exposure stood at around Rs 7,801 crore. Of this, personal loans stood at Rs 5,457.35 crore and corporate loan recast were at Rs 1,735.30 crore. The rest belonged to MSMEs and others. Under the central bank’s second resolution framework announced in May, it has implemented such plans for 33 borrower accounts having aggregate exposure of Rs 10.64 crore. While HDFC Bank is the first big lender to declare the first-quarter numbers, the deterioration in its asset quality indicates that banks would see stress in their books due to the second wave. However, analysts are of the view that the impact will be considerably lesser this time than what was seen after the pandemic hit last year. The lender disclosed that total advances as on June 2021 were Rs 1,147,652 crore, an increase of 14.4 per cent over June 2020. According to its internal business classification, retail loans grew 9.3 per cent, commercial and rural banking loans rose 25.1 per cent and other wholesale loans grew 10.2 per cent. Domestic retail advances stood at Rs 5,23,489 crore during the quarter. During the first quarter, the bank’s net interest income (interest earned less interest expended) increased to Rs 17,009 crore from Rs 15,665.4 crore in the year-ago period. Meanwhile, the board of HDFC Bank on Saturday decided to tap the international markets to raise capital through Basel-III compliant additional tier-I capital (AT1 bonds) on a public or a private placement basis. However, the lender did not disclose the size of the proposed offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
18-07-2021||India||Giving rise to fresh worries about the pandemic, has Covid-19 third wave in India arrived?||The World Health Organization this week has set the alarm bells ringing as it said that the world is at the very advanced stages of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The third wave is mostly being driven by the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 which was first reported in India. According to a hindustantimes.com report, this warning is a red flag for India as well, said the Union health ministry this week as the fall in the Covid-19 cases in India has slowed down. In India, the Covid-19 situation remains worrisome in some pockets, including some districts in Maharashtra, Kerala and the northeast. But the question is – Has the third wave in India already set in? Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Friday said the recent slow decline in number of daily cases is a warning and though the situation is currently under control, it can deteriorate if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, and noted that the next 100-125 days are critical, both for the system and people. According to the hindustantimes.com report, the University of Hyderabad pro-vice-chancellor physicist Dr Vipin Srivastava has recently said that the third wave in India has already arrived on July 4. He said July 4 recorded a similar trend like what the first week of February (the beginning of the 2nd wave) saw. On the other hand, Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research said that the third wave of Covid-19 is likely to hit India at the end of August and chances are that it will not be as intense as the second wave. The hindustantimes.com report also states that UBS Securities India has said the risks of a third wave look real because of the increased presence of the Delta variant and the pace of vaccination. SBI Research in its report prepared early this month said India may witness the third wave of the pandemic by the second fortnight of August. Dr Devi Shetty, chairman of the Karnataka Covid expert committee, said it is difficult to predict the timing and the severity of a third wave, reports hindustantimes.com. "People have to respect COVID appropriate behaviour like social distancing, wearing a mask. These are the things that will protect us. If people behave in an irresponsible manner no government, no anti-biotic no vaccine can protect them. So people have to take the responsibility," he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that there are many possibilities in which the third wave if it comes, may shape up. If an immuno-escape variant of the virus emerges and all restrictions are eased, then the third wave can be more severe than the second wave. Waning immunity, the emergence of a more transmissible variant, and lockdown relaxations will decide the third wave, Dr Guleria said. At the beginning of this month, a group of IIT scientists project three scenarios in which the situation could go back to normal by August, could continue as it is or could worsen. Last month, Reuters conducted a poll and predicted that the third wave in India will come by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Leaked list of 40 Indian journalists who were spied upon||Contact numbers of over 40 Indian journalists featured on a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance. Forensic tests have confirmed that some of them were successfully spied upon by an unidentified agency using Pegasus spyware, The Wire reports. The data includes telephone numbers of journalists across large media houses like the Hindustan Times, including executive editor Shishir Gupta, India Today, Network18, The Hindu and Indian Express. France-based media non-profit, Forbidden Stories, and Amnesty International first accessed this leaked list which was shared with The Wire and 15 other news organisations worldwide as part of a collaborative investigation called the Pegasus Project. The mere appearance of a phone number does not indicate whether a device was infected with Pegasus or subject to an attempted hack. However, the Pegasus Project analysed this list believes the data is indicative of potential targets identified in advance of possible surveillance attempts. Independent digital forensic analysis conducted on 10 Indian phones whose numbers were present in the data showed signs of either an attempted or successful Pegasus hack. The Wire’s founding editors, diplomatic editor and two regular contributors, including Rohini Singh appear on the list. Singh’s number features following the publication of her back-to-back reports on Amit Shah’s son, Jay Shah, and Nikhil Merchant, a businessman who is close to Narendra Modi. She was also investigating dealings of minister Piyush Goyal, with businessman Ajay Piramal. Former Indian Express journalist Sushant Singh was included in mid-2018, at a time when he was investigating  the controversial Rafale aircraft deal. Digital forensics conducted on his current phone showed signs of Pegasus infection earlier this year  The NSO Group who created the spyware has denied that the leaked list was linked in any way to the functioning of its software. In response to the Pegasus Project, NSO has said that people in the list were not targeted by the governments using Pegasus but were maybe a part of a larger list of numbers that other customers of theirs used for different purposes. A sizable number of people who appear in the records are based out of New Delhi. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology alleged on Sunday that reports of Israel-made software, Pegasus, was used to target at least 40 Indian journalists was not only " bereft of facts but also founded in pre-conceived conclusions" "The allegations regarding government surveillance on specific people has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever," the government said in its response to the media houses investigating the matter. A senior journalist alerted Twitteratti to this coming “expose” late on Saturday night and then followed it up with a series of tweets. On Sunday morning, an MP joined in too. Veteran journalist Sheela Bhatt tweeted on Saturday night that the report "is a really big story" and involved collaboration of media organisations, including from India. She claimed the report would be published at "11.59pm" on Sunday.  Later, she clarified that the report would be published in the news poral Wire and 9.00pm India time. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted that Pegasus could have also been used to tap the phones of ministers in the Narendra Modi government, RSS leaders and SC justices. Swamy claimed there was a rumour that western media outlets would publish a report exposing this. Swamy tweeted, "Strong rumour that this evening IST, Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges, & journalists. If I get this confirmed I will publish the list.” Derek O'Brien, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP, responded to Swamy's tweet. He claimed that the phone tapping also targeted "many members of the opposition". Congress Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram issued a cryptic tweet  to refer to the controversy. "A little birdie tells me that Pegasus is going to be explosive," he tweeted. Pegasus, an Israeli-made spyware, was in the news in the later months of 2019. In October 2019, WhatsApp said it was suing NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance firm that was behind the technology for Pegasus, which was used by spies to hack into phones of roughly 1,400 users around the world. These users were spread across four continents and included diplomats, political dissidents, journalists and senior government officials. Indian users were among those who were targeted. Then, The Indian Express reported that "two dozen academics, lawyers, Dalit activists and journalists in India" had been snooped on using Pegasus. Now, more than 18 months after the initial expose, Pegasus seems set to be back in the news. When the Pegasus allegations surfaced in 2019, then Union minister for information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad had told Parliament that no "unauthorised" use of Pegasus had been made in India by government agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed as Punjab Congress president||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.  Gandhi also appointed four working presidents to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the next assembly elections.  The appointments came after days of internal squabbling and public bickering that virtually divided the state unit between two factions owing allegiance to Singh and Sidhu.  The new working presidents are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, who represent different regions and castes.  "Congress president has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect," according to a party statement.  "The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar,"the statement said.  Nagra, who was in-charge of party affairs in Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura, has been relieved of his present responsibilities.  Sidhu, who joined the Congress from the BJP ahead of the last assembly elections in 2017, has increased his efforts to gather support in the past few days and met several MLAs and leaders.  With the decision, the party leadership has clearly signalled to put its weight behind Sidhu while ignoring Amarinder Singh's opposition.  The leadership feels Sidhu can lead the party's campaign with fresh energy and enthusiasm and help ensure its victory in the upcoming assembly polls slated for early next year.  Sidhu's ability to pull crowds and launch a vigorous campaign has worked in his favour as the party feels that infusing fresh energy in the party ranks is required at a time slackness has set in after four-and-half years in power.  The support of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also helped in Sidhu clinching the post despite strong resistance.  The cricketer-turned-politician now faces the challenge of uniting the party and bringing cohesion in its ranks, besides winning the trust of the old guard and veterans.  Chief Minister Singh is learnt to have told Sonia Gandhi that he will not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his attacks on him in the recent past.  Calls are being made by party veterans to unite the party ahead of the assembly polls, else the AAP and the Akali Dal-BSP combine could upstage it.  AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat congratulated Sidhu and the four working presidents.  He expressed his gratitude to Congress president Sonia Gandhi for granting approval to the new team in Punjab. "Thank you madam for your great gesture," Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Government holds all-party meeting ahead of Monsoon session of Parliament, Oppn parties mock PM||A day before the Monsoon session of Parliament begins, the government on Sunday held an all-party meeting that was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and floor leaders of various political parties. The Trinamool, however, took a swipe at the PM saying his regular presence in the House was important, reports NDTV. In an all-party meeting on Sunday, a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament begins, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address MPs of both the Houses -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha -- on July 20 and speak on the pandemic. Opposition parties objected to the government's offer for a joint address to all MPs by the prime minister on Covid at the Parliament annexe, saying this will be "highly irregular" at a time when Parliament will be in session and it aims to "bypass" norms. Leaders, including from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the CPI(M), also said that when the Covid pandemic and issues related to it can be discussed on the floor of the House, what was the need to go "outside". The annexe is a separate building within the premises of the Parliament complex. "What is the need to go outside Parliament? Any address should be on the floor of the House. This is another idea to bypass Parliament. Stop making a mockery of the Parliament. How far will Modi and (Union Home Minister Amit) Shah go? Just when we thought that they cannot go lower, they want to make a presentation in the annexe and not on the floor of the House," TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien, who was at the meeting, said.  The meeting was attended by 33 parties ahead of the Monsoon session which will conclude on August 13.  "MPs do not want fancy power point presentations on COVID-19 from the PM or this government in some conference room. Parliament will be in session. Come to the floor of the House," O'Brien said. Sources in other opposition parties confirmed that Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi's offer has been refused and that some have even suggested a joint sitting of the Houses at the Central Hall.  CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the party's position has always been that when Parliament is in session, whatever the government has to say, it can do so on the floor of the House.  "It is highly irregular for the government to do this. When the Parliament is in session, any address or presentation the government wants to make, it has to be done from inside Parliament. Our stand on this has been very clear," he said.  O'Brien claimed that all opposition leaders present in the meeting, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party's Satish Mishra refused to be addressed "outside" Parliament.  Some opposition party MPs, on the condition of anonymity, said some parties have already planned to give notices on the Covid situation issue in Parliament and no one wanted to listen to the government anywhere other than the floor of the Parliament.  The sources also said that NCP leader Sharad Pawar was the lone opposition leader who did not outright reject the proposal of the prime minister's address at the Parliament annexe.  During the meeting, almost all parties raised issues related to fuel prices, farm laws, Covid and the state of the economy, they said.  Kharge hit out at the prime minister over his short presence at meeting and said that it was an "insult" to all political parties present. He also raised the issue of appointment of a deputy speaker, and said this should be done.  O'Brien also tweeted about the short presence of the prime minister. While the DMK raised the issue of GST devolution, the TRS urged the government to make public sector units profitable and not go for disinvestment. The Samajwadi Party accused the government of passing Bills in a hurry and its leader Ramgopal Yadav alleged that the Maharashtra and West Bengal governors had belittled chief ministers of the states.  The BJD demanded that the Centre to procure surplus rice from Odisha, release pending food subsidy and provide a share of the additional cess from fuel and cooking gas to states to help them fight Covid.  Several parties said that their concerns were not being heard by the government and being "bulldozed".  The TMC, during the all-party meet, alleged ruining of the federal structure, "motivated" functioning of the central agencies and lack of Covid vaccines. The return of MPLAD funds and Women's Reservation Bill issues were also raised by the party.  Four political parties, including TMC, TRS, YSRCP and BSP, demanded that there should be a discussion on Schedule 10 of the Constitution which deals with disqualification of lawmakers.  Multiple petitions by the TMC and the YSRCP are with the Lok Sabha speaker and they seek disqualification of MPs. They had earlier demanded a time-bound process for this.  The government is slated to bring in 29 bills and two financial bills during the Monsoon session.  Opposition parties have made it clear that the government must allow proper discussion and review of the bills before they are passed.  On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India|| Delhi cancels annual Kanwar Yatra||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday prohibited the annual Kanwar Yatra in the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "No celebrations, processions, gatherings, etc. shall be allowed during forthcoming Kanwar Yatra-2021 starting from July 25 in NCT of Delhi," stated an order issued by the DDMA. The DDMA order came a day after the yatra was cancelled in Uttar Pradesh. The yatra usually goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees, called 'kanwariyas', travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that governments should take every step to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Opp parties to PM: What was the need to go ‘outside’ to discuss about pandemic||Opposition parties on Sunday objected to the government's offer for a joint address to all MPs by the prime minister on Covid at the Parliament annexe, saying this will be "highly irregular" at a time when Parliament will be in session and it aims to "bypass" norms. Leaders, including from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the CPI(M), also said that when the Covid pandemic and issues related to it can be discussed on the floor of the House, what was the need to go "outside". The annexe is a separate building within the premises of the Parliament complex. In an all-party meeting on Sunday, a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament begins, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address MPs of both the Houses -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha -- on July 20 and speak on the pandemic. "What is the need to go outside Parliament? Any address should be on the floor of the House. This is another idea to bypass Parliament. Stop making a mockery of the Parliament. How far will Modi and (Union Home Minister Amit) Shah go? Just when we thought that they cannot go lower, they want to make a presentation in the annexe and not on the floor of the House," TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien, who was at the meeting, said. The meeting was attended by 33 parties ahead of the Monsoon session which will conclude on August 13. "MPs do not want fancy power point presentations on COVID-19 from the PM or this government in some conference room. Parliament will be in session. Come to the floor of the House," O'Brien said. Sources in other opposition parties confirmed that Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi's offer has been refused and that some have even suggested a joint sitting of the Houses at the Central Hall. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the party's position has always been that when Parliament is in session, whatever the government has to say, it can do so on the floor of the House. "It is highly irregular for the government to do this. When the Parliament is in session, any address or presentation the government wants to make, it has to be done from inside Parliament. Our stand on this has been very clear," he said. O'Brien claimed that all opposition leaders present in the meeting, including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party's Satish Mishra refused to be addressed "outside" Parliament. Some opposition party MPs, on the condition of anonymity, said some parties have already planned to give notices on the Covid situation issue in Parliament and no one wanted to listen to the government anywhere other than the floor of the Parliament. The sources also said that NCP leader Sharad Pawar was the lone opposition leader who did not outright reject the proposal of the prime minister's address at the Parliament annexe. During the meeting, almost all parties raised issues related to fuel prices, farm laws, Covid and the state of the economy, they said. Kharge hit out at the prime minister over his absence from the meeting and said that it was an "insult" to all political parties present. He also raised the issue of appointment of a deputy speaker, and said this should be done. While the DMK raised the issue of GST devolution, the TRS urged the government to make public sector units profitable and not go for disinvestment. The Samajwadi Party accused the government of passing Bills in a hurry and its leader Ramgopal Yadav alleged that the Maharashtra and West Bengal governors had belittled chief ministers of the states. The BJD demanded that the Centre to procure surplus rice from Odisha, release pending food subsidy and provide a share of the additional cess from fuel and cooking gas to states to help them fight Covid. Several parties said that their concerns were not being heard by the government and being "bulldozed". The TMC, during the all-party meet, alleged ruining of the federal structure, "motivated" functioning of the central agencies and lack of Covid vaccines. The return of MPLAD funds and Women's Reservation Bill issues were also raised by the party. Four political parties, including TMC, TRS, YSRCP and BSP, demanded that there should be a discussion on Schedule 10 of the Constitution which deals with disqualification of lawmakers. Multiple petitions by the TMC and the YSRCP are with the Lok Sabha speaker and they seek disqualification of MPs. They had earlier demanded a time-bound process for this. The government is slated to bring in 29 bills and two financial bills during the Monsoon session. Opposition parties have made it clear that the government must allow proper discussion and review of the bills before they are passed. On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses. It is the convention that after the formation of a new government or an expansion or reshuffle in the Union Council of Ministers. There was a major rejig in the Union Council of Ministers recently. While several new faces were inducted, some ministers were elevated to the Cabinet rank and portfolios of some others were changed. Some new members who recently entered Lok Sabha following bypolls would also take oath as members of the lower house on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Mortal remains of Danish Siddiqui arrive in Delhi||The mortal remains of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed in Afghanistan, were brought to Delhi on Sunday evening and will be buried at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard, university officials said. “The Air India flight carrying the mortal remains of Danish Siddiqui landed at Delhi airport,” a university official said. Siddiqui is an alumnus of Jamia Millia Islamia. Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018, worked for Reuters news agency and was killed on Friday in the town of Spin Boldak, near the border with Pakistan. He was embedded with Afghanistan special forces at the time of his death. Earlier in the day, the university said in a statement, “Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child.” Siddiqui's father Akhtar Siddiqui was the Dean of Faculty of Education there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||IMA asks Kerala to withdraw decision on easing Covid restrictions for Bakrid||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday asked the Kerala government to withdraw its decision to ease Covid-19 restrictions ahead of Bakrid, terming it "unwarranted and inappropriate" at a time of a medical emergency. The apex doctors' organisation said it would knock the doors of the Supreme Court if the Kerala government does not enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour to curtail the rising menace of the viral disease by withdrawing this decision. The IMA issued a statement here, saying while many northern states have stopped traditional and popular pilgrimage yatras in view of the pandemic, it is unfortunate that Kerala took a decision which will pave the way for mass gatherings. "The IMA is pained to see amidst the rise of cases and seropositivity, the Kerala government has issued an order to ease out lockdown followed in the state on the pretext of religious gatherings of Bakrid. It is unwarranted and inappropriate at this time of medical emergency," the statement read. In the larger interest of the country and the well-being of humanity, the IMA strongly demands that the order be withdrawn and zero-tolerance towards violation of Covid norms enforced, the medical body said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that in view of Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha) being celebrated on July 21 in the state, textiles, footwear shops, jewellery, fancy stores, shops selling home appliances and electronic items, all types of repairing shops and shops selling essential items shall be allowed to open on July 18, 19 and 20 from 7 am to 8 pm in category A, B and C areas. In D category areas, these shops can function only on July 19, he said. Areas with a Test Positivity Rate of less than five per cent are included in category A, those with five to 10 per cent are included in category B, areas with 10 to 15 per cent in category C and those above 15 per cent will be in category D. Places of worship can be allowed with a maximum of 40 people on special occasions of celebration, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||MLAs supporting Amarinder seek Sonia Gandhi’s appointment ||The Punjab crisis is refusing to die. After 11 MPs writing a letter in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, have now sought an appointment with Congress Party chief Sonia Gandhi. According to an NDTV report, the MPs who met at Rajya Sabha colleague Pratap Singh Bajwa's residence, are all set to tell Sonia that they are opposed to Navjot Sidhu’s appointment as the state Congress chief. Amid the possibility of Navjot Singh Sidhu being made the Punjab Congress chief, 11 MLAs on Sunday came out in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh whom they called the “tallest leader of masses” and appealed to the party high command not to let him down. Cricketer-turned-politician Sidhu, in the meantime, stepped up his efforts and reached out to more party leaders and legislators for their support. In another development, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who is likely to lose his job in the revamp of the state unit, has called a meeting of party legislators and district unit presidents on Monday to pass a resolution expressing support to any decision taken by party president Sonia Gandhi. Jakhar's statement came amid suspense over the much-awaited announcement from the party high command on the resolution of festering internal feud in the Punjab Congress. There are reports that Sidhu is likely to be appointed as the state Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing working presidents to balance the caste equations. The possible changes have triggered a flurry of meetings in Delhi and Punjab. Nine out of 11 Congress MPs from the state met at the residence of Partap Singh Bajwa in Delhi on Sunday and are learnt to have discussed the current political situation. Ten legislators issued a joint statement in support of Amarinder Singh, saying he is the tallest leader of masses. Seven Congress legislators and three rebel AAP MLAs who recently switched over to the ruling party also said Sidhu was a celebrity and no doubt an asset to the party, but added that his open criticism of the party and the government has only created a rift among cadre and weakened the organisation. The joint statement was issued by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira. The seven party legislators in the group are Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Fatehjang Bajwa, Gurpreet Singh GP, Santokh Singh, Balwinder Singh Ladi, Joginderpal and Harminder Singh Gill. Besides Khaira, two rebel AAP legislators in the group are Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa. Three of them had switched over to the Congress in June. In the statement, the legislators urged the party high command not to let down Amarinder Singh, saying because of his unrelenting efforts the party stands well entrenched in Punjab. They said that while the appointment of a state unit chief was the prerogative of the party high command, washing dirty linen in public has only decreased the party's graph during the last couple of months. They said that Amarinder Singh commanded immense respect across different sections of the society, particularly the farmers. The MLAs said since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party into the different directions will only harm its prospects in the 2022 polls. Another Congress legislator, Navtej Singh Cheema, said it was not possible to form the next government without Amarinder Singh. "I do not think there is any leader of such a stature, said Cheema while appealing to the high command to resolve the issue at the earliest. Sidhu, who has been at loggerheads with Singh, on Sunday met party MLAs in Patiala, Khanna and Jalandhar where he received a warm welcome. He first met Ghanaur legislator Madan Lal Jalalpur at his residence. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, MLAs Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Darshan Brar were also present at Jalalpur's residence. Sidhu also met MLA Nirmal Singh from Shutrana constituency. Later, he met Khanna legislator Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha. Talking to reporters, Kotli said, Whatever decision the party high command takes, we as soldier of the party will accept it. To a question on Sidhu, Kotli called the cricketer-turned-politician a charismatic leader and said there is a great enthusiasm among people towards him. Sidhu then went to Jalandhar to meet senior party leader Avtar Henry, MLAs Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilzian, and Avtar Singh Junior. In a statement, incumbent president Jakhar said that at Monday's meeting, all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Sonia Gandhi, said Jakhar. The decision to call a meeting by Jakhar was opposed by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira who said the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) had already been dissolved. "I urge @sunilkjakhar not to indulge in show of strength and wait for the announcement of Congress President. Even otherwise the PPCC stands dissolved so the meeting would have no locus standi and would be invalid. It's time to unite and not divide! said Khaira in a tweet. In 2020, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had dissolved the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the state. However, state unit president Sunil Jakhar remained in the post. After the meeting of party MPs in Delhi, Bajwa said there was no factionalism in the Punjab Congress and the leadership has said that the elections would be fought under the leadership of the chief minister. "Any decision taken by the party president Sonia Gandhi will be acceptable to all," Bajwa told reporters when asked about the appointment of a new Pradesh Congress Committee chief. Bajwa has also thrown his hat in the ring and held a series of meetings. These include one with the chief minister last evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Ahead of UP Polls, Mayawati eyes Brahmin votes||Ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly elections, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday said the Brahmins will not vote for the BJP and her party will begin a campaign from Ayodhya next week to ‘awaken’ the community. Speaking to the media here, Mayawati said, “I am fully assured that the people of the Brahmin community will not get misled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and vote for the party in the upcoming elections.” “A campaign, led by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, will be started from Ayodhya on July 23 to awaken the Brahmin community once again. The Brahmins will be assured that their interests will remain safe under the BSP regime,” she added. On the farmers’ issue, Mayawati said all political parties should come together and hold the Centre accountable. “The indifferent attitude of the Centre towards farmers protesting against the three farm laws is extremely sad. It is necessary that pressure of all kinds is put on the Centre in Parliament. Due to the wrong economic policies of the central government, there is rising unemployment and inflation, which is posing hardships to the people,” she said. Mayawati said the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MPs, during the Monsoon session of Parliament, will raise issues such as rise in fuel and cooking gas prices and matters related to Covid-19 vaccination. "There are a number of issues on which the public wants accountability of the government," she said. The Monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
18-07-2021||India||Karnataka government eases Covid restrictions, allows cinema theatres to operate||The Karnataka government on Sunday further relaxed the COVID-19 related lockdown norms, allowing cinema theatres to open and reduced the duration of night curfew by one hour from July 19. Higher educational institutions like colleges and universities were also given the nod to start from July 26. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with senior ministers and officials at his residence here. An official statement said cinema theatres would be allowed to operate with 50 per cent occupancy after adhering to Covid-19 protocols. On reopening colleges and universities, the government said only those who have taken at least one dose of vaccine will be allowed to attend their duties and classes. The government had imposed restrictions since April 27 and it was made stringent from May 10 as the COVID-19 daily tally exceeded 50,000 cases on May 5, while active cases were over six lakh on May 15. The norms were relaxed from June 14, eased further on June 21 and again on July 5. Night curfew, which was from 7 PM to 5 PM was further relaxed by two hours from July 5 and was in force from 9 PM to 5 AM. From Monday, it will be in force from 10 PM to 5 AM. The government relaxed the norms after the Covid cases came down substantially. The state reported 1,869 fresh infections, 42 deaths and 30,082 active cases on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||SC to Centre: Section 124 (A) of IPC being enormously misused, why it’s not being repealed||A total of 326 cases were registered in the country under the controversial colonial-era penal law on sedition between 2014 and 2019 in which just six persons were convicted. The Supreme Court last week observed that Section 124 (A) of the IPC -- offence of sedition -- has been enormously misused and asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to “silence” people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. According to the Union Home Ministry data, a total of 326 cases were registered under the sedition law between 2014 and 2019, with the highest 54 cases in Assam. Out of these cases, charge sheets were filed in 141 cases while just six people were convicted for the offence during the six-year period. The data of 2020 has not been compiled by the home ministry yet, officials said. In Assam, out of the 54 sedition cases registered, charge sheets were filed in 26 cases and trials were completed in 25 cases. However, there has not been a single conviction in the state in any of the cases between 2014 and 2019, the data says. Jharkhand has registered 40 cases under Section 124 (A) of IPC during the six years in which charge sheets were filed in 29 cases and trials were completed in 16 cases in which just one person has been convicted. In Haryana, 31 cases were registered under the sedition law in which charge sheets were filed in 19 cases and trials were completed in six cases in which just one person has been convicted. Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala have registered 25 cases each. While Bihar and Kerala could not file a charge sheet in any of the cases, Jammu and Kashmir filed a charge sheet in three cases. However, no one was convicted in any of the three states between 2014 and 2019. As many as 22 sedition cases were filed in Karnataka in which charge sheets were filed in 17 cases, but the trial could be completed in just one case. However, no one was convicted in any case in the period. A total of 17 sedition cases were filed in Uttar Pradesh and eight in West Bengal between 2014 and 2019. While charge sheets were filed in eight cases in UP and five cases in West Bengal, no one was convicted in the two states. In Delhi, four sedition cases were registered between 2014 and 2019 but no charge sheet has been filed in any case. No sedition case was filed in states and UTs of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli in the six years One each sedition case was filed in three states -- Maharashtra (in 2015), Punjab (2015) and Uttarakhand (2017). According to the home ministry data, 2019 saw the highest number of 93 sedition cases registered in the country, followed by 70 in 2018, 51 in 2017, 47 in 2014, 35 in 2016 and 30 in 2015. While 40 charge sheets were filed in the country in 2019 under the sedition law, 38 were filed in 2018, 27 in 2017, 16 in 2016, 14 in 2014 and six in 2015. Among the six convicted, two were sentenced in 2018 and one each in 2019, 2017, 2016 and 2014. No one was convicted in 2015. On July 15, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana agreed to examine the pleas filed by the Editors Guild of India and a former major general challenging the Constitutionality of Section 124A (sedition) in the IPC. The court said its main concern was the "misuse of law" leading to the rise in the number of cases. The non-bailable provision makes any speech or expression that brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. "Mr Attorney (General), we want to ask some questions. This is the colonial-era law and the same law was used by the British to suppress the freedom movement. It was used by the British to silence Mahatma Gandhi, Gokhale and others. "Is it still necessary to keep this in statute even after 75 years of independence?" asked the bench which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Ahead of Parliament session, BJP, TMC spar over Minister’s nationality||Just ahead of the Parliament’s monsoon session, debate over the citizenship of Nisith Pramanik Bengal’s Minister of State for Home has been creating ripples. According to an NDTV report Ripun Bora, Congress MP from Assam and state Congress chief, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an inquiry into the Bengal MP’s citizenship details. The 35-year-old leader has been included in the Central cabinet. Bora tweeted, “It’s a matter of grave concern that a foreign national is an incumbent Union Minister.” Taking a cue, Trinamul Congress leaders have also raised the issue. Bengal’s Education Minister Bratya Basu also took on to the micro-blogging site and tweeted, “Rajya Sabha MP board are asking all the right questions.” Another minister from the state, Indranil Sen, according to the NDTV report stated, "shocked and stunned to learn that Union Minister Nishit Pramanik might be a citizen of Bangladesh”. However, BJP has, brushed aside the allegations. NDTV quoted the saffron party’s Bengal spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. He said, “Let them show proof. Just pointing fingers is not enough.” Questions concerning Pramanik’s citizenship was first raised after a Facebook post, which apparently had originated in Bangladesh. The report while quoting the FB post mentioned “the successful son of Harinathpur in the Palashbari police station area of the Gaibandha district of Bangladesh.” “He studied computer science in West Bengal,” added the post. The post by Poojar Mela, a religious organisation in Bangladesh, has deleted it. However, Pramanik’s Lok Sabha details mentions Bengal’s Dinhata as his place of birth, which many leaders are alleging, has been forged. Basu, while commenting on the allegation termed it as baseless and added, “If they want to squeeze the issue further, the Trinamool Congress is free to move the court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar to meet MLAs amid crisis||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar will hold a meeting of party legislators and district unit presidents on Monday here, ahead of the likely revamp of the state unit. In a statement here on Sunday, Jakhar said in the meeting, all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution stating that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab, would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he added. The Congress leader said it would also be appealed that whatever decision the high command wanted to take regarding Punjab should be taken expeditiously so that the party could resolve the important issues related to the people of the state. He said the meeting will take place at Punjab Congress Bhawan here at 3 pm on Monday. Jakhar's statement comes amid suspense over the much-awaited announcement by the party high command to resolve the festering internal feud in the Punjab Congress. There are reports that Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to be appointed as the state Congress chief. There is also talk of appointing working presidents to balance the caste equations. Sidhu had on Saturday met Jakhar at his residence and called the incumbent PPCC chief an elder brother and a guiding force . He also held meetings with several other party legislators and ministers. On Sunday, the cricketer-turned-politician met Ghanaur legislator Madan Lal Jalalpur at his residence in Patiala. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, MLAs Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Darshan Brar were also present at Jalalpur's residence. Sidhu also met MLA Nirmal Singh from Shutrana constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||BJP cites news portal’s alleged ‘dubious’ funding to attack foreign forces for demeaning India||Seizing on the alleged dubious foreign funding of a news portal, the BJP claimed on Sunday that "anti-India" elements in league with foreign forces are part of a conspiracy to demean the country and target the Modi government. Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited media reports about the Enforcement Directorate probe into the portal, Newsclick, and said that it received FDI of Rs 9.59 crore and foreign funding of another Rs 28.46 crore to dubious purposes. Money was diverted to various people, including activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, he alleged, saying this was a “price tag” to foment anti-india sentiments, “abuse” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and do propaganda for foreign forces. “Anti-India forces are doing this conspiracy in league with foreign forces,” he said, alleging that the portal wore the mask of a media house to demean India. Some mainstream politicians of India and foreign forces are also with such portals, and they have been working as a gang in a planned way, he alleged. Patra claimed that whenever any "good" thing happens in the country, be it the Covid vaccination policy or the Central Vista project, some people targeted it. He alleged that the incident highlights the role of foreign funding and foreign conspiracy behind such campaigns to demean India. The Central Vista project received nod from courts but some people still went ahead with their agenda in a "stubborn" manner to demean India, he said. Since Modi became prime minister, he has been a thorn in the flesh of some leaders not only here but also of foreign forces, Patra claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi: Open-minded about forming alliance in Uttar Pradesh polls||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said her party is "open-minded" about forging an alliance with other political parties for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Asked whether the Congress will go it alone on all the 403 assembly seats in the state or align with some political party, the party general secretary told reporters in an informal meeting here, "It is too early to say." On whether she is ruling out an alliance or not, she said, "I do not rule out (alliance). We are absolutely not closed-minded. We are having an open mind." "Our aim is to defeat the BJP,," she said, adding that other political parties should also be "open-minded". She added that the organisation is also her area of focus, and a lot of work have been done on it, and in a silent manner. "I have an open mind, but my priority is my party," she said. To a question on the party becoming active in her presence and tending to become inactive as soon as she leaves the state, the Congress leader said, "When I come (here), there is the media focus and you pay attention. But when I am not here, you do not give any attention. But our work is going on." "We have done the maximum work during the COVID-19 pandemic. You can see that we are the ones who have raised issues. Congress is no longer confined to garlanding photographs. Our party has been out of power for 30-32 years, and it has become weak. However, full efforts have been made, and a lot of energy has come (into the party)," she added. Priyanka Gandhi also said that plans are afoot to revamp the Congress Seva Dal in the state. She also slammed the BJP over its statement that she was a "political tourist". Stating that she is not a "political tourist", the Congress general secretary said that the BJP's propaganda is to show her and her brother Rahul Gandhi as non-serious politicians. Later, Priyanka Gandhi interacted with senior party leaders of the state, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, co-incharge of Uttar Pradesh Dheeraj Gurjar, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh and Naseemuddin Siddiqui, a Congress leader said. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are due in early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Enforcement department scans 2 homes of former Maha home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at two residences of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur district on Sunday as part of a probe into a money laundering case, a police official said. “Two separate teams of the ED searched Deshmukh's house in Katol town, located about 60 km from here, and his ancestral home at Wadvihira village near Katol,” he said. The searches started at around 6 am, he added. According to the official the search is still on at the Katol premises of Deshmukh, while the search at Wadvihira concluded around 12 noon. The ED is conducting a probe into the money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation from the post of home minister in April this year. The central agency recently arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur. Deshmukh had earlier skipped ED's summons for questioning in the case. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Ready for healthy discussions at Parliament, says Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday told an all-party meeting ahead of the Monsoon session that the government was ready for a healthy and meaningful discussion in Parliament on various issues. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi quoted the prime minister at the meeting to say that the various floor leaders were told that the government was ready for a healthy and meaningful discussion on various issues raised as per rules and procedures. At the meeting attended by 33 parties, the prime minister said suggestions from public representatives, especially from the Opposition, are valuable as they make the discussion rich. The meeting was held a day ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament and was attended by Prime Minister Modi and floor leaders of various political parties. Besides Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister and Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi were present at the meeting. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also attended the meeting. Floor leaders of all prominent opposition parties, including Derek O' Brien from the TMC, Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav and BSP's Satish Mishra were also present. Apna Dal leader and NDA ally Anupriya Patel and LJP leader Pashupati Paras also attended the meeting. The Monsoon session of Parliament will start from Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. On day one of the session, the prime minister will introduce the newly inducted ministers to both the Houses. It is the convention that after the formation of a new government or an expansion or reshuffle in the Union Council of Ministers, the prime minister introduces new ministers in both the Houses. There was a major rejig in the Union Council of Ministers recently. While several new faces were inducted, some ministers were elevated to the Cabinet rank and portfolios of some others were changed. Some new members who recently entered Lok Sabha following bypolls would also take oath as members of the lower house on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi reshuffles Parliamentary Groups, G-23 members feature in list||The Group of 23 dissenting leaders of Congress, commonly known as the G-23, has featured on a list of key positions after party interim president Sonia Gandhi reshuffled Parliamentary Groups. According to a report by ndtv.com, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tiwari, among those "G-23" dissenters, will be part of the seven-member group in the Lok Sabha. Veteran Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will continue with his post as party's leader in the Lok Sabha, while Gaurav Gogoi, son of late Tarun Gogoi, also retains his post as Chowdhury's deputy. This comes after a section of insiders said Chowdhury would be replaced. K Suresh will continue as the as chief whip in the Lok Sabha, while Ravneet Singh Bittu and Manickam Tagore were retained as party whips in the reconstituted seven-member Lok Sabha group. In the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge is the leader of the house, while Anand Sharma, another dissenter, retained his position of the deputy leader. Jairam Ramesh has been named chief whip in the upper house. Ambika Soni, P Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh and KC Venugopal make up the other members of this group. "These groups will meet daily during the session and can meet during the inter-session period as well where Parliament issues are concerned," read a statement signed by Sonia Gandhi, as per the report by ndtv.com. The Monsoon Session of the Parliament is set to begin on Monday. The Congress will seek to corner the government on the issues of Covid mismanagement, border disputes with China, farmers' agitation, the Rafale deal and fuel prices in the upcoming session of Parliament. Sources said the issues to be raised during the monsoon session of Parliament starting July 19 were discussed at a meeting of the Congress parliamentary strategy group on Wednesday, which was chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi and attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The leaders also decided to raise the issues of unemployment, price rise and the condition of the economy during the monsoon session and demand a discussion on those. The Opposition party will also raise the issue of an alleged attack on cooperative federalism and constitutional rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||IMD predicts intense rainfall activity over north India from July 18 to 21||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted intense rainfall activity over north India from July 18-21 and over the west coast till July 23. The IMD said moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning are very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. "They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoor," the MeT department cautioned. The IMD said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with widespread rainfall to isolated heavy to very heavy rains very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India -- Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP and north Madhya Pradesh -- from July 18 to 21. There will be decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions thereafter. Isolated, extreme heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19 and over northwestern parts of UP on July 19. Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places are also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on July 18 and 19. Western and southern India is also expected to receive heavy rains. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely to continue over the western coast and adjoining inland areas during the next 5-6 days. Heavy rains have been battering parts of Maharashtra. The IMD said isolated, extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan region and Goa adjoining the ghat areas of central Maharashtra, coastal and south interior Karnataka during July 18 to 19 and over Gujarat region on July 18. Isolated heavy falls are likely over east and adjoining central India from July 22 onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
18-07-2021||India||Opposition to corner Centre over Covid management, fuel price at Monsoon Session of Parliament||The government has readied a big legislative agenda for the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday even as the Opposition seeks to corner the ruling dispensation over its handling of the second wave of COVID-19 and the rise in fuel prices. The government has listed 17 new bills for introduction in the session. Three of the bills seek to replace ordinances issued recently. Once a session starts an ordinance has to be passed as a bill within 42 days or six weeks, else it lapses. One of the ordinances issued on June 30, prohibits any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in the essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Ordinance 2021 came in the backdrop of the announcement by major federations of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to go on an indefinite strike from the later part of July to protest the government's decision to corporatise the OFB. The Essential Defence Service Bill, 2021 has been listed to replace the ordinance, according to a Lok Sabha bulletin issued on July 12. The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021 is another measure that seeks to replace an ordinance. According to the government, the ordinance was brought to provide a permanent solution and establish a self-regulated, democratically monitored mechanism for tackling air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas, rather than limited ad-hoc measures. The Opposition on its part wants to corner the government by raising issues like alleged shortcomings in the healthcare system during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and the distribution of Covid vaccines to states. It would also seek replies on the rising prices of petrol diesel and cooking gas during the session which would end on August 13. According to the financial business listed in the bulletin, there would be a presentation, discussion and voting on Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2021-22. There would also be a presentation, discussion and voting on Excess Demands for Grants for the year 2017-18. On Saturday, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged members of Parliament to stand by people amid the pandemic and discuss all issues related to it in the House to address the concerns of the citizens. Chairing a meeting of leaders of various parties and groups in Rajya Sabha ahead of the session, he also asked the leaders to ensure a smooth and productive session. "A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by COVID-19," he told the leaders. Noting that the second wave of COVID-19 infection sprang several surprises and severely tested India's health infrastructure, Naidu said Parliament is the right forum to get updated about various aspects of fighting the disease and benefit from ground-level experiences of members of the House from different states. This is important in the context of a possible third wave of infection which is being talked about a lot, he said. During the session, all Covid-related protocols, which include maintaining social distancing, would be followed. Both the Houses will sit simultaneously. Amid the pandemic, Rajya Sabha used to earlier sit in the first half of the day, and Lok Sabha in the second half. But from part two of the Budget session in March this year, the two Houses had started sitting simultaneously from their usual timing of 11 am onwards. According to latest data, 444 members from Lok Sabha and 218 from Rajya Sabha have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The figures may have gone up, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 28 degrees Celsius||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 28 degrees Celsius, one notch above the season's average, on Sunday, weather officials said. The maximum temperature in the city is likely to settle at 35 degrees Celsius, they said. The weatherman has predicted generally cloudy sky with moderate rain during the day. The humidity was recorded at 81 per cent, they said. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9.05 am in Delhi stood at 95. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||India records over 41,000 Covid-19 cases, 518 deaths||India logged 41,157 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,11,06,065, while the death toll climbed to 4,13,609 with 518 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,22,660 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active Covid-19 cases have decreased by 1,365 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,36,709 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,39,58,663. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 30269796, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 40.49 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.13 per cent and the weekly positivity rate stands at 2.08 per cent, according to the health ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year.India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 518 new fatalities included 124 deaths from Maharashtra and 114 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 413609 deaths have been reported in the country, including 126851 from Maharashtra, 36121 from Karnataka, 33695 from Tamil Nadu, 25027 from Delhi, 22715 from Uttar Pradesh, 17988 from Bengal and 16224 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Mumbai: At least 30 die after heavy rain hits city, IMD issues red alert||Walls and shanties collapsed killing 30 people in the early hours of Sunday as Mumbai witnessed landslides triggered by heavy rain, disgorged by a cloud said to be twice as tall as Everest. Officials said over 250mm rain between midnight and 3am, touching 305mm by 7am, had crippled India’s financial capital and brought back memories of the cloudburst that caused 944mm rain in 24 hours on July 26, 2005. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said an “orange alert” had been issued for Mumbai and the Konkan coast for the next five days, with heavy rain expected on July 23 too. Winds might blow at 50-60km per hour. Eleven incidents of houses or walls collapsing in Mumbai had been reported in the past 24 hours, Reuters reported. Nineteen people died as a landslide brought a boundary wall down on a cluster of huts on a hillock at Bharatnagar in the Mahul area at 1am, a fire official said. Five others were injured. “All members of one family are suspected to have died of electrocution in the incident,” said Rafique, a resident who helped rescuers pull out bodies using their hands to dig up the ground. Authorities said more people could be trapped under the rubble. A civic activist said 257 hutments had come up on Mumbai’s hillocks, with 290 people from such localities getting killed in landslides and wall collapses during the past 29 monsoon seasons. Another 10 hutment dwellers died as six shanties collapsed after a landslide in the Vikhroli suburb at 2.30am, a civic official said. One more person was injured. A 16-year-old boy died after a forest department boundary wall caved in at suburban Bhandup, an official said. “We’ll take the decision to shift the people who are living in a dangerous situation to permanent settlements immediately,” said Nawab Malik, a state cabinet minister, according to a tweet by news agency ANI, Reuters reported. Two women stood on a wooden ladder in their shanty for over two hours for fear of getting electrocuted after the Mahul wall collapse. Laxmi Jongankar, 40, was inside her shanty when people outside began shouting about the wall collapse. She opened the window and saw several shanties had been destroyed. “As people panicked and start shouting that electric current was spreading in the locality, I along with another woman relative stood on a wooden ladder in my shanty,” Laxmi said. “After more than two hours, a man came to enquire about us and asked us to come out.” Images from a Doppler radar showed that the thunderstorm cloud had a top height of nearly 18km, the IMD said. “To put in other words, the height/ vertical extent of this monster thunderstorm is approximately twice that of Mount Everest!” tweeted Akshay Deoras, a PhD student of meteorology at the University of Reading in Britain. “Such thunderstorms are definitely uncommon for Mumbai or the west coast during an active phase of the monsoon and in a month like July. The cloud top height of this monster thunderstorm is definitely comparable to the one that produced rains on 26 July 2005,” he said. “Thunderstorms have already been observed on the following five days in this month: On July 9, 11, 12, 16 and 17.” Western Railway and Central Railway briefly suspended suburban services, now operated only for emergency services staff and government employees. Many long-distance trains were terminated or regulated at various stations. The civic authorities have asked citizens to boil water before drinking it as heavy rain over the past two days has flooded the water purification complex in Bhandup. The flooding has affected the electrical equipment that control the pumping and filtration processes and affected supply to most parts of the city, an official said. The civic body said 43 pumps in six storm-water pumping stations were operating continuously and had already pumped 442 crore litres of rainwater out into the sea. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office announced Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 for the injured. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the family of each of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||University Grants Commission advises colleges and varsities to admit students by September 30||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has advised colleges and varsities to admit undergraduate students by September 30 and fill the vacant seats thereafter by October 31. Classes for first-year students should start by October 1, the UGC has said. In pre-pandemic times, the session used to begin in July. For second and third-year students, classes should begin as early as possible, the higher education regulator’s guidelines for the upcoming academic calendar say. The terminal exams for third-year students must be held before August 31. These exams can be conducted in any of three modes — offline, online or blended — while adhering to Covid guidelines. “For intermediate semester/ year students, assessment shall be based on internal evaluation and previous semester (if they have been held by now) as suggested in the 2020 guidelines,” the UGC statement said. Post-admission vacancies, which will have to be filled by October 31, arise if there are no takers for some seats or if some students leave mid-session. The universities have already planned their academic calendars on a similar pattern. For example, Delhi University has decided to start classes for second-year students from September 1 and those for third-year students from July 20. DU assistant professor Abha Dev Habib expressed concern over separate academic calendars for students of different years and said it was forcing teachers to work continuously through the year. “Teachers are working all the time — be it teaching or evaluation or admission. Online education has changed the working conditions of teachers. Teachers have to work as per the staggered timetables of first-year, second-year and third-year students,” she said. Habib said teachers would have to complete 180 days of teaching in an academic year and because of the loss of days owing to the delayed admissions in the pandemic-hit year, they would have to make up for lost time. “Many college teachers correct exam papers and participate in admission work during vacations. This year, the teachers will have to take classes and also do evaluation simultaneously (because of the paucity of time). This will add to the pressure on teachers,” she said. Habib said online classes had compelled teachers to remain available 24/7 for email queries and text message from students. DU assistant professor Rajesh Jha said the UGC guidelines would not help guide universities on academic matters. He said the guidelines lacked vision when it came to minimising the fallout of the pandemic on the academic session, admissions and exams. “The academic session is going to start from October (for the first-year batch) instead of the usual July. There is no mention of how the academic session can be brought back on track,” Jha said. According to him, the management of such issues should be left to universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Ex-civil servants seek amendment to Central Pension Rules ||Over 100 retired civil servants, including some of the most respected figures in the foreign policy and security firmaments, on Saturday wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking withdrawal of a rule that is widely perceived as an undeclared gag on them. An amendment to the Central Pension Rules makes it necessary for bureaucrats who have retired from intelligence or security-related departments to take clearance from the department concerned before commenting on matters falling in that domain. “We are unable to understand why there is a need for such an amendment to the Central Pension Rules, when there already exists an Official Secrets Act 1923 and the State can, under it, prosecute officials and former officials who reveal information prejudicial to the State,” the retired bureaucrats said in the letter, written under the banner of their collective, Constitutional Conduct. The signatories to the letter include former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former adviser to the Prime Minister T.K.A. Nair, former home secretary G.K. Pillai, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran, former defence secretary Ajai Vikram Singh, and the former officer on special duty in the PMO for Kashmir, A.S. Dulat. They have said the recent amendment to the Central Pension Rules attempts to impose silence that will seriously affect scholarship and become a permanent impediment to an understanding of the imperatives of India’s security concerns. “Officers who have spent a lifetime in security-related matters are unlikely to be irresponsible and reveal sensitive secrets. The laudable objective of ensuring that retirees do not divulge any sensitive material to the detriment of the nation’s security is best achieved by reiteration of the Official Secrets Act and stern action thereunder in case of infraction,” the letter says. It underlines that the practice of retired bureaucrats writing their memoirs or articles on different aspects of their work or commenting on current affairs using their “domain” knowledge is universal and is appreciated the world over. “Only those who have been involved in security-related matters, internal or external, can speak with authority and credibility. Other domain experts, scholars and even interested members of the public look forward to such words of wisdom based on personal experience. It helps current practitioners to perform better.” The new amendment, the letter says, goes beyond the aborted bid by the UPA government to introduce similar restrictions in 2008 on officers who had served in the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). Consequent to the amendment brought in by the Modi government, retired bureaucrats who do not fall in line run the risk of having their pension withheld or withdrawn. “Pension is a right that accrues to every government servant for the service put in while in the government. It is subject only to future good conduct and cannot be taken away except for conviction for serious crime or grave misconduct. If writing about certain matters amounts to grave misconduct, the government can certainly take action, as per law, to deprive the former official of his or her pension,” the letter states, iterating that laws of the land predating the amendment notified on May 31, 2021, empower the government to take action. If the government is anxious to protect national security in keeping with the times and the Constitution of India, it should carry out wide-ranging consultations with political and civil society as well as the legal fraternity to find a replacement for the Official Secrets Act, which itself conflicts with Article 19 of the Constitution, the letter adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||CJI Ramana: Make mediation mandatory before litigation||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday sought a special “omnibus” enactment that would make mediation mandatory before litigation, citing the backlog of 3 crore cases in the country’s courts and the rising costs of litigation. During mediation, a neutral mediator tries to persuade the two warring parties to resolve their dispute through give and take instead of rushing to court and waiting endlessly for a verdict. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, provides for mediation, as do the amended Companies Act of 2013 and the amended Consumer Protection Act of 2019. More recently, the Commercial Courts Act, 2015, and the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, incorporated provisions relating to compulsory pre-litigation mediation. Besides, Parliament in 1999 revived a provision (Section 89) in the Civil Procedure Code that empowers courts to refer parties to mediation. However, barring these special laws, there is no provision for mandatory mediation or other alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes such as conciliation and arbitration. What Justice Ramana has suggested is a parliamentary enactment to have a mandatory pre-litigation process to prevent people from approaching the courts at the outset. “Given the growing scope of mediation, it’s time for India to enter mission mode. To popularise mediation as a cheaper and faster dispute resolution mechanism, a movement needs to be launched,” he said. Justice Ramana added: “Prescribing mediation as a mandatory first step for resolution of every allowable dispute will go a long way in promoting mediation. Perhaps, an omnibus law in this regard is needed to fill the vacuum.” “The vast majority of litigants in India belong to the middle and poorer sections of society. They will find great solace if mediation gets established as a reliable means of redress.... It will lead to a remarkable reduction in the number of cases reaching the regular courts... (and) enhance the efficiency of the judicial system,” Justice Ramana said. His comments came at an “India-Singapore mediation summit” organised jointly by the Singapore International Mediation Centre and the CAMP Arbitration and Mediation Practice and Mediation Mantras. Party-friendly “Mediation, being the cheapest and simplest option available to the public at large, can be described as a tool of social justice in the Indian context,” Justice Ramana said, emphasising the country’s diversity. “Such a party-friendly mechanism ultimately upholds the rule of law by providing an incentive for the parties to utilise their autonomy to the fullest to arrive at a just and equitable outcome.” He said several Indian states were building a robust ADR-friendly environment. He welcomed Telangana’s establishment of an ADR facility and hoped that other states would follow the example. “Cooperation between India and Singapore is going to be a significant factor in promoting alternate dispute redress mechanisms in both our countries as well as the entire subcontinent,” Justice Ramana said. Indian ethos The Chief Justice of India said the Mahabharata provides an example of an attempt at mediation as a conflict resolution tool, with Krishna trying to mediate between the Pandavas and Kauravas. He said mediation was, as a concept, deeply embedded in the Indian ethos, with various forms of it practised before the arrival of the British adversarial system of law. Disputes were often resolved by the chieftains or elders of the community. Merchants resolved their business disputes through negotiation or through the mediation of merchant bodies. “However, the establishment of the British courts system in 1775 marked the erosion of community-based, indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms in India,” Justice Ramana said. Lok Adalats He said the Lok Adalats had settled more than 78.4 lakh cases in 2019 and 2020, lowering the burden on the regular courts. Another 39.4 lakh cases were settled at the pre-litigation stage through mediation during the same period. This happened despite the pandemic and was made possible through an efficient online dispute resolution system in the country, Justice Ramana said. He added that India now had nearly 43,000 mediation centres. (Lok Adalats are an ADR forum where cases pending in the courts or disputes at a pre-litigation stage are settled. These forums are usually made up of a serving or retired judicial officer, a lawyer and a social worker.) Justice Ramana said that ADR mechanisms, particularly mediation and conciliation, do not only save the parties expenses and time, they give them a degree of control over the process and outcome. Designed around a participatory model, mediation and conciliation enable parties to become insiders to a process that traditionally treated them as outsiders. ‘Luxurious’ litigation Justice Ramana referred to “luxurious litigation”, in which parties with sufficient resources “attempt to frustrate the judicial process and delay it by filing numerous proceedings across the judicial system”. He said that ADR mechanisms like mediation, arbitration and conciliation can go a long way in addressing the problem of vested interests frustrating the judicial process. He added that special training programmes should be conducted periodically for the mediators on the lines done for commercial pilots. The conference was attended by Sundaresh Menon, Chief Justice of Singapore; Edwin Tong, minister for culture, community and youth and second minister for law, Singapore; Justice A.K. Sikri, former Supreme Court judge; Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer of the Niti Aayog; and George Lim, chairperson of the Singapore International Mediation Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Editors decry 'highly regrettable' racist campaign against Danish ||Amid the rich tributes to Danish Siddiqui from across the world and candlelight vigils in Indian cities on Saturday, one sentence in the condolence message from the Editors Guild of India stood out. “…The Guild is deeply disturbed by the vicious and highly regrettable racist campaign being run against him by some sections of social media,” the statement said, referring to a hate campaign that broke out hours after the Pulitzer-winning photojournalist was killed in Afghanistan on Friday. Some of the trolls that targeted Siddiqui suggested that his photographs on the Covid second wave in India had defamed the country. Others referred to the insensitive remarks with which some people had responded to the death of a pro-Hindutva journalist a few months ago although Siddiqui had nothing to do with such intemperate comments. So vicious were some of the Right-wing trolls that former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “That @dansiddiqui was killed by the Taliban while doing his job in Afghanistan is tragic but the fact that there are b******* out there celebrating his death because Danish was good at his job & made them uncomfortable is beyond reprehensible….” The Editors Guild described Siddiqui’s death — he was killed while covering a clash between Afghan security forces and the Taliban — as an irreplaceable loss to journalism. “Over the past decade, he had covered some of the most heart-wrenching stories of conflict and humanitarian crisis from South Asia and the surrounding regions… and most recently, the coverage of the devastating human tragedy caused by the pandemic,” the Guild said. “His work was… a living testament to the axiom of photojournalism, ‘if your pictures aren’t good enough, you aren’t close enough’,” the Guild added, referring to Siddiqui’s last assignment in Afghanistan. “His death is an occasion to remember him and all the journalists who have died in conflict reporting.” Among the organisations and agencies that paid glowing tributes to Siddiqui were the Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based non-profit, the International Press Institute, a global network of media professionals, Amnesty International and the US state department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Billy goat beaten to death to save the 'honour' of nanny||He had ambled up to her on a bright July morning when a group attacked him ferociously with sticks. Within moments, he lay bloodied and dead on the ground. Not a case of honour killing or love jihad but an instance of similar medieval emotions taking over while dealing with a meek and docile barn animal. A male goat was beaten to death in Kaimur district of Bihar on Thursday allegedly by the owners of a female goat it had approached on Thursday morning. The owner of the deceased goat, identified as Ramu, has lodged an FIR against the owners of the nanny at Mohania police station. Radha Devi, Ramu’s owner, told The Telegraph: “The goats were together when my neighbour Sipu Ram (the owner of the nanny) saw them. My buck used to go near his nanny sometimes. Enraged, Sipu thrashed Ramu with a stick. His father Saryu Ram, wife and another person joined him. They hit my goat so badly that it died on the spot.” “I kept screaming and asking them to stop, but my appeals fell on deaf ears. I raised Ramu with much pain and was hoping to earn a good amount by selling it on Id,” she added. Bucks are sold for sacrifice on Id at amounts ranging between Rs 10,000 and Rs 1 lakh in Bihar. Sipu and his family, who could have assaulted the male goat as they did not want the female to get pregnant, could not be contacted. Radha’s ordeal did not end with the cruelty on the billy. When she approached police, her complaint was not allegedly accepted immediately. She kept crying and requesting the police to register an FIR. The personnel finally relented. “We have registered an FIR in connection with the killing of a male goat. The complainant has named four persons. We have sent the carcass for a post-mortem, but the report is yet to come,” Mohania station house officer R.K. Yadav told this newspaper. Yadav refused to divulge under what sections the FIR had been registered. He said action would be taken on the basis of the post-mortem report. Asked if this could be in any way dubbed an instance of honour killing, which is prevalent in rural areas of Bihar, Yadav said: “We have registered an FIR on the charges of killing the animal — plain and simple. An investigation is on and more things will come to light.” Veterinary doctor Ravi Shankar, who conducted the post-mortem, told reporters that preliminary evidence suggested that the goat died of injuries. “The goat had suffered injuries and died. We have conducted the post-mortem. Let us see what additional findings emerge,” Ravi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||France allows visitors with Covishield vaccine from Sunday||France will allow international travellers who have taken the Covishield vaccine into the country from Sunday. The development comes at a time France is tightening border checks to control the spread of the Delta variant (of coronavirus) and protect hospitals, according to a statement from the Prime Minister on Saturday. The move to accept visitors vaccinated with Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, came after a global outcry over the fact that the European Union’s Covid-19 certificate only recognises the AstraZeneca vaccines manufactured in Europe. Several other EU countries already accept the Indian version, which is also being used in the UK and Africa. The varied rules from each country have further complicated this summer’s travel season. France still doesn’t recognise Chinese or Russian vaccines but only those authorised by the EU drug regulator and made by Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. Starting Sunday, France will also start requiring anyone who isn’t vaccinated and arriving from Britain, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Greece or Cyprus to present a negative test report less than 24 hours old to cross French borders. Tunisia, Indonesia, Cuba and Mozambique have been added to France’s “red list” of countries with high virus risk, according to Saturday’s statement. However, France will now accept travellers from any red list country if they are fully vaccinated. France also shortened the time frame for considering a person fully vaccinated after the second dose to one week instead of two. As infections climb again, French President Emmanuel Macron this week ordered all health workers to get vaccinated by September 15 and announced that special Covid-19 passes would be required in all restaurants, bars, hospitals, shopping malls, trains, and planes. To get a pass, people must be fully vaccinated, have recently recovered from the virus, or have a fresh negative virus test. The measures have prompted a record number of people to sign up for vaccinations but have also fuelled anger among some groups and protests are planned in various French cities on Saturday against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
18-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra seeks fresh elections in UP clash zones||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday met two block development council members who were assaulted during the recent panchayat pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh and one of whose sari was pulled allegedly by two BJP leaders, and demanded fresh polls in areas that reported violence. Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, extended her support to the two BDC members — a Samajwadi Party-backed Independent candidate who was prevented from contesting the panchayat pramukh election and her proposer who was seen in a viral video while her sari was being pulled. Visiting Pasgawan in Lakhimpur Kheri district, Priyanka told reporters: “The block pramukh candidate and her proposer were assaulted. The candidate was prevented from filing her nomination. They shouldn’t fear anything. It may be that she was stopped from filing her nomination but a time will come when she will contest and win. I am with her. The women of India are with her.” The Congress leader later said in a tweet in Hindi: “The goons of the BJP involved in the cheerharan (removal of clothes) of democracy should hear that women will become pradhans, block pramukhs, MLAs, MPs and Prime Minister, and defeat the government that gives patronage to those committing atrocities against women. “To ensure justice to all victims of the panchayat poll violence — all my sisters and citizens — I will write a letter to the state election commission.” The BJP has been accused of indulging in widespread violence during the panchayat pramukh elections, which chief minister Yogi Adityanath declared his party had won handsomely even before the state poll panel had announced the results. BDC members backed by the Samajwadi Party had earlier won more seats than BJP-supported members. The BDC members elect the panchayat pramukhs. Priyanka spoke to the two women BDC members under the shade of a peepal tree and alleged that BJP leaders had insulted them at the behest of the state government. “I demand that the state election commission hold fresh elections here and all other places where violence has taken place,” she said. The proposer, whose sari was pulled in the presence of police on July 9, later said: “Priyanka has said she will help us in future elections.” Two BJP leaders —Yash Verma, district president of the party, and his aide Brij Singh — have been arrested over the incident. Rekha Verma, the BJP MP of Dhaurahra who was present at the spot when the proposer was insulted, had told the media on July 10 that those seen in the video were with her. However, she had claimed that the police had lathicharged her supporters. The panchayat pramukh candidate had alleged that she too had been assaulted inside the returning officer’s room. She had accused Verma, the police and the local administration of supporting the assaulters. The candidate had to run away without filing her nomination. Urmila Katiyar, the BJP-backed candidate and Verma’s mother, won the election. The Opposition has alleged that the BJP had resorted to similar violence to win over 330 seats unopposed. The BJP emerged victorious in 635 of the 825 panchayat pramukh seats in Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, Priyanka had staged a silent protest for three hours near a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the Hazratganj area of Lucknow. She had later told reporters at the Congress office in the state capital that she had come to protest against “the Uttar Pradesh government, which is killing democracy and the Constitution while the Prime Minister endorses such activities”. “The administration and the police spread anarchy; the state government was directly involved in intimidating and kidnapping panchayat election candidates. They attacked women candidates during the elections,” the Congress leader had said. “And the Prime Minister congratulated them for their victory and said there was vikaswad (politics of development) in the state…. Whatever happened here was patronised by the Prime Minister.” “The government thinks we will watch such things silently but it is not going to happen. I am here to say that I will keep speaking against a government that spreads violence,” Priyanka had added. She is in Uttar Pradesh on a three-day tour and meeting prospective candidates for the 2022 Assembly elections and party workers from across the state. The BJP reacted sharply to Priyanka’s trip. Swatantra Dev Singh, the Uttar Pradesh BJP president, said: “Priyanka is on a picnic in UP. The last time she had come was one-and-a-half years ago. I don’t need to say anything about her as the people of the state know her.” Priyanka had, however, addressed a farmers’ rally in Saharanpur and met Nishad community members in February this year, promising them that the Congress would fight for their rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu to become Punjab Congress chief||Navjot Singh Sidhu has cleared the hurdles to his becoming Punjab Congress chief, reaching out to senior leaders including key members of chief minister Amarinder Singh’s camp after being chastened by Sonia Gandhi who stressed the need to take everybody along. While the party general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, flew to Chandigarh to assuage the chief minister’s sense of hurt, assuring him of his supremacy in the state hierarchy, Sidhu abandoned his combative posturing to demonstrate camaraderie with party seniors. By evening, after a few more gestures of reconciliation towards Amarinder, it was clear that Sidhu would indeed become the state unit chief. Sidhu walked into the homes of ministers, embraced former party presidents and put out this soothing tweet: “Seeking guidance of presidents of the illustrious Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee…. Conversations with wise men, worth months of education.” This, coming from a motormouth who can burn bridges with his acerbic assertions, calmed veterans who had been unwilling to accept as state president a man who had crossed over from the BJP barely four years ago. Amarinder has set a few preconditions for a truce. He has demanded a free hand in running the government and effecting a cabinet shuffle, as well as a say in the appointment of working presidents and other office-bearers. Above all, he expects Sidhu to publicly apologise for putting out insulting tweets and statements against him and his government. Party insiders expect Sidhu to send out a clear message that he did not want any confrontation with the chief minister and that he respected Amarinder as a senior leader. Sources said Amarinder would not meet Sidhu without a public apology even if the former cricketer is appointed state president. Rawat tweeted after meeting Amarinder: “I have just returned to Delhi after meeting Captain Amarinder Singh. I am happy that the speculation outside (about his displeasure) was proved meaningless. “The Captain has reiterated his statement that he will accept whatever is decided by the Congress president on the question of Punjab unit chief. I will honour her decision. Thank you Captain for your great statement.” Sources said Sonia and Rahul had reprimanded Sidhu for his confrontational posturing and tutored him on how to run an organisation by taking everybody — critics, rivals and friends — along. “He was told he had to act as a team leader irrespective of his personal style,” a source said, adding that both Sidhu and Amarinder had been advised about the importance of staying united if elections were to be won. The resolution of the standoff is being seen as a significant achievement by Sonia, who still commands respect from every section of the party. It wasn’t easy to convince Amarinder to accept Sidhu as state unit chief, and senior leaders said in private that Sonia had pulled off a miracle. “Soniaji is herself anguished by the state of affairs and has told the senior leaders they must accept her decisions after having forced her to come back from retirement,” a party insider told The Telegraph. “She is upset by the politics of blackmail and has decided to crack the whip. Tough decisions can now be expected in other states too.” Rahul’s public declaration on Friday that those feeling uncomfortable in the Congress can walk out is also being viewed as a toughening of stance by the family. Although Rahul used the specific context of some party members’ possible fear of the ruling establishment, his comment was seen as reflecting a refusal to compromise and a readiness to face the worst, if necessary. States like Gujarat and faction-ridden Rajasthan too are expected to witness tough decisions. Sonia, sources say, is also determined to end the uncertainty at the national level and will unveil a revamped party structure soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui remembers his 'brilliant and dashing' photojournalist son ||Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui brimmed with grief and pride as he remembered his “brilliant and dashing” photojournalist son Danish Siddiqui. “He was an extremely emotional person,” Akhtar Siddiqui said. Danish, 38, was killed while covering a clash between Afghan forces and the Taliban in Kandahar’s Spin Boldak district on Friday. Tolo News quoted sources as saying that fierce fighting had been going on in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the past few days. “He was very calm and quiet, a very loving son. He loved children a lot. A very emotional person,” Akhtar Siddiqui, a retired Jamia Millia Islamia professor, said a day after the news of Danish’s death reached Delhi. Talking about Danish’s work that required him to be in life-threatening situations, Akhtar Siddiqui said the family had got used to his work life over the years. “We used to tell him in the beginning what was the need for such a job, but we almost got used to it. He’d tell us they had security, that they travelled with full protection. We only told him to maintain all precautions,” he said. In the last one year, Danish had extensively covered the Covid-19 pandemic across India. “He was a brilliant and dashing chap. He had a lot of commitment towards his work, passion to face challenges. Even during the pandemic, Delhi riots, he reported the facts despite the challenges,” he said. “Passionate and energetic” as a child, Akhtar Siddiqui remembered, Danish would finish with perfection whatever he set his mind to. “He was extraordinarily courageous,” the father said, his voice trailing off. Danish’s work as a photojournalist with Reuters since 2011 involved reporting on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the protest in Hong Kong and earthquakes in Nepal. He was part of a team of photographers chronicling the Rohingya crisis that received the Pulitzer Prize. Danish graduated with a degree in economics from Jamia Millia Islamia university, Delhi. He received a degree in mass communication from the A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre in Jamia in 2007. Starting his career as a television news correspondent, Danish switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Gujarat HC becames first court to start live streaming of proceedings||Gujarat High Court on Saturday became the first court in the country to formally start live streaming of proceedings. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana announced that steps would soon be taken to replicate this to some extent inthe Supreme Court as well. “As I have stated earlier while launching access of online proceedings of the Supreme Court to the media, we are keen to start live proceedings at least for some of the courts in the Supreme Court. We are working out the logistics and working on consensus of the full court. With the aid of modern technologies, I am given to understand that we can introduce this live streaming feature in a cost-effective manner without imposing much of a burden on the exchequer,” CJI Ramana said. Launching the live streaming of Gujarat High Court proceedings on Saturday evening, on the eve of the 101st birth anniversary of former CJI Y.V. Chandrachud, Justice Ramana said it would “allow the people access to… the functioning of these institutions. The purpose is to keep the public informed.” It is only on the basis of an informed citizenry that a “representative democracy can survive and evolve”, he said. Justice Ramana said lack of direct access led to misconceptions. “The formalisation of the live streaming of court proceedings is the best cure for the aforesaid malady. Live-streaming of proceedings is crucial for dissemination of information, which is a sacrosanct aspect of Article 19 (right to freedom of speech and expression). “Through such direct access, the people can get first-hand information about the entire proceedings and the opinions of the judges, leaving little room for any mischief,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI, however, cautioned that one must tread the path with caution as at times, live streaming of proceedings may become a double-edged sword. “However, judges might feel the pressure of public scrutiny, which may ultimately result in a stressful environment that may not be conducive to justice dispensation.“A judge must remember, even if justice commands standing up against the popular perception, he must do so out of his commitment to the oath he took under the Constitution. A judge cannot be swayed by popular opinion. Yes, with increased public gaze, he might become a subject of multiple debates, that should never deter him from his duty to protect the right of one against the might of many,” Justice Ramana said.“Always remember, as a repository of people’s faith, a judge cannot afford lose objectivity,” he added. The CJI said “the constitutional courts of our country like the Supreme Court and high courts, being the guardians of our constitutional mandate; for public confidence and faith to reach new heights, it is imperative for us to widen the gates of justice”. “...multiple incorrect notions still prevail in the minds of the public regarding the justice delivery system. These prevailing notions and misapprehensions ultimately hinder access to justice, as they may disincline people to seek redressal of their rights. “It is high time for demystifying the justice delivery system in the country and furthering access through open courts. Access to justice will become a true reality, when litigants and interested parties get to witness, understand and comprehend justice dispensation first hand,” Justice Ramana said.Privacy safeguards The CJI, however, cautioned that of paramount consideration is the privacy of the parties involved and it must ensure the safety and security of the victims and witnesses. “Therefore, it is imperative to carefully calibrate the rules governing such live-streaming by keeping in view the competing interests,” he said.Expressing his happiness at Gujarat High Court’s decision to start live streaming of court proceedings, the CJI complimented Justice Chandrachud, the present chairperson of the Supreme Court E-committee for taking the initiative in successfully executing the programme. “The committee under the leadership of brother Chandrachud is playing a wonderful role in bringing all the courts on board to unleash the transparency revolution with the aid of modern technology,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI also congratulated Justice Nath, Justice Pardiwala, chairman, live streaming rules committee, and other judges of Gujarat High Court who have come forward to open up their courts for public viewing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Centre: No common entrance exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year||The Centre has decided it will not go ahead with the common entrance exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year, amid protests by students who don’t want such an exam amid the pandemic, according to two education department officials. The education ministry had been considering a proposal to switch to the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for selection of students instead of admission based on board exam performance. “The proposal was examined. We don’t have adequate time for the conduct of the test. It will be held next year,” one of the two senior officials said. The new academic session in universities and colleges across the country will begin from October 1, while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Students are opposed to CUCET this year because schools could not cover the entire syllabus in a pandemic-hit year and questions could be set on the whole curriculum because there was no uniformity in the selection of portions that were omitted. Moreover, the students had said they would not get enough time to prepare for CUCET. Students have been holding an online campaign and have written to the education minister, the UGC and several universities against CUCET. Twelve central universities that have been holding a common entrance exam for postgraduate courses are yet to decide their mode this year and will meet shortly to take a decision. DU admissions Delhi University will start the registration process of the 65,000-odd undergraduate seats at its colleges on August 2 and is likely to announce the first cut-off list between September 7 and 10, acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi announced on Saturday. The university said it would continue with its merit-based selection process by considering board exam marks. The varsity will, however, hold the DU Entrance Test (DUET) for candidates seeking admission to MPhil, PhD and postgraduate courses and some undergraduate courses such as those in physiotherapy, occupational therapy and prosthetics and orthotics. The registration for these will start on July 26 and will continue till August 21. Students happy Namrata Kalita from Jorhat in Assam, who is seeking admission to an undergraduate course in DU, said they were against CUCET due to lack of time and information about the exam pattern. “I am happy that DU has decided to go for merit-based selection. We were concerned about CUCET this year. We needed time for preparation. There is no time. More than half of the year is gone and we are in a state of anxiety about the admission process,” Kalita said. She said the CBSE’s decision to award Class XII board marks on the basis of performance in Classes X and XI exams and Class XII pre-board tests was a fair process. “This rationalisation will ensure fair evaluation. Students will get admission in colleges of their choice,” Kalita said. She said a common test would have given undue advantage to students who are already preparing for other entrance exams. “Next year when CUCET is held, students should be given enough time so that there is an even playing field. We are not against CUCET, but it should be held in a proper manner with adequate information given to students well in advance,” Kalita said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||India||Congress sniffs scam in ministry of electronics and information technology||The Congress on Saturday said the latest report by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India points to a scam in the ministry of electronics and information technology, suspecting that the removal of Ravi Shankar Prasad in the recent cabinet reshuffle could be linked to fear of a controversy erupting in the upcoming Parliament session. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the modus operandi of loot was awarding contract to private parties without any tendering process and even formal agreements. He expressed shock as the private entity was not only operating from government premises but also using the Ashoka emblem to create an impression that it was a government company. He released file notings, acquired through an RTI query, to expose the brazenness of illegal functioning in the government. The Congress also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the removal of the minister was enough of a punishment for loot of public exchequer and sought the complete list of private companies, which were operating from ministries and using the official Ashoka emblem. It also demanded an impartial inquiry to find the full scope of the scandal going on in the telecom ministry. Explaining the process, Khera said: “The department of telecommunications (DoT) was awarding projects to private parties indirectly through CSC-SPV and its wholly owned subsidiary CSC Wi-Fi Choupal Services India Private Limited. The USOF (Universal Service Obligation Fund) has massive funds collected through contributions from the operators. The government uses this for the last mile network connectivity (LMNC) in rural areas. Projects are given to CSC-SPV, which in turn, would pass these projects to CSC Choupal. The CSC Choupal would then assign these projects to private parties branded as common services centres through a maze of private entities. As per the DoT website, as of January 2021 the USOF had collected Rs 1,12,650 crore, out of which Rs 57,433 crore had been disbursed.” While the CAG report explained a case in Bihar where advance was released for work without a formal agreement and tendering process, Khera said the answer to an RTI query revealed that the CSC e-Gov and CSC WiFi Choupal were private companies. Khera asked: “Following the CAG report, is the removal of a minister from the Union cabinet enough? What is the action you will take to punish those guilty of alleged siphoning off of funds to the tune of thousands of crores? What is the connection between the BJP and CSC-SPV and its wholly owned subsidiary CSC Wi-Fi Choupal Services India Private Limited? How much has the company or any of its maze of companies, which have been benefited by the ministry of electronics and information technology, donated to the kitty of the BJP? How many such companies are using the Ashoka emblem and government premises by feigning as government entities?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Didi to visit Delhi on July 25 amid row||With an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after its landslide victory in this year's West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamul Congress is planning to take the opportunity of its biggest annual event, the July 21 Martyrs' Day rally, to reach out to people across the country by telecasting party chief Mamata Banerjee's speech in various languages in different states. Banerjee's speech will be telecast on giant screens across West Bengal, and for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, a senior TMC leader said. The West Bengal chief minister will address people virtually for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In West Bengal, the speech will be aired in Bengali, in which Banerjee will originally deliver it, while translated versions in local languages will be telecast in different states, he said. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC plans to air Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts and has already started distributing leaflets in Gujarati informing people about the scheduled programme, the TMC leader said. "Modi and Shah had taken the lead in BJP's campaign during the West Bengal elections. Now, it's our turn to spread Didi's message in Gujarat and other states," he said. The party is also planning similar programmes in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to the polls next year. The chief minister's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, after taking charge as the party's all- India general secretary, had vowed to spread the TMC's wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence. Deft organiser Mukul Roy, who has recently returned to the TMC from the BJP, has been given the charge for spreading the party's presence across the country. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Plans of a rainbow coalition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are being nurtured in various quarters, with even the CPI(M) expressing its willingness to be a part of the bandwagon at the national level along with the TMC, its bitter rival in West Bengal. Banerjee, a veteran in national politics, has said that she will visit New Delhi for a few days after the July 21 programme to meet "old and new friends". She also plans to go to the Parliament, which will be in session then, and hold parleys with senior leaders. Mamata Banerjee is expected to launch a scathing attack on the BJP at her virtual rally, which also comes just days before her visit to New Delhi on July 25. She will be in the national capital through the week and meet several other opposition leaders. She is likely to call on AICC leader Sonia Gandhi, though no appointment has been confirmed yet by either side. Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are expected to call on her as well. All eyes are on the possibilities of an opposition alliance emerging ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. If the Prime Minister and the President give her time, the Bengal Chief Minister has said she would certainly meet them as well. Her visit to Delhi comes at a time when the Calcutta High Court is hearing a case on post-poll violence in which the National Human Rights Council, in its report, has said ": There is no rule of law in Bengal, only the law of the ruler" or the ruling party. Banerjee has said that she may also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi if she gets appointments with them. The TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs' Day in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed in police firing in a rally of Youth Congress, of which Banerjee was then a leader, in Kolkata in 1993 demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole document required for voting to ensure free and fair elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA ‘attacked’ at Farakka toll plaza in Bengal||A ruling TMC MLA in West Bengal filed a police complaint alleging that he was attacked by ‘goons’ associated with a toll plaza run by a central agency in Murshidabad district on Sunday for protesting overcharging of vehicles. Authorities of the toll plaza at Farakka, however, dismissed the allegation that local MLA Monirul Islam was attacked, and claimed that commoners protested after he refused to pay toll tax and his associates created a ruckus. "I have been hearing complaints of overcharging by the toll plaza located near the West Bengal-Jharkhand inter-state border. When I went there to check for myself, some goons associated with the toll plaza management reached the spot and charged towards my vehicle during an argument and brickbats were hurled at us. However, I was not physically harmed as the police and locals escorted me out," he told reporters. The toll plaza management, however, said that the legislator's behaviour had infuriated the locals, who protested against it and he had to leave the spot. "He refused to pay toll tax for his vehicle and his companions created a ruckus," they said, adding there was no attack on the MLA. An officer of Farakka police station said that commotion started after Islam reached the spot with around 10 people and brickbats were hurled subsequently. Islam was escorted out of the area and the situation is now under control, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘shahid divas’ speech to be aired in different languages across India ||With an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after its landslide victory in this year's West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress is planning to take the opportunity of its biggest annual event, the July 21 Martyrs' Day rally, to reach out to people across the country by telecasting party chief Mamata Banerjee's speech in various languages in different states. Banerjee's speech will be telecast on giant screens across West Bengal, and for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, a senior TMC leader said. Bengal chief minister will address people virtually for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “In Bengal, the speech will be aired in Bengali, in which Banerjee will originally deliver it, while translated versions in local languages will be telecast in different states,” he said. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC plans to air Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts and has already started distributing leaflets in Gujarati informing people about the scheduled programme, the TMC leader said. "Modi and Shah had taken the lead in BJP's campaign during the West Bengal elections. Now, it's our turn to spread Didi's message in Gujarat and other states," he said. The party is also planning similar programmes in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to the polls next year. The chief minister's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, after taking charge as the party's all- India general secretary, had vowed to spread the TMC's wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence. Deft organiser Mukul Roy, who has recently returned to the TMC from the BJP, has been given the charge for spreading the party's presence across the country. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Plans of a rainbow coalition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are being nurtured in various quarters, with even the CPI(M) expressing its willingness to be a part of the bandwagon at the national level along with the TMC, its bitter rival in West Bengal. Banerjee, a veteran in national politics, has said that she will visit New Delhi for a few days after the July 21 programme to meet "old and new friends". She also plans to go to the Parliament, which will be in session then, and hold parleys with senior leaders. The TMC chief may meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and other top opposition leaders during her visit. Banerjee has said that she may also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi if she gets appointments with them. The TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs' Day in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed in police firing in a rally of Youth Congress, of which Banerjee was then a leader, in Kolkata in 1993 demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole document required for voting to ensure free and fair elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande's condition very critical||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande, who is in hospital with a severe infection in lungs, continued to be very critical on Sunday, officials said. Pande, the minister for Consumer Affairs, and Self Help and Self Employment, continued to be on ventilator support, an official of the private hospital said. "Mr Pande's condition continues to be very critical. Doctors are keeping him under constant watch at the ICU," he said. The senior TMC leader was rushed to the hospital on Friday night in a semi-conscious state after he complained of chest pain and severe breathing issues. Pande has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and renal disorders, the hospital official said. A four-member medical team, which included an endocrinologist, is treating him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Tributes pour in for India's first female doctor Kadambini Ganguly||Tributes poured in for Kadambini Ganguly on Sunday as Google Doodle honoured the countrys first woman doctor with a special graphic on her 160th birth anniversary. The doodle, a portrait of Ganguly with the image of the main building of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in the background, has been designed by Bengaluru-based artist Oddrija, and it was widely shared across the country. Politicians and common people from all walks of life hailed Ganguly as a champion of women's rights in India. Along with Anandi Joshi, Ganguly became the first woman in colonial India to study medicine and earn a degree in 1886. While Joshi studied at Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania in the US, Ganguly pursued western medicine at Calcutta Medical College (CMC). Born in a Brahmo family on July 18, 1861, Ganguly, along with Chandramukhi Basu, became the first female graduates in India, from Bethune College in Calcutta. After her marriage with Brahmo reformer Dwarkanath Ganguly, the couple battled CMCs prohibition on women studying there, and Kadambini joined the medical college on June 23, 1883 despite strong criticism from the colonial society. She was awarded the Graduate of Medical College of Bengal (GMCB) degree in 1886, which even attracted the attention of Florence Nightingale who enquired about Ganguly from a friend in a letter in 1888. Ganguly later studied in Britain. A champion of women's rights, Ganguly was among the six members of the first all-women delegation of the 1889 Indian National Congress. After her husband's death in 1898, she practiced medicine in Kolkata till her death in 1923. Sharing her photograph, Congress tweeted: "Today we honour Kadambini Ganguly for inspiring generation of Indians to aspire for greatness. She was not only one of the first female graduates from India but also among the first women to practice western medicine in all of South Asia." "Remembering #KadambiniGanguly ji on her birth anniversary. In a male-dominated society, Kadambini Ganguly fought all restrictions & prejudices to study medicine. She actively campaigned for the emancipation of women and their admission into academic institutions," National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma said in a Twitter post. Politicians cutting across party lines paid tributes to Ganguly on the occasion. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted: "Tributes to #KadambiniGanguly, one of the first two female physicians from India on her birth anniversary. She studied medicine in 1883, trained in Scotland & established medical practice in India. Her contribution to women emancipation shall always be remembered." "Pay my humble tribute to #KadambiniGanguly, one of the first two female graduates during British ruled India, and the first female physician in India and South Asia. Her struggle and fight in true sense, inspires Indian and Bengali women," Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said in a Twitter post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Traders arrested for stocking, selling life-threatening nylon-made kite strings||Police have arrested two persons for stocking and selling life-threatening nylon-made kite strings from Nadia’s Santipur following a spate of accidents in the past one month in which over a dozen persons were injured by these strings. Sources said the arrest was made after four-year-old Aayan Akbar suffered grievous injury from a nylon-made kite string that got entangled around his throat on Monday while riding on a scooter with his father. “He received six stitches in the throat. Another youth was also injured in a similar incident. He received 12 stitches in his throat,” said a source. The cops raided several places in Santipur and adjacent areas since Thursday afternoon and seized over a few thousand rolls of nylon-made kite strings. Traders Bhaskar Sandhukhan and Bijoy Krishna Basak were arrested on Friday for selling them illegally. “The seized nylon strings has been smuggled into the town. The duo have been remanded in jail custody for 14 days,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang followers feel let down with his decision to hand over faction’s flag to Bimal Gurung||Binay Tamang’s colleagues in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction had been headed towards his house, surprised by the suddenness of his decision to resign, but they returned halfway after the veteran decided to hand over the faction’s flag to their arch-rival Bimal Gurung, sources said. Tamang on Thursday resigned as the head of the faction he had formed in 2017 and headed since, at a media conference at his residence in Dali, some 4km from Darjeeling on Thursday. Tamang had said he was handing over the flag to the original owner Gurung, and his decision in 2017 to join hands with Trinamul was to “save the hill, people and the party”. “We had been following his media conference and the moment he resigned from the party, there was a buzz and many of us rose up and started heading to his home to diffuse the situation,” an insider said on Saturday. “But we felt let down with the decision to hand over the flag to Gurung and this is when we decided not to proceed further.” The insider added why they felt let down. “We had followed him when he decided to revolt against Gurung.” Some of these leaders sent Tamang text messages, but refused to divulge the contents. The sources said a woman leader of his faction had reached Tamang’s residence on Thursday evening. “However, when she saw Tamang was with Noman Rai (a leader of Bimal Gurung’s faction), she too decided to return without meeting him,” said the source. Leaders of the Tamang camp this paper spoke to said that though differences had lately cropped up between Binay Tamang and his general secretary Anit Thapa, they had no inkling that it was irreparable. “We still believe that a one-on-one meeting between the two leaders would have diffused the situation. If we had reached his house on Thursday evening and had a good talk, we believe the issue would have become normal,” said a leader. However, even this leader added that by Saturday “much water had flowed down the Teesta for reconciliation”. Sources said that some indirect grievances were being aired by Tamang in the faction’s WhatsApp group for some time. “However, none thought he would resign,” said the source. In recent months, there had been a buzz within a section of leaders that Tamang was in touch with Trinamul and BJP leaders, without informing the rest of the faction. Tamang had dismissed these as “mere rumours”. Party leaders admitted that seeds of factionalism were sown when Anit Thapa took charge of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) after Tamang stepped down in 2019 to contest the Darjeeling Assembly by-election. Tamang, however, lost to GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba who was contesting on a BJP ticket. Tamang’s recent decision to take absolute control of the party and issue a media gag on all leaders was the catalyst for dissent within the party, said the source. Thapa’s invitation at the state government event to mark the 207th birth anniversary of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya at Chowrasta on July 13 and his s subsequent decision to attend a Darjeeling subdivisional committee meeting afterwards were possibly the immediate triggers for Tamang to tender his resignation. Tamang and Gurung, also an ally of Trinamul, were not invited to the Chowrasta event. At the subdivisional committee meeting, sources said that Thapa had told the leaders that the faction should not derail because of one person. Many feel that Tamang was of the opinion that Thapa’s statement was aimed at him.. “Thapa’s speech at the subdivisional committee seems to have been the final nail in the coffin,” felt a source. Thapa was on Friday elected the “acting president” of the Morcha faction, while continuing to discharge his responsibility as the general secretary.Soon after taking charge, Thapa reversed Tamang’s media gag on the leaders of the faction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Malda man beaten to death over suspicions of plotting robbery||A farm labour, Sheikh Ghishu, 36, died and his friend Sheikh Sadagar, also of the same age, had to be hospitalised after allegedly being assaulted by villagers under Ratua police station of Malda district late on Friday night. The villagers accused the duo, who were standing with another friend near a mango plantation around 11.30pm, of being thieves and conspiring a crime in the village. The third friend, Sheikh Sajjad, escaped. Ghishu and Sadagar, who were badly beaten up till the police arrived and the assaulters fled, were taken to Malda Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced the former dead. Sadagar, speaking from the hospital bed on Saturday, said: “We were simply chatting near the mango plantation when some villagers came and accused us of being criminals. When we said no, they started beating us. Sajjad somehow fled but we two were beaten up till the police came.” Search is on for the assaulters, Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria said. The district has seen similar brutal assaults in the recent past too, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||BSF bullet kills suspected smuggler in Nadia’s Chapra||A suspected smuggler was gunned down in Nadia’s Chapra by a Border Security Force jawan who tried to thwart an attempt to breach the barbed wire fencing for smuggling birds and medicines during the early hours of Saturday. Sources said Ashique Halsana, 18, was earlier a construction worker in Mumbai who was forced to return home to Ranabandh-Bhatgachi village in Chapra in April 2020 during the pandemic-induced lockdown. He allegedly got involved in a smuggling racket after the lockdown lifted as he failed to land a job here. A BSF spokesperson of the South Bengal Frontier said that early on Saturday around 10 persons were trying to make a passage from the Indian side of the border by cutting the barbed wire fencing at Bhatgachi to smuggle exotic birds and medicines. “When one of our jawans challenged them, they attacked him with sharp weapons and stones. Later,  the jawan  fired in self-defence and one of the bullets hit Ashique.” A source said that Ashique was found lying dead in a canal close to the India-Bangladesh border in the area. He had a bullet injury on his chest, added the source. Chapra police recovered the body and began a probe following a complaint lodged by the BSF authorities. Later, BSF’s Krishnagar sector DIG Amerish Kumar Arya and Battalion-82’s commanding officer Sanjay Prasad Singh rushed to the site of Saturday’s firing and appealed to villagers to discourage youths from joining smuggling rackets. After various failed attempts to get a job in Bengal, Ashique was allegedly lured by his uncle to join a smuggling racket. His sister Tia said that he had been trying to get a job in the village for months. “Dada had been trying to get the job of a construction labour locally but he got nothing owing to lockdown-like restrictions. On Friday night, he left home with uncle Feroz and did not return,” said the sobbing girl. Sources said Feroz operated a smuggling racket and several teen of the area had joined it during the lockdown in hopes of a regular income. “Feroz should be blamed for Ashique’s death as he lured him into smuggling. Many other youths have joined the racket,” said a neighbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea export earnings in Bengal dip despite better rates||The dip in tea production last year as the pandemic hit the country reduced export by over 40 million kilos but the brew fetched a better rate from overseas, data published by the Tea Board of India reveals. Still, the tea industry earned Rs 500 crore less through exports in 2020 compared to 2019. In 2019, the Indian tea industry produced 1,390.08 million kilos of tea. In 2020, the figure was 1,257.53 million kilos, down by around 133 million kilos. The pandemic-induced lockdown and inclement weather during monsoon months contributed to this dip. In 2019, total tea export was 252.15 million kilos. In 2020, it slid to 209.72 million kilos. The average price realised per kilo of tea was higher in 2020 at Rs 249.63, compared to 2019 when it was Rs 227.55. However, the marginal rise in prices could not compensate the production deficit. In 2019, the total earnings from tea export was over Rs 5,700 crore, which came down to around Rs 5,200 crore in 2020. “Similar to production, exports also came down last year. There was, however, a marginal increase in average price. In all, the industry lost around Rs 500 crore of earnings from export in 2020 compared to 2019. This year, we expect exports to go up as production has been steady so far,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of the Tea Association of India. Like with exports, tea prices rose in the domestic market. In 2019, the average price at auction centres was Rs 140.73 per kilo. In 2020, it climbed to Rs 184.69 per kilo. A tea planter in Siliguri said the price rise was the only saving grace. It also enabled tea companies to shell out extra towards revised workers’ wages in Bengal and Assam. This year, despite the second wave of the pandemic, the overall scenario seems positive, tea experts said. In the first five months of 2021, 275.01 million kilos of tea was produced, higher than production in the corresponding months of 2020 (210.23 million kilos). On the export front, the total tea exported from January to April this year is around 5 per cent less than in the corresponding period of 2020. However, there has been a rise in price by around 19 per cent. In the domestic market, the price per kilo is lower than what it was in 2020 but higher than the rate in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Birbhum health dept holds camp at village in Mohammedbazar to vaccinate tribal people ||The Birbhum health department on Saturday held a camp at a remote village in Mohammedbazar to vaccinate tribal people by taking the help of a tribal outfit to overcome the community’s fears. The survey revealed many tribal villagers feared the Covid vaccine would kill them. Hence, officials roped in tribal outfit Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta to convince people of the jab’s benefits. A health official said the efforts of the tribal organisation worked. On Saturday some 650 tribal villagers turned up at a school in Bharkata village to take the jab. Rabin Soren, secretary of the tribal outfit, said members of his outfit came forward to take the jab to remove misconceptions among villagers. “A survey revealed tribal people’s reluctance to get vaccinated. We tried to convince them that the vaccine was necessary in view of the impending third wave of the pandemic. But the effort did not elicit a good response and so we thought of a special drive,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. Soren said they had asked the health department to organise more such camps in tribal pockets of the district to overcome reluctance among the tribal populace. “We have appealed to the health department to vaccinate tribal people in other pockets of the district and we will help the government in this job,” said Soren. Sukul agreed that there were many areas bordering Jharkhand where tribal people were reluctant to take the vaccine. “We will continue to organise such special camps.” Officials said vaccination among the tribal population was needed as these people travel across the district and outside mainly to work as farm hands. “A large number of tribal people go to Burdwan and Hooghly districts to work as farm labourers. So, the vaccination is important for their safety,” said a district official in Birbhum.. Health officials said while there was a shortage of vaccines in the district, a large number of people were now queuing up for both first and second doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 5,000 tourists without negative reports sent back from East Midnapore ||Officials in East Midnapore have since Friday set up barriers on the outskirts of the district’s sea resorts and are checking vehicles and hotels to turn away tourists without up-to-date Covid negative reports or proof of their being fully vaccinated. A senior official of the district administration said since Friday night they had sent back around 5,000 tourists, including some from hotel rooms in Digha and Mandarmani on Saturday during raids conducted jointly with the police. The crackdown on tourists comes in the wake of an order issued last Monday by the Contai subdivisional officer stating that those entering East Midnapore tourist towns such as Digha, Mandarmani, Sankarpur and Tajpur must provide either a negative Covid test report not older than 48 hours or proof of being fully vaccinated with two doses to be eligible to book a hotel. “The extraordinary crackdown comes in the midst of findings that similar to hawkers and hotel workers, tourists are also acting as superspreaders in this pandemic. So, despite the losses suffered by the tourism industry, (tourist) movement will have to be restricted,” said Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Roy, who is leading the checks over this weekend. The checks started on Friday night. Police personnel were also seen on the fringes of Digha on Saturday afternoon and evening, turning away scores of tourist vehicles whose occupants did not have the required Covid documents. “The weekend saw a big influx of tourists here, with most not obeying the norms (that mandate carrying proof of their current Covid-negative status or being fully vaccinated with both the doses),” said an official. Officials said they had opted to scan incoming tourist vehicles because of recent reports that several hotels in the seaside towns of the district had been wilfully flouting Covid safety protocol. Current Covid safety protocol dictates hotels to operate at 50 per cent occupancy. However, many hotels on Saturday were during the raids found to have close to 75 per cent occupancy. Many had admitted visitors without the required Covid-negative or fully-vaccinated documents. Authorities on Saturday sealed one hotel in Digha and start cases against two others in Digha and one in Mandarmani. The raids in the hotels were led by district magistrate Purnendu Majhi. Some hoteliers on Saturday closed their hotels in the wake of the raids. “We had thought we could make some profit this year (after last year’s losses during the pandemic-induced lockdown) but more than 80 per cent of our bookings have been cancelled. With the revenue we currently have, we can’t even pay for electricity,” said a New Digha hotel manager, Ashish Khan. The local hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty admitted the industry was taking a hit. However, he claimed it was a “necessary loss” to keep the pandemic at bay. “We will follow all necessary measures to operate our hotels safely,” he said. Last week, the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority had begun conducting rapid testing for incoming tourists but gave up the effort later owing to insufficient infrastructure and the sudden influx of tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 899 new cases and 8 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported the 27th consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases. Active cases fell by 151 on Saturday to reach 13,333. The state reported 1,042 recoveries, 899 new infections and eight deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, which were the worst-hit during the second wave of the pandemic in Bengal, logged 62 and 58 new Covid infections. Calcutta did not report a single death on Saturday and North 24-Parganas only one. Saturday was the 10th successive day since the second wave when not one among Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent during the peak of the second wave, was down to 1.58 per cent on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 Nineteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Saturday. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.94 per cent, the highest ever since the onset of the pandemic since March last year. The national recovery rate is now 97.25 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent and that of the nation 1.32 per cent. “We have been recording fewer than 1,000 new Covid infections in the state for many days now. The number of deaths across the state has also shown a drop. Our next goal is fewer than 10,000 active cases within a couple of weeks, after which other goals will be set,” said a minister. “The daily trend of recoveries and infections shows that Bengal seems to have safely crossed the residual of the second wave of the pandemic by now,” he added. The state now has a total of over 15.17 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected in March last year. The figure includes nearly 14.86 lakh recoveries and 17,988 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||North East||CAG eye on Assam government over pension for families of deceased employees||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has asked the Assam government to review the Compassionate Family Pension (CFP) scheme as it not only defies legal principles but also has put an estimated additional financial burden of Rs 156.91 crore per annum on the state exchequer. The state government has not asked for separate budget allocation for the CFP scheme and by booking the entire expenditure under 'pension' has violated budget and accounting rules applicable to a new scheme, the CAG said in its report for the year 2019 that was tabled in the ongoing budget session of the assembly. The earlier Compassionate Appointment (CA) scheme, implemented prior to 2017, was not effectively managed due to delays in appointment of eligible heirs of employees who died while in service or compulsorily retired on medical grounds and its documentation was also incomplete and deficient, the report pointed out. "Instead of correcting these deficiencies, the state government introduced the CFP scheme which has 'entitlement features' and hence is not in keeping with the well laid legal principles, regarding compassionate appointments by the state," the report said. The financial outgo under the scheme, introduced in April 2017, has been Rs 171.55 crore so far and audit has estimated an additional financial burden of Rs 156.91 crore per annum on the state exchequer. Besides, the state government has extended the benefits of the CFP scheme to cover officers of the All India Services (AIS), whose pension and family pension is borne by the Centre, without consulting the latter, the CAG said. Moreover, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the high rate of positive cases as well as mortality rate, the financial burden on the state exchequer may increase to an unbearable proportion in the years to come, the report pointed out. "Scarce financial resources need to be utilised for welfare schemes of its people and not only for government servants dying in harness who are otherwise taken care of under the existing family pension scheme," it added. The CAG recommended the state government to reconsider the "design of the CFP scheme by limiting the benefits to that of the Normal Family Pension as admissible under Assam Service (Pension) Rules, 1969". Any incremental expenditure beyond the existing family pension needs to be separately budgeted and classified by the state, the report pointed out. The scheme though introduced as a welfare measure for the state employees has imposed an additional financial burden on the state by increasing their revenue expenditure when there is a need to spend more on creation of infrastructure and on capital expenditure, the report added. The CFP scheme is applicable to all employees who die in harness since April 1, 2017 and has completed a minimum of one year of continuous services. The dependent of the deceased employee is entitled to receive family pension equal to 100 per cent of the last pay drawn by the deceased employee, to be paid for a period up to the date of deemed superannuation of the deceased employee. Besides, the dependant will also get the applicable dearness relief under the Normal Family Pension (NFP) as per the Assam Service (Pension) Rules, 1969. On attaining the age of retirement, the CFP will be converted into normal pension fixed at 50 per cent of the CFP till 67 years of age and beyond that, it will be reduced to 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
18-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kanwar Yatra a dangerous move||Sir — Some 3.5 crore devotees participated in the Kanwar Yatra in 2019. Last year, the yatra was cancelled because of the pandemic. This year, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government opposed the yatra in the apex court hearing, but the Uttar Pradesh government had stated that only vaccinated people will be allowed to take part in the ritual. But the court was not impressed; it has ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to cancel the yatra (“SC to Yogi: Ban Kanwar Yatra or we will do it”, July 17). Large sections of Indians are religious and opposed to a scientific approach. Even the prime minister recently urged citizens to develop a scientific mind. I am myself a religious person, but with a scientific mind. I will never put my religious beliefs above the safety of other people. The pandemic has already created havoc in the country; a third wave is anticipated any time now. In such a situation, it will be near-suicidal to allow a large congregation of people over a long period of time. While the Uttar Pradesh government may face some backlash owing to the cancellation of the yatra, nothing can be more important than saving human lives. We have to keep pace with the times instead of becoming dogmatic. The Uttar Pradesh government should keep this in mind while planning its next course of action. Perhaps a virtual yatra can be arranged for the ‘bhakts’. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — It is unthinkable that the Uttar Pradesh government is bent on allowing the Kanwar Yatra. So much so that the Supreme Court had to issue an ultimatum to the state government to call off the event. This sort of adamance is against the welfare of the nation and its people. Did the government learn nothing from the monumental blunder of Kumbh? This is all the more outrageous at a time when the third wave is knocking on our doors. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — It seems that the Uttarakhand government has learnt its lesson from the Kumbh fiasco as they suspended the Char Dham Yatra and now the Kanwar Yatra. Given the shocking images of tourists flouting Covid norms in places like Mussoorie, Manali, Shimla and so on, this is a welcome move. What is shocking, though, is that neighbouring Uttar Pradesh refuses to suspend the yatra. There is no way it can ensure either RT-PCR tests or full vaccination for such a large number of people. It should follow Uttarakhand’s example rather than flirting with danger. Uttar Pradesh may have political compulsions as elections are a few months away, but can anything be more important than the lives of thousands of people? We all have seen miserable times during the second wave; there is no need to invite danger again. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The prime minister claims to share his ‘Mann ki Baat’, but there is a world of difference between what he says and what he wants and what he ends up doing. He talks of the need for social distancing and following rules, but when the Uttar Pradesh government wants to go ahead with the Kanwar Yatra, it is not the prime minister but the top court that takes the initiative to stop it. There is no one in the world to compete with the prime minister in words; he reminds the chief ministers to focus on the ‘four Ts’ — test, track, treat and tika. But where are the vaccines? As usual, there are no answers. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Simpsons has done it again. The show had predicted Richard Branson’s space sojourn in 2014. It had previously predicted the Trump presidency, the discovery of the Higgs boson particle, 9/11 and Disney’s takeover of Fox. But there is no crystal ball in The Simpsons’s writers’ room. One only has to turn to the concept of “the law of truly large numbers”. Harvard mathematicians, Frederick Mosteller and Persi Diaconis, claimed in the 1980s in a paper titled “Methods for Studying Coincidences” that with a large enough sample, a number of outrageous things are bound to come true. S. Banerjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||How Ravi Shankar Prasad is recovering from after-shock||The Union cabinet reshuffle ranked quite high on the Richter scale. But Ravi Shankar Prasad, formerly in charge of the law and justice, information technology and communication ministries, appears to be slowly recovering from the shock of being removed from the council of ministers. An articulate lawyer, with age still on his side, it is possible that Prasad may have considered himself indispensable, and thus the blow at the cabinet reshuffle. After the untimely death of Arun Jaitley, Prasad was seen as an asset for the party as well as the government. His Twitter handle, which had suddenly turned inactive, is back in action, albeit tentatively, re-tweeting the prime minister’s tweets and congratulating other colleagues. He was also in his constituency, Patna Sahib, and posted a tweet with pictures of his meeting with party workers. He said that with the “energy and affection” of the workers, the country’s development will continue under the leadership of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. It seemed to some like he was trying to convey that the party workers of his constituency were angry over his sacking. An experienced leader, Prasad is expected to know that such tactics do not work with the current regime of the party. The members of the Bihar legislative assembly are clearly taking their cues from the CM. They should have been working 24x7 to provide relief to the poor who suffer the most in such situations. But in this hour of need most of the legislators hailing from the flood-affected areas have flocked together in Patna. They are not even pretending to go to their constituencies in spite of repeated calls from their voters. When somebody asked a Bharatiya Janata Party MLA about why he was staying put in the state capital instead of carrying out relief work in his marooned constituency, he narrated how he escaped being thrashed by angry flood victims. A legislator from the Janata Dal (United) — led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar — revealed how hundreds of unemployed, hungry people assemble with their kids outside his house daily during the deluge for food, something that he cannot tackle with his limited resources. Another MLA from the Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, pointed out that the failure of the state government in providing proper relief has led to a situation where he has to bear the brunt of angry and frustrated people who shoot abuses at him on sight. So these legislators choose to idle away in safer environs of Patna to wait out the floods. But many people find it difficult to understand why they are not even making noises or taking long-distance measures to ensure speedier delivery of ample relief to the flood-hit. The BJP-led Assam government exhibited its resolve to protect the cow through its annual budget proposals to boost the dairy sector, days after tabling a bill for the preservation of cattle. The budget presented by the state’s first woman finance minister — Ajanta Neog — spelt out in detail how the government plans to raise the number of cows through sex-sorted insemination technology to boost milk yield. What the budget left unsaid was said by the CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The cow boom will reduce the number of bulls, usually sold for their meat or discarded after a couple of years, a practice the government wants to strictly regulate through the proposed bill which also plans to set up gaushalas for the protection and preservation of cattle. The proposed bill has borrowed heavily from Uttar Pradesh, a state where the cow has emerged as the reigning deity under the Yogi Adityanath government. But for a state aspiring to figure among the country’s top five states in the next five years, UP may not be the right model to follow considering its floundering efforts to protect the cow, those opposed to the bill assert. From all accounts, their views will fall on deaf ears given the belligerence with which the ruling BJP is pushing its agenda — within and outside the House. It appears that the days when southern film personalities commanded influence over politics are over. Rajinikanth trashed his political ambitions and dissolved his Rajini Makkal Mandram just when his fans thought he would grab the baton passed down by MG Ramachandran, M Karunanidhi, NT Rama Rao and J Jayalalithaa. With his friend, Kamal Haasan, too, down and out with the recent Tamil Nadu state polls, it is now up to the Kannada film star, Sudeep, to test the electoral waters. Ever since Sudeep flirted with the BJP in the 2018 state election, he has been highly ambitious about kicking off his political career. But with Rajinikanth backing off, will Sudeep dare to take the plunge?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||A matter of disaffection||The trial of Bal Gangadhar Tilak in 1897 was not the first sedition case in British India. It was the second. But as Bombay High Court advocate S.S. Setlur observes in the introduction to A Full and Authentic Report of the trial of The Hon’ble Mr. Bal Gangadhar Tilak published that year: “Men associated with the High Court for more than thirty years tell us that in their life they never knew any case that created as much stir…” Mind you, those days sedition was a relatively new offence; Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code had been added in 1870. The charge levelled at Tilak was that he had published two pieces in his Marathi paper, Kesari --- one was a report on the Shivaji festival and the other a poem titled Shivaji’s Utterances --- and through them he had “excited feelings of disaffection to the Government”. Actually, on June 22, 1897, W.C. Rand, the assistant collector of Satara district and plague commissioner of Poona, and Lieutenant Ayerst had been assassinated. The European community panicked. Tilak’s Kesari was printed in Poona and had a circulation of around 6,000. A case was crafted. Later, the advocate general argued: “I do not say that the murder was actually caused by the inuendos of the articles. I have no evidence… but I think we are all of opinion that an article of this kind, published at a time when there is a considerable amount of excitement owing to the plague at Poona and also to the famine, and read by those who suffered from the famine and plague operations of the Government… is extremely likely to cause men to do an act like that which caused the deaths…” The trial lasted a week. It hinged on Justice Strachey’s interpretation of the term “disaffection”. Amrita Bazaar Patrika reported that Justice Strachey said in the same breath that disaffection means “want of affection as well as disloyalty”. The Gujarati, critiqued him saying, “He has not borne in mind that there… is a large interval to be traversed between the existence of some bad feeling and what is punishable as disaffection in the Penal Code”. The jury comprised six Europeans and three Indians. The Europeans did not know Marathi. Setlur writes that even if the translations were good, they were unlikely to have captured the spirit of the Shivaji poem. He asks, “And, if not the spirit of a passage, what else is there to determine its seditious or innocent character?” The Europeans in the jury pronounced Tilak guilty. Back then, The Hindu ran a poem by one Ram Dass which read thus: “O! Mourn for the patriot prisoner, /In clanking chains, the man whose only wrong/ It was he loved his country well, and dared/ Speak Ind’as (sic) glory past, her happy state…” More than a 100 years later, sedition cases in India are on the rise. Do we still need the law, the Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked the government. The government's top lawyer, attorney general K.K. Venugopal argued that it should be retained with “guidelines”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||Operator needs a ministry of operation||Please understand. You don’t? Consider yourself in trouble. BigBoss NumberToo. He’s here. That one, the one that serves Saheb. And does everything that Saheb requires done. Saheb: the very mention of it. Has a ring to it, the ring of a ring leader. What the leader wishes, his ring has to accomplish, and having a ring to Saheb helps. Ring. Ring. Pause. Then again. Ring. Ring. Get the line, He may be on the other side of it, and he will not take kindly to someone not getting the line when he is the one ringing. He will know who picked the call, who did not. He has an Operator. The Operator puts the calls through. And now the Operator has a whole office that will help him operate the lines. Ring. Ring. Ringleader speaking, we are in operation now, please operate, this is the Ministry of Operation. This is the Operator. You see how the calls are being put through, we believe in transparency. You can see the instrument we use, there, look at the picture carefully. Have a problem recognising it? Never seen it? Perhaps. We employ old ways. Trusted ways. Or is it that what you see is not in proper focus? That too. That’s part of the idea. We are transparent but we give you that much and no more. Guess what that thing is. No? Well, that is partly how we want this thing to be. But some of you may recognise the thing, blurred and in poor repair though it is. Telephone. Hello! Hello! That could be greeting. That could be guillotine. Hello! Never underestimate how many things a word could mean. I mean go to the Dictionary, of course. But go often to the Thesaurus. Synonyms. And don’t forget the antonyms. Hello, are you well? That could well mean Hello, are you still alive? Be warned. Be wary. This thing you see, this denuded, old fashioned thing, it could still be the end of you. It’s an outdated and old thing, you say, tooti-phooti si koi cheez. Perhaps. It dials. Chosen numbers. Ever considered a stiletto? Another outdated and old thing. But it can kill, it can kill like a cat walks, soundlessly. What’s a modern gun? It makes a racket. And this thing? Unmatched encryption. Not on the web, dark or otherwise, not on the virtual highways, not anywhere it is now possible to look. Calls untraceable. Outdated technology, unmatched efficacy. Nobody knows who’s calling. And the calls get through. Ring. Ring. He’s calling, NumberToo. He has the Operator on assistance, he wants you to operate. To do his bidding. Operate. Or else. Wring. Wring. Protest not, give up this trade Get a move on, stop to slumber Be alarmed and be afraid TheBoss, he now has your number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||History’s muse||Some anniversaries wait uneasily to be reached in the calendar. November 30, more than three months away, is one such. As the date when Romila Thapar turns ninety, it asks to be celebrated ahead of its click. Described as the ‘pre-eminent historian of ancient India’, she is exactly that. Just as Amartya Sen is the pre-eminent exponent of development and welfare economics. ‘Left-leaning’ would be another description of her — and, of course, of him — in a journalistically apt sense. But as a summary of their intellectual resources and energies, it amounts to a flat cliché. Both those descriptions show how the accurate can be incomplete and the correct, inadequate. Master of history’s faded scrolls and eras dullened grey-green by the patina of time, her mind wears an exploratory helmet that is all her own. To it has been fastened a head lamp lit by batteries, again, of her own ‘charge’. This instrumentation, if it may be so called, has sharpened the outer details of all the images she is examining and has vivified their inner lives. Asoka was written about extensively and engagingly from much before Romila Thapar, and will doubtless continue to be the subject of enlightening scholarship in the future as well. Professors of Ancient Indian History, Upinder Singh and Nayanjot Lahiri, have, for instance, made outstanding contributions to recent understanding of the great Mauryan. H.G. Wells’s glowing and lyrical description of Asoka as one who “shines and shines almost alone, a star” has entered the crannies of every school-child’s memory of the ‘Asoka class’.  But in her masterpiece on Asoka, Romila Thapar corroborates what every reader of the edicts cannot but notice but might not say, out of respect for the man, that the remorseful and morally-ignited ruler was not without his own style of vanity! The self-praise in his edicts reveals a mind that can be profoundly driven by an ethical voltage but not without an ego of its own. From the time in school that I first came across Asoka’s description in his Edict XIII of the Kalinga War, I wondered what might have become of the one hundred and fifty thousand captives who were carried away from Kalinga. Thapar says, with her reasoning explained, that it is likely that they were used for clearing forests or put to other forms of arduous labour on land for which the empire may have lacked manpower or means. Her inter-connected use of materials from within the world of Asoka’s Edicts and from outside, as from Sri Lankan sources, has lit up the story with fresh insights and clarifying knowledge. And to this collating, she has added penetrative analyses that go beyond the ruler himself to the state of society in his times. If personalities from Asoka’s times come stunningly to life in her narration, it is not because she uses the arts of dramatization but because she interfolds the seams of possibility and probability with corroborative evidence to differential effect. Her work on Ancient India balances the country’s north with its south in a way that is chastening for any reader prone, by placement and practice, to take an ‘upper Indian’ view of our longitudinally-mapped mental cartography. “What,” a student in a class I was giving on the Indus Valley Civilization’s entrancing story, asked me “was happening to our south when Harappa and Mohenjodaro were thriving?” Periyar E.V. Ramasamy would have applauded the querist. “Do not the great drains in Mohenjodaro suggest the presence of a class of scavengers?” asked another. Dr Ambedkar would have seen the point to that question. Romila Thapar’s works make valuable suggestions about these and similar questions, not from a vaunted finality but a persuasive setting out of evidence, invariably crossed with alternatives and opposites. Our east and the west also slide with ease into her narrative, making the peoplehood of India matter. If traditional history-writing and teaching have been about dates trying to bring the past to life, her books are about lives that bring dates and places from the past alive. Human society, with its coarse and its fine, is the large and living backdrop for the procession of events as unfolded by her, not a slim and snippable margin. But apart from what one learns from Romila Thapar, there is that one unlearns. And this is where perhaps her greatest contribution lies. She tells us that history-writing and history-learning in and about India brim with prejudices and pre-dispositions, which make of our past a pair of ever-widening scissor blades between the country’s Hindu and Muslim populations. Sparing neither of the blades for their divisive intent, she shows through an acute study of facts that if Turko-Persian and Sanskrit-Jaina texts can describe, Rashomon-like, the same happening with totally different viewpoints, the truth has to lie elsewhere than in their depictions. Her Somanatha, The Many Voices of a History is a focused account of how showing the story of medieval and modern India as a story of two antagonisms is a-historical and fraught. And this achievement of Romila Thapar’s places her beyond the accurate description of ‘pre-eminent historian of ancient India’ to a space where history and civilization intersect. Master of the play of time that she is, Romila Thapar is strangely unbrushed by time herself. This, of course, has something to do with the fact that she makes for a stunning presence. When Romila Thapar gets to a place somewhere, anywhere, she does not just ‘land up’. She arrives. The room may be crowded, the hall full, the lawn a-jostle, the airport lounge a flurry of bags and tags but if Romila has entered it, as quietly as she might, she is not to be missed. And this is not just about Broad Forehead, Groomed Head, Starkly Startling Jewellery. It is about the totality of her being — strong, sure and an example of what in Tamil English is called ‘a Don’t Care Master’. I first met her at Peradeniya University, Kandy, Sri Lanka, in 1978 where she had come for an academic engagement, staying on that campus’s stunning guesthouse. She admired it hugely, she said, “But the people there put some durian in my room... I can’t stand that fruit... Its smell is disgusting.” That snatch of a conversation I have not forgotten. Though only fifteen years or so younger than her, I could not summon up the guts to say to her that the fruit may smell how it does but it tastes divine. Romila Thapar the historian has Euclidian objectivity. Romila Thapar the person has, I think, strong likes and dislikes and she makes no secret of them. The Empress of Ancient Indian Studies will not, in the Ninth Decadal Year of her rich life, mind such an observation!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Still hidden shapes||Robots with artistic sensibilities have been around for a while. Computers powered by artificial intelligence can not only respond like human beings under specific circumstances — the test Alan Turing set years ago — but they have also been composing music, writing poetry and painting pictures. “For the Bristlecone Snag”, an AI-produced poem — no, it is not “Jabberwocky” — was born of a 2011 program for auto-generated poetry. It passed the Turing test with flying colours by being published in a literary journal. Christie’s auction house sold an AI-made artwork in New York City at $432,000 in 2018, and the first solo painting exhibition by an AI-powered robot named Ai-Da was held in Oxford in 2019. Her human-like features and slightly disconcerting conversation may have suggested that the line between machines and humankind was being gradually obliterated — however eerily — but now AI-powered robots that make sculptures have taken this blurring in another direction. That is happening in Italy. Its Carrara marble, used in Renaissance and neoclassical sculptures, fell out of favour with later artists partly because of the time it takes for chisel and hammer to discover the shape hidden in the marble that Michelangelo sought. But it is back again, thanks to AI-powered robotic arms — with engineers in the background — that have given a fillip to the country’s most valued export. The founders and employees of the robot-producing company are convinced that Italy’s art exports need this technological boost. Well-known artists are commissioning the robots to execute the hard work of giving their design shape, to which human hands will give the finishing touches. What once took a sculptor years is being accomplished in days by ABB2 or Quantek2. Is this any different from the artist’s workshop in Renaissance times that had apprentices and artisans toiling away at the artist’s design while the master bestowed it with his unique touches and, ultimately, his name? Technology seems to be repeating history more efficiently and more lucratively all round. But is it repetition? The old workshops produced great artists from among their apprentices; will the robots become creators independent of their programmers? AI raises challenging questions about imagination, creativity and the humanness of art. Old issues are being thrashed out again: the relationship between perceiving and imagining, for example, or what creativity implies. Definitions may evolve, but can art be produced without intentionality? Or is the AI-powered robot carving the leaves of a cabbage with its diamond-coated finger itself the most beautiful creation, as one engineer remarked? Whatever the future holds, the experience of artists today suggests that the artistically inclined robot can be an excellent collaborator — with practical benefits for sculptors, apparently — while opening up new horizons of freedom and experimentation for the musician or painter. Maybe the collaborative aspiration, in the words of “For the Bristlecone Snag”, is towards “a sweet-smelling diamond architecture/ that does not know why it grows.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town youth sustains burn injuries after falling into mine crater||A 28-year-old youth of Gansadih locality of Kenduadih Police station sustained 80 per cent burn injuries after falling into a crater that suddenly developed in the mine patch of a private coal excavator UCC infra, working on behalf of BCCL on Sunday morning. The incident took place at around 5am when Umesh Paswan was going to relieve himself but fell into a crater. Local residents somehow brought him out of the crater but his body sustained more than 80 per cent burn injuries and was first admitted to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital from where he was referred to Bokaro General Hospital. Meanwhile, local residents expressed their anger for the incident and held the BCCL management responsible for the incident and alleged flouting of norms responsible for the incident. Shiv Kumar, another resident of Ganasadih said, “I was going towards Kenduadih when I suddenly saw him falling into a crater and tried to bring him out but failed and then another youth of our locality also came and both of us brought him out but his body was badly burnt in the incident.” Contacted, Binod Oraon officer in charge of Kenduadih Police station confirmed the incident and said that he is undergoing treatment at Bokaro General Hospital. Earlier a similar incident took place on December 18 when Kalyani Devi, wife of a daily wage earner, a resident of Bastacola in Jharia was buried alive in a crater on December 18, 2020 in Industry colliery area of Dhanbad. On May 24, 2017 in a similar incident, Babul Khan and his 13-year-old son Rahim Khan were buried alive in a crater that developed on Jharia Dhanbad road near Surrant locality. Though, rescue operation continued after the incident for several days and even National Disaster Response Force team was pressed into service but the bodies of the duo could not be recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar man travels 28km to donate blood for critically ill patient||The scarcity of blood donors has hit Latehar district severely during the coronavirus pandemic. A 30-year-old man of Chandwa city travelled 28 km by car on the national highway to reach Latehar on Saturday to donate a unit of blood for a critically ill patient at the Sadar Hospital. Navin Singh came, donated blood and returned to Chandwa after meeting the ailing patient Ajay. Navin's labour and pain in coming over to Latehar from Chandwa for donating blood has won him all the accolades. Deputy commissioner Latehar Abu Imran said "We wish more and more eligible and energetic people should come forward to donate blood. It is a real service to humanity." Imran said, "I saw a text in a WhatsApp group in this regard and I immediately wrote back to the ailing one in dire need of blood that he well be taken care of and on learning that a young man from Chandwa has donated blood my conviction that there are still too many donors around and the need of the hour is to tap such blood donors gets further bolstered." The secretary of the Red Cross Society Latehar, Vikas Kant Pathak, said he had to request a co convener of their Voluntary Blood Donor Association Latehar, Kumar Nawneet who lives in Chandwa to visit Navin Singh to prepare him to travel for the blood donation in Latehar. Pathak said Nawneet met Navin and persuaded him to save the life of the patient. Navin just couldn't say no to it and got ready to come over to Latehar for donating blood. Nawneet brought Navin in a car and made the back and forth journey from Chandwa to Latehar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Navin said this was his second blood donation and he would be doing it all for "humanity". “As of today we have just 8 units of blood available in the blood bank of Latehar,” said Pathak. He said there are 46 patients of thalassemia and sickle anemia in the district for whom the Voluntary Blood Donor Association is always ready in times of shortage of blood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse: co-accused and wife of Harpal Singh Thapper demands CBI enquiry into his death||Pushpa Rani Tirkey has demanded a CBI enquiry into her husband Harpal Singh Thapper's custodial death even as the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner ordered for a magisterial enquiry into the death which is shrouded with mystery. The 46-year-old Harpal Singh Thapper died of a cardiac arrest, but injury marks on his body mentioned in the inquest report led the deputy commissioner to order for a magisterial enquiry. Thapper, Pushpa Rani and two others were arrested in June for alleged molestation and forced labour case registered with the Telco thana following a complaint lodged by two minor girls who stayed at the shelter home, the couple would run. On Saturday, Thapper fell seriously ill at the central jail and later died at the MGM medical college hospital. The doctors who had attended Thapper at the hospital mentioned it to have been caused by cardiac arrest. The post mortem was done by a medical board under video surveillance in presence of executive magistrate Chandra Deo Prasad. The autopsy report will be prepared by Tuesday. "Following the order by the deputy commissioner for a magisterial enquiry, I will visit the Ghaghidih Central Jail after the autopsy report is obtained. I will talk to the fellow inmates of the ward where Thapper was lodged, "said Prasad to The Telegraph Online. Thapper's body was on Sunday cremated at the Subernarekha crematorium in Bhuiyandih. The deceased's wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey who was on a six hours parole from the central jail attended his last rites. Pushpa Rani has demanded for a CBI enquiry into the circumstances leading to her husband's death. "My husband had never taken pills for blood pressure as he was a healthy person. How can he die of a heart attack. Moreover, I had met him on Monday during a hearing through video conferencing for our bail from the court. He was absolutely alright then, but how did wounds develop in his legs in just five days," said Pushpa Rani, who is chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Jamshedpur and head of the Mother Teresa Welfare Trust. The CWC chairperson said she wants a CBI enquiry into her husband's custodial death as he seemed to have died due to foul play meted out to him in the jail. Former Jamshedpur MP and Congress leader Ajoy Kumar and several leaders from the Sikh community have also demanded a high-level enquiry into the custodial death of Thapper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain forecast across Jharkhand in the next three days||Several regions of Jharkhand, especially in the southern and northern parts of the state are expected to witness heavy showers during the next 72 hours. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said on Sunday that the intensity of the rain will be more in south-western and northern Jharkhand covering three districts of the Kolhan region - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ Chatra, Koderma, Latehar, Deoghar, Dumka and Godda. "The monsoon has become active over Jharkhand and this will result in moderate to heavy showers in several parts of the state during the next three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. It also issued a warning of light to moderate lightning and thunder in isolated areas during the next four days. On Sunday, Jamshedpur, Khunti and several other places in southern Jharkhand experienced a good spell of rain,  ranging between 10 mm and 20 mm. the showers were accompanied by winds blowing at an average speed of 20-25kmph. Overcast conditions prevailed in several other districts in central and northern parts including Ranchi, Koderma, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh. Statistics revealed that several places like Dumka, Pakur, Bokaro, Jamtara , Ramgarh and Deoghar, experienced intermittent showers since Saturday evening due to an active monsoon. The rainfall brought respite from humid weather conditions, which most parts of the state had been witnessing for the last few days. Met office forecasts suggest no significant change in maximum temperatures during the next four to five days. Most districts across Jharkhand have been witnessing maximum readings between 32 and 35 degree Celsius for the last two days. So far, Jharkhand has received 369.1 mm of rain against a normal of 388.9 mm, which works out to a deficit of five per cent. Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Deoghar , Hazaribagh, Palamu, Koderma and several other districts figure in the rain gainers list while Ranchi , Bokaro, Chatra, Pakur, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Latehar, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district figure in the deficit list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||State child chess prodigy wins national school championship||Jharkhand's chess prodigy Adhiraj Mitra claimed the National Under-9 Open National School Online Chess Championship held on July 13 and 14 to once again stamp his authority across the board. The 9-year-old from Jamshedpur scored 8.5 points out of 9 games, conceding a draw to the eventual runner-up in the last round. With this national title, Adhiraj will represent the country in the Asian School Chess Championship for Under-9 to be played from July 29 to 31. "The final result after the clearance from fair play was announced on Saturday late night. Adhiraj has produced first performance at the national level, which is just a beginning what many are assured. We congratulate Adhiraj for the success and wish him the best for the Asian School Meet as well as for future events," said All Jharkhand hess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. "Adhiraj is a smart player who makes intelligent moves. It's just a start. Watch out for this boy who is going to take long strides in chess," said Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, an international arbiter and chief coach at Tata hess Centre. Adhiraj, a class IV student of Loyola School, is a trainee at Tata cradle. He bagged the under-18 title, under-12 and under-10 titles at the recently concluded chess festival organised by AJA, besides finishing runner-up in the under-14 age category. A resident of Sonari, he is the youngest in Jharkhand to achieve an international rating. Adhiraj started playing chess two-and-a-half-years back and loves to beat players of higher age groups. Adhiraj, who idolises Norwegian Grandmaster Magnus Carlsen and is a big fan of Viswanathan Anand, devotes 10-12 hours for the games. "I feel happy about winning the national school title. I Will try to give my best in the Asian School Meet," he said. The young talent had met Viswanathan Anand when the Grandmaster was in Jamshedpur to promote his book Mind Master in February last year. He had always wanted to play with the five-time world champion. The dream came true when Adhiraj went up to Anand at the JRD Tata Sports Complex where Vishy was meeting 200 chess enthusiasts and requested the Grandmaster for a game. To the boy’s utter delight, Anand said yes. He gets the required support from his parents Uttam and Runa Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cartoons, play areas make up child-friendly ICUs in Jharkhand govt hospitals||Colourful curtains, cartoons painted on walls and a play area with slides adorn the 27-bed Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and a 24-bed High Dependency Unit (HDU) set up at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi to cater to young patients in the wake of a possible third wave of the  Covid-19 pandemic. The child-friendly décor, however, does much more than adding cosmetic appeal to these facilities, say doctors. The colourful and attractive interiors of the ICUs, they say, help in easing anxiety in children and aid secretion of endorphins, the feel-good hormone, which may improve the pace of recovery. “Aura plays an important role in recovery of Covid patients. Children suffering from the viral infection would be staying away from their parents and home during the treatment, so the child-friendly facilities have been given a makeover to ensure that the kids feel comfortable and distracted from the stress of being in a hospital,” said Ranchi civil surgeon, Dr Vinod Kumar. Stress and fear trigger the secretion of cortisol, which often worsens the symptoms in Covid patients and may lead to prolonged illness, said Dr Kumar, adding that children in particular are extremely sensitive to stress and the hospital administration was making all possible arrangements to ensure a positive atmosphere for them. The Jharkhand government had earlier directed each of the 24 districts in the state to set up at least a 20-bed special ICU for children to combat the third wave of the pandemic. An expert committee of doctors and health officials constituted by the government suggested setting up at least 1000 ICU beds for children in the state. While 500 beds would be set up in government hospitals, the remaining 500 should come up in private facilities, the committee recommended. So far, government and private hospitals in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Koderma, Hazaribagh and Giridih have come up with child-friendly ICUs. Besides Sadar Hospital, Ranchi Children Hospital in the state capital also houses a child-friendly ICU with colourful and attractive interiors. Dr Ajit Kumar, who has been treating Covid patients at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, admitted that a positive environment played an important role in healing and children may recover faster if they get positive vibes during their treatment. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, the expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches mobile RT-PCR testing labs in five districts ||Jharkhand on Saturday launched five mobile RT-PCR testing laboratories to intensify Covid-19 testing across five highly populated and Covid-affected districts as a part of its “five-pronged strategy for containment of Covid-19”, which aims at testing, tracking, isolating, treating and vaccinating residents. With the launch of these mobile vans, Jharkhand became the fourth Indian state to use mobile RT-PCR testing laboratories. So far, such labs were being used in Maharashtra, New Delhi and Karnataka, health officials said. On the basis of the current positivity rate of infection and population density, the state has launched the mobile RT-PCR lab facility in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Palamu and Hazaribag. “Each mobile lab will conduct at least 1,000 Covid tests every day,” said state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh. As per records with the health department, Jharkhand has so far conducted 37,42,193 RT-PCR tests, 15,15,264 TrueNat tests and 53,27,502 rapid antigen tests. On Saturday, the state tested swab samples of 60,579 residents and 61 of them were found to be Covid positive, highlighted government data. The state on Saturday reported 64 Covid recoveries against the 61 fresh cases of infection and the active caseload dropped to 337, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. However, the active caseload jumped to 55 in Ranchi as the district reported 17 fresh Covid cases against only six recoveries on the day. At least nine districts – Simdega, Saraikela, Sahebganj, Palamu, Pakur, Khunti, Godda, Giridih and Garhwa – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. Ranchi was the only district to report a double-digit-spike on Saturday. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day and the toll remained 5120. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have been infeccted in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered while 1.47 per cent of patients have died. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was over 5000 days against the national average of close to 800 days. The state on Saturday vaccinated almost 70,000 residents against Covid-19, taking the total count of vaccinated residents above 82 lakh, a report released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 57,579 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 21,654 got the second jab on the day. Around 48,000 residents below the age of 45 years were inoculated on Saturday in Jharkhand. The state did not report fresh mucormycosis cases on the day. So far, Jharkhand has reported 100 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection. While 92 patients have recovered from the lethal disease, at least 30 patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Father Stan’s name to be added to the list of 52 tribal martyrs ||There was no dais or chief guest, no expensive floral decorations. Not even a speech. Just veneration for a man whom the gathering had never seen but who it believed had lived and “died for the poor”. A man whom the Indian State accused of waging war against it and held captive for nine months till, aged 84 and suffering from Parkinson’s and other ailments, he died in custody on July 5. A series of remembrances have since been held in honour of Father Stan Swamy, Jesuit priest and defender of the rights of Jharkhand’s tribal communities, with Church leaders, social activists and even the chief minister in attendance. But Saturday’s event was unusual. The venue was not an auditorium but an open courtyard at a settlement of people whose forefathers made up some of society’s worst outcasts and who even now live in grinding poverty. A small group of young and old sat on the ground at the Bankati Kusht Colony, a settlement of leprosy patients in Jharia, 8km from Dhanbad and about 145km from Father Stan’s hometown of Ranchi. A framed portrait of the Jesuit priest hung from a nail driven into a tree trunk, the single garland of marigold around it speaking of the organisers’ lack of means. In front of it had been placed a bright orange, bare plastic stool. “Father Stan Swamy kabhi yahan aaye nahi theh, hum sune hain unke baare mein. Khana aur paisa toh bahut log dete hain, par garibo ke liye marna humne Father Swamy se sikha hai (Father Stan Swamy never came here, but we have heard about him. Many people donate food and money but he has taught us how to die for the poor),” said Rahul Sharma. Rahul, a man in his mid-30s who earns a living by painting houses, was not giving sound bites to this newspaper. He was explaining the occasion to a group of fellow colony residents when this reporter walked in. The colony is home to some 200 people from 35 families, whose ancestors were leprosy patients. A few of the residents still have the disease and are under treatment. Most of the residents even now beg for a living near religious places and markets and at community functions. Philanthropists and social organisations often visit the colony to provide rations. “People do give us food and sometimes alms, considering it charity. But it’s rare for anyone to stand up to ensure justice for us and be prepared to face torture and even death for us,” Rahul said. “We have heard that Father Swamy could have easily led a comfortable life by surrendering to the will of those in power. But he chose to die for the poor and the oppressed. This is why we have installed his portrait, so it can inspire us and the coming generations.” Father Stan, who had spent five decades defending the rights of the tribal communities and other oppressed classes in Jharkhand, was arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist link case from Bagaicha in Namkum near Ranchi last October 8. Severely ill and treated unsympathetically in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, he died waiting for bail, with social activists calling his death “judicial killing”. Father Stan’s name is set to be added to those of 52 tribal martyrs on a huge stone slab at Bagaicha, the priest’s social action centre and home. “The names of 52 tribal martyrs are already written on the stone slab, and Father Stan’s name will be added on Sunday,” said Father Tony PM, who is in charge of Bagaicha. The stone slab was installed as part of the Pathalgadi movement by tribal youth, which started in 2017. The youths travelled from village to village, putting up stone slabs inscribed with a summary of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, which upheld self-governance through the traditional gram sabhas and made their permission a condition for non-tribals to buy tribal land. The movement was inspired by tribal families’ age-old tradition of demarcating their ancestral plots by erecting on their boundaries stone slabs etched with the names and contributions of their forefathers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse case: undertrial Harpal Singh Thapper dies in jail||Harpal Singh Thapper who would run an NGO and was lodged in Ghaghidih Central Jail after being arrested in a molestation case died under mysterious circumstances at MGM Medical College Hospital on Saturday morning. The 46-year-old undertrial was in the central jail since June 16. He fell sick at at about 2 am, leading the fellow inmates to raise an alarm. The jail administration soon shifted him to the jail hospital but as his condition continued to deteriorate, the administration rushed him to the medical college hospital in Sakchi where he succumbed to his illness at about 4 am. Thapper along with three others, including his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey were arrested on June 16 for alleged involvement in a molestation case with the Telco thana on June 6. Both Thapper and his wife would run a shelter home under Mother Teresa Welfare Trust at Kharangajhar in Telco. Two of the minor inmates of the shelter home had alleged Thapper and a 20-year-old youth, Aditya Singh to have molested them after fleeing from the shelter home on June 5. On the complaint of the two minors, police had registered a case under POCSO Act. After the case was registered, all the four accused fled the city, but were arrested from Singroli district of Madhya Pradesh on June 15 and were brought on a transit remand to Jamshedpur on June 16. The doctors who attended Thapper observed that he might have had a heart stroke. Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar under whose jurisdiction the medical college hospital falls confirmed about the undertrial's death. "An undertrial prisoner, Harpal Singh Thapper was brought to the medical college hospital in a critical condition at the wee hours today, but he succumbed to his illness at 4 am," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The Sakchi thana OC said the conditions under which the undertrial fell sick can be said by the central jail administration only. Superintendent, Ghaghidih Central Jail, Narendra Kumar Singh did not respond to the calls for his comment despite repeated attempts by this website. A magisterial inquest is in process for the post mortem of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
