19-07-2021||Calcutta||Heroin worth Rs 25 crore seized from biker in Calcutta||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested a 36-year-old biker and seized over 5kg of heroin from him on Saturday evening, said an officer. The seized heroin is worth around Rs 25 crore in the international grey market, police said. Tapas Ray was arrested from a spot near Captain Bheri, off EM Bypass, based on a tip-off that a man riding a motorcycle was carrying drugs. Ray, a resident of Dubrajpur in Birbhum, used to operate as a drug peddler in Durgapur, the police said. He was carrying the heroin in a bag tied to the back of his motorcycle. Officers said large quantities of heroin were usually seized from cars and trucks. “This was possibly the first time that such a huge quantity of heroin was found in a bag tied to a two-wheeler,” an officer said. “The accused wanted to hoodwink cops and chose to drive down all the way from Durgapur to Calcutta on a motorcycle,” the officer said. The police are yet to find out who Ray was to deliver the consignment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Cut your coat according to the stuff of your dreams||The old mosque in Keyatala is a few minutes’ walk from Sk. Akbar Ali’s tailoring shop, off Purna Das Road in south Calcutta. The almost century-old spacious, dignified mosque, painted a quiet shade of blue, lies quietly in a lane. Because of its low height, it may even be missed in a neighbourhood crammed with tall apartment buildings. Standing in front of the mosque, you can feel the silence within, and it fills you with peace, cutting you off from the chatter of the street and the clatter of the buildings and the turmoil inside your head, which can be overwhelming these days. You want to stay on. A bit of calm enters you when you meet Ali, too. “Akbarda” to some, the 53-year-old is a patient, smiling man, who has been running this small tailoring shop in a lane, that branches off the restaurant Tero Parbon, for the past 21 years. But he has been visiting the mosque for three decades, from the time he came to south Calcutta to work. His daily prayers at the mosque keep him going. Recently, he tried to show his gratitude by contributing in a major way towards repairing the mosque and cleaning its premises. He does not say much, but looks at the spotlessly clean walls of the structure with satisfaction and pride. He also looks at his life in a similar way. He is grateful that he has been able to choose his own path. He has built it himself. He is a “self-made” man. Ali is revered by some. The clothes he makes are impeccable in their cut, which is his forte, and also in their stitching and details. He can create, and recreate, the most complicated designs. He appreciates the different: he likes it when a customer asks him not to use the border of a fabric in the sleeves and the neck, but to let it appear naturally as the cloth turns, maybe at the back. Some of the clothes hanging at his shop look like designer chic. The finishing of his clothes is excellent. The designs he creates are usually simple and sophisticated, with the Chinese collar or the cutaway sleeves sitting perfectly. “They just appear in my mind. I do not consult design books or the Internet,” he says. But he is as enthusiastic if a customer wants Bollywood and bling. He was once approached by an A-list designer of the country with a job offer and a Mumbai designer had offered him a monthly salary of Rs 80,000 a few years ago. But Ali declined, because he had always wanted to do his own thing. He grew up with seven siblings in a poor family in Dhaldanga village in Khanakul, located in Hooghly district in south Bengal. He could only study till Class VIII, and tried to work in the fields, but at 16, came to Calcutta. “The real stories of my life…” Ali pauses. He suggests they are beyond telling. What he can talk about is the bearable. But he does not show any resentment. On the contrary. In Calcutta he joined his father, who worked at the India Government Press, and lived with him in Collin Street. They would sleep on hired beds, all they could afford. Soon Ali got a job as an apprentice at the Raymond workshop in Lindsay Street, where he was introduced to tailoring. A world opened up for Ali, who discovered he was a natural with scissors. “At first I used to earn a few rupees at the end of the week,” he says. But at the workshop, he was learning to cut men’s suits, which would be his education. Men are supposedly simple and so are their clothes. But the cuts and contours of men’s jackets, not to mention the male mind, are as complex and challenging as women’s clothes, if men’s and women’s clothes are separate categories any more. They were when Ali had entered into the maze of measurements, markings and manipulations that go into a making a tuxedo, and he mastered all of it. Even as he was aware that each body is unique and demands special attention. Making the perfect garment is an art that requires imagination and confidence and also carries its own sense of power. Ali was hooked. He soaked up all the knowledge and worked briefly at another workshop in Rajabazar. At 21, he was confident enough to set up his own shop, that too in affluent Hindustan Park in south Calcutta, quite a distance from his previous addresses. “It was not easy,” he says. He had to move after three years and relocated to the lane where his current shop is located, but his second shop was in the adjacent building. He made another major transition then: he veered into women’s clothing. Now he is famous for his perfect sari blouses. Batches of NRI women would visit him, before the pandemic, with bundles of fabric, to be turned into blouses. As his reputation grew, he was able to become a major support for his family. He got his six sisters married. He got married last. He now lives at his own house in Kasba with his family. His sons are 19 and 15. He wants to send his elder son to an engineering college. In 1998, he set up his third shop, where he is to be found now every day from early afternoon. He had employed six men before the pandemic. He counts a few celebs among his clients. “I feel blessed,” he says. Despite the pandemic. After the second wave, orders have been few. Most of his employees have gone back home. But he is certain of a better time and every day, offers his prayers at the masjid. “After praying, something changes,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Gang boards app cab near Ruby crossing, snatches IT professional's wallet and phone ||An IT professional who was returning home in an app cab after dropping his friend was allegedly robbed by the driver and “two or three” others who had boarded the vehicle despite his objections on Saturday night. Anirban Sengupta, 37, lodged a complaint saying several people had attacked him inside the cab on a deserted stretch behind the Urbana housing complex, near the Ruby crossing, and let him go after snatching his wallet and phone. Apart from money, the wallet contained an ATM card and his identity documents, Sengupta told the police. “The incident happened at Kheyadah, not far from the Ruby rotary, around 10pm,” said a police officer. “The complainant and a woman friend boarded an app cab in front of Acropolis Mall. The cab went to Mandirtala in Howrah, where the woman got off, before returning to the Bypass to drop Sengupta home near the Ruby crossing,” the officer said. The cabbie, however, drove past the “destination” towards a deserted stretch, Sengupta wrote in his complaint. The driver allegedly allowed two to three men to board the cab. The men allegedly beat him up and dumped him on the road after snatching his wallet and cellphone. Sengupta borrowed a phone from a passerby and called up his family and later lodged a complaint with Narendrapur police station. According to a medical report issued by a government hospital, Sengupta suffered  injuries on his lips, ears and face. The police said they had contacted the app cab company and sought details about the trip and the driver. No one was arrested till Sunday evening. Metallic types used to create rubber blocks to print documents were stolen from the Bengal Government Press at Gopal Nagar in Alipore on Saturday. Two men — Sheikh Ismail and Mohammad Mansur — were arrested in connection with the theft. Police said six bags containing stolen metallic types were seized from one of the accused. Officers said they had turned their focus on metallic types used in government presses after the Debanjan Deb case came to light. Vaccine scam accused Deb had allegedly recruited people using forged government letterheads. A woman who would step out of her home to feed stray dogs was allegedly verbally abused by a neighbour. The woman, who lives with her mother in south Calcutta, lodged a police complaint saying the neighbour would make indecent proposals. “The man had been harassing me on and off…. He keeps boasting of his political links,” the woman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals plan to resume vaccination drive after receiving fresh stocks  ||Several private hospitals that had stopped or curtailed outreach Covid vaccination camps because of shortage of doses are planning to resume or scale up the drive after receiving fresh stocks. One of the hospitals that had postponed its outreach camps is planning to start them this week. Another hospital is planning to expand off-site vaccination, which has so far been restricted to workplaces, and bring housing complexes within its ambit. A third is trying to open more outreach camps in districts, where there is a huge demand for vaccines. Officials of the hospitals said increasing the number of outreach camps was key to scaling up the vaccination. The number of people getting vaccinated at a hospital will not go up beyond a point, they said. The Telegraph has reported how shortage of doses disrupted off-site vaccination. Erratic supply of doses from the Centre has resulted in many people not getting vaccinated in Calcutta. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had to postpone all outreach camps because it did not have enough vaccines in stock. “We received 35,000 doses late on Friday. With the arrival of the new stock, we will be able to resume outreach camps,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The hospital had to postpone eight scheduled camps, all of which had been approved by the state health department. The hospital informed the hosts and the health department that they were not in a position to hold the camps for want of vaccines. “We will write to the health department again with the request to allow us to go ahead with the outreach camps. We are expecting to resume the camps from the middle or the end of this week,” Venkatesh said. The hospital will also resume discussions with housing complexes and other organisations on opening more outreach camps in the coming weeks. Fresh stocks will enable them to carry on vaccination at the hospital as well as in multiple other locations till the first week of August or beyond, an official of the hospital said. The management plans to place fresh orders so that more stocks arrive in the first week of August. The AMRI group, which runs three hospitals in the city, is vaccinating about 1,500 people daily at the three units together. It is organising two to four outreach camps every day. The hospital group received 25,000 doses last week. With the fresh stock, they are aiming to expand outreach vaccination in districts. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI, said the number of vaccinations would not grow beyond a point in hospitals. “To push up the vaccination numbers, we have to organise more outreach camps and take the drive to places where more people will be comfortable taking the jabs,” he said. AMRI is conducting outreach camps in Sodepur and Barasat in North 24-Parganas, Haldia in East Midnapore and in Burdwan. “We want to open more outreach camps in these districts and in other districts,” he said. The rush for vaccination is more in districts because the supply there is not as much as in Calcutta. The state health department had recently made it mandatory for city hospitals to tie up with a local private clinical establishment for opening outreach Covid vaccination camps in districts. The chief medical officer of health of a district is supposed to arrange inspection of the site before giving the permission. Woodlands Hospital has so far only conducted outreach camps for workplaces. Now, it is targeting housing complexes and associations to organise outreach vaccination camps. The hospital had 29,000 vaccine doses on Sunday and is to receive 15,000 more on Monday. “We are actively engaging with associations and housing complexes to organise outreach Covid vaccination in their places,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||The Park requests excise department to lift liquor ban||The Park authorities have written to the excise department requesting it to reconsider a ban on serving liquor in the 10 bars as well as the rooms of the Park Street hotel. The ban was imposed after the arrest of 37 persons early on July 11 for allegedly partying in the third-floor corridor of the hotel in violation of curbs announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid. The Park management has said in the letter to the excise department that the hotel staff did not serve liquor to the revellers. The management has said it is not sure whether the liquor bottles seized from the party spot were sourced from the hotel's off-shop, one of the bars on the premises or from outside, said an official of the department. The hotel authorities have said they did not see the bottles seized. “We have nothing to say about the letter right now,” said an official of The Park. A team of officers from the detective department of Calcutta police had raided the hotel’s third floor around 1.15am on July 11 and arrested the revellers, who were allegedly partying to loud music. Apart from the liquor bottles, a few empty glasses, a DJ console box and several other items were seized from the spot. Park Street police station registered an FIR against the revellers and The Park authorities for violating the state government's order, under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. On July 14, the excise department issued an order barring The Park from serving liquor across the hotel until further orders. Officials in the excise department who have gone through the hotel’s letter said the management had cited the fact that the hotel industry had taken a severe beating during the pandemic and said they could not stay afloat and pay their staff unless liquor was allowed to be served. “We received the letter on Friday from a hotel employee,” said an official in the excise department. “No decision has been taken yet.” Apart from the detective department of Calcutta police, the excise department has initiated a probe to find out whether the staff of The Park had served liquor to the revellers after the stipulated time of 8pm on July 10, violating government restrictions. The state government’s order related to Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut down by 8pm. An excise official said on Sunday that unless the probe was over, no decision about withdrawing the blanket ban on serving liquor could be taken. “Like any other case of violation, we will call the staff of The Park for a hearing and listen to what they have to say on the charges against the hotel brought by the police,” the official said. The police have already questioned some of the hotel employees and summoned senior officials from the hotel’s management for questioning on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta’s police commissioner takes bicycle ride to review security arrangements in Maidan||Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra took a bicycle ride to review the security arrangements in the Maidan area on Sunday morning. The inspection came a day after the city police stepped up vigil on the Maidan for evening walkers and the police commissioner's instruction to intensify security around all parks and lakes where people go for morning and evening walks. Mitra started the inspection from Prinsep Ghat around 5.30am, crossed Strand Road, Kingsway, All India Radio building and Council House Street to reach Lalbazar, from where he took a U-turn to reach Red Road and Victoria Memorial, via Council House Street. He ended his ride in front of Elliot Park. Senior officers said the top cop’s move suggested the heightened emphasis the city police are giving to security on and around the Maidan. “We have never seen a commissioner take a cycle ride to review security. This was symbolic and a message to the entire force about the seriousness with which Lalbazar is viewing the matter,” said a police officer. Last week, two scooter-borne men had robbed three morning walkers and attacked one of them with a knife and the butt of a gun when he tried to resist them. The security for morning walkers on the Maidan was increased the next morning, while that for evening walkers was stepped up on Saturday. Commissioner Mitra had during Saturday’s crime conference purportedly instructed all police stations in the city to tighten security around the places where Calcuttans go for a walk. “Sir (Mitra) has told us that not just the Maidan, emphasis should be given to all places where people go for morning and evening walks,” said an officer who had attended the crime conference. Based on the instructions, vigil has been stepped up at Rabindra Sarovar, Subhas Sarovar and all big parks where people gather to walk. Officers said police deployment on the premises of both lakes had been stepped up and cops had been given walkie-talkies for seamless communication. Last week, when three morning walkers were attacked on the Maidan, there were no police personnel in the vicinity. The absence of cops might have encouraged the scooter-borne duo to  carry out the daring daylight attack. After the incident, Calcutta police set up four police pickets, each comprising two cops armed with walkie-talkies. Also, the number of police patrol vehicles has been doubled. The commissioner has also purportedly instructed his officers to increase visibility of cops in the areas where people go for walks but are largely deserted because of restrictions on parking and movement of private vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Farmers in Hooghly get gumboots and gloves as shield against snakebites from NGO||One hundred farmers in Hooghly district on Friday got a pair of gumboots and gloves, each, as a shield against snakebites, from an organisation that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. The monsoon is the time when most cases of snakebites are reported across Bengal, said forest officials. With the advent of the rainy season, the farmlands need to be cleared of weeds before the sowing of paddy seeds. The earthen embankments surrounding the fields need to be raised to prevent rainwater from flooding farmlands. The raised mounds make the fields a thriving habitat for rodents, thereby attracting scores of snakes which prey on them. The farmers tilling the land often get bitten by snakes. Many of them work barefoot and are more vulnerable to snakebites. “Most of the time it is difficult to spot snakes. Many farmers happen to step on a snake before getting bitten. People get killed. The snakes that are spotted are also beaten to death by people,” said Kalyanmoy Das, of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), the NGO that distributed the gumboots and gloves. The boots and gloves were distributed on Friday — July 16 is observed as the World Snake Day — to 100 farmers in Hooghly’s Haripal block, around 50km from Calcutta. The distribution of boots and gloves is part of a pilot project of the NGO. “The boots are made of rubber and the gloves are made of thick leather. The sturdy gear will protect the farmers from snakebites. If successful, the project will be scaled up,” said Das. Around 46,000 people die after being bitten by a snake in India every year, according to the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. “Most deaths because of human-wildlife conflicts in India can be attributed to snakebites. Rural Bengal is no exception. The conflict is detrimental for both humans and snakes,” said Joydip Kundu of SHER. “Snakes play an important role in the general as well as agricultural ecosystem because they are natural pest-controllers,” said a forest official. “The drive is commendable. If successful, it can be replicated across the state. We are also trying to increase awareness to reduce the conflict between snakes and humans,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||NIT scholars can return after giving undertaking that they have taken both doses of Covid vaccine||NIT Durgapur has asked the project and research scholars to return to the institute after giving an undertaking that they have taken both doses of a Covid vaccine. The undertaking must also contain the dates of the doses. A notice signed by the institute’s dean of students welfare on Saturday states: “All willing PhD scholars/project staff who have been vaccinated both the doses (1st and 2nd) for COVID 19 may be allowed to come to the institute/hostel on August 01-07, 2021, subject to the recommendation from the supervisor, the head of the department and their parents.” The students need to fill in a Google form —https://forms.gle/ydjd8SNxrY2MLKwA9 - by July 29. The institute’s website mentions the email address where the undertaking in the prescribed format - signed by the student, supervisor and the head of the department - will have to be submitted. “Since cases are still being reported all over, we want to maintain maximum possible caution,” said Anupam Basu, the director of the institute. In the third week of April, the NIT had decided to close the hostels and asked the 250-odd research scholars and 37 MTech students who had returned to the campus to vacate hostels “immediately”. The decision was taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 following a renewed surge. In the declaration form addressed to the institute authorities, a student has to state: “I request you to allow me to access the department laboratory of the institute to accelerate my research at NIT Durgapur. I assure you that I shall obey all rules and regulations of the institute and am bound to follow the SOP issued by the ministry of health and family welfare time to time.” The supervisor has to declare that the research work to be carried out by the student is of extreme exigency. “In any unusual situation, I/We will extend my/our support to the student, if required,” the supervisor has to commit. A parent has to state in the declaration form whether anyone who lives at his or her address has returned from domestic or international travel in the last 14 days or been in physical contact with a Covid-19 patient recently. “Is any one who lives at your address currently under a form of self isolation as the result of an order of a government authority or as the result of a recommendation of a health professional?” reads a question in the declaration form. The parents will have to tick “Yes” or “No” against each question. Director Basu said that if the number of cases rose again, the students would be sent back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman in Golf Green dies after falling from terrace ||An elderly woman who used to live alone in her three-storey home at Golf Green died after falling from the terrace on Sunday morning. Police said the Russa Road house was found locked from inside, suggesting that Binita Mukherjee, 62, was alone when the incident happened. Investigators said the woman either committed suicide or fell accidentally from the terrace. She was found in a pool of blood on the road in front of her home around 11am. “It seems the woman fell on the cables and then landed on the road. When her domestic help arrived, she found the house locked from inside. We entered the house after breaking open the padlock on the collapsible gate in the presence of a relative,” said an officer. Mukherjee was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. Officers said they informed her son Debasish Mukherjee, who lives in Lucknow, of her mother’s death. “No complaint was lodged till late on Sunday. Nor was there any evidence suggesting foul play,” an officer said. An unnatural death case has been registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Business||Cryptobiz Exchange Launches Lucrative Staking Platform for Passive Crypto Investors||Cryptobiz Exchange is a state-of-the-art trading platform for novice and ace traders alike. It's seamless interface and perturbed sale/purchase as well as trading module of cryptocurrencies is all the more reason to choose it as the solution of your trading needs. With the launch of the Advanced Exchange, CryptoBiz makes its entry to the big leagues where the bigger players of the Indian cryptocurrency trading industry dominate the markets. However, CryptoBiz has an impressive portfolio of products and along with the basic buy/sell, Bulk Trading modules, CryptoBiz Exchange has launched an exciting platform for people to earn passively, without worrying about how volatile the market gets - CryptoBiz Staking. CryptoBiz Staking is yet another product from the CryptoBiz Team. With volatility in the market, ‘staking’ provides a relatively safer model for retail and bulk investors alike. CryptoBiz Staking is a medium where the users or investors can earn passively by investing or ‘staking’ a certain amount of money. Staking is a short-term activity where the duration lasts between One Week to a maximum of Four Weeks. CryptoBiz Exchange follows a versatile method where an in-house team of expert traders use their vast network and channels to trade in different markets to churn out a profit that ensures a sizable return on the investors’ staking amount. Cryptobiz has established a perturbing business model to breach the Indian premium market. The platform is curated to encourage an increasing number of people to begin investing in cryptocurrencies and become a part of the world of virtual assets. CryptoBiz is here to intervene and build a fair market in this unjust higher premium pricing. With the focus being on a secure platform and convenient user experience, the firm pledges to serve its customers with the most reliable proactive experience the market has seen. CryptoBiz Exchange has opened up registrations for its all-new Advanced Exchange with de-fi features. With iOS and Android applications expected to launch in the coming weeks, this proudly made-in-India and made-for-India platform is set to change the||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Chief Economic Adviser hopeful about economic growth||Notwithstanding the second wave of Covid-19, Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K V Subramanian on Monday expressed hope that economic growth during the current financial year would be around 11 per cent as projected in the latest Economic Survey. He also said the overall impact of the second wave on the economy will not be very large. "We will be in that ballpark," Subramanian said when asked if the Economic Survey's target of GDP growth will be met in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic. The Economic Survey 2020-21, released in January this year, had projected GDP growth of 11 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. The Survey had said growth will be supported by supply-side push from reforms and easing of regulations, push for infrastructural investments, boost to manufacturing sector through the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, recovery of pent-up demand, increase in discretionary consumption subsequent to rollout of vaccines and pick up in credit given adequate liquidity and low interest rates. "We will grow at a high growth rate this year. This year growth will be from the lower base but we anticipate 6.5-7 per cent growth next year FY'23 and from thereon, growth accelerating even further," he said. Growth will be aided by various structural reforms, including labour and farm laws, undertaken by the government, he said while addressing an event organised by the Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers' Association. Recalling the various seminal reforms introduced in 1991, he said they propelled Indian economy to a high-growth trajectory. Subramanian also said future growth would take place without runaway inflation as India has removed various supply-side friction points through structural reforms during the pandemic. With regard to meeting the Budget target, he said infrastructure spending announced will be met and the finance minister exhorted various PSUs to frontload their capital expenditure plans. The Union Budget for 2021-22 has provided a capital outlay of Rs 5.54 lakh crore, an increase of 34.5 per cent over the Budget Estimate of 2020-21. The Budget estimate of capital expenditure for FY2020-21 was Rs 4.12 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Sebi, DRI probing Adani Group firms, says Minister Pankaj Chaudhury||Markets regulator Sebi and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) are probing some Adani Group companies for alleged non-compliance with rules, the government told Lok Sabha on Monday. Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary in a written reply to a question said accounts of three of the six Mauritius-based funds, that have invested most of their money in Adani Group firms, were frozen in 2016 over the issuance of Global Depository Receipt (GDR) by certain listed firms. No freeze was ordered for their holding in other firms. “Sebi is investigating some Adani Group companies with regard to compliance with Sebi regulations,” he said without giving details. “Also, DRI is investigating certain entities belonging to the Adani Group of Companies under laws administered by it,” he added. The minister did not name which of the Adani Group companies were being investigated by Sebi and DRI. He also did not elaborate on the nature of the violation. He however said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) wasn't investigating the Adani Group. Shares of port-to-energy group nosedived last month after reports that accounts of three of the six Mauritius-based funds that have invested most of their money in Adani Group firms had been frozen by the national share depository. The three funds owned about USD 6 billion of shares across the conglomerate. The Adani Group on June 14 denied the report of the freeze, calling it "blatantly erroneous". A day later it clarified that three demat accounts of Cresta Fund Ltd, Albula Investment Fund Ltd and APMS Investment Fund were "suspended for debit", adding to the confusion over the status of the offshore funds. Shares of Adani Total Gas Ltd, Adani Power Ltd, Adani Transmission, Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone , Adani Green Energy and flagship Adani Enterprises were impacted by the reports. Prior to the episode, some of Adani Group's listed stocks had soared more than six folds in value since the start of 2020. Group's billionaire founder-chairman Gautam Adani had earlier this month blamed "reckless and irresponsible" reporting for the fall. "In a matter pertaining to issuances of GDR by certain Indian listed companies, Sebi vide order dated June 16, 2016, had directed depositories to freeze particular beneficiary accounts of certain FPIs including Albula Investment Fund Ltd, Cresta Fund Ltd, and APMS Investment Fund Ltd," Chaudhary said. “But no order in respect of other beneficiary accounts of these three FPIs has been passed by Sebi,” he said. "Six companies of the Adani Group are listed and traded on recognized stock exchanges in India. The holding of Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) in these companies is based on day-to-day trading of shares and thus dynamic," he added. Gautam Adani had on July 12 stated that the diversions caused by "twisted narrative" would not impact the group in the long run. "Unfortunately, some of our small investors were affected by this twisted narrative which seemed to imply that companies have regulatory powers over their shareholders and that companies can compel disclosure," he had said. Commenting on the issue, Adani Group spokesperson said the conglomerate has always been compliant with Sebi regulations and it hasn't received any request from the market regulator recently. On the DRI probe, the spokesperson said Adani Power was show caused five years back but the investigating agency had found "no over-valuation of equipment" and the matter is before the appellate tribunal. "We have always been transparent with all our regulators and have full faith in them," the spokesperson said. "While we have always been fully compliant with applicable Sebi regulations, we have made full disclosure to SEBI on specific information requests from them in the past. However, we have not received any communication or information requests recently." With regard to the DRI matter, the spokesperson said Adani Power was issued a show-cause notice by DRI about 5 years back. "Subsequently, DRI passed an order in favour of Adani Power confirming that there is no over-valuation of equipment," the spokesperson said. "The department has approached the Tribunal and the matter stands sub judice now." It wasn't clear which department approached the tribunal and if it was to challenge the 'clean chit' over alleged over-valuation of coal imports to get higher traffic for electricity generated from it. "Adani Group is a responsible corporate citizen and strongly believes in compliance of appliable laws and adheres to prudent corporate governance framework," the group spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Govt plans to complete LIC IPO for current fiscal year||The government plans to complete the initial public offering of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in the current fiscal, the Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad said on Monday. The government on Thursday had invited bids to appoint merchant bankers and legal advisors for the IPO and subsequent listing of the country's largest insurer. "The Initial Public Offer (IPO) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) is planned to be completed during the year," Karad said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. Inviting bids from merchant bankers, the Finance Ministry had said the potential size of the IPO is expected to be far larger than any previous issue. The Budget Estimate for disinvestment in 2021-22 has been set at Rs 1.75 lakh crore. So far this fiscal, Rs 7,645.70 crore has been realised as disinvestment receipts. "Several disinvestment transactions are expected to be completed during the year," Karad added. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that strategic disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others, and IPO of LIC would be completed in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 500 points in early trade on Monday, tracking heavy losses in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid weak cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 515.54 points or 0.97 per cent lower at 52,624.52 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 146.75 points or 0.92 per cent to 15,776.65.  HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, Titan, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 18.79 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 53,140.06, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 0.80 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,923.40.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 466.30 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring as of now. Subpar June quarter performance reported by HDFC Bank during the weekend along with visible stress in asset quality can weigh on overall financials," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Asian shares fell across the board, as pessimism took hold following rising Covid-19 infections regionally and Wall Street's first weekly loss following three weeks of gains.  Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.16 per cent to USD 72.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Lamborghini eyeing record sales in India in 2021 ||Lamborghini India expects to post a three-digit annual sales figure by 2025. It is eyeing a positive growth in calendar year 2021 after witnessing a 30 per cent decline in sales in 2020. The Italian supercar manufacturer, which started its operations in India in 2012, had sold 52 cars in pre-pandemic 2019. “We will be back on the same growth trajectory in 2021,” Sharad Agarwal, head, Lamborghini India, told The Telegraph after the launch of the Huracan STO last week. “Year 2020 was a challenging year with impacts both on the demand and supply side. Our factory at Sant’Agata Bolognese remained shut. But we want to have a record year in 2021. In the first half of 2021, we have had more than 50 per cent sales compared with the same period of 2019. There has been a V-shaped recovery and after the second wave impact things are turning around faster,” said Agarwal, adding a note of caution that “the market is still uncertain”. Lamborghini’s growth has been largely driven by the SUV Urus, which contributes more than 50 per cent to the business. “We are delivering one Urus every week and have already delivered the 100th Urus in India,” said Agarwal. Lamborghini commanded a 20 per cent market share in 2019 in the luxury segment of cars worth Rs 2 crore and above. “The growth story for Lamborghini lies in the tier-I and tier-II cities and we are expanding in places such as Bhubaneswar, Rourkella and other such cities. Our customer base encompasses both third and fourth generation businessmen as well as startup owners in the 40-plus age group who are eager to own a Lambo as a reward for their hard-earned success,” said Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Consumable items in hospital bills now available as add-ons to health insurance policies||Consumable items in hospital bills, which were out of pocket expenses a year back, are now available as add-ons to health insurance policies as policyholders feel the pinch of rising bills during the Covid pandemic. Consumables include syringes, needles, sutures, catheters, cotton, bandages, medical gloves, gowns, masks, PPE kits, sanitisers and were excluded in base health plans. However, their requirements have shot up in hospitalisation during the pandemic, prompting a few insurance companies such as Care Health Insurance, Max Bupa, Digit Insurance to explore riders covering the cost of consumables. “Consumables used to form 2-3 per cent of the total medical bill. Health insurance by default never covered consumable items and because it used to be a small percent of the overall bill, customers also did not bother. But now due to Covid, their need has gone up significantly,” said Amit Chhabra, health business head, Policybazaar.com “Share of consumables in hospital bills is now almost 15-20 per cent. This started to pinch customers. A year back none of the policies covered consumables. There are now plans which are covering consumable items. There are additional riders which the customer has to buy,” he added. Rider cost The cost of these riders is around 5 per cent of the total premium and the coverage is up to the sum insured. For example, a 35-year-old male with a base policy having a sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, will have an annual premium of around Rs 8,000 without the rider. By paying an additional amount of around Rs 400-600, one can get a policy with a rider covering consumable items (see chart). “We are seeing at the time of renewal of policies, most customers are favouring the attachment with the base plan,” Chhabra said. On the claim pay outside, policyholders with riders are getting 10-11 per cent additional amount. Chhabra said only a handful of companies have introduced such riders. However, over time more companies are likely to consider this given the demand among policyholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Shouldn't be treated the same as Amazon, Flipkart on antitrust probe||Walmart’s Flipkart should not be treated the same as rival Amazon in the ongoing antitrust probe as the evidence against the two firms was “qualitatively different”, Flipkart argued in a court filing seen by Reuters. Both Amazon and Flipkart have challenged the Competition Commission of India (CCI) in court as they seek revocation of an Indian court’s June decision to allow an antitrust probe against them to continue. The companies deny any wrongdoing. The Indian government has called the US firms arrogant and accused them of using legal routes to stall the investigation. In final submissions made to the Karnataka high court, the Walmart unit argued that the CCI and the court have “confused the facts” between the case of Amazon and Flipkart, and overlooked that they were “fierce competitors”. To back its arguments, it said that a business agreement examined by the CCI before ordering its probe was only between Amazon and its sellers, and there was no such evidence against the Walmart unit. “The allegations before the CCI against the appellant were qualitatively different from those relating to Amazon ... The CCI should have independently examined the case against each of the two platforms,” Flipkart said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||India’s e-retail market likely to grow seven times in 10 years||India’s e-retail market will grow seven times to touch $300 billion over the next decade. The next phase of expansion will be led by e-grocery and the smaller towns, analysts at JP Morgan said in a report. According to Euromonitor, the country’s e-commerce market has grown 13 times over 2014-21 to $41 billion with 6.5 per cent penetration. “India e-tail penetration is at the lower end of its emerging market and developed peers. This provides ample opportunity to grow at a rapid pace. Indian e-tail growth was held back by lack of online shoppers in tier-II and tier-III cities as the market was dominated by saturated metro/tier-I city users,” the JP Morgan report said. The e-grocery segment could be another area contributing to its growth. Grocery is the largest category in the country’s retail market at $410 billion in 2020 and has the lowest online penetration at only 0.9 per cent. The low penetration provides the platform to become the fastest growing segment over the next 10 years, the analysts said. Covid-19 has only led to more online buying of groceries as  the shoppers were unable to step out of their homes because of lockdowns. The trend continued throughout the last year, and  shoppers now are comfortable with online purchases. The brokerage expects e-grocery to grow 28 times to $96 billion over the next decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||IBA to move application to RBI for setting up Rs 6,000-crore bad bank||After getting a secured licence from the Registrar of Companies, the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) will soon move an application to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up a Rs 6,000-crore National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL) or bad bank, according to sources. With registration of the company, the process for putting an initial capital of Rs 100 crore is on according to the guidelines, the sources said, adding that the next step will be audit and then move an application to the RBI seeking licence for the asset reconstruction company. In 2017, the RBI raised the capital requirement to Rs 100 crore from the earlier level of Rs 2 crore keeping in mind higher amount of cash required to buy bad loans. Legal consultant AZB & Partners has been engaged for seeking various regulatory approvals and fulfilling other legal formalities. The initial capital would come from eight banks who have committed, and the NARCL would expand the capital base to Rs 6,000 crore subsequently after the RBI’s nod, the sources said. Other equity partners would join after the RBI’s licence and even the board would be expanded, the sources added. The IBA, entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has put a preliminary board for NARCL in place. The company has hired P. M. Nair, a stressed assets expert from the State Bank of India (SBI), as the managing director. The other directors on the board are IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta, SBI deputy managing director S. S. Nair and Canara Bank’s chief general manager Ajit Krishnan Nair. Last year, the IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard. Meanwhile, state-owned Canara Bank has expressed its intent to be the lead sponsor of NARCL with a 12 per cent stake. The proposed NARCL would be 51 per cent owned by PSBs and the remaining by private sector lenders. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||India and EU set to resume free trade agreement talks after 8 years||Talks with the EU on a free trade agreement are set to begin later this month after eight years with the commerce ministry scheduling a meeting among the stakeholders this week. Sources said the dates for the first few sessions with the EU representative have been set before the end of this month. The parties have agreed to launch negotiations on key issues such as market access, investment protection and geographical indications. The preliminary talks on the Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) will be based on the initial recommendations of industry groups. India's commerce ministry has asked various export promotion councils to identify items that are sensitive and need to be protected and also the ones for which they need a greater access to the EU. Apart from the export promotion councils, industry bodies such as the CII, Ficci and the FIEO, will offer their suggestions. “There are some sectors where both India and the EU had reached a consensus when they decided to put the negotiations on hold in 2014. These include reduction in tariffs in many products for example, zero for zero in case of apparels,” trade economist Arpita Mukherjee of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) said. “It may be easier to move forward if such sectors are not opened up again for tariff discussions. Some issues that India had raised earlier like intra-EU labour mobility related issues have been addressed by a EU Directive.  This can be resolved easily.” She said “India has discontinued its bilateral investment treaties with the EU member states and hence the focus of the EU is to have a clear and transparent investment agreement. The EU may look at EU-China as a model investment agreement to be replicated with India and the Indian side needs to see whether we are ready to discuss issues like public sector enterprises, and subsidies.” “I do not think that the negotiations are less complex now and we need to be prepared for the negotiations. There are new areas of negotiations like e-commerce or public sector enterprises or carbon tax. India needs to have industry consultations and conduct research to develop a position that is beneficial for the country,” she said. As many as 16 rounds of talks were held on the BTIA between 2007 and 2013. But they hit a wall after India decided to terminate the existing bilateral investment treaties (BITs) with 23 European countries in 2016. The EU had criticised the move while asking India to keep the individual agreements in force until a new pact was signed. The Centre has maintained that all future investment pacts will be negotiated under the framework of the model BIT issued by the government in 2015. This was meant to form the basis for individual deal agreements to be negotiated with other nations. The decision to resume talks was taken at the India-EU Leaders' meet earlier in May. The EU is India’s third largest trading partner, accounting for 62.8 billion euro worth of trade in goods in 2020 or 11.1 per cent of total Indian trade, after China (12 per cent) and the US (11.7 per cent), according to the European Commission. Among European countries, the UK was the top trading partner, accounting for bilateral trade worth $12.29 billion with India in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||PFRDA hikes pension FDI limit to 74 per cent||Foreign firms can directly or indirectly hold up to a 74 per cent stake in pension funds with the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) notifying the new revised limit. The Union cabinet had earlier increased the FDI limit from 49 per cent. The amendment to the pension fund regulations comes on the heels of the regulator opening the “on tap” window for licences to pension fund managers on June 30. Such a window allows applicants to seek a licence at any time, speeding up the entire process of setting up a business. In March this year, Parliament had given its approval to raise the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech this year had announced the increase in the FDI limit. With the latest move of the PFRDA, the FDI limit in pension funds is aligned with that of the insurance sector. At present, more than 4.28 crore subscribers are registered under various schemes under the National Pension System (NPS) and other pension schemes of the  PFRDA, with the total assets under management (AUM) in excess of Rs.6 lakh crore as of June this year, the regulator said. LIC Pension Fund, SBI Pension Funds and UTI Retirement Solutions are the  fund managers for the public sector. For the private sector, apart from these three, there are four others: HDFC Pension Management, ICICI Prudential Pension Fund Management, Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund and Aditya Birla Sun Life Pension Management. “Opening up the pension fund sector to a higher limit of FDI is likely to foster competition and boost growth of Indian pension fund sector. Global experience of managing billions of dollars of pension fund money can now be put to use for managing Indian national pension funds,” analysts said. They said the increase in FDI  would be beneficial as several firms needed capital for their expansion. Besides, existing fund holders will be able to sell their excess stakes, while foreign companies will provide new products, technology and help to increase the reach of pensions. The regulator had recently allowed an increase in the fund management fee. The funds, charging 0.01 per cent as management fees, have been permitted to charge up to 0.09 per cent if the assets under management is less than Rs 10,000 crore. For assets from Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 50,000 crore the fees will be 0.06 per cent. It is 0.05 per cent for funds between Rs 50,000 crore and Rs 1.5 lakh crore and 0.03 per cent for funds above Rs 1.5 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Opec to hike output from August||Major oil producers reached a deal on production increases on Sunday, as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia resolved a dispute that had blocked an agreement this month. The pact clears the way for Opec+, as the group is known, to begin pumping more oil, a move that could help ease a potential squeeze in supplies as global economies continue gearing up after pandemic lockdowns. Under the agreement, Opec+ will increase production each month by 400,000 barrels a day indefinitely, beginning in August. Opec+ last year cut production by a record 10 million barrels per day (bpd) amid a pandemic-induced slump in demand and collapsing prices. It has gradually reinstated some supply to leave it with a reduction of about 5.8 million bpd. From August till December 2021, the group will increase supply by a further 2 million bpd or 0.4 million bpd a month, Opec said in a statement. The group had agreed to extend their overall pact until the end of 2022 from an earlier planned date of April 2022, to leave more room for manoeuvre in case global recovery stalls due to new virus variants. The arrangement gives the Emirates most of the increase in its production quota that it was seeking, although not until after next April. Other countries, including Kuwait, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Russia, will also be granted increases in their production limits, according to Opec. The agreement ends a standoff between Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the cartel, and the Emirates, which has invested heavily in expanding its oil production and has chafed against the group’s limits on output. The pact also appears to restore Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil producer, as the dominant influence over the 23-member group. “We are here to stay,” Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, said during a news conference after the group’s meeting. “What bonds us together is way beyond what you imagine.” But how long Opec+ will hold together remains to be seen. The long series of failed negotiations this month could be a harbinger of changes that may drive wedges between the different members of the group, which includes Opec along with Russia and its allies. In the short term, countries with the ability to increase production are likely to press for the freedom to pump more oil if the pandemic’s economic effect continues to ease and demand for oil rises. The environment that Opec has long operated in is also changing. The organisation’s calculation has been that seeking higher prices by restraining production was a smart strategy because there would always be demand for the vast resources its members still have in the ground. Climate change has upset that business strategy. The deadly floods in Europe this week are just the latest weather catastrophe prompting lawmakers to call for more stringent rules on greenhouse gas emissions. Falling prices Crude oil prices have been falling over the past week because the markets were expecting a deal among the cartel members. Brent crude was last trading at $73.14 and West Texas Intermediate at $71.56. Earlier this month, oil prices had spiked, hitting a six-year high on July 6, after Opec+ failed to reach an agreement, underscoring concerns about rising gas prices and inflation in general in the US and elsewhere. In India, fuel prices are likely to fall bringing some relief to consumers. India’s new oil minister Hardeep Puri had called his Saudi, UAE and Qatari counterparts seeking price relief. This is likely to materialise now. The PSU fuel retailers have been consistently raising prices since May after the state elections were over, and petrol prices have now crossed the Rs100-mark in all the metros. New York Times News Service with inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Opt out of Dividend plans and choose growth options||“One day everything will be well, that is our hope. Everything’s fine today, that is our illusion” —Voltaire Three months ago the securities regulator decided to repurpose the dividend payout option in mutual funds. Dividend has since been rechristened “income distribution cum capital withdrawal” (IDCW), an act that provides little by way of succour to ordinary investors. IDCW, which essentially cottons on to the idea of distribution, may seem to certain quarters as a move that has effectively ended an age-old practice. The concept of dividend, especially the kind that is tax-efficient, carried a definite appeal in the past. That scenario, however, has changed beyond recognition. Dividends, in the real world, happen to be a function of financial gains. Thus, in the case of a corporate enterprise, dividends are generally an apportionment of profits. When no profit is recorded during a certain period, it is typically not possible to declare dividend for the same. The theory applies by and large to investment vehicles like mutual funds as well. The regulator’s proposal on income distribution is based on the need for realism. In its earlier avatar — that is, dividend — an investor did receive his largesse by means of a payout. The latter, in many cases, was not really a slice of the cake. The practice, in fact, harked back to an era when dividend options were actively marketed to investors by eager intermediaries. “Dividend stripping”, as older investors will no doubt recall, represented a complete sub-culture in a manner of speaking. All this happened for quite a long stretch of time, despite the clear and obvious side-effect that became evident on every occasion — a decline in the fund’s valuation on the record date. Such a decline was of little help insofar as the average investor is concerned. In other words, the classical dividend offered nothing else but the satisfaction it spawned somewhere deep inside the investor’s mind. Cut to the present day, the new avatar is also not the most perfect solution for an investor who truly wants financial gains. That is because the repurposed tool is merely a distribution of income. Seen from another angle, it appears as a withdrawal of capital too. It serves nothing — neither as a distribution nor as a withdrawal. Keeping this in mind, I wish to recommend two solutions for discerning investors: Growth plan over IDCW A smart investor will quickly realise that IDCW is not quite relevant in the current context. The correct action, therefore, is to take is to avoid this option altogether and select growth instead. The latter essentially lets his money stay in a fund in the hope that it will appreciate over a period of time. This is the dedicated investor’s truest objective. He is, after all, keen to bet on the fund manager’s skill and efficiency, assuming it is an actively managed product. “Investor, pay yourself”, is the preferred dictum in this case. In other words, the unit holder concerned can work out withdrawals whenever necessary. Such withdrawals can be need-based — perhaps an emergency looming large. These may also coincide with the fulfilment of basic investment objectives — perhaps a tipping point has been reached when the investor feels the need to liquidate part of the holdings. Achievement of a pre-set profit target, for instance, can act as a trigger. All this, of course, means that he must take into account at least two vital factors — exit loads and tax implications. In a typical case concerning an equity fund, an exit load is charged if withdrawal is effected before the completion of one year of allotment. Further, gains recorded from such a move are added to the total income generated by the investor. Taxability is a serious issue at all points of time. Start an SWP Systematic withdrawals (like systematic investments and systematic transfers) can also be a way forward for many investors. An SWP is a convenient technique; an investor can execute it quite easily. There is great merit in effecting withdrawals in a methodical, organised manner. A uniform amount of money can be withdrawn every month from a fund on a pre-determined day. The investor has to set up the SWP to make sure that his bank account is credited regularly with this amount. A withdrawal represents redemption of a certain number of units. SWPs have achieved a decent level of acceptance in recent years, thanks to the practice actively followed by a section of the market. Changing preferences Recent numbers suggest that the concept of dividend has already lost its charm, a trend that may impact IDCW. Dividends do not have their tax leverage any more. A payout that gives an investor a portion of his own capital is not a payout at all in the strict sense of the term. The idea of gaining or profiting is missing here. At any rate, investors will not like the idea of additional taxability. At this stage, I am not quite sure how IDCW will be viewed by the market in the days to come. As a concept, “distribution of surplus” can still work, provided investors get convinced about its efficacy. The securities regulator has mandated a segregation and disclosure of two important concerns — appreciation in NAV and equalisation reserve. Such disclosure should be reflected in the consolidated account statement provided to investors. This underlines what can be termed as positive regulatory intent. I hope the market watchdog backs this up with adequate communication. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra arrested in case related to creation of pornographic films||Businessman and husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra, was arrested on Monday by the Mumbai police in a case related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps, a senior official said. Kundra (45), arrested by the Crime Branch after being booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act, appears to be the key conspirator of the case, he said. "There was a case registered with the Crime Branch Mumbai in Feb 2021 about creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some Apps. We've arrested Mr Raj Kundra in this case on 19/7/21 as he appears to be the key conspirator of this. We have sufficient evidences regarding this," the Mumbai Police Commissioner said in a statement. The case was registered on February 4 at the Malwani police station in suburban Mumbai. An FIR was registered against Kundra after a woman approached the police and made certain allegations in her complaint, another official said. "On that basis, the FIR was registered and the case transferred to the Crime Branch. Earlier also, we had registered cases related to pornography in which an actress and some other persons were made accused," he said. "We will probe the Raj Kundra case and find out is there is any link between this and pornography cases which we had registered earlier," the official said. Kundra was booked under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) besides relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, he added. Further investigation was underway, the official added. According to ndtv.com, Kundra denied any wrongdoing and had sought anticipatory bail in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||IT Minister should answer if govt acquired Pegasus spyware: Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday took a swipe at IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw over his statement in Lok Sabha on the alleged illegal surveillance using Pegasus software and said it is unfortunate that the minister has started his innings on the "wrong foot".  In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said the minister should answer if the government acquired the Pegasus software/spyware.  "NSO Group, the owner of Pegasus, has said that 'NSO sells its technologies solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments.' It is unfortunate that Minister Vaishnaw has started his innings on the wrong foot," he tweeted.  "The Minister should answer a simple question: Did the government acquire the Pegasus software/spyware?" he added.  Vaishnaw, in a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha, categorically rejected the allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, and asserted that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws.  He said the media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism.  "The press reports of 18th July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions," Vaishnaw said in his first statement in Parliament as a minister.  The minister, however, did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware developed by Israeli company NSO.  Chidambaram said, "In his statement the Minister has omitted to quote the crucial part of Pegasus' statement. The services that are 'openly available to anyone, anywhere, and anytime' refer to HLR Lookup services, not to Pegasus."  The former Union minister was referring to the statement given by the Israeli company to a group of media organisations that broke the story across the globe.  The Congress has demanded a thorough, independent probe into the matter and immediate sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Opposition uproar over Nisith Pramanik's nationality||Opposition members in Rajya Sabha on Monday sought to raise the issue of the nationality of a newly inducted Minister of State for Home, alleging he was a Bangladeshi national, but the government dismissed the charge as "baseless" and slammed them for casting such aspersions on a leader from a tribal community.  Opposition members led by TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge asked the government to clear its stand over the nationality of the minister.  Without naming the minister, Sekhar said: The prime minister has been allowed to lay a list of the ministers after the reshuffle. Go through Wikipedia, then you will find that the name of the gentleman A Minister of State for Home Affairs is a reportedly a Bangladeshi.  Sekhar was also supported by Kharge and other opposition members.  He has raised a relevant point. It's a point of order, said Kharge adding, I have every right to know whether he is a Bangladeshi or not."  Last week, Rajya Sabha member and Assam Pradesh Congress Committee President Ripun Bora had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct an inquiry into allegations that newly appointed minister Nisith Pramanik is a Bangladeshi national.  Objecting to the remarks of opposition members, Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal termed the allegation as baseless , asserting there is no truth in it.  This should be expunged. It's an insult of a big leader and a large society to which he belongs, he said, adding such remarks against a leader from the tribal community were condemnable.  As the issue sparked an uproar, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh tried to pacify the members but failed.  Amid the commotion, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal introduced The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021.  Lok Sabha has already passed the bills that will replace an over nine-decade-old law governing lighthouses and seeks to provide for a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services, besides changing the use of the term marine aids to navigation.  The Deputy Chairman asked the agitating member to discuss only the bills listed in the business of the house. However, the members did not relent, after which the Singh adjourned the house till 3 PM.  Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented from introducing his newly-inducted union ministers to Rajya Sabha as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the Well of the House to protest over various issues, including farm laws and fuel price hike.  The House proceedings were adjourned till 2 PM as the protesting opposition members did not relent to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu''s repeated appeal for order in the House.  When the House assembled on day one of the Monsoon Session, the proceedings were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect to departed sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav.  No sooner did the House meet again at around 12.25 PM, opposition members started raising slogans as the Chairman was making his opening remarks about the expectations from the current session amid the COVID-19 pandemic.  When the prime minister rose to introduce the newly inducted members in his Council of Ministers, opposition members created an uproar by raising slogans.  Questioning the opposition's conduct, Modi wondered "what kind of mindset is this" that prevents them from giving respect to the new ministers who are women, Dalits and come from Scheduled Tribes and OBC communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus:  Opposition strategy meeting in Parliament tomorrow||The opposition parties will meet at the Parliament House tomorrow morning to decide on a strategy to corner the government over the illegal surveillance allegations through the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The meeting will begin at 10 am. According to an NDTV report, the opposition parties have demanded an explanation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. The Congress has sought the resignation pf Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the issue and an investigation against PM Modi. The Rajya Sabha is likely to discuss 'Covid management' tomorrow afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra logs lowest daily count since Feb 22 with 6,017 new cases; active cases below 1 lakh||Maharashtra's coronavirus caseload climbed to 62,20,207 on Monday after 6,017 people tested positive for the infection, the lowest since February 22, while the death toll jumped to 1,27,097 as 66 patients succumbed to COVID-19, a health department official said.  The fresh COVID-19 deaths were the lowest in the last one week.  The official said as many as 13,051 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 59,93,401.  The state now has 96,375 active COVID-19 cases.  Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate is 96.35 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.04 per cent, the official said.  Significantly Hingoli, Wardha and Bhandara districts of Maharashtra did not report any new coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours.  According to the official, Mumbai reported 403 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,31,561, while the death toll increased to 15,716 with 14 fresh fatalities.  A total of 1,092 new COVID-19 cases and 24 fatalities were reported in the Mumbai circle - that includes the city and its satellite towns - taking the tally to 16,27,032 and the death toll to 33,284.  The official said 202 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 5,00,690, while the death toll rose to 8,600 after one more patient succumbed to the infection in the city.  The wider Pune region reported 1,658 new COVID-19 cases and 17 fatalities, taking the tally to 14,66,915 and the death toll to 27,413.  The Kolhapur region reported 2,443 new COVID-19 cases and 16 fresh fatalities, according to the health department.  The Nashik region witnessed 543 new cases, while the daily infection count was 208 in the Latur region.  The official said Nagpur, Akola and Aurangabad regions reported 26, 24 and 23 new COVID-19 cases, respectively.  According to the official, out of 4,56,48,898 COVID-19 tests done so far in the state, 1,67,646 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.  Currently, 5,61,796 people are in home quarantine and 4,052 in institutional quarantine across the state, he said.  The highest number of active cases at 15,768 are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai at 13,632 and 10,422, respectively.  According to the health department, of the total 59,93,401 recovered patients, the highest at 10,42,911 are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane at 7,03,066 and 5,64,399, respectively.  Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 62,20,207; new cases 6,017; total deaths 1,27,097; total recoveries 59,93,401; active cases 96,375; total tests 4,56,48,898.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Home minister Amit Shah hits out at Congress, global organisations over Pegasus scandal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday lashed out at the opposition Congress and international organisations for suggesting that the government was involved in surveillance of phones of politicians, journalists and others, saying it was a "report by disrupters for obstructers" who want to derail India's development trajectory with their conspiracies. Alleging that the report was timed to cause disruptions in parliament, he even used a phrase his critics have often used to target him: "Aap chronology samjhiye (understand the chronology)". "People have often associated this phrase with me in lighter vein but today I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions...Aap Chronology Samjhiye!" the Home Minister said in a statement, reports NDTV. In a hard-hitting statement, he questioned the timing of the "selective leaks" on the eve of the Monsoon session and said they have been amplified by a few whose only aim is to do whatever is possible to humiliate India on the world stage. "The timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions Aap Chronology Samajhiye!," he said, referring to opposition parties stalling proceedings in Parliament on Monday. "This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations that do not like India to progress. "Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection," he said. The home minister said he wanted to assure the people of India that the Modi government's priority is clear 'National Welfare' - and it will keep working to achieve that no matter what happens. Opposition parties on Monday criticised the government over the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The government, however, had dismissed the allegation of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". Shah said those who intend to derail India's progress are peddling the same old narratives about the country. "To see the rudderless Congress, jump on to this bandwagon is not unexpected. "They have a good past experience in trampling over democracy and with their own house not in order, they are now trying to derail anything progressive that comes up in Parliament," he said. The home minister said the facts and sequence of events are for the entire nation to see and the disrupters and obstructers will not be able to derail India's development trajectory through their conspiracies. "People have often associated this phrase with me in a lighter vein but today I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions Aap Chronology Samajhiye!," he said. Shah said the Monsoon Session of Parliament started on Monday and in what seemed like a perfect cue, late last evening a report appeared and it has been amplified by a few sections with only one aim - to do whatever is possible to humiliate India at the world stage, peddle the same old narratives about the nation and derail India's development trajectory. The home minister said the people of India have high hopes from the current monsoon session as key bills for the welfare of farmers, youngsters, women and the backward sections of society are lined up for debate and discussion. No less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government is ready to discuss all topics, he said. Shah said just a few days ago the Council of Ministers was expanded with great emphasis given to women, SC, ST and OBC members. "But there are forces unable to digest this. They also want to derail national progress. This merits the question - to whose tune are these people dancing, who want to keep showing India in poor light? What pleasure do they get to time and again show India in a bad light?" he asked. The home minister said when the prime minister rose in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to introduce his Council of Ministers, which is a well-established norm, the Congress-led opposition was in the Well of both Houses. "Is this their respect for Parliamentary norms? The same behaviour continued when the IT Minister was speaking about the issue," he said. The opposition parties created a ruckus over the alleged phone tapping issue in both Houses of Parliament on the first day of the Monsoon session, forcing repeated adjournment of proceedings. Accusing the government of "treason" and compromising on national security over the Pegasus spyware issue, the Congress Monday demanded the sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah and a probe into the "role of Prime Minister" Narendra Modi in the matter. Addressing a press conference here, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala held Shah responsible for the Pegasus spying issue and said his party's first demand is his dismissal from the post he occupies. He said the Congress will take all Opposition parties on-board over the issue and decided whether to ask for a judicial or parliamentary probes in the matter. "Our first demand is the immediate sacking of Minister of Home and Internal security Amit Shah and a probe into the role of the prime minister in the matter," he told reporters. Amit Shah's use of the phrase "Aap chronology samjhiye" became hugely controversial when he declared in 2019 that the government would bring the Citizenship Amendment Act and after that the National Citizen's Register. The phrase became viral and was repeatedly used by the opposition in its attacks on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Indian Women's Press Corps demands independent probe in Pegasus row||The Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) Monday demanded an independent probe into the use of Pegasus spyware for alleged snooping on journalists. In a series of posts on the microblogging site Twitter, the journalist body said it is "unfortunate" that in a democracy like India, journalists have to go through "something like this" in the course of their work. "IWPC strongly condemns the spying on the phones of 40 Indian journalists," it tweeted. Citing media reports, the IWPC noted the Israeli software allegedly used for snooping is sold only to the governments. "And, as the government has come out with a denial, we demand an independent inquiry in the whole matter," it said. The IWPC said independent journalism is one of the "most important tools" to uphold the rights that the Constitution has vested into the citizens of this country. "It is unfortunate that in a democracy like India, journalists have to go through something like this in the course of their work," the journalist body said, adding "under no circumstances should the independence of media be compromised".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Prashant Kishor, 2 new ministers among Pegasus targets||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, election strategist Prashant Kishor, TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee and former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa were amongst those who came under surveillance using Pegasus spyware, according to The Wire. In a jibe against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone!" Nine phones linked to Gandhi including five non-political friends were also believed to have been targeted. The spyware also appears to have been used to target 11 phones linked to the woman who accused former chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment. Also targeted are the just-appointed IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and another newly appointed government minister Prahlad Singh Patel. The names were among a string of targets of the Pegasus spyware named by The Wire in a follow-up to their Sunday story that was published simultaneously by the Indian website, The Guardian, the Washington Post and 14 other media outlets. The Wire said that at least of two of Gandhi’s mobile phone accounts were on a list of 300 verified Indian numbers that were potential targets of software licensed by Israeli private surveillance tech firm NSO. The Israeli company says it only sells its snooping software known as Pegasus to “vetted governments” to fight terrorism and other serious crimes. The Union government has denied carrying out any unauthorised surveillance. Vaishnaw, who appears to have been targeted for surveillance in 2017 when he wasn’t in politics, told Parliament on the opening day of the monsoon session on Monday that the allegations were an attempt to “malign” India’s democracy and that they contained “no substance’ too. Rumours swirling for days Before the report surfaced, rumours had been swirling for days that the Modi government was about to be rocked by a fresh instalment of what has become known as the “Pegasus spyware scandal.” Kishor, who has a finger in many political pies, played a key role in the Bengal state elections and also advises the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the Congress in Punjab. He was dismissive about attempts to monitor his phones and told The Wire that the results of the West Bengal elections showed that such tactics did not work. However, he added: “There is no denying that those who would did so were looking to take undue advantage of their position of power with the help of illegal snooping.” His latest successes include helping engineer Mamata Banerjee’s resounding victory in Bengal and M.K. Stalin’s resounding win in Tamil Nadu. Ashok Lavasa, the former election commissioner, who was also reported to have been targeted by the software, had dissented in the election body’s decision to reject alleged poll code violations by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah during the 2019 election campaign. The list also included at least one number used by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. Kishor changed phones 5 times It could not be confirmed whether the phones of many of the names listed were actually hacked as their mobiles were not available for forensic analysis. All that is known is that their names were on the list of potential surveillance targets. Kishor told NDTV news channel that he had changed his mobile handset five times but his phone was still being hacked. Trace of infection on Kishor’s phone were found, according to Amnesty International, on April 28, just before the last phase of polling in West Bengal and also in June and July 2021, around the time when he met Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. The Wire said a further hack on his phone appeared on the day when its representatives had met him. Gandhi appeared relatively unsurprised by news that his phone had come under attacked and said he often changed both numbers and instruments to make it “a little harder for them” to target him. Gandhi added that he had received several suspicious Whatsapp messages which made him believe he was being targeted. Global scale investigation On Sunday, The Wire disclosed the names of prominent journalists, such as The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan, that had been targeted. The names were revealed after the joint global-scale investigation conducted also by The Guardian, Le Monde, Die Zeit and 12 other Arab, Mexican and European news organisations. The powerful surveillance tool was detected as being active on some of the Indian targets’ devices as recently as this month, according to The Washington Post. The hacking software is employed to infect iPhones and Android phones to extract messages, photographs, location data, emails, record calls and activate microphones. The malware can be put on a smartphone by clicking on a “trap link. It can even activate itself without any input in what is called a “zero-click: hack. M.K. Venu, a founding editor of The Wire that was also on the potential spyware target list, has said more names will be revealed “soon.” Forbidden Stories The news organisations were given a leaked database of numbers by Paris-based media non-profit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International. The global investigation carried out forensic examinations of 37 phones of which 10 were Indian to confirm that they had been targeted by spyware. Soon after the story broke simultaneously around the world, Indian journalist Swati Chaturvedi, whose phone is believed to have been tapped, tweeted: “Dear @PMOIndia why did your government put me on an intrusive surveillance list? For committing a crime of doing investigative journalism. Why was Pegasus software introduced on my phone? Pegasus is sold only to governments.” The government has denied any link with the spyware and said the news article proves nothing. “In fact, previous attempts to link Pegasus with the government have failed," the government said. The Wire reported most of the names were targeted between 2018 and 2019 in the period leading up to the 2019 general elections. The Wire said that the leaked database had numbers of over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders, serving government ministers, current and formers officials of security organisations and “scores of businesspersons”. ‘Incredible intrusion’ The Wire itself was heavily targeted. The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan whose phone was hacked according to the report told The Guardian: “This is an incredible intrusion and journalists should not have to deal with this.” Forensic analysis is essential to prove that the phones have been infected with Pegasus Spyware. For technical reasons, it is easier to analyse if Pegasus software has been used against iPhones than against Android ones. The phone of another journalist, Sushant Singh, who had worked on an investigation into the Rafale deal, was also subjected to forensic analysis and appeared to have had spyware installed on it. Singh said, “It compromises a journalist’s ability to report on matters of grave national importance.” Pegasus was active on Singh’s iPhone as recently as this month, the Washington Post reported, citing a forensic analysis. Other Indian journalists whose names appear on the list that dates back to 2016 include Shishir Gupta, executive editor of the Hindustan Times; former editorial page editor Prashant Jha, defence correspondent Rahul Singh and Aurangazeb Naqshbandi, who covered the Congress. An SC judge too? One phone number on the Pegasus Projects database was earlier registered in the name of a sitting Supreme Court judge, The Wire said. However, it said the judge had given up the number at some point in the last few years. Most of the numbers on the Pegasus database came from 10 countries including India, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain, Morocco, Mexico and Rwanda.  The Guardian described the countries alleged to be involved in the eavesdropping as being run by “authoritarian governments.” Pegasus initially hit the headlines around the world in 2019 after it was reported that 1,400 phones had been targeted using the software. WhatsApp filed a suit against the NSO Group which created the software. Among those whose phones were tapped abroad was the former fiancée of murdered Saudi columnist and dissident Jamal Khashoggi. The Pegasus database contains more than 50,000 potential global surveillance targets. NSO to look at ‘credible claims’ The NSO Group refuses to divulge the list of its customers. It denied in a statement “false claims” about the actions of its customers but promised to “investigation all credible claims of misuse and take appropriate action.” The telephone numbers on the list were printed without names but the investigation managed to identify over 1,000 people in more than 50 nations. They included 189 journalists globally, including those working at the Financial Times, The New York Times and CNN. There were also more than 600 politicians and government officials, including cabinet ministers, diplomats and military figures, and 85 human rights activists. The Indian government said in its written statement there has been “no unauthorised interception” by government agencies. However, the occupations of the people to whom the Indian numbers belonged suggested that an official Indian agency would have been behind any attempt to place them on the hacking list, The Wire said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Kalyan Singh’s condition unstable, put on non-invasive ventilation||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is unstable, and doctors are closely monitoring him, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here said on Monday. Singh's clinical parameters are being closely monitored by expert consultants at the hospital, it added. "The condition of Singh is unstable. After breathing problem, he has been kept on non-invasive ventilation," the hospital said in a bulletin issued this evening. Earlier in the day, the hospital issued a statement saying, "After he (Kalyan Singh) complained of respiratory discomfort on Saturday evening, oxygen therapy was started. He was put on non-invasive ventilation on Sunday evening due to respiratory worsening." The senior faculty of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it said. SGPGIMS director professor R K Dhiman is supervising Singh's treatment on a daily basis, the statement read. The 89-year-old, who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Opposition takes on govt over alleged phone-tapping, seeks probe||Opposition parties Monday hit out at the government over the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the matter using the hashtag "Pegasus". "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone," Gandhi wrote Monday as a tweet-reply to his own post two days ago in which he had asked people, "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days." The government has, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part, saying the accusation has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever.  IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told Lok Sabha that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. Terming it a very serious issue concerning national security, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. " Since the government has said that it has not done any snooping, this should be probed," he said. "I feel that there should be a thorough independent judicial inquiry or a joint parliamentary committee. We cannot just brush it under the carpet," he told reporters. He raised the issue through social media too. "GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if #Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn't the authorities call for an independent investigation," he tweeted referring to the Government of India. The CPIM said that two years ago, the party had raised in Parliament that this "dangerous spyware" was being used in India as revealed by WhatsApp. "The Modi government's response had not categorically denied that it engaged the services of NSO (the Israeli tech firm that created the spyware) but claimed that there is no "unauthorised surveillance". With these revelations, it is clear that this government has engaged NSO for such surveillance against its own citizens," the party said in a statement Monday. "The Central government must come clean on what is its engagement with NSO, what are the terms and how much our public funds have been paid for this, the party demanded. Under Indian laws, the use of cyber spy software to hack smartphones even by the government is prohibited, the party said, asking under what law the government has undertaken such "surveillance activities" over citizens. "The right to privacy is a fundamental right as laid down by the Supreme Court, but this BJP government is prevaricating on legislating the privacy law," the party said. The CPIM also said there have been earlier instances of hacking smartphones and computers of human rights activists and they have been exposed. It alleged that the spying toll is digitally planted on their devices. "It is then used for their arrests under draconian laws. The `snoop, plant, arrest' formula employed by this BJP government is a violation of the fundamental rights of Indian citizens, the CPIM said. The TMC said it will raise the issue in Parliament.  "It is a serious issue and the minister in his statement in the House does not deny that the government was using the software. We will raise this issue in Parliament," said TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Maha: 4 undertrials escape after staging convulsion drama||Four undertrials escaped from a sub jail in Madha in Maharashtra's Solapur district on Monday morning, one of whom was nabbed some time later, police said. One of the escapees, identified as Akbar Pawar, pretended that he was having convulsions, due to which prison staff opened the door of his cell to treat him, a Madha police station official said. "The other three inmates in the cell, Siddheshwar Kaiche, Akash Bhalekar and Tanaji Lokre, fled when Pawar was being treated. When the prison staff ran after them, Pawar too escaped," he said. The official, however, said Pawar had convulsions earlier, which required hospitalization on two occasions, and, therefore, he managed to get the prison staff to lower their guard while responding to his medical situation. "Bhalekar was arrested later and efforts are on to nab the other three. All four have serious offences like murder, fake currency and illegal possession of weapons against their names," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||LeT module busted in Jammu & Kashmir’s Budgam district||Security agencies have busted a Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terror module in Budgam district by arresting a local terrorist and his four associates, all of whom were in touch with their Pakistan-based handlers through social media platforms, officials said Monday. Acting on a specific information, police, Army and CRPF personnel arrested Mohammad Younis Mir, a local terrorist linked with the LeT, and recovered incriminating materials, and arms and ammunition from him, a police spokesman said. Mir is a resident of Choon area in Budgam. One Chinese pistol, one magazine and eight live pistol rounds were recovered from him, the police spokesman said. Mir's questioning led the police to his four terror associates and the LeT terror module, the spokesman said. "Incriminating materials and ammunition including two hand grenades were also recovered from their possession. They have been identified as Imran Zahoor Ganie, Umer Farooq Wani, Faizan Qayoom Ganie and Shahnawaz Ahmad Mir," he said. The spokesman said preliminary investigation revealed that the arrested terrorist associates were involved in providing shelter, logistics and other material support including the transportation of arms and ammunition to terrorists active in various areas of Budgam. "The arrested local terrorist and terror associates have been in touch with the PaK terror commanders through various social media platforms and were also in constant touch with local terror commanders of proscribed terror outfit LeT in Kashmir," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Excise policy: HC sends plea challenging e-tender of Delhi govt before Chief Justice's bench||A Delhi High Court bench Monday directed to place before the Chief Justice a petition challenging e-tender notice of the Delhi government, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone wise electronic bids for grant of 32 licences of retail vends of liquor here. The court sent the matter to the bench headed by Chief Justice after a controversy arose as to which bench should hear the plea since several similar petitions relating to the new Excise Policy are pending before the Chief Justice's bench. While the counsel for the petitioner submitted that this petition is only challenging the tender issued by the Delhi government and as a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh is having the roster to hear tender matters, it should hear it, Delhi government's counsel vehemently objected it saying this is also relating to the excise policy and shall be heard by the Chief Justice's bench. The bench said since this controversy is arising and the Chief Justice being the master of roster' he shall decide which bench to hear the petition. The bench also said it was not having any particular interest in hearing this matter. To resolve this controversy, we direct to place this matter before Division Bench-I headed by the Chief Justice, since DB-I is seized of other matters We leave it to the bench headed by the Chief Justice to decide which bench should hear the present petition, the bench of Justices Sanghi and Singh said while sending the plea before the bench headed by the Chief Justice for Tuesday. The bench added, in the last hearing also we had said this is purely a tender matter and we have this tender roster. If we find it is overlapping with the policy challenge, we will send it to Division Bench-I. The bench was hearing a plea by petitioner Robin Chaudhary on behalf of retailers selling liquor in Delhi, challenging the terms and conditions of the e-tender. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar and Sandeep Sethi, representing the petitioner, submitted that the terms of the tender are unreasonable and added that they were not challenging the new excise policy. They said since they are not challenging the policy and they are interested in participating in the tender by submitting the bid, this bench is dealing with tender matters as per roster so it should continue with the hearing. However, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, vehemently objected saying some of the grounds taken here in this tender petition are overlapping with the grounds taken in other pleas challenging the excise policy and pending before the Chief Justice's bench, which shall hear this matter. Mehra contended it was a case of forum shopping and when other similar matters were pending before the Chief Justice's bench, there was no occasion of placing this petition before another bench. The Delhi government was also represented through standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi. Meanwhile, the bench also transferred to the Chief Justice's bench another petition, filed by Delhi Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Store Karamchari union, relating to challenge to the new excise policy for Tuesday. Several petitions have been filed challenging the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 alleging that it was illegal, unfair, arbitrary and violative of the Delhi Excise Act, 2009. They have also sought to quash the June 28 e-tender notice of Delhi government, prescribing the procedure to be followed for inviting zone wise electronic bids for grant of 32 zonal licences of retail vends of liquor for supply of Indian and foreign liquor brands in the national capital. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had refused to stay the new Excise Policy which, according to retail shop owners, will lead to cartelisation and had said it will consider this plea on the next date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||UP govt issues fresh directives ahead of Bakrid||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday issued fresh directives ahead of Bakrid, prohibiting gatherings of more than 50 people at any place to celebrate the festival, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government also issued orders against animal sacrifice at public places in the state. Charing a meeting with senior officials to review the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed them to make all necessary arrangements in view of the festival, an official spokesperson said here. In view of Covid, not more than 50 people should gather at any place at a given time for any event related to Bakrid, the official said. It should also be ensured that no cow, camel or any other banned animal is sacrificed anywhere. Only designated places or private premises should be used for animal sacrifices, he said. Special care should be taken for cleanliness, the official added. The festival is scheduled to be celebrated later this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Teen raped, forced to convert in UP's Baghpat||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, his brothers and friends in Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, she was even forced to change her religion. “The accused, Shahzad, and his parents have been arrested,” informed the police “The girl belonged to the scheduled caste community has alleged that that Shahzad (26) had promised to marry her,” police said, adding that on this pretext, he along with others had forcibly changed her religion a year back. Kotwali police station in-charge N S Sirohi said, “A case has been registered against seven persons and main accused Shahzad, his mother Gulfshan and father Haroon were arrested on Sunday morning. A search is on for the others.” According to the police Shahzad was already married and it has been alleged that he raped the girl several times. They added that she was pregnant, and had been forced to undergo an abortion by his family members. The minor has stated that she had protested, but had been threatened with dire consequences, according to police His friends had also raped her, they said, quoting the complaint lodged by the girl’s family. According to the complaint, she was called by Shahzad to his house on July 6 and was taken captive, police said. On July 8, she was raped by his brothers Bilal and Farman, they said quoting the complaint. “The girl's family claimed that she reached home on July 10 in a very scared state. When her health deteriorated and they insisted on taking her to a doctor on July 17, she informed them about the incident,” police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi slams Opposition over Parliament ruckus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lashed out at the Opposition for creating a ruckus and preventing him from introducing newly- inducted Union ministers in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, saying such a ‘negative mindset’ has never been seen in Parliament. As the Prime Minister rose in Lok Sabha to introduce the new ministers, Opposition members created an uproar by raising slogans. Dismayed over the disruption, Modi said, “It should make everyone proud that several women, many people belonging to the SC and ST community have taken oath as ministers.” “It seems some people cannot digest that more women, SC, ST and OBC community members are becoming ministers,” he added. And noted that several new ministers are children of farmers and also belong to OBC communities. In Rajya Sabha also, the Prime Minister could not introduce the newly-inducted ministers as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the well of the House to protest over various issues. The Prime Minister slammed the Opposition over it, echoing the views expressed by him in Lok Sabha. “It is a matter of pride that people from rural India, who come from ordinary families have taken oath as ministers. But some people don't want ministers to be introduced. They also have an anti-women mindset since they do not want women ministers to be introduced to the House,” he said. “Such a negative mindset has never been seen in Parliament,” Modi said in Rajya Sabha. Earlier, addressing reporters ahead of the start of the Monsoon session, the Prime Minster said the Opposition should ask the sharpest and toughest of questions in Parliament but asserted that the government should also be allowed to respond to them in a cordial environment. The Prime minister's appeal comes at a time when the Opposition is raring to corner the ruling dispensation over a host of issues, including handling of the second wave of COVID-19, rise in fuel prices, farmers' stir and an international media consortium report which has claimed that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including that of two serving ministers, could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware. Modi said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. The Prime Minister said he has requested all the floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give detailed information regarding the pandemic. "We want a discussion in the House as well as outside the House with all the floor leaders. I am constantly meeting the chief ministers and all kinds of discussions are happening in different forums. So I also want to meet the floor leaders as House is going on and it will be convenient and we can talk about it (the pandemic) face-to-face," he said. Hoping that the session is productive and dedicated to meaningful discussions, Modi said the government is fully prepared to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the toughest and sharpest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said adding that this enhances the trust of the people and improves the pace of development. Talking about the vaccination programme going on in the country, Modi said it was moving forward at a fast pace and also urged MPs to cooperate in following all Covid protocols. "Vaccine is given in 'baahu' (arms), and those who take it become 'Baahubali'. The only way to become Baahubali to fight against coronavirus is to get vaccinated," Modi said. Over 40 crore people have become 'Baahubali' in the fight against coronavirus, the prime minister said the inoculation programme is being taken forward rapidly. Noting that the pandemic has engulfed the whole world, Modi said he wants that there should be a meaningful discussion regarding the pandemic on high priority. All practical suggestions given by MPs can usher in newness in the fight against the pandemic, if there are some shortcomings, they can be rectified, and everyone can move forward together in this fight, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to be deputy leader of House of Rajya Sabha||Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has been named as the Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha, sources said on Monday. Naqvi succeeds Piyush Goyal, who has been appointed as the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha. The minority affairs minister is known for his wide knowledge of parliamentary affairs and had also served as the minister of state for parliamentary affairs during the first term of the Modi government. The appointment of Naqvi, who is known for having cordial relations with leaders of parties across the political spectrum, assumes significance as it comes at a time when the Opposition is raring to corner the ruling dispensation over a host of issues, including handling of the second wave of COVID-19, rise in fuel prices and farmers' stir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha proceedings halted till 3.30 pm amid Opposition uproar||The proceedings of the Lok Sabha were adjourned for the second time on Monday amid sloganeering by Opposition members over various issues, including those related to rising prices and the new farm laws. Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, adjourned the House till 3:30 pm barely 10 minutes after proceedings began at 2 pm. Agrawal urged members to go back to their seats and allow the House to function normally, but as protests continued, he adjourned the proceedings. The Monsoon session of the Lok Sabha began on a stormy note on Monday with the Opposition creating a ruckus and preventing Prime Minister Narendra Modi from introducing the newly inducted Union ministers. As the disruptions continued despite Speaker Om Birla's repeated pleas to maintain decorum, the House was adjourned after nearly 40 minutes till 2 pm. Four newly elected members --- Maddila Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress), Mangal Suresh Angadi (BJP), M P Abdussamad Samadani (IUML), Vijayakumar (Congress) --- took oath as the House convened after a gap of nearly four months. Following this, the Prime Minister stood up to introduce the newly inducted ministers who took oath on July 7 following a major rejig in the council of ministers. As soon as Modi stood up, opposition members started shouting slogans and disrupted the proceedings. On the other hand, Rajya Sabha proceedings on the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect for departed two sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India||Will strengthen invincible fort of Congress in Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu ||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday thanked the party leadership for appointing him the president of the Punjab unit and said he will work further to strengthen the organisation in the state. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday night appointed the cricketer-turned-politician as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief. Sidhu, who replaced Sunil Jakhar, was elevated to the position despite opposition from Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. "Today, to work further for the same dream and strengthen the invincible fort of the Congress in Punjab. I am grateful to Hon'ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi, RahulGandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for bestowing their faith in me and giving me this pivotal responsibility," Sidhu tweeted. "Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of 'JittegaPunjab' as a humble Congress worker to give power of the people back to the people through the Punjab model and the high command's 18-point agenda ... My journey has just begun, he said in another tweet. The Congress also appointed four working presidents to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the assembly elections. The new working presidents are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra. In another tweet, Sidhu also shared a picture of his father with former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. "To share prosperity, privilege and freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household and joined the freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work, reprieved by the King's Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC and advocate general," Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
19-07-2021||India|| Release Manipur political activist by 5 pm today, directs SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the release of Leichombam Erendro, a Manipur-based political activist arrested for sedition in May over some Facebook posts, saying the detention was amounting to violation of right to life and personal liberty. The 37-year-old was arrested under the National Security Act, guilty of saying "cow dung and cow urine don't work." While Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time and wanted the case to be adjourned till tomorrow, the judges ordered his immediate release, according to NDTV.com. "We are of the view that the continued detention of the petitioner would amount to violation of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21. We direct him to be released today by 5 pm with a personal bond of  Rs.  1,000," a two-judge bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said. The order came on a plea by Mr Erendro's father. The activist, along with journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem, were arrested for posting the comment over the death of Saikhom Tikendra Singh, the then state BJP President. Manipur BJP Vice-President Usham Deban and General Secretary P Premananda Meetei had filed a complaint against them saying their posts were offensive. Earlier, in June 2020, Erendro was charged with sedition by the state police over another Facebook post that had the photo of Rajya Sabha MP Sanajaoba Leishemba with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The photo, captioned Minai macha, showed Manipur's titular king bowing with folded hands before the senior BJP leader. Roughly translated from Meitei, Manipur's native language, Minai macha means "son of a servant". Erendro was released later on bail in this case. The Supreme Court had last week questioned if the sedition law was "still necessary after 75 years of Independence". The law is a serious threat to the functioning of institutions and holds "enormous power" for misuse with no accountability for the executive, the court had said, comparing it to a saw in the hands of an overzealous carpenter. During the argument, the court said there was "minimal conviction or very low rate of conviction" in the history of the sedition law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition ruckus, Rajya Sabha for an hour to pay respect to departed MPs||The Monsoon session of the Lok Sabha began on a stormy note on Monday with the Opposition creating a ruckus and preventing Prime Minister Narendra Modi from introducing the newly inducted Union ministers. As the disruptions continued despite Speaker Om Birla's repeated pleas to maintain decorum, the House was adjourned after nearly 40 minutes till 2 pm. Four newly elected members --- Maddila Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress), Mangal Suresh Angadi (BJP), M P Abdussamad Samadani (IUML), Vijayakumar (Congress) --- took oath as the House convened after a gap of nearly four months. Following this, the Prime Minister stood up to introduce the newly inducted ministers who took oath on July 7 following a major rejig in the council of ministers. As soon as Modi stood up, opposition members started shouting slogans and disrupted the proceedings. On the other hand, Rajya Sabha proceedings on the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect for departed two sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned the passing away of the two sitting MPs as well as 10 former members, including Bollywood veteran actor Dilip Kumar and legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh. He read out obituary references for each of the 13 before adjourning the proceedings for an hour "as a mark of respect to memory of Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav, sitting members of house, the house stands adjourned for one hour". While nominated member Mohapatra died on May 9 at the age of 78 years, Congress leader Satav passed away on May 16 at the age of 46 years. Earlier, the tone for the first day of the Monsoon session was set with Opposition parties meeting in the House to chalk out a joint strategy to take on the government, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged MPs and Opposition parties to ask ‘toughest’ questions in the Parliament asserting that the government should also be allowed to respond to them. Congress MP Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion on the issue of farmers' protest. In his adjournment notice, Tewari said he seeks to discuss a definite matter of urgent importance, namely -- "in large numbers, farmers have come out against the three acts passed by the central government which threaten their livelihood". The Farmers 'Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have been opposed on the grounds that they will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation by the corporate sector, Tewari said in his notice. He alleged that the government has failed to assuage the concerns of the farmers or present any viable alternative to these acts. "There is a palpable fear among the farmers that the Minimum Support Price will be dismantled and the role of state governments in APMCS will be affected. "About 300 farmers have died while protesting against the unfair laws passed by the Centre. The matter is of urgent importance and I hereby request the permission to raise this issue," Tewari said in his notice. CPI (M) MPs Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan have given adjournment notices under rule 267 for discussing the farmers' protest in Rajya Sabha. CPI MP Binoy Viswam has also given an adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha on the Pegasus spying issue. The activities of the Opposition did not seem to trouble Narendra Modi who on Tuesday said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. Modi said he has urged all floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give them detailed information on the pandemic. "We want discussion inside Parliament as well as outside it with floor leaders on Covid pandemic," he said. Modi said the government is ready to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and the toughest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said. “It increases the trust of the people and improves the pace of development,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Rains pick up again in Mumbai||A day after heavy showers battered Mumbai, the rain intensity reduced briefly on Monday morning and picked up momentum again, leading to water-logging at some places and disrupting local train services, officials said. On Sunday, 30 people were killed in the metropolis in rain-related incidents, including 19 in Mahul area of Chembur where a retaining wall collapsed on some houses after a landslide. On Monday, no fresh death was reported, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. However, after a brief spell of reduced intensity, the rains picked up pace again, causing inundation in some areas. Local train services of the Central Railway were affected due to water-logging on tracks between Vikhroli and Bhandup following heavy showers in parts of the suburbs, CR's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said. The suburban train services were suspended in that section of the main line from 10.35 am to 10.50 am as a precautionary measure, he said. "Trains are being run at a cautious speed between Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli stations due to heavy rain," Sutar said. The station yard in neighbouring Thane was also water-logged and as a result, trains were running slow, railway sources said. In the Kasara Ghat section, located about 130 km from Mumbai, a mudslide occurred on one of the three rail lines early Monday morning, Sutar said. Traffic was affected only on the down line due to the mudslide, but trains were running on the middle and up lines, according to the Central Railway. The eastern suburbs of Mumbai recorded the highest 90.65 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Monday, as compared to 48.88 mm rainfall in the island city and 51.89 mm rainfall in western suburbs, a BMC official said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai on Monday, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain at few places". According to BMC officials, there is a forecast of moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in the city and suburbs with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An orange' alert indicates that the authorities are expected to be prepared. According to civic officials, bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were running normally. On Sunday evening, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the preparedness by various government agencies to tackle any emergency. Thackeray had directed the agencies to remain more alert and asked authorities to keep a watch on landslide-prone areas and dilapidated buildings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Opposition set to corner Centre in Parliament||Opposition parties are set to corner the government in Parliament on various issues, including the farmers' protest and price rise, during the Monsoon session starting Monday. Leaders of various parties met at Parliament House to chalk out a joint strategy to take on the government. The Congress has also geared up to raise various matters, including the issue of snooping. Congress MP Manish Tewari has moved an adjournment motion on the issue of farmers' protest. In his adjournment notice, Tewari said he seeks to discuss a definite matter of urgent importance, namely -- "in large numbers, farmers have come out against the three acts passed by the central government which threaten their livelihood". The Farmers 'Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have been opposed on the grounds that they will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation by the corporate sector, Tewari said in his notice. He alleged that the government has failed to assuage the concerns of the farmers or present any viable alternative to these acts. "There is a palpable fear among the farmers that the Minimum Support Price will be dismantled and the role of state governments in APMCS will be affected. "About 300 farmers have died while protesting against the unfair laws passed by the Centre. The matter is of urgent importance and I hereby request the permission to raise this issue," Tewari said in his notice. CPI (M) MPs Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan have given adjournment notices under rule 267 for discussing the farmers' protest in Rajya Sabha. CPI MP Binoy Viswam has also given an adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha on the Pegasus spying issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Modi urges MPs to ask ‘sharpest’ questions in Parliament||Prime Minster Narendra Modi on Monday urged MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and toughest of questions to the government in the Monsoon session of Parliament, asserting that the government should also be allowed to respond to them. Speaking with reporters ahead of the start of the session, Modi said he wants meaningful discussions in Parliament over the Covid pandemic which has gripped the entire world. Modi said he has urged all floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give them detailed information on the pandemic. "We want discussion inside Parliament as well as outside it with floor leaders on Covid pandemic," he said. Modi said the government is ready to give the answers that the people of the country want. "I urge all MPs and political parties to ask the sharpest and the toughest of questions but they should also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment as democracy is strengthened by conveying the truth to the people," Modi said. “It increases the trust of the people and improves the pace of development,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||India adds over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 499 casualties in a day||India saw a single day rise of 38,164 new coronavirus infections, while the death toll climbed to 4,14,108 with 499 fresh fatalities, the lowest in over three months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The COVID-19 case tally has climbed to 3,11,44,229. The active cases have declined to 4,21,665 and comprise 1.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.32 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 995 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,63,593 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,54,22,256, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 28 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.08 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,08,456 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 40.64 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 499 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra and 81 from Kerala. A total of 4,14,108 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,27,031 from Maharashtra, 36,157 from Karnataka, 33,724 from Tamil Nadu, 25,027 from Delhi, 22,719 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,999 from West Bengal and 16,233 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Overnight rains lead to waterlogging, traffic snarls in Delhi||The national capital woke up to incessant overnight rains on Monday morning that caused waterlogging in several parts of the city. The city registered 70 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast "light to moderate intensity rain" over Delhi and NCR during the day. According to the IMD, a below 15 mm rainfall is considered "light", between 15 and 64.5 mm is "moderate", between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is "heavy" and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is "very heavy", and above 204.4 mm is considered as "extremely heavy". The weather department issued advisory suggesting "slippery roads and traffic disruption" due to thunderstorm and rain. It also warned against "partial damage to plantation, horticulture, standing crops, vulnerable structures, kutcha houses and huts" due to rains and strong winds. It added that moderate to heavy spells of rain may cause "occasional reduction in visibility" and waterlogging may occur in the low lying areas. Rains in the city led to waterlogging and traffic snarls on several road stretches including ITO and Pul Prahladpur. Some of the stretches where waterlogging was reported were Ring Road, Pragati Maidan, Palam, Kirari and Rohtak road. Waterlogging was reported at Pulpehladpur under railway bridge. Traffic is diverted from MB (Mehrauli-Badarpur) road towards Mathura road, the Delhi traffic police said in a tweet. Traffic snarls were witnessed on Ring Road near Millennium Park, Sarai Kale Khan, Kilokri, near IP Flyover, Dhaula Kuan, Vikas Marg, Azadpur, among others. Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with on a priority basis. “Our field staff along with senior engineers is on the ground. Water is being removed from streets,” a PWD official said. The IMD also advised to "stay indoors, close windows and doors and avoid travel if possible" and not to take shelter under trees. "Do not lie on concrete floors and do not lean against concrete walls. Unplug electrical/electronic appliances. Immediately get out of water bodies. Keep away from all the objects that conduct electricity," the MeT Department advised. The city recorded minimum temperature of 24.2 degrees Celsius, three points below the normal for the season. The relative humidity was recorded at 100 per cent at 8.30 am. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 32 degrees Celsius. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the air quality index (AQI) at 9 am in Delhi stood at 89. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Top LeT commander among 2 killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||A top commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), responsible for attacks and killings of security forces and civilians, was among two militants killed in an overnight encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Monday. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Check Sadiq Khan area of south Kashmir district on Sunday after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated. In the exchange of firing, two militants were killed, the official said. One of the slain militants was identified as Ishfaq Dar alias Abu Akram, a top commander of LeT, Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said. Dar was active since 2017 and responsible for a very large number of terror crime cases, including attacks on and killings of police, security forces and civilians, Singh said. He said the other militant has been identified as Majid Iqbal. The night-long operation has concluded, the Jammu and Kashmir's top police official said. An Army official said two AK rifles with eight magazines were recovered from the site of the encounter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Bengal scientists develop world’s hardest self-healing material ||Bengal scientists have developed the world’s hardest known self-healing material in a laboratory feat that they say could lead to mobile phone screens that repair their own cracks in less than a second. The researchers from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,Calcutta, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, have synthesised an organic crystalline material with a unique internal molecular structure that spontaneously repairs itself when damaged. The scientists used a needle to trigger mild to severe cracks in a segment of the material and watched as the cracks automatically reversed themselves within a fraction of a second after the needle pressure was withdrawn. Self-healing materials have been under study worldwide for over three decades and have entered into engineering applications, mainly for wear-resistance in the construction, automotive and aerospace industries. They have also entered kitchens in the form of self-healing cutting boards. But almost all known self-healing materials are soft and amorphous — having an internal structure marked by irregularities and defects — and require some external stimulus such as heat, light or a chemical agent to heal themselves. “Our self-healing material is 10 times harder than others,” said Chilla Malla Reddy, a chemical sciences professor at the IISER who led the research. “And it has a crystalline structure, a well-ordered internal structure, the favoured structure in most electronics and optical applications.” Reddy and his colleagues synthesised tiny single crystals of an organic material — each needle-shaped crystal being 1mm to 2mm long and 0.1mm to 0.2mm wide. The crystals’ molecular arrangement is such that when a fracture occurs, a strong attractive force between the two surfaces causes the fragments to rejoin. The scientists have published their experimental results in the US research journal Science. The organic material they have synthesised belongs to a class of substances called piezoelectric crystals that can turn mechanical energy into electrical energy or electrical energy into mechanical energy. “Piezoelectric materials are ubiquitous in industry and scientific applications,” said Nirmalya Ghosh, a physical sciences professor at the IISER who was part of the research team. The self-healing property could be useful in any application where the piezoelectric materials are repeatedly loaded and unloaded and are at risk of fracture or damage. Piezoelectric materials are used in robots, on spacecraft, in modern microscopes, and elsewhere. Reddy said the substance the team has developed demonstrates that self-healing and hard crystalline structures can be coupled. It also has optical properties. “I can imagine applications for an everyday device,” said Bhanu Bhushan Khatua, one of the researchers, from IIT Kharagpur. “Such materials could be used for mobile phone screens that will repair themselves if they fall and develop cracks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||Decision to let PM address MPs in the Parliament annexe stirs row||The Centre has proposed to have Prime Minister Narendra Modi address MPs on Covid in the Parliament annexe instead of the floor of the House, upsetting the Opposition even before the monsoon session begins on Monday. A separate building, the annexe is part of the extended Parliament complex and has been a venue for public events and other meetings. But legislative procedures are never conducted there. Opposition MPs called the proposal “highly irregular” and an attempt to bypass the legislature. The Prime Minister’s plan to address the MPs was announced by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi during an all-party meeting on Sunday. “MPs do not want fancy PowerPoint presentations on #COVID19 from the PM or this Government in some conference room. #Parliament is in session. Come to the FLOOR OF THE HOUSE,” tweeted Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien. Most of the Opposition parties are understood to have opposed the government’s move at the meeting itself, insisting they do not want to be addressed outside Parliament when the session is on. Modi, who attended the all-party meeting, did not comment on the issue in his tweet about the interaction. “Took part in the All-Party meeting before the start of Parliament’s Monsoon Session. We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner,” Modi tweeted. Again, O’Brien was quick to respond: “Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. The #Parliament meeting lasted for 2 hours and 40 minutes. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/ video cams in for 2 minutes. And spoke to us for 4 minutes.” According to an Opposition leader, the meeting was, as always, an exercise by the government to project an appearance of consultation while being only interested in having its way. With the farmers protesting the three farm laws planning to pile pressure on the Opposition to take up their issue constructively in Parliament, the Opposition is expected to bring it up on Monday itself along with the price rise and the Covid mismanagement. Centre-state relations, too, are an issue that may generate considerable heat during the session with several Opposition states upset at the way the Union government has been riding roughshod over them. The DMK is expected to take the lead in the matter. Further weakened after the last round of Assembly elections, the Congress may find it more difficult than before to take the lead in Opposition coordination. More so because it will be pitted against several of the Opposition parties in the next round of state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
19-07-2021||India||J&K artistes struggle to find work post abrogation of article 370||Television actor Hassan Javed agrees there has been “development” in Jammu and Kashmir after its special status was scrapped in August 2019. Rather, “a development”. “They have succeeded in crushing us (the artistes’ community),” Javed, who has been lead actor in more than 100 television serials, told The Telegraph. He is among hundreds of television and theatre actors, singers and producers who once earned a living thanks to the programmes run by Doordarshan or All India Radio or the plays and events organised by the (then) state government’s Cultural Academy here. These were their sole source of livelihood given the absence of private entertainment channels in Jammu and Kashmir. But from 2012, there has been no work on Doordarshan, apparently because of a lack of funds. That prompted some artistes to shift to other professions. For the rest, the Cultural Academy and AIR provided some respite. But, Javed said, these avenues too have disappeared since the dilution of Article 370 — which the government says would bring development to Kashmir. “Since August 5 (2019), we have been literally dying. They promised us development but pushed us 100 years back,” Javed said. “In the absence of Doordarshan (programmes), we survived on theatre shows organised by the Cultural Academy. But now there is no work or money. Hundreds of artistes performed in a drama festival organised in March but we are yet to get our dues.” The problem of unpaid dues dates back to a decade. “I received my last payment (from Doordarshan) in 2011, although I worked in many in-house programmes after that. Doordarshan owes me not less than Rs 5 lakh and there are many like me,” Javed said. “We have been told that there was some corruption in the allotment of those programmes, but why hold us responsible and not the officers who hired us? Why has our payment been withheld?” Khurshid Mir, another actor, said the absence of work had pushed him to penury. “My children were studying in good private schools but I was forced to admit them to government schools. We are all going through hell,” he said. Javed recalled how, two decades ago, the launch of DD Kashir, the Valley’s second channel after DD Srinagar, had brought hope to artistes. “I remember the day the Kashir channel was started in 2000 and inaugurated by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. They wanted to lure the youth to television. You had people setting up studios, others buying cameras and music systems,” Javed said. He said hundreds became TV producers and artistes in a matter of months after DD Kashir was set up. “I might have taken up a job or started some business, but I joined this profession after they promised us the moon, at the bidding of Vajpayeeji. But this BJP government has done absolutely nothing for us,” he said. DD Kashir and DD Srinagar nowadays show old programmes apart from beaming government propaganda. CPM veteran Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami has petitioned the government for help, saying the artistes have been pushed to starvation. “There are hundreds of artistes whose families were solely dependent on production work at the Kashir channel. All these years, they managed to run their families with some savings, which have now been exhausted. They have no other source of income,” Tarigami said. “In other parts of the country, states have devised policies and guidelines to help local talent. Unfortunately, in Kashmir, DD authorities have framed policies to keep local talent away from employment opportunities.” Dr Nasib Singh Manhas, head of programmes at Srinagar Doordarshan, acknowledged that artistes had no work and faced poverty. He said his department was working on the problem and that the artistes might get some reprieve in the coming months. “I have sent a proposal (to higher-ups). There are young, unemployed boys and if they get work, it’s good. You know there was Covid and a lockdown... but I’m pursuing (the matter),” he said. “So far as the money (artistes’ dues lying with Doordarshan) is concerned, some committees have been set up and they will take a call.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Pegasus: List of Indian journalists targetted by spyware leaked||Around 300 phones belonging to Indian journalists, government officials, rights activists and a wide cross-section of businessmen are believed to have been targeted by Pegasus spyware made by Israeli company NSO which says it sells only to “vetted governments”. The Indian numbers targeted were revealed after a joint global-scale investigation conducted by Indian website The Wire, The Washington Post, The Guardian, Le Monde, Die Zeit and 12 other Arab, Mexican and European news organisations. The news organisations were given a leaked database of numbers by Paris-based media non-profit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International. The global investigation examined 37 phones of which 10 were Indian to confirm that they had been targeted by spyware. Soon after the story broke simultaneously around the world, Indian journalist Swati Chaturvedi, whose phone is believed to have been tapped, tweeted: “Dear @PMOIndia why did your government put me on an intrusive surveillance list? For committing a crime of doing investigative journalism. Why was Pegasus software introduced on my phone? Pegasus is sold only to governments.” The government has denied any link with the spyware and said, “We have nothing to fear and the government has nothing to hide. We will reply to any query. The news article proves nothing. In fact, previous attempts to link Pegasus with the government have failed," the government said. The Wire said that the leaked database had numbers of over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, serving government ministers, current and formers officials of security organisations and “scores of businesspersons”.  The Wire itself was heavily targeted. Forensic analysis was carried out on 37 phones globally including 10 from India. Amongst the phones analysed were those belonging to The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan and co-founder Paranjoy Guha Thakurta. “You feel violated. This is an incredible intrusion and journalists should not have to deal with this,” Varadarajan told The Guardian. The forensic analysis is essential to prove that the phones have been infected with Pegasus Spyware. For technical reasons it is easier to analyse if Pegasus software has been used in iPhones than in Android ones. The phone of another journalist, Sushant Singh, who had worked on an investigation into the Rafale deal, was also subjected to forensic analysis and appeared to have had spyware installed on it. Singh told The Wire: “It is a violation of privacy…..Secondly, it compromises a journalist’s ability to report on matters of grave national importance. Other Indian journalists whose names appear on the list that dates back to 2016 include Shishir Gupta, executive editor of the Hindustan Times; former editorial page editor Prashant Jha; defence correspondent Rahul Singh and Aurangazeb Naqshbandi who covered the Congress. In addition to these names, other leading journalists who appear to have been under surveillance include Muzamil Jaleel who writes on Kashmir, India Today defence writer Sandeep Unnithan and Vijaita Singh who writes on the Home Ministry for The Hindu. Singh’s phone contained traces of an attempted Pegasus infection, according to The Wire. One phone number on the Pegasus Projects database was earlier registered in the name of a sitting Supreme Court judge, The Wire said. However, it said the judge had given up the number at some point in the last few years. Most of the numbers on the Pegasus database came from 10 countries including India, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bahrain, Morocco, Mexico and Rwanda. Pegasus initially hit the headlines around the world in 2019 after it was reported that 1,400 phones had been targeted using the software. Whatsapp filed a suit against the NSO Group which created the software. Rumours had been circulating all Sunday that a major story was about to break and Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy tweeted, “Strong rumour that this evening Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges & journalists.” At an international level, more chillingly, the former fiancée of murdered Saudi journalist and dissident Jamal Khashoggi was found to have been tapped. Two other Turkish officials inquiring into the Khashoggi murder were also tapped. The Pegasus database contains more than 50,000 potential global surveillance targets. NSO insists it only offers its spyware to governments for use in tracking terrorists and big-time criminals. The hacking software known as Pegasus is employed to infect iPhones and Android phones to extract messages, photographs, emails, record calls and activate microphones. The malware can be put on a smartphone by clicking on a malicious link or through an app vulnerability. The NSO Group refuses to divulge the list of its customers.  It denied in a statement “false claims” about the actions of its customers but promised to “investigation all credible claims of misuse and take appropriate action.” It called the report of 50,000 potential surveillance targets “exaggerated”. The telephone numbers on the list were printed without names but the investigation managed to identify over 1,000 people in more than 50 nations.  They included 189 journalists globally, including those working at the Financial Times, The New York Times and CNN. There were also more than 600 politicians and government officials, including cabinet ministers, diplomats and military figures, and 85 human rights activists. The Indian government said in its written statement there has been “no unauthorised interception” by government agencies.  It said the country is a “robust democracy” committed to ensuring “the right to privacy of all its citizens.” However, the occupations of the people to whom the Indian numbers belonged suggested that an official Indian agency would have been behind any attempt to place them on the list, The Wire said. The Indian Telegraph Act and Information Technology Act lays out strict procedures that must be followed for lawful interception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Three top Maoists surrender to Odisha police on Covid fear ||The fear of being infected with Covid-19 virus has forced three top Maoists to surrender to the Odisha police. The three rebels identified as Sabita, Talse Huika and Raidhara, surrendered before DGP Abhay during his visit to the Malkangiri and Koraput districts on Sunday. Sources said out of the fear of being infected with the virus made them give up arms. While Sabita and Talse Huika were carrying a cash reward of Rs 4 lakh each on their heads, Raidhara had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on him. Sabita, who was an area committee member, said: “Many members of our party have been infected with Covid-19 while many others have died. I was scared. The Odisha government’s surrender and rehabilitation policy for the Maoists has motivated me to surrender.” In 2000, she joined the revolutionary Maoist organisation as a primary member and later received one month of weapons as well as political training under the guidance of Maoist trainer Loknath. In 2010, she was given an INSAS rifle. She had participated in many attacks on security forces and ambush in Sukma district in Chhattisgarh. In a press release, police said: “She has disclosed that remaining few local/active Maoist cadres are also willing to surrender and join the mainstream of the society because of the torturous behaviour of Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh cadres but they are not being allowed to surrender by the senior Maoist leaders who are threatening them of killing them and their family members. We appeal to them to leave the obsolete, out-dated ways of Maoist party, come to the mainstream and become a part of the on-going peaceful developmental process of his area.” The police further said, “Sabita saw that Covid-19 pandemic is hitting the Maoist organisation guard and many Maoists are suffering/dying from Covid-19 without getting proper medical treatment.” Talse Huika, who was working as the area committee member, was inducted in the CPI(Maoist) in 2012. She was lured by the Maoists to join the “Jana Natya Mandali”, the cultural wing of the Maoists, at the age of 13 in gross violation of child rights and thus deprived of formal education. She participated in five attacks on security forces along with several other incidents during her underground life. Raidhara joined the organisation in 2017 and he was entrusted with conducting meetings of cadres and militia with nearby villagers. “All of them will be given monetary aid as per the rehabilitation policy. They should shun violence and surrender. Police will not act in a vindictive manner against them,” the DGP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Odisha govt to provide Rs 5,000 cr business to women self-help groups ||The Odisha government will provide business worth Rs 5,000 crore in five years to women self-help groups in the state through Mission Shakti to enhance their economic power and strengthen their sources of livelihood, officials said. Sources said Mission Shakti has achieved impressive progress and provided business worth Rs 2,800 crore in two years to women’s groups in convergence with different departments. Odisha has over six lakh women self-help groups. In order to enlarge the scope of enhancing the income base of these groups, Mission Shakti in convergence with the State Urban Development Authority under the housing and urban development department is setting up three state-of-the-art pickle manufacturing units at Baripada, Berhampur and Dhenkanal to cater to the needs of Aahaar centres across Odisha. Earlier, the state government had handed over unused buildings at the panchayat level to be used by the groups and involved them in a number of income-generating activities. Under the Aahaar programme, standardised hot cooked meals (rice and dalma) are provided at Rs 5 to the urban poor. All the 166 Aahaar centres in the state are managed by the self-help groups. “Each meal includes 10g pickle. Hence, at least 1MT (metric tonnes) a day or 300MT per year of pickle is required to cater to all 166 Aahaar centres across the state. Till now the SHGs were purchasing pickle from the open market. Now the state government has decided to tap the potential of women entrepreneurship through SHGs under Mission Shakti by encouraging them to manage the semi-mechanised pickle manufacturing units,” an official said. The state government has selected Maa Durga SHG, Baripada, Bighneswar II SHG, Berhampur, and Mahasangam Mission Shakti ALF, Dhenkanal, to run the pickle manufacturing units and fulfil the annual demand of 300MT pickle for Aahaar centres. Each unit will supply pickle to the Aahaar centres of 10 districts each. “All the three Mission Shakti SHGs have signed an MoU (memorandum of understanding) with the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI-CSIR), Mysore, for technology transfer of pickle-making process. The CFTRI and horticulture department officials are providing necessary training to these SHGs,” an official said. According to the norms of the Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), food safety supervisors have been engaged at the pickle-making units as quality assurance is one of the key aspects of the process. “The groups have already procured requisite raw materials such as mango, lemon, carrot, ginger, green chilli and other spices and cured the ingredients and stored them in the centre for future use. All three Mission Shakti groups have been provided with a loan of Rs 30 lakh each from HDFC Bank to meet the working capital and cost of equipment for operationalisation of the pickle uUnits. The units will start production from August 2021,” an official said. “The estimated cost of production comes to Rs 45 per kg and the selling price has been proposed as Rs 51. Each unit will supply 100MT pickle to Aahaar (centres). Thus, the estimated profit is approximately Rs 6 lakh per annum from each unit after meeting all expenditure. “With increase in efficiency and quantity of production, future provisioning of sale of pickles in the open market will provide more income for these groups,” said a government media release issued on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Centre asks BSF to deploy more UAVs along the Bangladesh border ||The Centre has asked the Border Security Force to deploy more unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along the Bangladesh border to crack down on infiltration and smuggling, sources in the border force said. The UAVs provide real images of any possible infiltration and smuggling attempt. The paramilitary force is also working to seal segments of borders with Bangladesh and Pakistan with a smart-technology aided fence to check the increasing incidents of infiltration along the international boundaries with two of India’s neighbouring countries. “The Centre has asked the force to deploy more UAVs along the Bangladesh frontier. The focus on more aerial surveillance will help our personnel in keeping a close eye on vulnerable zones prone to infiltration,” said a BSF official. The border guarding force is deployed at the 4,096km-long international border with Bangladesh that runs through Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The BSF also guards the International Border with Pakistan. The UAVs are also useful in crackdown on smuggling of fake currency notes, cattle and narcotics, besides human trafficking. The smart-technology aided fence will work both as a surveillance tool and warning system. Once it is completed, BSF troops can keep surveillance through a monitor from control rooms. As soon as there is any infiltration attempt, the alarms will go off and would alert the troops immediately. The border guarding force has identified nearly 2,050km length as vulnerable points on the two borders that are presently without fence including riverine border. The Centre is also considering the BSF’s proposal for raising additional battalions to fortify Bangladesh and Pakistan frontiers. Raising of additional battalions will ensure better patrolling and guarding of border outposts, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Opposition parties demand restoration of MPLADS funds ||Political parties, including the Congress and the Trinamul Congress, on Sunday demanded at an all-party meeting that the MPLADS funds be restored, sources said. The Speaker, who chaired the meeting, assured them that he will raise the issue with the government, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and floor leaders of various parties were present in the meeting on the eve of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, TMC leader Sudeep Bandopadhyay, YSR Congress leader Midhun Reddy were among those who raised the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Centre deliberately derailed OBC reservation: Activists ||The Centre has deliberately derailed the implementation of OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges from this academic year, Ambedkarites, Other Backward Classes activists and a former high court judge have alleged. They accuse the Centre of “cunning” in lobbing to the Supreme Court a Madras High Court directive in favour of the reservation — on the ground that a similar case was pending in the apex court — despite the top court having last year allowed the high court to take its own decision in the matter. “This is a cunning way to delay the implementation of the OBC reservation,” Dilip Mandal, an Ambedkarite writer, said. “The Madras High Court direction was conclusive; there were no legal hurdles to implementing it.” At issue is the Centre’s refusal to implement OBC reservation for the 15 per cent undergraduate seats and 50 per cent postgraduate seats at state medical colleges that come under the all-India pool. The Union health ministry’s logic is that it is mandated by law to provide 27 per cent OBC reservation only in centrally funded institutions. It therefore implements the quota only in its own medical colleges like AIIMS. The state governments implement their own OBC quota in their pool of seats. In Tamil Nadu, for instance, OBC reservation is 50 per cent while the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes get 18 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively. An aspiring medical student’s petition for enforcement of the OBC quota in the all-India pool seats has been pending in the apex court since 2015. Last year, the Tamil Nadu government requested the top court to direct Madras High Court to rule expeditiously on a similar petition before it. The apex court said on July 13, 2020, that Madras High Court could proceed with the case. On July 27, 2020, Madras High Court directed the OBC quota’s implementation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges, a ruling that legal experts said applied across the country. An expert committee formed under the high court’s orders suggested the terms of the implementation but mentioned the pending case in the Supreme Court. The Union health ministry told the committee that it supported implementation of the quota. But the central government recently placed the committee report before the Supreme Court, where the progress of the pending case has been slow. “The Centre could have appealed against the Madras High Court ruling before the Supreme Court. Otherwise, it had to implement the high court direction in letter and spirit, which it does not seem to be doing,” Shashank Ratnoo, Supreme Court lawyer and an expert on OBC issues, said. Pro-reservation activists said they feared the matter would now be stuck for several years. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes, said the Centre was “wilfully” denying OBCs their right. “I’m of the firm opinion that the central government was free to implement OBC reservation in all-India pool seats in state medical colleges. But it wilfully and intentionally clubbed the issue with the pending case to deny the OBCs admission to seats meant for them,” Eswaraiah said. G. Karunanidhy, general secretary of the Chennai-based All India Federation for Backward Classes Employees Welfare Association, accused the Centre of delay tactics. “The government wants to delay the implementation of the OBC reservation. We have taken this up with Opposition MPs, who will raise it in Parliament in the coming session,” Karunanidhy said. The Centre does provide for the 15 per cent Scheduled Caste reservation and 7.5 per cent Scheduled Tribe quota in the all-India seats at state medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui buried at  Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard||Slain photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard on Sunday night, where a sea of mourners had gathered. Siddiqui’s mortal remains were brought to India on Sunday evening by an Air India flight from Afghanistan, where the photojournalist was killed while on assignment. A large crowd of family members and friends had gathered at his Jamia Nagar residence, from where the body was taken to the university campus for burial around 10.15pm. “Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child,” the university had said in a statement earlier in the day. Siddiqui had done his master’s from Jamia Millia Islamia. His father Akhtar Siddiqui was the dean of the faculty of education there. Siddiqui had studied at A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia from 2005 to 2007. The officiating director of A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC) said: “Danish was one of the brightest stars in our hall of fame and a proactive alumnus who kept returning to his alma mater to share with students his work and experiences. We will miss him deeply but are determined to keep his memory alive.” Professor Sabeena Gadihoke said his photographs were hard-hitting but he never compromised on the dignity of those within his frames. “Danish had the unique ability to bestow a journalistic picture with empathy and to give dignity and grace to his subjects,” she added. In 2018, Siddiqui was awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award by MCRC. During the ceremony, he described being a photojournalist as both an honour and a responsibility to bear witness for those who could not speak for themselves, in the hope that he could make a change for the better, the JTA said. JTA president Professor Majid Jamil described his death as a big loss to journalism and the Jamia community. Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018, worked for Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Mayawati plans to hold 'Brahmin sammelans' across Uttar Pradesh||Mayawati plans to hold “Brahmin sammelans” across Uttar Pradesh from this week, trying to woo a community that has traditionally been with the BJP but increasingly feels victimised by the Yogi Adityanath government. The first of these conventions is scheduled on July 23 in Ayodhya, a venue of symbolic importance for the BJP and the Brahmins, who had supported the Bahujan Samaj Party in the 2007 elections but later drifted away feeling neglected. “The BJP misled the Brahmins in recent elections for their votes. But we all know what is happening with the Brahmins under the present government. They are disillusioned,” Mayawati said at a news conference in Lucknow on Sunday. “I believe they will follow the example of the Dalits and vote for the BSP in (next year’s) Assembly elections. We shall reassemble the Brahmins under the BSP the way we had done in 2007.” Mayawati said party general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Satish Chandra Mishra — the BSP’s Brahmin face who had mobilised the community’s support in 2007 — would pray at the temporary Ram temple on July 23 before addressing the Brahmins of the district. “I have authorised Satish Chandra Mishra to start Brahmin conventions across Uttar Pradesh. It will start from Ayodhya on July 23 and the first phase of the campaign will conclude on July 29,” she said. Each phase will cover six districts, with the entire state -— which has 75 districts — covered by the end of the year, Mayawati said. “The Brahmins had voted for the BSP in 2007 and helped it form the government. We reciprocated by giving them honour and respect, but they fell prey to the BJP and supported them in subsequent elections,” she said. Mayawati had formed the government in 2007 with the combined votes of the Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims. Many Brahmins believe that Adityanath is targeting the community and promoting only his Kshatriya caste members in the administration and police. Among incidents that have angered the community are a police constable’s shooting of Vivek Tiwari, an Apple executive, on a Lucknow road and the “encounter killings” of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen. After Tiwari was shot dead in his car in September 2018, the police made vague allegations of crime against him. Many Brahmins believe the police were trying to protect constable Prashant Chaudhary, who allegedly shot Tiwari. It didn’t help that Chaudhary was a member of the anti-Romeo squad that Adityanath had formed for women’s safety but which has become non-functional amid allegations of violence and harassment. The Brahmins believe that Dubey and his men were killed in cold blood after they had surrendered. After Dubey’s killing, Mayawati had in July last year claimed the state’s Brahmins were terrorised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||India||Sidhu named Punjab Congress chief after hold-up||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday announced the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab unit chief despite fresh protests by party MPs and some MLAs who had planned to meet her on Monday to oppose the plan. Apart from Sidhu, four working presidents were appointed — Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goyal and Kuljit Singh Nagra. The central leadership had put off the announcement in the evening, abruptly cancelling a scheduled press conference because of fresh objections, triggering concerns about the high command’s vulnerability under pressure. While the members of Parliament met at the residence of former state president Partap Singh Bajwa ostensibly to discuss a strategy to raise the farmers’ issue, the main concern was the appointment of Sidhu as party chief. Sources said the dominant sentiment was that Sidhu didn’t have any connect with the organisation and why couldn’t an experienced leader like Bajwa be preferred if a Jat Sikh could be appointed party chief by violating the pragmatic idea of giving space to a Hindu leader. The sudden emergence of the Bajwa factor is curious, demonstrating how political dynamics changes with situational logic. Bajwa has been the chief mnister’s main critic in the state ever since he had to relinquish his position of state chief before the last Assembly election. This was part of Captain’s condition and Bajwa, much before Sidhu turned a rebel, had been publicly taking a stand against the chief minister on many issues. He was known as the anti-Captain pole in Punjab politics. But Bajwa suddenly did a somersault and was seen at the chief minister’s residence on Saturday night. Party MP Manish Tewari, a diehard Captain loyalist, tweeted, “Good to see Partap Singh Bajwa and Captain together along with our honourable Speaker of assembly Rana KP Singh and Sports Minister Gurmeet Sodhi. Partap who I know since 1983 and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead. He is an old dyed in the wool Congressman.” The metamorphosis of Bajwa’s bitterness towards Captain into “team” spirit was swift, indicating new grouping in the state to oppose Sidhu’s rise. Bajwa knows his space in state politics will shrink if Sidhu’s leadership is established and hence he jumped on the Captain bandwagon. A leader close to Sidhu suspected Bajwa sided with Captain in the hope of becoming the deputy chief minister and together they were creating confusion and blackmailing the high command. These MPs planned to meet Sonia on Monday to oppose Sidhu’s elevation. Ten MLAs also issued a statement on Saturday asking the high command not to let down Captain at this critical juncture as he remained the biggest mass leader of the state. But the incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of MLAs and district presidents of the state where a resolution was expected to be passed saying the entire Punjab unit was united behind the high command. Jakhar is the one who lost his position to Sidhu. His decision to call this meeting clearly manifested the divide in the Congress in Punjab. Asked about the purpose  of Monday’s meeting, Jakhar told The Telegraph over phone from Chandigarh (before the announcement of Sidhu’s appointment), “This is to clear the air. Discordant voices by vested interests have created an impression of split in the Punjab unit. We want to send out a clear message that the party is united behind the high command. There is no question of challenging Sonia Gandhi’s decision.” This meeting could have showcased the division in the party as the attendance of district presidents and MLAs would have made it clear who stood where in this battle. The high command, however, prevented another tamasha by making the announcement on Sunday night itself. An MLA who didn’t wish to be identified, said: “The politics of blackmail will not succeed as majority of party workers and MLAs are determined to go with the high command. Three-four persons have conspired to create this impression of confrontation.” Sidhu, who hardly ever lived in his ancestral home in Patiala for over a decade, has now shifted base there along with his wife, who is also a former MLA. Patiala is known as Captain’s fiefdom but the centre of gravity appeared to be shifting from his palace Motibagh even as office-bearers kept a distance from Sidhu. MLA Madanlal Jalalpur, known to be close to the Captain, however, hosted Sidhu and his team on Sunday, signalling crack in Captain’s citadel. Sidhu hasn’t responded to Captain’s demand for a public apology so far though he is said to be willing to send out conciliatory messages. Many leaders in Delhi and Punjab believe the political vacuum had given space to politics of discord and blackmail and the central leadership should have cracked the whip by announcing Sidhu’s elevation right away. Some leaders, however, said Punjab would slip out of Congress hand as Captain’s insult would not be appreciated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata unveils 2024 campaign slogan with eye on Delhi||Mamata Banerjee’s intent is now splashed all over Calcutta. “Desh Jaader Chaichhe (whom the country wants)” is the tagline, with 2024 scribbled on top of posters as Mamata prepares to take the next big leap in  national politics, a much-cherished goal of the Bengal chief minister that has eluded her since 2014 when she first went public with her national dream. The new campaign line has been revealed days before Mamata takes the dais on Wednesday, July 21, for a virtual address to her party leaders and workers to commemorate the death of 13 Youth Congress workers in police firing in 1993. “She will reveal her vision and her plan just 48 hours from now. After the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls, it is very much clear that she is the only leader in the country who can stop Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP. The virtual rally of July 21 is scheduled to  be streamed to other states as well. There are plans afoot to show the rally on big screens across Gujarat, the home turf of Modi and Shah, along with Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Assam and some other places. Like last year, Mamata will address party workers from her office at 30B Harish Chatterjee Street, her residence from where she has pitched most of her political battles all her life. “There is tremendous interest around Didi’s political plan. There is an Opposition space in states like Gujarat and Didi wants to get that,” said a Trinamul source. The “Desh Jaader Chaichhe” campaign—with images of Mamata and Abhishek Banerjee-- is a step forward from the catchline that brought Mamata back in the game in Bengal. Trinamul went into the polls this summer with the slogan, “Bangla nijer meyekei chaay (Bengal wants its own daughter)." The “daughter” pitch was a projection of the carefully constructed image of Mamata as the girl next door who took on the CPM behemoth single-handedly and decimated it politically. The Bengal chief minister’s national ambitions are not new. She has tried to put herself in the role of a kingmaker, like when she popped the name of former president Abdul Kalam in 2012 for Rashtrapati Bhawan opposing the UPA nominee Pranab Mukherjee. That move had backfired. Despite winning 40 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata was left with no role in Delhi as the Narendra Modi-led BJP had a clear mandate. The outcome of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls for Modi was the same as 2021 for Mamata. Both returned with a bigger mandate. Soon after his appointment, Trinamul’s new all India general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, had announced that the party  will prepare to contest in other states as well. In the past too Trinamul had contested in states like  Kerala and Gujarat with no impact on the poll results. In the North-East, it had made gains in Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura but could not hold on to it. “The mood of the country is different this time,” said a Trinamul leader. The Uttar Pradesh elections scheduled for early 2022 would be a litmus test for the Opposition and could also be the breakout moment for the Trinamul in national politics. After the Bengal Assembly results, Trinamul launched a membership drive in the state, with its eyes set on disgruntled leaders from the Bahujan Samaj  Party in  rural areas. Mamata’s attempts to bring other national parties into the same platform have yielded mixed results so far. In 2019, she had managed to bring most of the Opposition parties to the Brigade Parade ground in Calcutta. The Assembly poll results have upped her stocks in the national scene, though whether she would be acceptable as the face of the Opposition is yet to be tested. That Trinamul, with sundry charges of corruption and a certain ambiguity towards democratic practices, is not a dependable ally, has been understood by  both the BJP and the Congress over tie-ups sealed during different periods in the last two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth commits suicide after killing brother with sharp instrument in East Midnapore||A 26-year-old youth was murdered with a sharp instrument in East Midnapore’s Chandipur early on Sunday by his younger brother after he had reportedly refused the latter’s demand for money for  online games on his mobile phone for several days. The assailant then apparently poisoned himself at a nearby field and died at hospital on Sunday morning. Neighbours said Suryakanta Mondal, formerly employed as a godown assistant in Sealdah, had taken refuge at a cousin’s home earlier last week after his younger brother Chandrakanta had “terrorised” him for money. “We all knew Chandrakanta as an unfortunate example of a wayward youth. He was unstable, unemployed and frittered away money on online gaming,” said a neighbour, adding that Chandrakanta was “addicted” to an online wartime role-playing game on his phone. The incident occurred at Sultanpur village, where Suryakanta had recently returned on break from Calcutta and where Chandrakanta formerly worked as a mechanic. On Saturday, Chandrakanta also struck his mother on the head during the scuffle with his elder brother. The neighbours said several screams were heard over a period of 30 minutes and aside from the fatal outcome for both the brothers, their mother received 12 stitches and survived. She was admitted to Tamluk district hospital as of Sunday. Neighbours recovered Chandrakanta’s body from near a village road several hours after the incident with a bottle of poison and his bicycle by his side.“Chandrakanta used to ask his brother and mother for money repeatedly,” said cousin and neighbour Subhajit Ghatak. Local panchayat member Ranjan Mondal said the village was “aware of Chandrakanta’s behaviour” but expressed his “utter shock” at Sunday’s incident. “We could have never imagined this outcome,” he said. Tamluk subdivisional police officer Atish Biswas said officials would speak with the deceased’s mother for further details when she regained consciousness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling administration to close all towns for a day every week to tame Covid||The Darjeeling district administration on Sunday decided on closing all towns across the district for one day every week to stem the spread of Covid-19. The focus is on closing the crowded markets in these towns. The day for closure in each town will be decided by local authorities in consultation with trade bodies. For instance, Darjeeling town will be closed on Thursdays. said T. Roy, the SDO. The decision comes in the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the district. On Saturday, Darjeeling district logged 89 new infections, the highest in Bengal. SDO Roy said Chowk Bazar and Chowrasta areas of Darjeeling town will be closed on Thursdays, but essential services, including pharmacies and bakeries, will be open. With a steady trickle of tourists, authorities are undecided whether restaurants in Chowk Bazar and Chowrasta will stay shut on Thursday. Sources said Fuleshwari bazar in ward 24 of Siliguri will be declared a containment zone. Siliguri Municipality Corporation area reported 21 new infections on Saturday. Darjeeling district police increased vigil on tourists coming to the hills. Checkpoints have been set up in places like Simulbari in Kurseong to check if tourists have a negative RT-PCR report or a double vaccination certificate before entering the hills. “Checks are being conducted in hotels and homestays to see if Covid-19 protocols are being followed,” said a police source. On Saturday, police arrested 266 people across the district without proper masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader Pabitra Chanda dies at 55||Pabitra Chanda, the working president of North Dinajpur district Congress, died at a private nursing home here on Sunday afternoon. He was 55. Chanda, a resident of Debinagar in Raiganj town, had been sick for quite some time. On Sunday early morning, as his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the nursing home where he died around 12.30pm. Since his college days, Chanda had been associated with politics and over the years, he handled a number of posts in the Congress. Along with politics, Chanda was also known for his contribution to sports, art and culture. Chanda was a member of the district sports & games association and was also the president of Raiganj Cultural Forum. “Pabitra Chanda was a rare politician in the district because of his cordial relation with leaders of all political parties. His acceptability among people from different walks of life was something that many prominent political leaders would envy,” said a senior Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang’s team members extend support to Anit Thapa ||Members of Binay Tamang’s team that had gone to hand over the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag to their arch-rival Bimal Gurung on Friday extended support to Anit Thapa 48 hours later. The support by people considered close to Tamang and from his Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) constituency of Bloomfield-Risheehat is seen as a major moral boast from Thapa, who took over the reigns of the faction after Tamang had resigned as the party’s president and from its primary membership on Thursday. “There was confusion among the party cadres following the recent development. We held a meeting and many party functionaries have decided to stay with the party and support Anit Thapa,” said Y. Chamling, president of the Morcha faction at Bloomfield-Risheehat. Chamling and his team had gone to Bimal Gurung’s party office at Patlebas on Friday and handed over the Morcha flag to Gurung on the instruction of Tamang. Tamang had said since the “original owner”, Gurung, had returned after being on the run for more than three years, he was handing over the flag. Chamling said his team had followed Tamang’s flag handing directive primarily to fulfil his “family responsibilities”. “Apart from political relations, I also share a family tie with him. I, along with my team, went to hand over the flag to fulfil our family responsibilities,” said Chamling. The Bloomfield-Rishehaat team went to Kurseong on Sunday to extend their support to Thapa. “I would rather quit politics than support Bimal Gurung,” said Thapa. Both Gurung and Thapa’s faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress. Over the past three days, Thapa managed to garner support of most of the functionaries of the faction, including Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha. There has been some churn in hill parties with some former leaders of the Binay Tamang camp joining Bimal Gurung’s faction. On Sunday, leaders of the Darjeeling town committee of the Thapa’s faction, Zahid Khan, Allan Chhetri and Shyam Ghisingh, along with other 20-odd supporters, joined Gurung’s faction. Some supporters from Pedong in Kalimpong and also Kurseong have joined the Gurung camp. Thapa on his part has started reorganising his team, especially in Bijanbari-Marybong and Mirik. Tamang had surprised his party leaders and workers by his decision to quit the faction he had formed in 2017. Tamang had cited a number of reasons from conspiracy to remove him from hill politics to taking moral responsibility for his faction’s defeat in the 2019 and 2021 polls and double standard role being played by some of his party leaders. Tamang, who is preoccupied with rituals following a death in his family, told this newspaper that he would come up with a detailed explanation within a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports drop in cases for two weeks||Bengal on Sunday reported the four consecutive weeks or 28 successive days of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, as the state logged 1,012 recoveries, 801 new infections and 11 deaths. Sunday also marked two weeks or 14 uninterrupted days of reported new infections clocking fewer than 1,000 per day. The total of active cases fell by 222 on Sunday to touch 13,111 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.56 per cent on Sunday, indicating a shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate is at an all-time high of 97.95 per cent and the national rate is 97.28. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. In the key parameter of case growth or the percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that, Bengal is 20th among the states, with its case growth falling by 42.1 per cent. Bengal has been able to maintain a case growth of –40 to –60 for over a month now. Calcutta logged 92 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 72 new infections and two deaths. Sunday was the 11th successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen districts reported double-digit figures. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia logged single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Howrah and South 24-Parganas reported just one death each. The state now has a total of over 15.18 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.87 lakh recoveries and 17,999 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Unidentified persons open fire at Trinamul leader’s home in Cooch Behar ||Unidentified persons on Sunday afternoon entered the gates of the ancestral house of Cooch Behar district Trinamul president Partha Pratim Roy at Jiranpur, some 18km from district headquarters, fired in the air several times and left. Roy was away in Cooch Behar town at the time of the incident but his elderly parents were at home. Police are trying to ascertain the cause of this attack. Roy said he had no answers. Senior police officers rushed to the spot and recovered empty cartridge shells from the spot. Roy’s father has filed a complaint and a probe has started. No one has been reported injured so far. “Around 2pm, I received a phone call from my father who told me that three-four people entered the front area of our house and fired bullets. I immediately rushed home with some party workers. Both my parents are perturbed. I have no inkling as to why some people would organise such an attack,” said the district Trinamul chief. Roy added that he had come to know that the intruders were commuting in a Maruti van. “As they were fleeing, my father saw them getting into the van, but could not identify any of them,” said Roy. The incident sparked tension in the area. A number of local Trinamul leaders and supporters visited Roy. During the past few years, violence has erupted in the district owing to the acute infighting within Trinamul. Internal feuds were also considered a key reason for the party’s poor performance at the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2021 Assembly elections. “But such indiscriminate firing, that too, at the district president’s house, is unprecedented. We doubt if it has any connection with the party. We hope the police find out who all were behind this and nab them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Last month, a self-styled leader of the banned terror outfit Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), Daosar Langkam Koch, had issued a statement where he had accused Roy and Binoy Krishna Burman, Trinamul’s district chairman and a former state minister, of trying to dilute their demand for separate statehood. The two Trinamul leaders should start working towards separate statehood or face the consequences, the KLO leader had said in the statement. “Our officers are exploring all angles. We are also trying to find out the type of firearms used. Security arrangements have been made in the area,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri magistrate writes to PWD and tea company, seeks answers on MP properties ||The district magistrate of Jalpaiguri has written to the state PWD department and a tea company that owns the tea estate in the Dooars, asking them how they allowed John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP, to raise property on their land. Barla, who recently came into limelight for demanding a separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal, has been accused of encroaching on leasehold land of the tea estate and a state government plot to build a house and a commercial complex. The BJP MP, who hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district, allegedly has built a house on land leased out to the tea company by the state and is building a multi-storeyed commercial complex on land owned by the state PWD at Chamurchi More in Banarhat. Acting on local Trinamul leaders’ complaints against Barla’s properties earlier this month, district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had sought a report from the district land and land reforms department on the status of both  plots. The report last week revealed the MP does not own either of these plots. “Based on the report the DM has sent letters to the state PWD and the tea company, asking how they can allow the MP to make constructions on their land. Once she receives replies, she will send a detailed report to the state land and land reforms department and to Nabanna,” said an official of the district administration. Another senior official pointed out that even if it is proved that Barla has encroached upon the plots, it won’t be possible for the district administration to take steps against him. “Permission has to be sought from the Speaker of the Lok Sabha before starting legal proceedings against the MP. Only the state government can initiate steps,” the official said. Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri district, who had brought the issue to the notice of the administration, are doing the groundwork. “We have apprised a number of state leaders on how the MP, who is a Union minister of state now, has violated the law by making such constructions. We would also urge the chief minister to look into the issue,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief. Ever since the issue came to the fore, Barla stopped responding to calls made by the media. On Sunday, calls made by this paper to him went unanswered. Other BJP leaders in the Dooars are unfazed. “We have opened the MP’s office and an office of our tea trade union in the (Banarhat) building. In Banarhat and nearby areas, most people lack proper documents of their land,” said a BJP leader in Banarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited works out ‘lucrative’ voluntary retirement scheme for staff||The loss-making state-run power utility, Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL), is working out a “lucrative” voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for its employees, mostly those above 50, in a bid to downsize its manpower as a part of cost control measures. The DPL now has 1,900 employees on its payroll, after transferring 700 of its employees to West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) in 2018-19. It spends Rs 42 crore a month or Rs 504 crore a year on salaries. “This amount is a major burden for a company like ours, which has been making losses to the tune of Rs 150-200 crore (annually),” said a source in the DPL. Sources in the DPL said the company is in the process of identifying workers who are physically unfit for proper performance and those whose attendance is irregular. However, it hasn’t yet been decided if this new VRS package would be optional or compulsory. A DPL official said the state government sent an instruction to the DPL management last month, asking for an attractive VRS package as the previous one announced in 2017 was rejected by most of the eligible employees for apparently being “too meagre in exchange of the work years being sacrificed”. “In 2017, we had offered a VRS package, as an option, to our employees who were aged above 45 years then. But only 12 employees had opted for that VRS, while we had a target to downsize at least 25 per cent of the manpower. This time, we are working to make it more lucrative,” said a DPL official. However, the move has elicited criticism from trade unions. “We are not against the VRS, if an employee willingly chooses it. But we won’t allow the government to force it on anyone,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a district secretariat member of the CPM’s labour arm Citu in West Burdwan. He added that the government can afford to pay a VRS package to employees but at the same time has not paid retirement benefits to many former employees. “The DPL or the government should first pay them their dues by way of retirement benefits. Only then will we allow them to introduce this VRS. A handful of employees opted for the scheme the last time, and it will be no different this time,” said another Citu leader. The Citu also alleged that the state government might hand over the utility to a private player in the near future, which is why it has been trying to downsize drastically. The allegation came in the wake of the state government’s instruction to the DPL management to convert its office in Calcutta into a guesthouse and complete the process to hand over the waterworks of DPL to the Durgapur civic body soon. “The DPL comprises a power plant, a coke oven plant and a water plant. We have been asked to hand over the water plant to the Durgapur civic authorities and reallocate employees of the now-closed coke oven plant,” said a DPL official. “We have learnt from sources that the guesthouse in Calcutta would be sold to a private company in the power sector. Initially, there were plans that the state-run power generation utility would take over the power plant, but we now know it is not keen to do so,” said a Citu leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Four fake policemen arrested with ‘POLITE’ van on NH10||Four persons, posing as plainclothes policemen, were arrested on Sunday morning by a team of Bhaktinagar police under Siliguri Metropolitan Police. The four, who had an SUV with them with a sticker that bore the inscription “POLITE”, possibly to trick people into thinking that it was a police van, had allegedly been stopping vehicles on NH10 and were extorting money from drivers. According to police sources, a driver from Champasari area of Siliguri filed a complaint, alleging that the quartet had taken Rs 700 from him. Based on the driver’s complaint, the police swung into action and arrested the four, Dilip Lohar of Sikkim but staying at Salugara on the outskirts of Siliguri, Raj Lohar and Shib Shankar Mahato of Vivekananda Nagar in Siliguri, and Nitesh Tamang of Lower Soreng, Darjeeling district. “They were in an SUV, stopping vehicles at Eighth Mile (near Sevoke, on NH10), asking for documents from drivers while confidently claiming that they were police officers, and eventually asking for money from the drivers,” said a police officer. During the raid, the police also seized the SUV as well as some articles such as torches. “A case has been registered against them for impersonating police officers and extorting money,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||At least five houses damaged in erosion of Hooghly river bank in Santipur||The ongoing spate of erosion of the Hooghly river bank in Nadia’s Santipur continued this weekend with at least five houses being lost, in addition to nearly 30-bigha agricultural land, early on Sunday morning. The panicked residents relocated along with several moveable properties over the weekend. Till Sunday afternoon, 10 families have taken shelter at a local primary school whereas a few other families are reportedly staying at relatives’ houses in nearby areas. Angry over the “lackadaisical” approach of the district administration in undertaking preventive measures, local residents blocked NH12 for about an hour on Sunday afternoon. They alleged that except for sand-bag piling, no protective measures had been taken. “The sandbag piling work is basically an eyewash in which the contractor is benefited. No official from the local administration or the irrigation department has bothered to examine the actual results,” alleged Nilakamal Biswas, who lost his home to erosion on Sunday. The blockade, which started about 1pm, was withdrawn at 2pm after local police officers had assured the residents of taking up their grievances with the district administration. Sources said Sunday morning’s erosion occurred “all of a sudden” as victims lost their properties “before they could reckon what was happening”. “It was around 6 in the morning when we felt tremors like an earthquake. Within a few minutes, the riverbank began to fall into water which advanced further. We lost our houses barely within half an hour,” said Raimohan Dey, a farm labourer. An official of the state irrigation department said: “We have already carried out protective works in many erosion-prone areas and riverbanks in Santipur block. But there was no indication of immediate erosion at Char Saragar. Nevertheless, we will take up some temporary work. Major preventive work will be done once the monsoon is over.” The Nadia district administration has also been mulling an initiative for a fresh vetiver plantation programme as a supplementary measure to protect the erosion-prone banks of the Hooghly in Ranaghat and Kalyani subdivisions. Nadia, a pioneer in using Vetiver, a type of grass with a mat-like root system that works as soil binder, has asked irrigation officials to provide feedback on the pilot project of 2015 so that similar projects can be taken up in rectifying the loopholes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Kandahar, Sulekha ink stages a comeback||Last picture Sir — The killing of the Reuters photographer, Danish Siddiqui, has led to an immense loss for Indian journalism. His versatility and news sense — he was always around to capture poignant moments, be it during a humanitarian crisis like that faced by Rohingya refugees or a natural calamity — won him a Pulitzer. He played a crucial role in presenting the true picture of Covid-19 in India to the world. His bold and detached style must be studied by future generations. The photographs from his last project, of an extraction mission by the Afghan special forces, are spine-chilling. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — It is shocking that Danish Siddiqui was killed in Kandahar, Afghanistan, while covering clashes between Afghan forces and the Taliban. Passionate about his art, his portrayals of crises were always layered. Amidst the pandemic, when the government was busy praising itself, Siddiqui’s photos revealed the harsh truth. The only tribute to the hero who captured reality through the lenses can be our commitment to truth. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — The sudden, unfortunate demise of the 2018 Pulitzer recipient, Danish Siddiqui, has left a huge void in the field of journalism. But the politics over his corpse takes away the focus from the mortal peril looming over other journalists like him. While we demand a free press, the ones who have to venture out in search of the truth are, in reality, unsure of whether they will live to see the next day. I have seen this anxiety afflict members of my peer group. But in his death, Siddiqui has reminded us how to brave the horrors of war and politics. Whether we want to turn a blind eye to the perilous life of journalists is up to us. Uddipta Banerjee,Calcutta Leave a mark Sir — The mechanical click-clack of the keyboard will not impart the joy that the smell of ink on paper does. People are rediscovering the joy of writing, allowing a Swadeshi-era ink company to make a comeback. Sulekha ink — named by Tagore and used by Gandhi — is all the rage online. But Gen-Z is weighing this charm against the imprints that ink-smudged fingers may leave on fancy smartphones.Jhinuk Sen,Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
19-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New challenge||As the Taliban forces march across Afghanistan — they may have the capital, Kabul, in their sights soon enough — the reverberations are being felt across the world, including in New Delhi. Speaking at a recent meeting of foreign ministers at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, S. Jaishankar, the Indian representative, articulated New Delhi’s concern by saying that the future of Afghanistan cannot be premised on its past. New Delhi’s anxiety is not unwarranted. Unlike several other countries — China and Russia being the principal examples — India has not been able to make much headway in its deliberations with a resurgent Taliban. Part of this failure can be attributed to the frosty ties that New Delhi has shared with the Taliban over the years. India’s opposition to the Taliban — Pakistan has, historically, been their patron — is based on both geopolitical security and moral imperatives. But India’s misreading of the commitment of the United States of America to stay put on slippery Afghan territory cannot be discounted when it comes to India’s Afghan headache. The pundits in New Delhi should have opened backchannel engagements with the Islamic force much earlier. Now, an emboldened Taliban, with tacit encouragement from India’s western neighbour, could well play a part in heating up India’s northern border. That cannot be reassuring amidst reports of Chinese troops infiltrating Ladakh. The Union home minister has lauded the prime minister for drafting independent India’s first comprehensive security policy, notwithstanding these red flags. New Delhi must persist in re-engaging with the Taliban. Afghanistan, in a manner of speaking, is an important theatre of the Great Game and India cannot afford to watch the play unfold from the sidelines. It must use the two aces it holds to augment its bargaining in Afghanistan. The first is a long history of public goodwill. Second — this is interconnected with the first factor — is a push to bilateral trade whose volume stands at around $1.3 billion at present. The Indian presence in improving such sectors as Afghanistan’s healthcare, education, transportation, power, communication and so on could give New Delhi an additional leverage to press its case. The Taliban, if they are serious about shedding the stigma of medievalism, must also respond in kind. Cooperation with regional and international players could be one way of legitimizing their claim of being the leading domestic political force in Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Thin red line||India’s democratic framework is balanced on the separation of powers. The Supreme Court reiterated this in its hearing of the Uttar Pradesh government’s plea against the Allahabad High Court. The latter had given the state government numerous instructions for pandemic management and made uncomplimentary observations in this regard. The Supreme Court bench sitting on this case reportedly ruled that constitutional courts should be restrained regarding policy decisions. These are the executive’s domain and honouring the principle of separation of powers meant that the judiciary should not step into the executive’s territory. The Supreme Court, however, emphasized that the high court’s intention was not in question. The question was whether judicial interference was needed at all at the time of a crisis which the government and experts were supposed to handle. This is a crucial question. In India, challenges such as the pandemic or those brought about by abuses of power have repeatedly blurred the demarcation between jurisdictions, often leading to complaints of judicial overreach from the executive. But the executive’s abdication of duty or its failures that affect citizens’ rights sometimes compel the judiciary to comment on policy. The Allahabad High Court was not the only court to rule on medical necessities. Although the Supreme Court said that high courts should not give orders that cannot be implemented, it had upheld against challenges certain orders of the high courts of Delhi, Gujarat, Calcutta and others regarding pandemic management. The ‘irrationality’ of the Centre’s vaccine policy had prompted the Supreme Court itself to address the issue because it infringed on the people’s right to health and equality. The Supreme Court judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, reportedly said in one context that if executive decisions on the pandemic infringe on the constitutional rights of the people, then the policy is amenable to judicial review. Perhaps this lies behind the Supreme Court’s reported advice to the UP government to cancel the Kanwar Yatra or to expect the court’s order. Even religious sentiments must be subservient to the health of citizens and their right to life: these hold primacy among the fundamental rights in the Constitution. That the Supreme Court took suo motu cognizance of the issue suggests that to maintain the separation of powers, each arm of democracy must execute its duty conscientiously and with full regard to the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Reach for the horizon||What I miss the most during the lockdown are the little trips that would take me away from Calcutta for a day. Yes, I would love to stand before the Himalayas again and meditate on my littleness, or to go to New Zealand, just to know how it feels to have someone like Jacinda Ardern heading the state. But the journeys in local trains to visit a district town or a village are what I am longing for the most now. Because they still seem within the realm of the possible (although they may not be), and create inside my head a sense of space which is being crushed every moment every day by the four walls of my room. One such journey stands out in my mind. Three years ago, two of my dearest friends and I had set out for Santipur in Nadia after Kali Puja to see the bisarjan ceremony. The closest can be the most unfamiliar, and I am not going to quote Tagore here, but just mention that “unheimlich”, the “un-homely”, the uncanny, is a favourite word of one of the two aforementioned friends. In Santipur, the goddess, Kali, looks very different from the way she does in Calcutta. Her idols are huge, even double in their dimensions than the average Calcutta idol. Gigantic, dark, fierce, powerful and beautiful, they seemed to remind us of a past that the city has either forgotten or been made to forget, maybe with the ‘civilizing’ by its former colonial masters. In any case, after a long train journey, a large, paralyzing Bengali goat meat lunch at a Krishnanagar hotel and a bus journey that rattled every bone in my body, we reached Santipur a few hours before sunset. Getting down at the bus stop, I immediately realized that everything had gone haywire inside me. My shoulders were almost frozen, I had a shattering headache, I needed to go to the toilet and I felt immobilized with pain and discomfort. My other friend carries a large tote bag, which I knew contained magic, but I was not aware of the particular items. From its depths first emerged the iconic Amrutanjan, for my headache. Then a Pee Safe spray. Then a tube of Volini, the contents of which were squeezed out and shared equally by my friends. One of them pulled the neck of my kurta down to expose my shoulder and began to apply it vigorously on the naked patch. Now both my friends had been assigned the male gender at birth and bore traces of it, more or less, and I was assigned the female one at birth, and bear strong traces of it, and we must have presented an arresting sight. But I was too far gone to notice and the massage was life-giving. I began to feel like myself in a few minutes. Next I was given some Digene. I presented my final problem: a very disturbing chunk of meat had remained stuck between my teeth since lunch. My friend dug into the bag again and out came a pack of dental floss. In a moment, I spat out the offending meat into the drain. At this point a fruit seller, who had been watching us intently, asked us: “Apnara kotha theke eshechhen? (Where are you from?)” It was not a question but an admonition. I think we had “transgressed” our gender roles — and had used our class to do it. “Calcutta,” we replied and took a Toto to leave for the bisarjan procession. As the sun set, the giant Kali idols began to loom on the dark horizon. Again I felt that they had emerged from another time, their dimensions incompatible with our times, their power savage and benign and unknown. Their shapes, though dazzlingly lit atop vehicles, seemed to roll out from the dark sky itself, dreamlike, and deeply moving. The humans walked below in an almost silent procession. I felt that the horizons had opened up. And that feeling is mixed up in my mind with the generosity of my friends — and of the bag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||The radical Raja||On April 27, 1832, in a letter to an English friend, Rammohun Roy spoke of the ethical relevance of political and religious reform. What he wrote is worth quoting: “The struggles are not merely between the reformers and anti-reformers, but between liberty and oppression throughout the world; between justice and injustice, and between right and wrong… From a reflection on the past events of history, we clearly perceive that liberal principles in politics and religion have long been gradually but steadily gaining ground…” In his letter, Roy alluded to some of the reforms that were then being introduced in India and in Britain. It offers a glimpse into Roy’s cosmopolitan outlook and his firm commitment to the idea of freedom. Today, Rammohun Roy is remembered primarily for his successful campaign against sati — the immolation of widows on their husbands’ funeral pyres — and for his pivotal role in the inception of the Brahmo Samaj, a reformist religious group.  What we need, however, is a broader and deeper understanding of his persistent insistence on the importance of intellectual, social and political freedom. This year, his 249th birthday, which fell on May 22, passed largely unnoticed. Now that the 250th year has begun, a serious effort should be made to revive his legacy through a re-evaluation of the remarkable life he lived. A confluence of diverse cultural influences shaped Roy’s thoroughly unconventional worldview. He learnt not just Bengali, his mother tongue, but also Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, English, Greek and Hebrew. His exposure to Persian education and, subsequently, his encounter with Christianity and modern Western thought deeply influenced his mode of thinking and reasoning. Roy’s proficiency in several languages and his in-depth understanding of Hindu scriptures, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity enabled him to cultivate a rare comparative perspective on religious issues. In Tuhfat-ul-Muwahhidin (1804), a treatise written in Persian, Roy spoke out against superstition and dogma in all established religions. A thinker and a doer, Roy had the courage to interrogate age-old ideas and practices within a social milieu that was largely unwilling to tolerate deviations from conventionality. Not surprisingly, his arguments provoked angry responses from representatives of orthodox religious groups. Although Roy could not envision an immediate dissolution of colonial rule, he certainly felt that the colonized nation needed to prepare itself for empowerment and progress. He felt that it could rejuvenate itself by rejecting irrational or unethical traditions such as sati. Nevertheless, his effort to envisage a reformed religious outlook remained rooted in his country’s spiritual inheritance. What Roy advocated was obviously not the creation of a new religion but a return to the spirituality of the Vedanta. In order to translate his ideas into praxis, he established the Atmiya Sabha in 1815 and the Brahmo Sabha in 1828. Through these efforts, Roy initiated a movement that later culminated in the emergence of the Brahmo Samaj as an important reformist organization. Few of us remember that Roy played a key role in the rise of a culture of criticism and protest in colonial India. In 1822, it was he who argued against the law that deprived women of their right to inherit property. He protested when in 1823 the colonial government attempted to curb the freedom of the press.  Later, he actively participated in the movement against the infamous Jury Act that had a discriminatory bias against non-Christians. As he pointed out, the government “ought to treat the various classes of its subjects… as one great family, without showing any invidious preference to any particular tribe or sect…” Again, in 1831, he spoke out against the exploitation of the peasants by the landowners and the colonial government. Roy’s political thinking did not, however, remain confined to debates related to India. He could easily traverse political and cultural boundaries and align himself with many of the political movements that were taking place in other parts of the world. In a letter written on August 11, 1821, Roy emphatically remarked that “enemies to liberty and friends of despotism have never been, and never will be ultimately successful”. In that letter, he was responding to the news of political unrest in Naples, which was then a part of a kingdom in southern Italy. A decade later, he whole-heartedly supported the Reform Bill (1832) that gave English middle-class men the right to vote. Roy argued in favour of international cooperation and fraternity in an era when travelling overseas was a taboo in his country. In a remarkable letter written to the French foreign minister in 1832, he envisaged “all mankind” as “one great family”. Within the framework of his spiritual thinking, Roy rejected narrow sectarianism and chauvinism by articulating his universalist idea of a single formless god who could be worshipped by all irrespective of race and creed. In 1830, he drew up a trust deed where he outlined the purposes of the Brahmo Sabha. The trust deed explicitly prohibited religious intolerance and, in fact, insisted that one of the purposes of the Sabha was to establish harmony among diverse religious communities. Not surprisingly, Roy has been hailed as the originator of a renaissance in modern India. While it is true that the tendency to posit a single origin or originator can be based on a reductive interpretation of history, it is nevertheless important to acknowledge that he played a pivotal role in ushering in a rational and ethical perspective on a range of culturally and politically significant issues. Moreover, Roy does not just belong to a past that is dead or obsolete. He can still be a source of inspiration for those who seek to defend and uphold principles like unity, inclusivity and freedom. The remarkable history of his crusade against superstition and oppression remains relevant in today’s world where the clash between liberal values and illiberal ideologies continues unabated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Against the tide||Powerful internet intermediaries began filing “compliance reports” this month, caving in to the pressure from the Government of India. The reports were in response to the new rules announced in February pertaining to the existing Information Technology Act, 2000. In the intervening months, analysts had demonstrated that the rules were going beyond the scope of the law itself. Some aspects of them may be challenged yet by these big players. Although WhatsApp has gone to court and Twitter had tried bucking orders to set up a local bureaucracy to implement the government’s orders, Google, Facebook and Twitter and the social media entities they own have essentially bowed to pressure. The larger spectacle is one of toeing the line because business is at stake. Their numbers in India are huge. At 530 million users, this is WhatsApp’s biggest market. Facebook has 410 million subscribers; Instagram 210 million users; and Twitter, 17.5 million users in the country, according to government data from earlier this year. The IT rules also seek to cover the digital (OTT) entertainment sector as well as digital news media. The former has begun to fall in line, and the government cites figures to show that so has a large section of the latter. It is a process of regulatory overreach that began in 2018 which, along with aggressive use of sedition, anti-terrorism, and defamation laws, threatens to engulf the professional and creative freedoms that have endured so far as we approach the country’s 75th year of Independence. At this point, halfway through 2021, one can see that commercial sectors are capitulating, but one can also spot two distinct groupings that are gearing for a pushback. Both hinge on challenges that will be heard in the courts this year and are hugely important for citizens. Revisiting what began in 2018 helps one understand how governments work when they set out to change the rules of the game. Smriti Irani, as minister for information and broadcasting, floated the idea of regulation for online media in the first quarter of that year. Until then, there were no rules or codes of conduct that governed media on the internet. She constituted a committee to suggest a framework for this category of media, including news aggregators. It was to have several secretaries of ministries and other government representatives and representation from the existing broadcast media associations as well as the Press Council of India. No representation was to be invited, it seemed, from the online media. The move was met with consternation, to put it mildly. She had earlier tried to tackle fake news by decreeing that accredited correspondents would lose their accreditation if they were found guilty of putting out fake news. Shortly after, in May that year, she was moved from the ministry. Later that year, reports emerged that the content regulation committee she had floated was disbanded and the ministry of electronics and information technology will set up a committee on national investment in critical national infrastructure and digital broadcasting. Three years down the line, an IT minister has pushed through regulation in those areas by deciding to use not new legislation but changed rules. Again, when vocal opposition emerges, the minister goes. But the changes are being operationalized.  There has been no legal pushback from the OTT entertainment sector that is putting self-regulation in place. Going beyond online entertainment to film, the year has already seen creeping control there with the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal, which was a court of appeal for film-makers, being scrapped. News is now emerging about moves to revisit film certification, once granted. But the two points of pushback building up come from individuals challenging the sedition law, including two journalists jailed for sedition, and from news organizations seeking to challenge the IT Act rules, which seek to govern them. A retired major general, a celebrated musician, and individual journalists arrested for sedition have gone to court over the government’s use of sedition, counterterrorism and defamation laws. The former Union minister, Arun Shourie, also moved the Supreme Court last week challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law. With the rising public discourse on its use, the Chief Justice of India was moved to ask the government last week why it still felt the need for this law. More and more news organizations, including the news agency, Press Trust of India, are challenging the application of the IT rules to their websites. Earlier this month, a two judge bench of the Delhi High Court declined to grant protection from coercive action to digital media portals as it adjourned their challenge to the new IT rules after being informed that a plea has been moved by the Centre to transfer them to the Supreme Court. The pleas were by The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation, which runs Alt News. The petition by Quint Digital Media Ltd has challenged the constitutional validity of the IT rules under the provisions of IT Act 2000 for seeking to apply these to publishers of news and current affairs content as part of digital media. The petition says that the rules impose government oversight and a code of ethics, which stipulates such vague conditions as ‘good taste’, ‘decency’ and ‘prohibition of half-truths’. The PTI, the country’s largest news agency, has moved the Delhi High Court, arguing that the proposed changes would bring in an era of surveillance and fear. The News Broadcasters Association, which represents several news channels, has also petitioned the Kerala High Court, arguing that the rules give the government excessive powers to restrict free expression. The court ordered the Centre not to take any coercive action and issued notice to the Centre asking for its stand on the petition. It is early days yet. Government coercion cannot be fought without the courts. Judicial pushbacks are increasingly evident on matters of civil liberties. One should pray for more! Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren raises concern over under-employment of locals in AIIMS Deoghar||Upset over "under representation of local people" in the staff employed at AIIMS Deoghar, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday sought urgent intervention of the Centre to ensure job to the natives in the premier institution. In a strongly worded letter to Union Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Soren said it is not "conducive" that 90 per cent of the security personnel employed there are from outside the state. "The government of Jharkhand is committed to providing employment to its people. Accordingly, we have introduced The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, wherein there is a 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs with a salary of up to Rs 30,000 for locals. "Unfortunately, it has come to my attention that 90 per cent of the security personnel at AIIMS Deoghar are from outside the state of Jharkhand," Soren shot off a letter to Mandaviya on Monday. Terming this as not conducive to the public good, Soren said AllMS Deoghar should be hiring locally as far as possible so that they get employees who better understand the community they serve. In this way AIIMS Deoghar will also contribute to the economic upliftment of the region. "I request you to look into this issue as a matter of great urgency and importance and ensure that the local people of Jharkhand are employed to ensure engagement with the local community," the letter mentions. Requesting for considering representation of the local people of Jharkhand at AIIMS Deoghar, he said it is with "concern regarding the under-representation of the local people of Jharkhand in the staff employed at AIIMS Deoghar" that he was forced to write the letter. The CM mentioned that setting up of premier institutes such as AIIMS has multifarious benefits as they serve humanity by providing excellence in medical care as well as imparting the highest quality of medical education. "However, a lesser known but equally necessary collateral benefit is the generation of jobs for the community," he asserted. Meanwhile, Soren in a tweet said,"For Jharkhand, especially in and around Santhal Pargana, AIIMS Deoghar will be a platform of excellence in both medical education & public health. "However, I have raised my concerns @ Mansukhmandaviya Ji on under representation of our local people in employment of staff in AIIMS." In the 2017-18 union budget, the centre announced an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government identified a 236.92-acre plot in Deoghar to set up the hospital. In May 2018, the union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. It started inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad police arrests vehicle lifters' gang ||Dhanbad police arrested six persons of a vehicle lifters’ gang and recovered a pickup van, motorcycle, a toy pistol and five mobile phones from them. The arrested persons during the police interrogation accepted their involvement in a recent pickup van loot incident that took place in Govindpur area on the night of July 13. Sharing details with media, Sanjeev Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad said, “The arrested criminals on July 13 looted a pick up van from near the Mahindra Showroom of Govindpur by attacking and injuring the driver of the pick-up van.” “We constituted a special team under the leadership of Amar Pandey, DSP Govindpur, comprising of others including the officer in charge of Govindpur Gangasagar Ojha and the team working to the tip off first arrested three persons including, Rohit Kumbhkar, Rahul Kumbhkar and Rahul Kumar from Govindpur area,” said Kumar and added that the trio revealed the entire modus operandi of their gang. Based on the information provided by them, police also arrested three remaining persons of the gang, including, Jitendra Rawani, Sikandar Kumar Sao and Sanjay Kumar Sharma. “All the six criminals had criminal antecedents and while one of them, Rahul Kumar, was involved in the incident of rape, others, including Jitendra Rawani and Sikankar Kumar Sao are accused of robbery and illicit liquor trade etc,” said Kumar and added that gang has only six members, all of which have been arrested by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bus operators face double blow||The dismal occupancy of buses has failed to improve till date, nineteen days after the intrastate bus operations resumed following the lockdown restrictions. Out of 150 of the total 250 buses presently operating on various intrastate routes from Dhanbad, the occupancy is about 40 to 45 per cent and several are lying grounded due to lack of passengers. A host of factors, including lack of permission for operation of interstate buses, high fuel prices compelling bus operators to carry out a 10 per cent hike in bus fares and fear of Covid are responsible for the low occupancy. “The lack of permission for interstate bus operation is primarily responsible for the low occupancy of operational buses,” said Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad bus owners Association, to The Telegraph Online. “Many of the people to remote areas of adjoining Bihar working in adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, used to reach Dhanbad through buses for catching buses to their hometown but since interstate bus operations are lying suspended they are not moving from one district to another leading to low occupancy in buses,” said Singh. “We demand the state government to allow interstate bus operation in Jharkhand as there is no logic of denying permission for operation of buses for such routes in which trains are already operating,” said Singh. “Such is the condition of low occupancy that after completing the trip on several days when fuel cost and labour charges are calculated against the fare income, the fare income proves much lower than the cost,” said another bus driver Sunil Singh who is also the joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owner’s Association. Further explaining the difficulties he said many of operators who turn to bus depot during the morning for running buses had to park their buses by afternoon due to not receiving even 20 per cent of booking. “Though, the government has not allowed any hike in fares but the double blow of high fuel prices and low occupancy has left bus operators with no option other than to carry out 10% hike in fare,” said a bus operator and added the during the lockdown last year they were given a road tax waiver but this year there is no such announcement as yet. Sumit Singh, Operator of Bundela Bus Service which operates buses between Dhanbad to various, Bihar districts including Patna, Biharsarif and Aurangabad said, “Majority of bus operators engaged in interstate bus operation are more hit by the lockdown but the others are also not in a good position.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau villages on high alert after jumbo invasion||Palamau tiger reserve officials have sounded alert in about a dozen villages falling in the contiguity of the Mandal Dam following the presence of 70 to 80 elephants there, said sources. Sources said the elephants are in three to four herds and are twenty or more in numbers in each herd. The elephants are placid in mood, said sources. The Mandal Dam comes under two forest ranges of the tiger reserve. Its one side is under Chhipadohar range while the other side is under Kutku range. Kumar Ashish, deputy director North division of the tiger reserve here, said the elephants assemble every evening at the Dam. This has aroused the interest and curiosity of the villagers. “Here we have asked our trackers and forest guards to tell villagers not to go near the herds of the elephants,” said Ashish. One source said there are a couple of elephant calves too in the herds and where there is a calf of elephant the entire herd becomes aggressive and protective all for the calf. Asked if the herds belong to the adjoining state Chhattisgarh, the deputy director North division said, “We believe it is ours. There are around 300 elephants in the PTR and they keep moving.” He however agreed that Mandal Dam has access to the elephant corridor of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh as well. He said there is no report of any of these elephants intruding into human habitation or causing any destruction of human property like huts etc. “We have plenty of bamboos and lots of water and both are relished by the elephants like anything,” Ashish said Elephants love water games and bathing and the Dam water comes too handy. July is the month of bamboo as there sprouts shoots which attract elephants the most. Ashish said the ground staff workers have been asked to be on high alert for any tusker in the lot. A tusker is most vulnerable for its tusks which can fetch any price in the international or national black market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Immunisation drive grinds to a halt in Ranchi||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 came to a standstill in the Jharkhand capital on Monday as almost all the government-run sites remained non-operational owing to a shortage of vaccines, health officials said. Even though the Centre's Co-Win portal showed that at least four government-run vaccination centres administered jabs to beneficiaries in Ranchi, Ranchi civil surgeon civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar clarified that none of the government session sites opened its doors for vaccine beneficiaries on Monday. “All government-run session sites were closed today (Monday). We will get fresh supplies on Wednesday, and the vaccination campaign cannot regain pace until we receive more vaccines,” said Dr. Kumar. Highly placed sources in the health department said that data displayed on the dashboard of Co-Win portal is often different from the actual situation in the state as vaccination figures are updated gradually from different parts of the state. According to the official website of Co-Win, at least 10 session sites – six private and four government-run – were operational in Ranchi on Monday. At least 766 Ranchi residents were administered vaccine jabs against Covid-19 by 5.49 pm, as per the Co-Win dashboard. Local residents struggled to book vaccination slots on Monday and many beneficiaries went to private facilities and paid for the vaccines due to unavailability of slots in government-run centres. Tushar Rishi, 27, eventually got a dose of Covishield at Medica Advanced Diagnostics Centre at Bariatu for Rs780 after failing to get a slot in a government-run vaccination centre. According to Rishi, only Bero Community Health Centre and Chanho Community Health Centre were open for free vaccination, and none of the two CHCs had slots available since Sunday evening. “None of the government vaccination centres in urban areas were open today. Who would travel 20-30 kilometers outside the city to get jabbed at a CHC? The government should do something about the situation as not everyone can afford paid vaccination at private clinics,” said Rishi, a working professional. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday evening, the state had only 71,980 doses of vaccines in stock, enough to last a little more than a day. So far, the state has received 82,69,110 doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre and administered 83,18,231 doses, including Sputnik V procured separately by private hospitals, to Jharkhand residents. Only Medanta Hospital administered Sputnik V doses in Ranchi on Monday. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, on Wednesday, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||7-year-old state chess champ comes 5th at school meet||Jharkhand added one more feather to its cap as Dishita Dey secured fifth place in the recently concluded Online National School Chess Championship for Under-7 girls. The 7-year-old tied for the third to seventh spot with 7 points out of 9 rounds but failed to get the bronze as her tie-break point was less than two others. The winner of the event, Charvi A. of Karnataka had a 100% score, one point ahead of Telangana's Samitha Pungavanam who managed 8 points. The third place went to Ira Bohara of Maharashtra. On the basis of this performance, Dishita is eligible to represent India in the forthcoming Asian School Chess Championship for Under-7 Girls. Dishita is the daughter of former Jharkhand women champion Alka Das. Dishita opted to play for Jharkhand and is registered with the state chess association. "The success of Dishita, Souryadipta Sarkar, Vatsal Singania and Adhiraj Mitra in the last four days would create a new wave in Jharkhand chess," said All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. While Souryadipta made it to the Indian team for Online World Under-12 Rapid Chess Championship (Cadets & Youth), Vatsal earned his second IM norm after a satisfactory performance at a just concluded International Open Tournament at Paracin, Serbia. Adhiraj, on the other hand, claimed the National Under-9 Open National School Online Chess Championship held on July 13 and 14 and made it to the Indian outfit for the Asian Championship to be played from July 29 to 31. All are Jamshedpur-based players. Chess prodigy Adhiraj is a cousin of Dishita who stays with her parents Jyotirmoy and Alka Dey in Calcutta. Dishita's mother Alka said she feels very happy that her daughter was going to play for the country. "It's a proud moment for me. I am leaving no stone unturned to help her make progress in chess," she told The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. According to her, Dishita got attracted to chess after watching her play. "I used to take Dishita whenever I went to play in the national championships. She watched me play and developed a keen interest," Alka recalled. Dishita hones her chess skills under her Jamshedpur-based maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das. Karnataka Grandmaster M.S. Thejkumar also chips in with guidance to the kid, a student of standard II at Narayana School in Calcutta. Alka said they were planning to shift to Jamshedpur where she, along with her brothers Dushyant and Abhishek, has set up a chess cradle. "I was born and brought up in Jamshedpur and intend to produce top chess players for Jharkhand. There is no dearth of talented players in Jharkhand who can be guided to become top players," she added. Dishita, who also loves dancing, has won the recently concluded online state championship in the under-10 age group and has also represented Jharkhand in virtual under-10 and under-12 national events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Protest at steel city hospital over death of mother and newborn||About 100 protesters created a ruckus at the MGM Medical College Hospital after the mother and her newborn died at the hospital on Monday morning. The fracas continued for about two hours from 9am against alleged negligence by the doctor and nurses posted at the Gynaecology department of the hospital. The woman who died of post-delivery complications was 23-year-old Guddi Mukhi, wife of Bimal Mukhi. "I got my wife admitted at the medical college hospital on Sunday afternoon after her labour pain. She gave birth to a male child at about 5.30 am today but the child died a few minutes after his birth.  Subsequently, my wife was shifted to the maternity ward where she complained of acute pain in her abdomen. I approached a doctor and nurses to attend to her. But despite repeated requests neither the doctor came nor any of the nurses. Ultimately, my wife succumbed to her pain at 6.10 am," narrated Bimal while talking to this website. The bereaved man pointed out that, whereas a doctor said to wait for her visit, three nurses who were in the gynaecology department were busy with their smartphones. The protesters, including family members of the victim, were demanding the hospital superintendent to take immediate action against the doctor and the nurses allegedly responsible for the deaths of mother and child.  They were also demanding compensation to the members of the bereaved family. The protest was so intense that the hospital administration had to call in police who tried to disperse the mob. But as the protesters defied the police's attempt to get them dispersed, the hospital superintendent, Sanjay Kumar turned up before them and assured of necessary action against the doctor in question and nurses after carrying out a probe. The protesters who had come from Bhalubasa Harijan Bustee, the locality the deceased woman hailed from, had dispersed. "It was my wife's first child delivery and this is why I was taking utmost care despite my poor financial condition. But due to the medical negligence I lost my wife, " Bimal, who works as a sanitation worker under Mango notified the area committee. Superintendent, MGM Medical College Hospital, Sanjay Kumar said,"I am aware about the alleged medical negligence death of a young woman today. I have ordered an inquiry. If the allegation is proved, I will definitely take necessary departmental action against the guilty staff," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant has an idea: turn Assembly premises into an orchard||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday mooted the idea of using the sprawling  Jharkhand Assembly premises to grow an orchard of fruit-bearing trees, urging officials to think out of the box to promote greenery in Ranchi. Speaking on the occasion of the state's 72nd Van Mahotsav on the premises, Hemant said, “The assembly is spread across 50-60 acres. I suggest the Assembly Speaker consider developing the area as an orchard. The Assembly can generate its own resources just by selling those fruits and taking up innovative farming activities on campus. If it can be done, ours could be the first assembly in the country to become self-sufficient in generating it's own resources.” Speaker Rabindranath Mahto, rural development minister Alamgir Alam, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, several MLAs and officials of the  forest and other departments were also present on the occasion. All of them planted saplings too. Reiterating  the need to commit oneself for the sake of ecology, Hemant  said that although the government held  plantation drives every year and ran several schemes,  the need of the hour was for individuals to take  responsibility. “Each one should plant one tree and take care of it. That should be the mantra. "Today, old  trees get uprooted in the name of building infrastructure and development. But to balance it, we must ensure that we take up plantation as an individual responsibility. If we plant one fruit tree today, it will take care of  generations to come,” he said. Lauding the idea, Speaker Mahto maintained that trees weren't merely for providing oxygen. They also help strengthen our rural economy. “I remember that in my constituency (Nala), a few years back, a group of villagers planted trees on a barren chunk of land. During the Covid-19 pandemic, they were able  to sell the timber from it,” he said. The state forest department launched this year’s van mahotsav on July 13 and set a target of planting 1.67 crore saplings. In Ranchi, over a lakh saplings will be planted. At the launch ceremony, Hemant  had directed the forest department to roll out plantation drives on unused and vacant government land to boost the  state’s green lungs and conserve local ecology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
