21-07-2021||Calcutta||29-year-old techie arrested over murder charges in New Town||Police arrested a 29-year-old techie from Malda’s Kaliachowk on charges of murdering a woman with whom he was living in a rented apartment at Thakdari in New Town. Debabrata Poti was arrested on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s brother. An officer of New Town police station said Poti was in a live-in relationship with a 35-year-old woman from Jharkhand who worked in the same IT company. According to the officer, the two had been staying together for four months.“On July 15, a fight broke out between the two. The woman suddenly fell unconscious. Poti took her to a private hospital off EM Bypass, where she was declared dead,” said the officer. On Tuesday, the woman’s brother, Anand Mohan Singh, arrived in the city and filed a police complaint against Poti, the officer said. “Initial investigations have revealed that the couple used to have frequent fights. We have started a probe,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. The autopsy report of the woman is still awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Rain deficit in rainiest month in Calcutta||Calcutta's rainiest month has so far recorded a 23 per cent rain deficit in the city. But after a hot and sultry week, the Met office has finally forecast rain in Calcutta from Wednesday. Calcutta received 186.5mm of rain from July 1 to 20, compared with the usual quota of 240.8mm during the same period. July is usually the rainiest month of the monsoon. The usual July quota of rain for Calcutta is 396mm, followed by August’s usual quota of 344.5mm. The monsoon currents are expected to be active over south Bengal over the next few days, leading to a wet spell in Calcutta, Met officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal seeks CNG status report from Bengal govt||The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday asked the state government to submit the status report on bringing the environment-friendly compressed natural gas (CNG) to Calcutta and other areas of the state. The bench, comprising Justice Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, also asked the state to bring on record “the district-wise action plan” about laying CNG pipelines. The Telegraph has a copy of the order. Earlier, the tribunal had only stressed on transporting CNG to Calcutta and Howrah. “The judicial member said he is from a smaller city compared to Calcutta. Even in his city CNG has been available for quite some time. He expressed surprise as to why Calcutta still does not have the green fuel,” said a lawyer who participated in the virtual hearing. “The expert member pointed out that 10 years have already elapsed since the state signed an agreement with the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) on bringing CNG,” the lawyer said. “In 2011, the state government had signed an agreement with GAIL to bring CNG to Calcutta but nothing has happened on the ground so far,” alleged petitioner and environment activist Subhas Datta. Monday’s order was passed after GAIL informed the bench that “the acquisition of RoU (right of user) in West Bengal has been very slow” and pointed out that so far only 65 per cent of the land required for laying the pipelines had been acquired. The agency informed the bench that no land had been acquired so far for the stretch between Hansghara in Hooghly and Calcutta, the lawyer said. All other states involved in the 858km pipeline project — Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand — have already completed acquiring the required land, the agency said. Only after the acquisition process is complete can work on laying the 100km pipeline work for Calcutta start, GAIL said in its submission to the green tribunal. The pipes will run through the districts of Hooghly, Nadia and North 24-Parganas. “The NGT’s decision may be prompted by the fact that air pollution is increasing everywhere,” said an environment department official. The Telegraph recently reported how all the districts in the state, barring Kalimpong, have been  impacted by the air pollution. “In March 2020, the tribunal had directed the then chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to personally monitor compliance of its order on bringing CNG to the city after reminding the state that it had taken almost no steps to expedite the supply of CNG in the last few years. But nothing happened on the ground. We expect the situation to change after the current order,” an environmentalist said. Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert from the environment think tank Center for Science and Environment, pointed out that bringing CNG to Calcutta and other urban areas is crucial to minimise air pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik 2021: All 10,79,749 candidates clear Bengal board’s Class X examinations ||All 10,79,749 candidates cleared Madhyamik this year. In a year when the Class X board exam could not be conducted because of the pandemic, the pass percentage saw a jump by 13.66 per cent compared to 2020. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, which announced the results on Tuesday, decided not to detain any candidate this year because the exam could not be held, an official of the board said. Last year, the exams were held in February (18 to 27), before the pandemic had struck, and 86.34 per cent students had passed the Class X board exams. The board this year prepared the marksheet giving equal weightage to a candidate’s performance in the Class IX annual exams and internal formative assessments of Class X. As many as 79 students were declared joint toppers this year, scoring 697 out of 700 based on the evaluation methodology. While 86.07 per cent students had passed Madhyamik in 2019, the figure was 85.49 per cent in 2018. An official of the board said since they could not conduct the examination, it was decided that no candidate would be detained. “Overall, 90 per cent of the students have got first division this year,” the official added. Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board, said: “If the candidates are not happy with their marks, they will be allowed to write the test, subject to the improvement in the situation.” The percentage of first division usually hovers around 50 per cent, said an official of the school education department. Teachers’ associations are wondering if so many students could be accommodated in Class XI this year. Usually around eight lakh students are admitted in Class XI, they said. “This year, all 10,79,749 have been declared as having passed Madhyamik. There is a deficit of 2,79,749 seats. We wonder whether the government could add so many seats...,” said Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers’ association. Since a record number of students have scored first-division marks, teachers are expecting a surge in the demand for studying science in plus-II. An official of the school education department said they had already created the necessary infrastructure so that the students were not denied seats in Class XI. Marksheets were made available to the candidates on Tuesday itself. Candidates were not allowed to visit schools. Instead, their parents had to collect the marksheets, admit cards and certificates. Since the exams could not be conducted, admit cards were not issued earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIT Kharagpur caps scholars on campus||IIT Kharagpur has set a cap on the presence of research scholars on the campus because of Covid-19. Officials at the institute said the ceiling had been set at 900. “As and when scholars leave the campus after the completion of their research, more will be called in,” the official said. The institute has over 3,500 research scholars. The official said the authorities had decided on the ceiling to avoid gatherings as much as possible on the campus, which had to be shut down for a fortnight in September after a surge in Covid cases. Dhrubajyoti Sen, the dean of students’ affairs, had told students in an email on July 8: “Research scholars who are currently residing in the halls of residence on campus are those who have been permitted to join the institute in a phase-wise manner. Presently, the matter to further call other research scholars back to campus is being considered by the institute authorities, depending on the number of students who have left or are leaving the campus.” The mail states that “the list of scholars” to be called back to the campus will be prioritised based on the “year/semester” of registration. Sen told Metro last week that they had arrived at the ceiling of 900 to ensure optimum physical distancing and adherence to other Covid norms at the hostels. “Around 100 scholars have left the campus (following completion of their research). So now there are 800 scholars on the campus. We want to keep the number at 900 at the moment because maintaining physical distancing is the key. Abiding by the safety norms is crucial as the students during their stay at hostels rely on mess workers,” he said. “We will decide on the recall following discussions with the competent authorities.” Starting December 1, the institute had begun calling research scholars back to the campus following a directive from the Centre allowing researchers requiring laboratory/experimental work to return to their respective campuses. The institute later suspended the recall following detection of fresh Covid cases on the campus. The dean of students had said in the July 8 email: “Additionally, it is important to bear in mind that unknown circumstances such as a possible third wave of COVID-19 cannot be accounted for at present, and may delay or jeopardise any of the aforementioned plans.” An official said the research guides had been asked to help the scholars complete the research at the earliest so that slots could be created for the arrival of other researchers. If a guide thinks that the part of the research that is left can be done from home, the scholar should return home, the official said. Dean Sen said the institute was planning to recall 500 undergraduate students who were facing resource constraints and were unable to attend classes on digital platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Fishing in troubled waters keeps big hilsa away||Indiscriminate netting and inadequate rainfall have come in the way of mature hilsa swimming up the Hooghly from the Bay this monsoon, said scientists studying the movement of the fish whose delectability depends as much on the salinity of the sea as the sweetness of the river water. On Sunday, fishermen from Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas had ventured out on eight trawlers and returned with around 300kg of hilsa, less than half the yield they said they expected around this time of the year. Each fish they caught weighed 500-550gram, a far cry from the matured ones weighing a kilo or more. Several fishermen said they expected a bigger catch over the next few weeks but were not sure whether it would match last few years’, when the monsoon yield of the silvery delicacy was way above the expectations. Scientists expect this monsoon’s trend to continue as the rainfall has remained erratic. Typically, the hilsa moves from the sea to the river to lay eggs. The migration starts in June. For the fish to swim up into a river, the salinity of the river water in the estuary has to come down. This happens only when there is heavy rainfall for a considerable period and the concentration of the salt in the river water gets diluted. “When the fish arrives in sweet water, it draws water into the body resulting in what is known as gonadal hydration. When this hydration occurs, the ovary bloats and the membrane around it bursts, releasing the eggs,” said Asim Kumar Nath, who has been studying the migration of the hilsa at Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University. “The hilsa is a very delicate fish and environmental changes have an effect on its physiology. Unless the fish grows to a particular size, its egg-yolk remains undeveloped.” A matured hilsa lays 10 to 12 lakh eggs, of which only a very small fraction hatch. Scientists said years that witnessed heavy rainfall, like 2011 and 2012, saw a more robust flow of hilsa through rivers. “Those were years of bumper catch. For the last two years, the volume of the hilsa catch has been dwindling, leaving fishermen struggling to meet their ends,” said Bijan Maity, of the Kakdwip Fishermen Welfare Association. Apart from inadequate rainfall, scientists blame the tendency of illegal fishing of hilsa pawns and the state government's policy of allowing fishermen to venture into the waters early, before the onset of the monsoon. In Bangladesh, there is a blanket ban on hilsa fishing between May 20 and July 23. The Bengal government's ban is from April 15 to June 14. Scientists blamed the duration of the ban in Bengal for the netting of baby hilsas across parts of Frasergunge, Namkhana, Diamond Harbour and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. In Bengal, catching, selling and buying Hilsas weighing below 500g is prohibited and is a cognisable offence. So it is in Bangladesh. “We need to have stringent laws like in Bangladesh, where a fisherman is jailed for six months if caught catching a small hilsa,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine). For hilsa lovers, the delight in savoring a full-grown ilish is hard to match. “The ones weighing around 2kg or more have a taste of their own. We don’t get to see them anymore these days. But such hilsas — with broad abdomen — is always a chef’s dream,” said Anjan Chatterjee, who owns the Oh! Calcutta restaurant chain. “We are yet to start the Hilsa festival this year because of the poor supply of good quality fish.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||No-test order ‘violates’ Jadavpur University autonomy ||Teachers of Jadavpur University have written to education minister Bratya Basu that his department’s instruction that undergraduate students be admitted solely on the basis of marks “goes directly against the autonomy of universities”. The teachers said in an email to the minister on Tuesday that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams because of the Covid pandemic, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels”. The education department had on July 14 told colleges and universities that they were to draw up the merit list of undergraduate aspirants solely on the basis of plus-II marks. “This notification goes directly against the autonomy of universities. In the specific case of Jadavpur University, as per the university’s statutes, the admission committee is the final decision-making authority in matters having to do with admissions to various courses of study offered by the university,” the teachers of the university have written to Basu. Metro tried to call up the education minister several times but his phone was unreachable. Education secretary Manish Jain’s phone was switched off every time this newspaper tried to contact him. Partha Pratim Roy, the secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta), said the methodology of the evaluation of the plus-II students this year would not reflect an undergraduate aspirant’s aptitude for a specific field of study. “This year, the students will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in Class X board exams, Class XI exams, internal assessment and practical or project work. For a university like ours, that till 2019 used to admit students through admission tests or by giving equal weightage to the test and board marks, admitting students solely on the basis of marks is not an acceptable proposition,” said Roy. “We want to screen students through admission tests.” A JU teacher said admission tests could be held off-line with an agency setting up centres across the state. “The state JEE board conducted the admission test for the BTech programme at 274 centres on Saturday. JU was one of the centres,” the teacher said. Another teacher said students could be screened through group discussions or interviews held over online platforms. “If a candidate lacks a smartphone, he or she could be interviewed over a normal phone. The university will consider the board marks but some kind of screening is a must to choose the deserving and bright candidates,” the teacher said. Another teacher said: “We suspect that the HS candidates will be deluged with marks. So an admission test is the sole option to judge an undergraduate aspirant.” The higher education department at a meeting with vice-chancellors on July 7 barred state-aided colleges and universities from conducting admission tests at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Education minister Basu presided over the meeting. The department announced its opposition to admission tests when JU VC Suranjan Das sought to know whether the tests could be held to screen candidates. Education secretary Jain apparently told Das that tests could not be held this year because of the pandemic and the digital divide. This is not the first time JU teachers have stood up against the state government’s alleged attempt to undermine a university’s right to take its own academic decisions. In June 2018, JU had decided to scrap tests for admission to six undergraduate programmes in humanities and admit students on the basis of marks, as suggested by then education minister Partha Chatterjee. After teachers protested and students held an indefinite hunger strike, the education department was forced to let JU admit students through admission tests and plus-II marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police constables jog to boost Maidan security||Three teams of eight constables each are taking turns in jogging and exercising on the Maidan from 5am to 7am every day in an attempt to boost security of morning walkers by increasing police visibility on the greens. The 24 constables in the three teams have been drawn from 11 police stations in the south division. One team will jog and exercise each day. The group activity started on Monday, five days after three morning walkers were robbed by two scooter-borne men. One of the walkers was attacked with a knife and the butt of a gun when he tried to resist the robbers. “Each group has eight constables, who are split into three or four sub-groups. They jog and do other physical exercises in earmarked parts of the Maidan. The groups are numbered one, two and three,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “The constables have been given similar T-shirts so they can be identified as members of Calcutta police. This way we are trying to increase the police coverage across the Maidan.” This activity is in addition to the deployment of extra forces in the Maidan area, the officer said. Police deployment on the Maidan was stepped up a day after the three morning walkers were attacked. Hundreds of Calcuttans from across the city choose the lush green Maidan for morning and evening walks. Covid curbs and parking restrictions in and around the sprawl have reduced the footfall, making those who still turn up there vulnerable to attacks. Constables from Maidan, Hastings, Tollygunge, Kalighat, Chetla, Alipore, New Alipore, Charu Market, Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani and Bhowanipore police stations have been chosen for the morning activity. One of the officers who was aware of the plan said increased visibility of policemen, even those who are not in uniform, could act as a deterrent to criminals. “Incidents of snatching or robberies happen mostly on deserted stretches, where criminals feel they are not being watched or can get away easily. A person with bad intentions will think twice before committing a crime if he or she sees policemen around,” said an IPS officer. Before the attack by the scooter-borne men, cops in one patrol van and on two motorcycles were on Maidan duty every morning. The number has since been doubled and four police pickets were set up where cops with walkie-talkies are posted for quick and effective communication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court brake on teacher hiring||A division bench of the high court on Tuesday issued an interim order restraining the school service commission from appointing teachers for upper primary classes of secondary schools without the court’s nod. The order has cast a cloud on the government’s decision to appoint at least 24,000 teachers for Classes VI to VIII by Durga Puja. The division bench headed by Justice Subrata Talukdar, which issued the order, has allowed the commission to continue selecting candidates after conducting interviews but barred it from appointing teachers. The bench asked the commission to preserve all relevant documents related to the selection of candidates so they could be produced in court after 12 weeks. The order followed an appeal by some job aspirants against the verdict delivered by Justice Abhijit Ganguly of the high court, which had allowed the commission to appoint deserving candidates. Justice Ganguly had asked the commission to be more transparent in the selection process and to consider individually the grievances of the aggrieved candidates who had been alleging irregularities in the selection process. The division bench asked the commission to receive grievances through its website till July 31 and consider the cases with sympathy. The bench also asked the commission to display the marks obtained by the aggrieved candidates on its website. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that over 32,000 teachers would be recruited in secondary schools, at least 24,000 of whom would be appointed by Puja 2021. The list of successful candidates will be prepared based on the 2015 teachers’ eligibility test (TET). The recruitment process has been caught in a tangle of allegations and court cases between 2016 and 2020. After the high court had greenlighted the recruitment process in 2020 and a merit list was published, a fresh set of petitions were filed to stall the process. Some candidates alleged that the names of those who had scored less than them featured on the list while theirs did not. The commission was accused of flouting a 2019 high court guideline and failing to mention the marks beside the name of each candidate on the merit list. Following Justice Ganguly’s order, the commission published the names of selected candidates and also the marks they had obtained in TET.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-07-2021||Business||Deepak Parekh sees patchy economic recovery||HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh on Tuesday  said the effect of the second wave of the Covid pandemic on the Indian economy will be similar to the trend seen in the previous fiscal when the first half was weak and the second half was significantly stronger. Parekh was addressing shareholders of HDFC at its 44th annual general meeting. Parekh feels the unpredictability of Covid 19 will remain a key challenge even though India’s macro-economic fundamentals are strong and recovery is underway. “The key challenge remains the unpredictability of virus. The world is still susceptible to recurring waves of infections. Thus, economic recovery will remain uneven and patchy,’’ he said. ‘Skin in the game’ rule Parekh had recently sought some changes to the market regulator’s ‘skin in the game’ norms for mutual funds announced in April. The original  date for the rules to be effective have been deferred to October 1 from July 1 but mutual funds are pretty spooked. Sebi had announced that a part of the compensation (20 per cent) for key employees must be paid in the form of units of the scheme which they manage directly or are under their purview. Parekh said Sebi ought to offer greater flexibility to employees to select the set of schemes they would want to invest in based on their own risk profile within this limit of 20 per cent. He observed that the regulation does not exist even in the developed world. “I hope that they (developed countries) follow us when it comes to regulatory environment,’’ he said at the shareholders meeting of HDFC AMC. Fund houses are worried about the exodus of talent, particularly at the mid-level. Funds, therefore, want a relaxation in the eligible employees who could come under the new rule and also a reduction in the 20 per cent limit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
21-07-2021||Business||Vikram Solar sets up a 1.3GW solar photovoltaic module plant in Tamil Nadu||City-based solar module manufacturer — Vikram Solar — on Tuesday said it has set up a 1.3GW (Gigawatt) solar photovoltaic module plant at Indospace Industrial Park, Oragadam, Tamil Nadu. The capital investment for the initial phase of the plant is Rs 200 crore. With the new unit, the company’s cumulative PV module manufacturing capacity will reach 2.5GW, including its existing 1.2GW facility at Falta in Bengal. The plant will help to manufacture advanced high-efficiency bi-facial & smart modules. Proximity to the seaport will make transportation cost effective. The company plans to expand further in Chennai. “We are looking at a complete integrated play where we can insource many of the components required for solar modules. The total outlay would be about Rs 5,000 crore, including debt and equity, put together over five years,” said Saibaba Vutukuri, CEO of Vikram Solar. The expansion comes at a time the safeguard duty of 25 per cent on solar cell imports is due to end this month. The levy protected domestic manufacturers against imports, particularly from China. “Safeguard duty is sunsetting at the end of this month. It will definitely impact the manufacturers but considering the strong order book, we should be able to mitigate this,” said Gyanesh Chaudhary, managing director, Vikram Solar. Chaudhary added that the introduction of customs duty on imported solar cells and modules was a good start towards creating a domestic manufacturing ecosystem, but may not be sufficient to ward off Chinese imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
21-07-2021||Business||Stocks close lower, led by losses in banking and metal stocks||Stocks closed lower on Tuesday, led by losses in banking and metal stocks amid a selloff in the global markets sparked by a surge in the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The BSE Sensex closed down 0.68 per cent at 52198.51, while the NSE Nifty fell 0.76 per cent to 15632.10 . The Nifty Bank Index was a major drag, down 1.89 per cent, with HDFC Bank, IndusInd, ICICI Bank and AU Small Finance Bank among the losers. Metal and realty also ended down at 2.34 per cent and 2.53 per cent, respectively. European shares bounced back from their worst day of the year on Tuesday, but Asian stocks were down, as the fast-spreading Delta variant raised fears that further lockdowns could upend global economic recovery. On Monday, the 30-share gauge had tumbled by 587 points on these factors. Market circles feel stocks are likely to remain under pressure even as investors will focus on India Inc’s results. The Sensex on Tuesday opened lower at 52432.88 and hit an intra-day low of  52013.51 — a drop of 539.89 points — and later closed down 354.89 points at 52198.51. “Bears dominated D-street following overnight selling in global markets. A sharp fall in crude prices and US bond yields reflected the rising concern over a fall in future growth. Vulnerability from premium valuations, the upcoming FOMC meeting and selling by foreign investors exposed the Indian market. However, western markets attempted to recover from the selloff which provided some comfort to the domestic market but the selling continued,’’ Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. Gaurav Udani, CEO & founder, ThincRedBlu Securities, warned that a further fall below 15600 can take the Nifty to 15400 levels. Meanwhile, the rupee reversed early losses to close 27 paise higher at 74.61 against the dollar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Pension fund managers to be allowed to invest in initial public offerings||Pension fund managers (PFMs) will soon be allowed to invest in initial public offerings, and also in a broader list of stocks, a top official from sector regulator PFRDA said on Tuesday. The Pension Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is aiming to increase the number of subscribers looking to build a retirement corpus by 1 crore in 2021-22, its chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay told reporters. At present, there are restrictions under which PFMs can invest the equity component of a corpus only in scrips traded on the options and futures segment with a market cap of over Rs 5,000 crore. Officials said this restricts the opportunities for fund managers, who have been able to deliver a compounded annual growth rate of 11.31 per cent on equity investments since the beginning of the new pension scheme. They pointed out Avenue Supermarkets as a case in point, where PFMs were not able to enter because of the restrictions. “In two or three days, we will be notifying new rules which take a more liberal view on categories where equity investments can be made,” Bandyopadhyay said. There will be some specifications which will be brought in to reduce the risk associated with equity investments, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Finance minister seeks Parliament approval to spend Rs 1.87 lakh crore as gross additional expenditure||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday sought Parliament’s approval to spend Rs 1.87 lakh crore as gross additional expenditure. Of this, the actual cash outgo will only be Rs 23,675 crore, or 12.6 per cent, as the remaining Rs 1.64 lakh crore will be met through savings and higher receipts and recoveries. A sum of Rs 17,000 crore has been earmarked for the health ministry in the current financial year, according to the first batch of supplementary demands for grants tabled in the Lok Sabha. A substantial chunk of the total gross spending is towards transfer to states for shortfall in GST compensation cess. An amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore will be transferred to the states as back-to-back loans in lieu of the GST compensation shortfall. However, this will not involve any cash outgo. “As the back-to-back loans are to be met from equivalent capital receipts, the expenditure will not entail additional cash outgo,” the supplementary demands for grants said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said, “It appears that the outgo of more than Rs 90,000 crore for the free foodgrain provision in May-November 2021 is being absorbed by the cushion created in this year’s budget on account of the prepayment of the FCI’s loans to the NSSF (National Small Savings Fund) in 2020-21.” “With healthy revenues amid a modest increase in the expenditure outlay, the cash flow position of the government appears to be quite comfortable, which allowed the release of Rs 75,000 crore of GST compensation loans from the Centre’s own borrowings. However, the pending GST compensation for the April 2020-March 2021 period has been pegged at a sizable Rs 81,179 crore. “The financing options for the pending dues remain unclear. The balance Rs 84,000 crore of back-to-back loans related to the GST compensation gap appear likely to be raised in the second half of FY22 as part of the GoI’s borrowing calendar,” Nayar added. ADB forecast The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has downgraded India’s economic growth forecast for the current financial year to 10 per cent on Tuesday, from 11 per cent projected earlier this year, mainly on account of the adverse impact of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to Rs 500 crore through issue of securities||Tata Motors on Tuesday said its board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs 500 crore through the issue of securities on a private placement basis. The company will issue up to 5,000 rated, listed, unsecured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) E30-B Series of face value of Rs 10,00,000 each, aggregating up to Rs 500 crore. However, Tata Motors did not share the details of how it will use the capital. The Tata Motors shares ended lower by 2.15 per cent, or Rs 6.65, at Rs 302.05 apiece on the BSE on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Swiggy closes $1.25-billion funding rounded led by SoftBank and Prosus||Food delivery platform Swiggy on Tuesday announced that it has closed a $1.25-billion funding round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and its long-term investor Prosus. After the funding, Swiggy will be valued at around $5.5 billion (Rs 41,125 crore). The development comes at a time rival Zomato is set to list on the bourses with a valuation of Rs 64,365 crore. Its initial public offering (IPO), which concluded last week, was subscribed over 38 times. Indian start-ups continue to see strong interest from private equity players and have raised $12 billion in the first six months of this calendar year, according to Venture Intelligence. For Swiggy, the funding will give it more firepower to take on Zomato and grow its non-food business. A statement from Swiggy said this will be the first investment in the Indian food delivery category by SoftBank Vision Fund 2. Besides Prosus, other existing investors such as Accel Partners and Wellington Management participated in the funding round. Swiggy added that the latest fundraise was heavily subscribed following strong interest from investors and it follows the start-up’s rapid recovery from the impact of Covid-19 and subsequent growth in 2020-21. “The participation of some of the most visionary global investors is a huge vote of confidence in Swiggy’s mission and ability to build an enduring and iconic company out of India,’’ Swiggy CEO Sriharsha Majety said while commenting on the development. Majety added that the scope of food delivery in India is massive and over the next few years, Swiggy will continue to invest aggressively in growing this category. “Our biggest investments will be in our non-food businesses that have witnessed tremendous consumer love and growth in a short span, especially in the past 15 months of the pandemic,” he said. Swiggy has diversified from food delivery to pick-up and drop through its “Swiggy Genie” facility where customers can get items such as over-the-counter medicines, home food, documents and items from the supermarket, stationery and pet shops. It is also bullish on e-grocery delivery from its Instamart offering Speaking to a television channel, the Swiggy CEO said the company was also considering an IPO but added that there was nothing “actionable” just now. The latest round of investment is expected to accelerate Swiggy’s multi-year strategy of growing its core food delivery business and building new food and non-food segments in 2021 and beyond. The company plans to enhance its capabilities in technology and artificial intelligence and strengthen teams across engineering, product, data science and analytics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||India||Classes X and XII board exams for private candidates to be held from Aug 16 to Sept 15: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced that board exams for private candidates will be conducted from August 16 to September 15. The board ruled out declaring results of the private candidates on the basis of an alternative assessment policy like that for regular candidates, saying neither schools nor the CBSE has any previous assessment record for these students. "The exams will be conducted from August 16 to September 15 and their result will also be declared in minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty to them in admission in higher education," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier in the day, a group of private candidates staged a protest outside the CBSE headquarters alleging disparity between them and regular candidates. "The CBSE will declare the result of regular students as per the policy approved by Supreme Court. In case of regular students, schools are having records of the assessment done by the schools during the current year and thus their result could be declared based on the assessment policy," Bhardwaj said. "In case of the private candidates, neither the schools nor the CBSE have the desired records, hence, their result cannot be prepared based on the assessment policy. In case of regular students, schools have conducted a unit test, mid-term and pre-board examination and thus the performance of these students was available. "However, in case of private candidates (there are) no records based on which their assessment could be done without conduct of examination," he added. The board noted that issue of private candidates was also discussed in Supreme Court of India and thereafter policy was decided wherein written examination will be held for declaring result of private candidates. "This issue was discussed in detail and the court has agreed with all petitioners. The tabulation policy for assessment of results was framed by a committee looking into all aspects of regular and private candidates," he added. Bhardwaj said that the official notification for the exams will be issued soon. "The UGC and the CBSE are looking into the interest of all the students and the UGC will be synchronizing admission schedule based on the result of these students as it was done by UGC in 2020," Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Farmers to start demonstration at Jantar Mantar from Thursday||Farmers protesting the three contentious farm laws will start holding a stir at Jantar Mantar from Thursday under heavy security with Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal giving special permission for demonstrations by a maximum of 200 peasants till August 9.  A group of 200 farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses with a police escort and hold protests there from 11 am to 5 pm, sources in the Delhi Police said.  They said the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' union which has been spearheading the protest against the farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all Covid norms would be followed and the stir would be peaceful.  Although the SKM said that their protest at the Jantar Mantar will continue till the end if the Monsoon Session of Parliament on August 13, the L-G has given permission for protest till August 9.  This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to protesting farmer unions to hold a protest in the city.  According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Lt Governor Anil Baijal, who is also DDMA's chairperson, has given approval for a staggered protest at Jantar Mantar by a maximum of 200 farmers every day from Thursday to August 9 between 11 am to 5 pm.  "They would be conveyed by designated buses and six members of one separate group by a designated SUV on a given route under police escort subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour (wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser etc.) and compliance of all other guidelines/ instructions/SOPs issued by Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic," the order said.  Adequate security arrangements will be made at the Jantar Mantar, sources said.  Gathering for protests is currently not allowed in the national capital, under a DDMA order.  Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.  Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.  The SKM had initially proposed that the protesting farmers will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar every day, a few metres from Parliament.  After a meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, a farm union leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament.  "We will hold 'Kisan Parliament' from July 22 till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day. One speaker and one deputy speaker will be chosen every day.  "In the first two days, there will be a discussion over the APMC Act. Later, the other bills will also be discussed every two days," a leader had said.  Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka on Tuesday told PTI that farmers, wearing identification badges, will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border to hold the protest.  "We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the monsoon session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges.  "When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful," Kakka had said.  A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Serum Institute writes to health minister proposing reforms in drug regulatory system||World's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Serum Institute of India (SII) has written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya suggesting reforms in the existing drug regulatory system, including allowing manufacturing and stockpiling of non-Covid vaccines while undergoing clinical trial. According to official sources, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based SII, in a letter, referred to a gazette notification by the Union Health Ministry on May 18, 2020. He said it allowed manufacturing and stockpiling of Covid-19 vaccine under clinical trial for marketing authorization for sale or distribution. "Because of this rule, it became possible for us to manufacture and stockpile the Covid-19 vaccine during clinical trial and we could make the vaccine available in such a short span of time period to protect millions of lives. "It will be a big help for the vaccine industry if this rule is implemented for non-Covid-19 vaccines also," a source quoted Singh as having communicated in the letter to the minister. Singh also sought permission to use the remaining quantities of batches of Covid and non-Covid vaccines for commercial purposes which have been used in clinical trial. In this context, he said the Health Ministry had issued draft rules dated April 12, 2018, to allow remaining quantities of batches of vaccines which have been used in clinical trial for commercial use after granting of permission in form 46 (now it is form CT-23) and manufacturing licence in Form 28D. "However, the gazette notification in this regard has not been issued so far for the implementation of the same," Singh said. He also sought the implementation of recommendations of a high-powered inter-ministerial committee for reforming the Drug Regulatory Systems in India. The letter stated that on the directions of the prime minister, a high-powered Inter-Ministerial Committee for reforming the drug regulatory systems in India was formed under the chairmanship of then OSD, Rajesh Bhushan who is presently the health secretary. "Recommendations of this inter-ministerial committee should be implemented immediately in line with 'ease of doing business". The letter highlighted few other points also related to regulatory reforms and stated, "If few rules/regulatory provisions are amended, it will be a great help and encouragement for the vaccine industry to grow faster. We are putting forward the following points w.r.t. Reforms in the Drug Regulatory System for your kind consideration which will take the Vaccine Industry of our country to further new heights." "In view of the genuine difficulties being faced by the vaccine industry, I sincerely request for your kind intervention for the regulatory reforms. This will also be in line with our prime minister's vision of ease of doing business in India and will further encourage his dream project 'Making in India for the World'," Singh mentioned in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Aviation ministry forms advisory groups to resolve Covid challenges||The Civil Aviation Ministry has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the sector, according to an official statement on Wednesday. India's aviation sector was badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic's second wave that swept the nation in April and May. Many aviation stakeholders are not in a good financial shape currently. The ministry said on Twitter: "Under the chairmanship of the Honourable Minister of Civil Aviation, Jyotiraditya Scindia, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators and MRO, cargo carriers, FTOs and ground handling companies." "The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues and resolve challenges facing each sector. Orders have been issued for the same," it added. The first advisory group comprises chiefs of all major airlines in India -- Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, IndiGo Chairman Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet Chairman Ajay Singh, Go First Director Ness Wadia, Vistara Chairman Bhaskar Bhat, AirAsia India CEO Sunil Bhaskaran, Alliance Air CEO Harpreet A De Singh. According to the Aviation Ministry's order on July 20, the first group would advise the government on issues such as safeguarding the viability of airlines, enhancing the domestic and international connectivity, promotion of passenger and cargo services, manpower skilling in the aviation sector and development of India as a hub for passenger travel, cargo and MRO services. The second group comprises top officials of major Indian airport operators -- Airports Authority of India Chairman Sanjeev Kumar, GMR Group Business Chairman G B S Raju, Adani Group Vice President Jeet Adani and Bangalore International Airport Limited Chief Executive Officer Hari K Marar. Another Aviation Ministry's order stated that the second group would advise the government on issues including enhancing the airport capacity, infrastructure augmentation and modernisation, increasing passenger facilities and amenities at airports and regulatory issues concerning airports. The third advisory group would comprise of four sub-groups: one each on MRO, ground handling, cargo and FTO. Each of the sub-group would have four industry executives as members who work in that particular industry. Scheduled domestic passenger traffic was suspended in India for about two months between March 25 and May 24 last year due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Since June 2020, the domestic traffic had been on a path of recovery when the second wave of the pandemic hit India during April and May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Don't protest: Yediyurappa amid exit speculations||With voices growing in his support, amid speculation that his replacement was on the cards, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa urged his supporters and well-wishers not to indulge in any kind of protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and may embarrass the BJP.  The 78-year-old BJP veteran even said that the party is "like mother" for him.  "I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP.  It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour.I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party," Yediyurappa tweeted. Appealing to supporters not to give statements in his favour or indulge in protests, based on the current political developments, Yediyurappa in a tweet in Kannada said, "your goodwill should not exceed the boundaries of discipline.Party is like a mother to me and disrespecting it will cause pain to me. I believe that my true well wishers will understand and respond to my feelings."  Support has continued to pour in for Yediyurappa from Mutts, pontiffs, political leaders across the party line, amid speculations that his exit was on the cards.  Leaders and pontiffs, especially from the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, also All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha have declared support to Yediyurappa and have urged for his continuation as the Chief Minister, while also warning "bad consequences" for the BJP if he is replaced.  Some BJP leaders like MP G M Siddeshwara and former legislator B Suresh Gowda, among others, speaking in Yediyurappa's support, have also expressed confidence that he will continue as CM, as the high command has not asked him to step down.  Yediyurappa, who is completing two years in office on July 26, had visited Delhi last week, during which he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP President J P Nadda.  The trip raised questions in some quarters if the party is now working out a succession plan.  On his return from the national capital, Yediyurappa had, however, dismissed reports that he is on the way out, and asserted that the central leadership has asked him to continue in the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
21-07-2021||India||Editors Guild of India seeks Supreme Court-monitored probe into Pegasus case ||Expressing shock over media reports on widespread surveillance on journalists and politicians using Pegasus spyware, the Editors Guild of India on Wednesday demanded an independent Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the alleged snooping. "The Editors Guild of India (EGI) is shocked by the media reports on the widespread surveillance, allegedly mounted by government agencies, on journalists, civil society activists, businessmen and politicians, using a hacking software known as Pegasus, created and developed by the Israeli company NSO," the Guild said in a statement shared on Twitter. It said the reports, which have been published worldwide over the last few days by a consortium of 17 publications, point towards surveillance by multiple governments across the world. Since NSO claims that it only sells this software to government clients vetted by the government of Israel, it deepens suspicion of involvement of Indian government agencies in snooping on its own citizens, read the EGI statement. An international media consortium had recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking using Pegasus software/spyware. The EGI condemned the surveillance on journalists saying it was an attack on the freedom of press. While some of the instances of surveillance might have been targeted against those who may be seen as credible national security threats, what is disturbing is that a large number of such targets were journalists and civil society activists. This is a brazen and unconstitutional attack on freedom of speech and press, the Guild said, adding that this act of snooping essentially conveys that journalism and political dissent are now equated with 'terror' . "How can a constitutional democracy survive if governments do not make an effort to protect freedom of speech and allow surveillance with such impunity," it said. Seeking an independent probe into the matter, the EGI demanded that the inquiry committee must include journalists and civil society activists to ensure independent investigation. "This is a moment that demands deep introspection and inquiry into the kind of society we are heading towards, and how far we may have veered away from the democratic values enshrined in our constitution. "The Guild demands an urgent and independent inquiry into these snooping charges, under the aegis of the Supreme Court of India. We also demand that this inquiry committee should include people of impeccable credibility from different walks of life--including journalists and civil society--so that it can independently investigate facts around the extent and intent of snooping using the services of Pegasus," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||India successfully flight-tests New Generation Akash Missile, says DRDO||India on Wednesday successfully flight-tested the New Generation Akash Missile (Akash-NG) off the Odisha coast here, official sources said. The trial was conducted around 12.45 pm from a land-based platform with all weapon system elements such as multifunction radar, command, control $@$# communication system and launcher participating in deployment configuration, they said. The missile system has been developed by the Defence Research $@$# Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad in collaboration with other DRDO laboratories. The surface-to-air missile was launched from the Integrated Test Range (ITR). During the test, the missile demonstrated high manoeuvrability required for neutralising fast and agile aerial threats, the sources said. The flawless performance of the entire weapon system has been confirmed by complete flight data, they said. Once deployed, the Akash-NG weapon system will prove to be a force multiplier for the IAF. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO, Indian Air Force and production agencies for the successful test. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said in a tweet: "Congratulate @DRDO_India on the successful flight testing of the New Generation Akash Missile (Akash-NG) from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) off the coast of #Odisha".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Doctors in Uttar Pradesh 'leave' cloth inside woman's stomach during operation||Doctors at Government Medical College in Shahjahanpur have been accused of leaving a cloth in the stomach of a pregnant woman during a cesarean operation in January this year. The woman, who was admitted to the trauma centre of King George's Medical College in a serious condition, is said to be on a ventilator. Taking note of the matter, the principal of the medical college has formed a three-member inquiry team, which has been asked to give its report at the earliest. According to a complaint by Manoj, a resident of Ramapur North under the Tilhar police station, his wife Neelam (in her 30s) had given birth to a baby girl on January 6 during which a cloth was left in her stomach, said college Principal Rajesh Kumar on Wednesday. He said as soon as he received the complaint, he formed an inquiry committee, comprising Dr Archana, Dr Vibhor Kumar and Nursing Superintendent Sandesh Kumar. He said legal action will be taken against the culprits on the basis of the report. Meanwhile, the woman's husband told reporters that after the birth of their daughter, his wife used to complain of stomach pain. With no relief from treatment by private doctors, he said he got her admitted to a private medical college in Shahjahanpur where a CT scan revealed that a cloth had been left behind in her stomach and it was removed through an operation. She was later admitted to the Lucknow trauma centre after her condition did not improve, he said. The woman's father, Radheshyam, over the phone said her condition is critical. She has been kept on a ventilator, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||How Spinsvilla make big impact on online casinos||Casinos have been around for hundreds of years in one form or another, and once the internet was born, it was only a matter of time before gambling went digital. Sure enough, in 1996, people with Internet access (of whom there were surprisingly few) could enjoy a few games of blackjack, roulette, or even poker at the world's leading online casino. It's extremely basic and very slow, but even casino fans are hooked. Spinsvilla has listed the latest top online casino sites. This includes our casino reviews, brand ratings, the latest casino bonuses they offer new and old players, as well as reviews from players who have actually played. They regularly update this list and always search for the latest casino locations for you to play, and they try to compile detailed information on all bonuses straight from the no deposit bonus money, to accommodate the bonuses and all the other great player promotions offers, which you can read before opening an account and trying your luck! How did Spinsvilla change the game? Online Casino Review is the best guide to help you make an informed decision before betting online. Most players like to see reviews before deciding to use a casino site. This way you can see who is offering bonuses or withdrawals. If you are new to the game, you need some basic information to help you choose the best casino site. The best online casino sites should take care of your best interests and you should be sure of that. Again, you need to assess credit on trusted casino review sites like Spinsvilla to avoid being scammed. If you are in doubt about any of the great options, don't risk your money on these sites. Fake reviews team up with scam sites to steal from unsuspecting players. The evaluators do this based on the overall service and reliability of the site. In fact, online casino reviews are especially important for any serious player. If you want to bet your money confidently and win, use only trusted online casinos. But do you know the importance of these criticisms? If so, you are ready to go ahead and place your bets. If not, read on to understand why you need a casino review! Today we have a lot of illegal casinos in the gambling market, and this gives an advantage to honest casino sites in attracting more gambling customers. In this case, the customer and the company mutually benefit. Honest casino sites will also offer the best payouts to winning players. Casino sites can actually afford to pay you more because they are driven by profit and not greed like scammers. Genuine gambling sites pay players fast, have real reviews on-site and 24/7 customer service. There are several factors that casino reviews take into account when determining the best online casino. They evaluate the payout rates, the usability of the scoreboard, and the games offered. Review sites also look at payout speed to see if it works. After you combine all these factors, they will give you the best casino you can trust for your game. Trusted casino reviews will not favor any casino site. While there are millions of websites that claim to offer great bonuses and payouts to their customers, only legitimate ones can be used safely. A trustworthy casino website will not attract players but will provide website visitors with reliable information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Farmers get Delhi police permission to stage protest at Jantar mantar||The Delhi Police on Wednesday gave permission to farmers to stage demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, official sources said. They said farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses with police escort. The monsoon session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. A day earlier, farmers' unions said they will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar during the monsoon session and 200 protesters from the Singhu border will attend it every day from July 22. After a meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, a farm union leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament. A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Kangana moves HC against defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has approached the Bombay High Court seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated by a city magistrate on a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. In an appeal filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, Ranaut claimed that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court initiated proceedings against her by relying only on the police's report and did not examine witnesses independently. Akhtar filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut in November 2020 before the magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews. In December, the court directed the suburban Juhu police to conduct an inquiry. After the police stated in its report that an offense was made out on the face of it and further probe was needed, the court initiated criminal proceedings against Ranaut and issued a summons to her in February 2021. "The metropolitan magistrate did not use his own powers to conduct an inquiry but instead blatantly used the police machinery to collect the signed witness statements...which is completely unheard of," the actor's plea said. It was likely that the witnesses were influenced by the police and the magistrate should have recorded evidence of witnesses under oath to "establish if an actual case was made out", it said. The high court is likely to hear Ranaut's plea next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra approached me to act in his videos, says YouTuber||Days after businessman Raj Kundra’s arrest in a porn films case, YouTuber Puneet Kaur has come forward to claim that she too was approached by him for an adult app called HotShots. Kundra (45), husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on Monday night in a case, which it said, related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kaur took to her Instagram stories to share that Kundra had offered her to act in one of the films. “Brooo do you OGS remember our verified DM video where he reached out to me for hotshots!?!? Im deaaad (sic).” “I can’t even WTF this mans was really luring people -we literally thought it was spam when he sent that DM to me!? Jesus Christ man rot in jail (sic),” she added. She also added excerpts from a previous video where she is seen talking to her friends about the incident. Kaur’s claims follow those of actresses Poonam Pandey and Sagarika Shona Suman, who allegedly faced similar issues. According to a report by India Today, Sagarika had addressed the media in February demanding Raj Kundra's arrest. She had claimed that Kundra asked her to give a nude audition. Kundra, remanded in police custody till July 23 by a Mumbai court on Tuesday in a porn films case, was involved in making and selling pornographic material and gaining financially from the illegal activity, the crime branch alleged while seeking his remand. The police claimed there were several WhatsApp chats that revealed Kundra was involved in the financial dealings of apps and their contents. The police also said three women have come forward with complaints in the case, saying they were "forced to act in pornographic movies". The accused persons took advantage of struggling models, actors and other workers, and made them work in these pornographic movies, the police said, adding these movies were shot in rented bungalows in Mumbai. The police also claimed that Kundra’s company was running operations for a London-based firm floated by a close relative which was into producing pornographic content for India Kundra was booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays), and relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Class 12: CBSE extends deadline for schools to compile results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday extended the deadline for schools to prepare Class 12 results to July 25, examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier, the deadline was July 22. Bhardwaj noted that the teachers involved in the result preparation process are under stress and getting panicky. "With the last date for finalising the results approaching fast, the teachers are panicky and committing mistakes and sending request to CBSE to rectify these. CBSE is well aware about the constraints and problems faced by the schools and teachers," Bhardwaj said in an official order. "Accordingly, CBSE has decided to extend the last date from July 22 to 25. Schools may continue to work towards compiling the result to avoid any last minute rush. In case, any school is left to complete the moderation of marks, the result of such schools will be declared separately," he added. With the board exams being cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, schools have been tasked with tabulation of results using separate alternative assessment policy announced by the CBSE for the two classes. The CBSE, however, did not clarify whether extending the deadline for schools will cause a delay in declaration of results which are due to be declared latest by July 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Parliamentary panel likely to question officials on Pegasus scandal on July 28||A parliamentary panel on IT headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is likely to question top government officials, including from Home Ministry, next week on allegations related to phone tapping of many using Pegasus spyware, sources said on Wednesday. An international media consortium has claimed that several Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee and some 40 journalists were among those whose phone numbers were listed as potential targets for hacking through the Israeli spyware which is usually supplied to government agencies. The Indian government and Israeli surveillance company NSO Group, which sells Pegasus spyware worldwide, have refuted the reports. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology headed by Tharoor is scheduled to meet on July 28. The agenda of the meeting is 'Citizens' data security and privacy', according to the notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat. The panel, which has maximum members from the ruling BJP, has summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology and the Ministry of Home Affairs. Sources in the panel said the Pegasus phone tapping issue will definitely be raised in the meeting and details will be sought from the government officials. The issue also rocked proceedings in Parliament as opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the government. Describing the entire snooping incident as a matter of "national security concern", Tharoor had demanded an explanation from the government. Speaking in Lok Sabha, Union IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had dismissed the reports as "baseless" and said that the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament were aimed at maligning Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||BJP protests against political violence in Bengal||Leaders of the Bengal BJP, including its president Dilip Ghosh and several MPs, sat on a dharna in New Delhi on Wednesday to protest against the alleged political violence targeting party workers in the state. The saffron party organised similar programmes in Bengal on a day Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee addressed her party's annual Martyrs' Day rally in Calcutta and hit out at the Narendra Modi government at the Centre over the Pegasus snooping row. Ghosh slammed the Bengal government for violence in the state. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that a large number of its workers and their families and properties have been targeted by TMC supporters in the state after Mamata led her party to a huge win in the Assembly polls, the results of which were declared on May 2. The TMC has denied the charge and claimed that there has been little violence since Mamata took oath as chief minister for the third time. In a tweet, BJP national president J P Nadda said, "Entire country is watching poll violence against BJP workers in Bengal. In this violence, maximum atrocities have been inflicted on women, Dalits and children. We will fight democratically to demolish Mamata Banerjee's dictatorial mindset."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
21-07-2021||India||Instagram tests new 'Collab' feature in India, UK||Instagram on Wednesday said it is testing a new Collab' feature in India and the UK that will allow users to collaborate with others on Feed Posts and Reels. "Collaborating is a huge part of how people connect on Instagram. With 'Collab', you can invite a collaborator to your Feed Post and Reels and so they can share the content with their followers," a statement said. If the other user accepts, they will be shown as an author and the content will be shared to their profile grid and to their followers in the feed, it added. The content can be seen by followers of both the users and they can both see the shared feedback. India is among the two countries where this will first be tested, the statement said. The other market where this feature is being tested is the UK. "This is only testing with a small percentage of our global community now," the statement said. The Facebook-owned company is now increasingly launching many of its features in India first. Last year, it had launched its new format 'Reels' that allow users to create and share short videos, and India was among the first countries where it was launched. The company went on to launch a separate tab for 'Reels' and India was the first country to get this feature. India was also among the first two countries where Instagram launched Live Rooms - the feature where four people can go live together. Users can upload a feed post or create a 'Reel' as they normally would. At the end of the share screen, they will see the option to 'Tag People', clicking on which will allow them to now invite a collaborator by clicking 'Invite Collaborator'. Users can search for an account and add them as a collaborator, and the other account needs to accept the invite. "Only public accounts who are receiving the test experience can be invited to 'Collab'/co-author. Once the account has accepted the collaboration invite, they will be added to the tag screen and also noted in the header of your post," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||60 MLAs visit Navjot Sidhu in show of strength amid clashes with Amadrinder||In what is seen as a show of strength, nearly 60 Congress MLAs gathered at the residence of new state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here on Wednesday, amid suspense over a possible truce between him and CM Amarinder Singh. Sidhu and Amarinder Singh has been at loggerheads for the past some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the CM over the desecration cases. The chief minister was also averse to his appointment as the state Congress chief. After Sidhu's elevation, the CM had said that he won't meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Wednesday, the MLAs joined by Sidhu boarded luxury buses and went to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, where a large number of Congress supporters gathered. Sidhu and the legislators are also scheduled to visit the Durgiana temple and the Ram Tirath Sthal here. On Tuesday, scores of Congress workers and Sidhu supporters had accorded a warm welcome to him when he arrived here after being appointed the state party chief. Sidhu, a former MP from Amritsar, had switched over from the BJP to the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls. On Wednesday, ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, former state party chief Sunil Jakhar also reached here. The party workers have put up posters of Sidhu at many places in the city. Some party MLAs and supporters here claimed that nearly 60 legislators reached here after they were asked by Sidhu to reach Amritsar for paying obeisance at the Golden temple and other shrines. MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur told reporters, "The 2022 elections will be won by the Congress in Sidhu's name and because of him. Today, entire Punjab wants him." "There is great enthusiasm among party workers after Sidhu's elevation. Our vote share will certainly go up," he said. On differences between Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, Jalalpur said, "The chief minister should welcome Sidhu with open arms. The chief minister also met Pratap Singh Bajwa who had been speaking against him. But Amarinder Singh's advisers are not guiding him properly." On Tuesday, the Punjab chief minister's media adviser had trashed media reports that Sidhu had sought time to meet Amarinder Singh. The media adviser also said there was no change in stance, asserting that Amarinder will not meet Sidhu till he publicly tenders an apology for his derogatory tweets against him. However, Jalalpur said there was no need for Sidhu to apologise, saying he is now the president of the state Congress. "Why should he apologise. It is right that he should respect and he respects the chief minister but for what should he apologise," asked Jalalpur. There has been no reaction from the CM over Sidhu's elevation as the state Congress chief. Earlier, senior Congress leader and cabinet minister Brahm Mahindra had ruled out any personal meeting with Sidhu till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Before going to Amritsar, Sidhu had been calling on ministers and legislators in Chandigarh to mobilise support in the past few days. Sidhu had already met several ministers and MLAs. After taking over as the state unit chief of the Congress, Sidhu had talked about the Punjab model, saying it will make the state prosperous again. An 18-point programme given by the Congress high command will make every Punjabi a shareholder and the power given by the people be returned in the shape of development, he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Landslides following heavy rains leave 150 people stranded in Champawat||Landslides triggered by heavy rains along the Tanakpur-Ghat national highway in Uttarakhand's Champawat district have left around 150 people stranded, an official said on Wednesday. As traffic remained blocked at Vishramghat on the highway till late Tuesday night, the district administration made arrangements for the stay of the stranded people in Champawat, District Disaster Management Officer Manoj Pandey said. Landslides occurred at eight points along the highway on Tuesday bringing mounds of debris onto the road. Though the debris was cleared at seven points by Tuesday evening, the rocks and boulders in Vishramghat could not be cleared till midnight despite efforts, Pandey said. Efforts to clear the rubble on the road in Vishramghat were resumed on Wednesday morning with the help of earth moving machines and a loader he said. Some of the stranded people, who were headed for Haldwani, are being sent there via Devidhura, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh put on life support||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he has been put on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Wednesday. "Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He was intubated and put on life-saving support system on Tuesday evening. His clinical parameters are being closely monitored by the expert consultants," the hospital said in a statement. The senior faculty of the critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to Singh's health, it added. SGPGIMS Director R K Dhiman is closely monitoring the former chief minister's treatment on a daily basis, the statement said. Meanwhile, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the hospital and inquired about Kalyan Singh's health from the doctors. "Visited SGPGI in Lucknow to inquire about health of Kalyan Singh ji. I pray to God for his speedy recovery," he said in a tweet. BJP veteran Kalyan Singh (89), who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital in the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||First transgender candidate in Kerala Assembly polls found dead||Noted trans activist Anannyah Kumari Alex, Kerala's first radio jockey from the third gender community, was found dead at her apartment in Ernnakulam district, following which the government ordered an immediate inquiry into the incident. The 28-year old trans-woman was found hanging from the fan in the bedroom of the apartment near Edappally on Tuesday night and a case of suicide was suspected, police said. Health Minister Veena George asked the medical director to carry out a probe into the incident as the organisation of the third gender community alleged that the deceased trans-woman was suffering from severe pain for some time following a sex reassignment surgery. Meanwhile, the health minister's office here also said an expert panel would be set up soon to study the issues related to the gender reassignment surgery. Also a celebrity makeup artist, a TV news reader and an established stage show anchor, Anannyah recently grabbed media attention as the first transgender candidate in the assembly elections in the state when she became the candidate of theDemocratic Social Justice Party in Vengara in the April 6 polls. Her fellow transgenders alleged that Anannyah was suffering from severe physical pain for some time after undergoing a sex reassignment surgery at a private hospital here last year and complained of medical negligence against the doctor who conducted the procedure. A trans-woman also said Anannyah was suffering from severe pain after the surgery and she had told the friends that she could not even stand for long or do any work due to the physical discomfort post the medical procedure. "She was actually a victim of medical negligence and surgical error. We have to depend private hospitals and subject to their exploitation as there is no facility for the sex reassignment surgery in the government sector," the transgender person added. Police said an investigation was on into the incident. Hailing from an ordinary family in Perumon in Kollam district, Ananyah, a plus-two drop out, had to leave home and family as they could not understand her worries over the gender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Opposition-ruled states claimed that there was no death due to oxygen shortage, says BJP||Noting that Opposition-ruled states claimed in courts that there was no death due to shortage of oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave and made similar assertions in their response to the Centre, the BJP on Wednesday hit back at its rivals amid a row over the Modi government's reply in Parliament on the matter. The government had told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, drawing sharp criticism from opposition leaders. Deaths of patients in hospitals due to lack of the life-saving gas were reported from several states during the peak of the second wave in April-May as the demand for medical oxygen zoomed. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that the central government's reply was based on the figures provided by states and UTs as health is a state subject. No state sent any data about patients dying due to oxygen shortage, he asserted. He accused Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi of the Congress and Arvind Kejriwal of the Aam Aadmi Party, of doing politics on the matter, and said the states where these parties are in power have claimed that no one died there due to lack of oxygen. Hitting out at Gandhi, he said, "You have acted as a Twitter troll throughout the pandemic by writing two-line lies frequently. It is painful that a former president of one of the largest parties has behaved so irresponsibly." With the AAP also targeting the Modi government over its reply in Rajya Sabha, Patra noted that a Delhi government committee had told high court that there was no evidence to suggest that around 21 people had died due to shortage of oxygen in Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24 night after the hospital management reported the matter. The Maharashtra government also told Bombay High Court that no one died due to the oxygen shortage and Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo has also made similar claims, the BJP spokesperson said. Gandhi should speak to the chief ministers in the states where his party is in power instead of "lying" on Twitter and spreading confusion, he said. These opposition-ruled states had spoken about patients dying due to the oxygen crisis when the second wave was peaking as they wanted to target the Modi government but have taken a different stand in writing and their submission to courts, he said, adding that it shows they want to politicise the whole issue. It is not that the central government has tied their hands, and they should have spoken truth when they were asked to submit their response in writing, he asserted. To a question about the BJP-run states, Patra said people might have suffered there too but they neither levelled allegations like the opposition-ruled states nor the issue was taken to high courts there in this manner. Shortly after the statement in Rajya Sabha was made in a written reply by Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar on Tuesday, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal accused the minister of having "misled" the house. Describing the statement as "condemnable", Venugopal, a Rajya Sabha MP to whose question the reply was given, said he will move a privilege motion against the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Id celebrated across India with masks on||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Opposition slams Centre on 'no oxygen death' claims||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Centre over its statement that there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen during the Covid second wave, alleging that the fatalities happened because the government increased oxygen exports in the pandemic year and did not arrange tankers to transport it. The Centre on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were "specifically reported" by states and union territories during the second Covid-19 wave that hit the country. Hitting out at the government, Priyanka Gandhi said, "'No death due to lack of oxygen': Central Government. The deaths happened because -- in the pandemic year, the government increased oxygen exports by about 700 per cent." The Congress general secretary alleged that the deaths happened because the government did not arrange tankers to transport oxygen and ignoring the advice of the empowered group and a parliamentary committee, no arrangement was made to provide oxygen. "No initiative was shown in setting up oxygen plants in hospitals," she said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain meanwhile said there have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country. "If there was no shortage of oxygen, why did hospitals move court? Hospitals and the media had been flagging oxygen shortage issues daily. Television channels showed that how hospitals were running out of the life-saving gas. It is completely false to say that no one died due to oxygen shortage. There have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country," he said. The central government on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. But there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar noted that health is a state subject and states and UTs regularly report the number of cases and deaths to the Centre. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. "Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar said in a written reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||Sporadic showers lash Mumbai, IMD issues red alert||The Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in the country's financial capital on Wednesday. Earlier, the MeT office had sounded an 'orange alert', but it is now been changed to 'red alert' for Wednesday because of the "favourable synoptic conditions", Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre here said. Heavy rains had battered the metropolis on Sunday and Monday as well. "There are two favourable synoptic situations for heavy to very heavy rains in Mumbai today and in the next few days. The offshore trough, spread from south Gujarat coast to Karnataka is expected to increase the intensity of showers," Sarkar said. The second factor is the "shear zone" (referring to wind patterns) developed over Mumbai and the neighbouring region, he said. Sarkar there will be widespread rainfall over Konkan and central Maharashtra as well. The Marathwada region is also expected to receive widespread showers till Thursday and the rain intensity is likely to reduce subsequently, he said. There is an off-shore trough running between Maharashtra and Karnataka, which generally carries moisture-laden westerly winds from the Arabian Sea to land, another official from the MeT office said. In addition to it, there is an east-west "shear zone cutting across Maharashtra" and it has been adding to the prevailing favourable monsoon conditions, he said. These two synoptic systems are leading to very heavy rain over Konkan, Goa and central Maharashtra, especially the Ghat areas, the official said. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An orange' alert indicates that the authorities are expected to be prepared .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||People celebrate Eid-ul-Adha, offer namaz at homes in Delhi amid pandemic||Devotees mostly stayed indoors to offer namaz and celebrate Eid-al-Adha in Delhi on Wednesday, as religious and festive gatherings remain prohibited in the city to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted people on the occasion. "Hearty wishes to all the countrymen on Eid-ul-Adha. May this festival bring happiness and prosperity in your lives," Kejriwal tweeted. The day lacked usual hustle bustle and festivity as major mosques such as Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid in old Delhi were closed for the visitors. Police personnel were also deployed outside the mosques to prevent crowding. "As congregational prayers are not allowed due to COVID-19 restrictions, just a few staffers and their family members offered namaz on Eid-ul-Adha today. People themselves are careful and not thronging the mosques to keep safe from the virus," said Syed Ahmed Bukhari, Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid. A senior police officer said meetings were held with Imams earlier to urge them to encourage people to celebrate Eid at their homes for everyone's safety amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Police presence was enhanced and patrolling was intensified to ensure no overcrowding took place amid festivities, he said. "Posters were also pasted by the police wishing everyone Eid Mubarak and at the same time urging them to celebrate the festival at home with their families and stay safe," he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the Imams and other members of mosques were briefed about the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) guidelines regarding Covid and their cooperation was sought for safe celebrations on the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
21-07-2021||India||India witnesses spike in Covid deaths as Maharashtra reconciles data||India recorded a single day rise of 3,998 coronavirus fatalities with Maharashtra carrying out its 14th Covid data reconciliation exercise, pushing the country's death toll to 4,18,480 while 42,015 new infections were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 3,12,16,337. The ministry said that Maharashtra has carried out its 14th reconciliation exercise of Covid data in the state. As a result, the state's positive case tally has increased by 2,479 while the death tally has increased by 3,509. The active cases have increased to 4,07,170 and comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent,the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 1,040 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,52,140 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 44,91,93,273, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.27 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 30 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.09 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,90,687 and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.54 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Govt denies receiving report of deaths due to oxygen crisis||The government told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that it had not received any report of patients dying because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities during the second wave of the pandemic from any state or Union Territory. What the government left unsaid was that it had not sought this information from the states and Union Territories. The matter-of-fact statement aimed at tamping down the widespread despair over lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 had the opposite effect as it brought back to mind the stark images of patients gasping for breath in ambulances, hospital corridors and cars. The Union government’s claim that there was no report of any death owing to oxygen shortage was the response provided by the health ministry in the Rajya Sabha to two separate questions on the issue — one from Congressman K.C. Venugopal and another from M.V. Shreyams Kumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Responding to a question on the number of patients who died because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities in the country, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said: “Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by Union health ministry to all states/UTs. Accordingly, all states/UTs report cases and deaths to Union health ministry on a regular basis. However, states have at times reported backlog deaths in case of late reporting from hospitals and districts but no such reports of patients dying due to shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities in the country have been received by the ministry from any State/UT.’’ The minister was technically correct as the states were never asked by the Union health ministry to compile data on oxygen deaths. The state governments were only asked to tabulate Covid deaths and not register them as cardiac or nephrology case if the deceased person had tested positive. The written response by the ministry overshadowed the four-hour-long discussion on Covid in the Rajya Sabha. Given the gravity of the situation, the Opposition called a ceasefire on their protests over the snooping controversy and agreed to the discussion that was followed by the health ministry briefing to MPs on the pandemic in the Parliament annexe. The Congress, RJD and Left parties stayed away from the briefing as did the Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal; insisting that the government should be providing these details on the floor of the House when Parliament is in session and not outside. Through the debate in the Rajya Sabha, several Opposition MPs accused the government of making former health minister Harsh Vardhan the fall guy for the follies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in handling the pandemic and also vaccine management. The government’s perennial self-congratulatory mode also came in for sharp criticism. In a particularly sharp critique, RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “People who died in Covid have left a living document about the failed system. We have witnessed undignified deaths. Why are we not talking about right to health as part of right to life? Also there should be right to work.’’ Replying to the debate, Mandaviya urged all parties not to indulge in politics over the pandemic; adding that collective resolve and Prime Minister Modi’s guidance can help the nation ward off a third wave. He also contested leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge’s charge that the Modi government has not been furnishing correct data, asserting that the Centre has not tampered with data on either the number of Covid cases or deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Two- third of Indians have virus antibodies, says Study||Two-thirds of India’s population, or over 900 million people, have antibodies to Covid-19, implying prior infections or possible protection, a nationwide survey has indicated, prompting some experts to predict that a third wave could be unlikely without fresh mutations in the virus. The survey has found that 67.6 per cent of a sample of 28,975 individuals aged six years or older from 70 districts across 21 states had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, implying possible protection, either from prior infections or vaccination. The findings suggest that the fraction of the country’s population possibly protected from Covid-19 infections has ballooned from 24.1 per cent in January 2021 to over 67.6 per cent by July 2021. But the results also imply that over 400 million of India’s 1.3 billion population are still vulnerable to the infection. “There is a ray of hope, but no room for any complacency,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex health research agency, said while releasing the findings of the survey on Tuesday. “We must maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour…. Societal, public, religious and political congregations should be avoided, non-essential travel should be discouraged, travel only if fully vaccinated.” The new survey was the fourth in the same 70 districts conducted by the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. Each survey has shown a sharp increase in the proportion of the population infected — 0.7 per cent in June 2020, 7.1 per cent in August 2020 and 24.1 per cent in January 2021. Unlike the previous surveys, this time a significant proportion of the population also had antibodies resulting from the vaccination campaign India launched in mid-January. The June-July 2021 survey has found antibodies in 62 per cent of 12,607 unvaccinated individuals, in 81 per cent of 5,038 individuals vaccinated with a single dose and in 89 per cent of 2,631 people who had received two doses. “We cannot let our guard down — we still have over 40 crore (400 million) vulnerable,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group that guides the vaccination policy who is also a member of the Niti Aayog. “One in three is still vulnerable. We want them to gain protection through vaccination, not infection,” Paul said. “The pandemic is no way over. The second wave is still persisting.” But sections of health experts believe the large fraction of the population protected by either prior infections or vaccinations has meant the virus is running out of people to infect in India. “I would say a third wave is very unlikely — unless we have new mutations in the virus that change things,” said T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who was not associated with the survey. The emergence and spread of the highly transmissible Delta variant was a key factor that contributed to the speed and size of the country’s second wave that has increased the number of lab-confirmed infections in India from around 10 million to over 30 million. “Without new mutations, we could expect small ripples as the virus continues to spread among the susceptible population,” John said. But Paul and Bhargava have both cautioned that the national survey findings should not be used to extrapolate infection prevalence in districts. “This is an overall panoramic feature for the country — we want districts and states to conduct their own surveys,” Bhargava said. The new survey has shown that the infection has spread widely in rural India — as evident by the large numbers of infections and deaths reported during the second wave. The proportion with antibodies in rural India is 66.7 per cent while in urban India it is 69.6 per cent in the July survey — from 19 per cent in rural and 31 per cent in urban India in January 2021. “It was evident that the second wave would narrow the gap between urban and rural India,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstrations to be held at Jantar Mantar ||Farmers will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar here demanding scrapping of the new farm laws and no protester will go to Parliament where the monsoon session is underway, a farm union leader said on Tuesday. Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI after a meeting with Delhi police officers that from July 22, 200 farmers, wearing identification badges, will go to Jantar Mantar every day from the Singhu border to hold the protest. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture laws, had planned that around 200 peasants will protest outside Parliament every day from July 22 during the monsoon session. The monsoon session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. “We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the monsoon session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges. When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful,” Kakka said. No written communication has been received from the police yet, he said. “Police were informed that the protest will be peaceful. We will sit at Jantar Mantar from 10am to 5pm. Nobody will go to Parliament and neither we will allow any political person to come to the protest,” he said. The SKM has already stated that there are no plans of laying siege to Parliament. The protest will be peaceful and disciplined, it had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||SC takes up compensation plea of Manipur activist||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Manipur government on a plea for compensation for “illegal detention” of an activist the court freed on Monday after he had spent 67 days in custody over a social media post, disagreeing with the BJP-ruled state’s appeal that the matter be put to “rest”. Activist Leichombam Erendro, who had been booked under the National Security Act and arrested on May 13 for a Facebook post that said cow urine and cow dung do not cure Covid, was directed to be set free by Monday evening by the apex court that observed that his continued detention “would amount to a violation of the right to life and personal liberty”. Erendro, who had made the comment after the death of Manipur BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh, was released at 4.45pm on Monday from a prison in the state. When the matter came up for further consideration before the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah on Tuesday, Erendro’s lawyer, Shadan Farasat, pleaded that the prayer for compensation for “illegal arrest and detention” in the petition should also be considered. The petition was filed by Raghumani Singh, Erendro’s father. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Manipur government, argued that the matter should be put to rest as Erendro had been released. “…I request this may rest here,” Mehta said, stating that the government had readily complied with the direction for the activist’s release and also revoked the NSA charges against him. However, Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, said while referring to Erendro’s detention: “It’s a serious matter. Someone has lost their liberty since May.” Mehta responded: “Yesterday I didn’t even attempt to defend it. And yesterday itself it was revoked.” The court said it would record the solicitor-general’s submission and sought the views of Farasat. Erendro’s counsel submitted that FIRs had been registered against the activist, besides his detention under the NSA, but no chargesheet had been filed yet. Farasat argued that orders of detention were passed in a cavalier manner, so responsibility had to be fixed on officials. Mehta insisted again that the matter be put to rest, pointing out that the government had revoked the NSA charges. The bench then passed the following written order: “Mr Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general, states that after the proceedings were heard by this court on 19 July 2021, an order has been passed on the same day releasing the detenue pursuant to the interim direction and the order by which he has been detained under the provisions of the National Security Act, 1980, has been revoked. “Mr Shadan Farasat, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, submits that there is also a prayer for compensation which has been made in the proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution. Issue notice. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general appearing with Mr Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, learned counsel, accepts notice. The counter affidavit be filed within two weeks. List the petition on 6 August 2021 for final disposal…” In the petition, Raghumani had sought contempt action against the Manipur chief secretary and two other officials. In a separate habeas corpus petition, he had pleaded for the production of his son and adequate compensation for the allegedly wrongful arrest and detention. The petition had pointed out that despite Erendro being granted bail for alleged offences under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 505(b)(2) (public mischief), 295A (outraging religious sentiments), 503 and 504 (breach of peace) by a trial court on May 17, he was rearrested on the orders of a district magistrate under the NSA. The aggrieved father had pleaded that Erendro was arrested and detained despite the Supreme Court on April 20 passing an order that citizens airing their views on the Covid crisis on social media shall not be subjected to criminal cases or arrested. Raghumani had said that the Manipur government’s actions amounted to contempt of court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Modi silent on snoop scandal in party meet ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Congress had been reduced to being in power in just “two-three states” but had a misplaced sense of “entitlement”, keeping his focus on the Opposition party at a meeting of BJP MPs on Tuesday and not bothering to clear the air on the Pegasus snoop scandal. Picking up from where he had left off on Monday in his effort to attack the Congress, Modi was quoted as telling the BJP MPs during the closed-door meeting: “The Congress still has a sense of entitlement that they have ruled the country for 60 years. They are unable to digest that the people have chosen the BJP.” The Opposition had stalled Parliament proceedings for the second day, protesting against the government over the snoop scandal, Covid mismanagement, price rise and farm laws, among other issues. The Lok Sabha saw multiple adjournments before getting washed out for the day. Opposition members waved placards and shouted slogans against the government. At the weekly meeting of BJP MPs of both Houses, Modi did not mention the Pegasus scandal, MPs who were present said. His government has not denied that it is a client of Israeli firm NSO, which owns the Pegasus spyware and only sells it to governments. The list of those selected for surveillance by an unknown client of the Israeli firm includes Indians in key positions and should have been of concern to any government. Modi, however, focused on the Congress’s election defeats in Bengal, Assam and Kerala without mentioning the BJP’s loss in the Bengal polls, where he and all his senior ministers had campaigned hard. “The Congress has been reduced to just two-three states but instead of being concerned about its plight, they are concerned about us (the BJP),” Modi told the MPs. The Prime Minister did not mention that in two states where the BJP is in power now — Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka — the Congress had won the election and formed the government but these were later toppled. The BJP then formed the government in both states with the help of the defectors. The Wire news portal reported on Tuesday that in July 2019, when the BJP was trying to pull down the Karnataka government, the phone numbers of several key leaders of ruling allies JDS and Congress, and their aides, were listed for surveillance. At the BJP meeting on Tuesday, the Prime Minister described the Congress’s conduct inside and outside Parliament as “irresponsible and unfortunate” and said it was unable to digest the fact that the BJP was in power. Modi accused the Congress of spreading lies about the shortage of vaccines and claimed that the Opposition party wanted to spread a negative atmosphere in the country. Less than 7 per cent Indians are fully vaccinated and shortages and long queues have been reported across states. He asked the MPs to visit fair price shops on July 24 and 25, when food grains would be distributed among the poor, stressing the need to defeat the Opposition’s campaign over the Covid crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||HC raps Centre on OBC reservation in state medical colleges||Madras High Court has held as “contumacious” the Centre’s decision against implementing its judgment in favour of OBC reservation in the all-India pool in state medical colleges. “The Union’s attempt to not implement the OBC reservation quota in respect of the all-India quota seats… in the academic year 2021-22 appears to be contumacious, in derogation of the order dated July 27, 2020, passed by this Court,” the court said on Monday. The court directed the Centre to make its stand on the issue clear within a week. The order came in response to a contempt petition filed by the ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu. The recently published information brochure for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, held to select students for medical courses, says there will not be OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. Madras High Court had last year directed the Centre to set up an expert committee for implementation of OBC reservation in these all-India pool seats from 2021-22. The Centre, however, submitted the report of the committee before the Supreme Court in a case pending since 2015, triggering allegations of deliberate delay. The case had been filed by an aspiring medical student seeking reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. The NEET brochure mentions that the OBC reservation in this category will depend on the outcome of the case in the Supreme Court. DMK leader P. Wilson, also a lawyer who argued the case in Madras High Court, said the Centre did not need to club the report with another pending case. “The central government wants to delay the matter. There was no need to club the report with the pending case in the Supreme Court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Centre plans to tweak State's right to prepare their own lists of OBCs||The Centre on Tuesday indicated it was considering a constitutional amendment to overrule a two-month-old Supreme Court judgment that had shot down the states’ right to prepare their own lists of the Other Backward Classes. Seven Lok Sabha members had asked questions relating to the May 5 apex court judgment that says the Centre’s overall list of OBC communities will apply to the states too. To the question whether the Centre was considering a constitutional amendment to restore the states’ power to decide their own OBC lists, minister of state for social justice Pratima Bhoumik said: “The matter is under examination.” The Centre has an overall OBC list, which is the basis for the 27 per cent quota in central government jobs and higher education seats. But till now, the states too had their own OBC lists — which tended to include additional castes — and their own OBC quotas for state-level jobs and college and university seats. According to the apex court judgment, the Centre will revise its OBC list by including every additional caste that is on any state’s list. This list will then apply to every state. The states will continue to retain their respective OBC quota volumes — which is, for instance, 50 per cent in Tamil Nadu. But they can no longer amend the OBC list, which they used to do before by including new groups through executive orders. Under the apex court order, the Centre alone can amend the list, that too with Parliament’s clearance. The Supreme Court passed the order while striking down the Maharashtra government’s inclusion of Marathas under the OBC quota as “unconstitutional”. G. Karunanidhy, national general secretary of the All India OBC Federation, said the Centre’s slowness in bringing in a constitutional amendment suggested it was “not serious” about the matter. “The judgment came in May. All OBC groups asked the government for an immediate constitutional amendment to restore the states’ powers,” he said. “The Centre went for a review of the judgment. The Supreme Court has dismissed the review too. The government is still ‘examining’ the issue. It does not seem serious about a constitutional amendment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Congress alleges spyware was used to topple governments||The Congress on Tuesday alleged the Israeli spyware Pegasus was used not just to target individuals but also to topple governments and destroy democratic institutions, referring to the defection game in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh and the post-retirement benefits enjoyed by a former Chief Justice of India. The comments came after the news portal The Wire reported that the phones of senior Karnataka politicians and their personal assistants were selected as potential targets for surveillance in 2018-19 when the Congress-JDS government was pulled down and a BJP ministry installed. Only digital forensics can establish if the shortlisted phones were infected with the spyware. But the timing of the selection of the phone numbers, which coincided with the machinations to engineer defections, appears to have prompted the Congress to conclude that hacking indeed took place. “It’s not merely spying on individuals to defame or control them. It is a sinister conspiracy to destroy democracy and establish dictatorship,” the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said. “It’s possible that even the Madhya Pradesh government was toppled using information collected through Pegasus. They are trying the same trick in Maharashtra as well.” K.C. Venugopal, Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, said: “Former (Karnataka) chief minister (P.C.) Siddaramaiah (of the Congress) doesn’t keep a mobile phone and hence the phone of his PA, Venkatesh, was tapped. “The phones of aides of the then chief minister, (H.D.) Kumaraswamy (of the JDS), and deputy chief minister (G.) Parameshwara (of the Congress) were tapped. It is not about merely peeping into people’s bathrooms, bedrooms and kitchens; it’s about grabbing power.” Venugopal said the party would “march to all the Raj Bhavans on Thursday to demand a judicial probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court”. He went on to hint at a larger conspiracy: “When we went to the Supreme Court to seek disqualification of our MLAs who had defected, what was the judgment? The judgment has now become instrumental in facilitating horse trading. “The (then) Chief Justice of India who delivered the judgment is now a Rajya Sabha MP. Why is the (Narendra) Modi government running away from a thorough enquiry?” Chief Justice turned Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi had presided over politically sensitive cases such as the Ayodhya land dispute, Rafale deal and the NRC update in Assam. A woman who had complained of sexual harassment against Justice Gogoi was among the potential targets of the Pegasus-enabled surveillance along with her family, according to the media collective that investigated the operation. Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury too referred to Justice Gogoi, saying: “Events are now unfolding to expose the sinister game. Modi-Shah have introduced a new art to subvert democratic processes.... Gogoi was rewarded immediately after his retirement for the judgment he gave to help Modi.” He added: “His judgments need to be examined. This judgment says the MLAs cannot be compelled to take part in an Assembly vote. The people of India should introspect where we are going.” Siddaramaiah, who was present at the news conference, said: “Fourteen MLAs of the Congress and three from the JDS resigned and later joined the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi played the dirty game. The phones of our assistants were tapped. This dirty game has to be stopped. It’s a crime.” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Never in the history of Independent India did this happen (before), that the Supreme Court said the whip of the party will not be operative on the rebel MLAs. Gogoi nullified the anti-defection law. “And this is happening when the woman who accused him of sexual exploitation and her family members are also put under surveillance by using the Pegasus spyware. Modi-Shah have murdered democracy and trampled on the rule of law using the spyware. This (Union) home minister (Amit Shah) has no moral right to continue even for a minute.” At another news conference, Congress Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil said: “I come from Gujarat, and we know these two (Modi and Shah) used to do the same thing there. At that time, the top officer of the intelligence department, Sreekumar, said in an affidavit before the Nanavati Commission that ‘Modi had asked me to tap one number’. The number belonged to a media house owner. Haren Pandya (the former BJP home minister of Gujarat who was murdered) also used that phone.” He added: “Then there is the infamous case of snooping on the 21-year-old girl — the entire story is in the public domain. They are habitual offenders: in legal parlance, it’s called history sheeter. If these people are not responsible for the Pegasus spying, why are they not ordering a judicial probe? Why are they not accepting our notice in Parliament for a debate?” In August 2009, an aide to then Gujarat chief minister Modi had ordered a snooping operation on a young woman “at the behest of his sahib”, a purported sting operation had claimed in 2013. A suspended IAS officer, Pradeep Sharma, had claimed the government had targeted him because he knew about the alleged spying. Gohil said the simple question that had to be answered was whether the spyware was bought or not. “Let there be a judicial inquiry after sacking Amit Shah.” Senior lawyer Kapil Sibal said: “This is a threat to national security as the data are stored with a foreign agency. And if a malware is injected into the phones of ministers, this is also a violation of the Official Secrets Act because ministers may have confidential information on their phones.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Diplomats based in Delhi on the list of potential targets||Several diplomats based in Delhi are on the list of potential targets for phone hacking using the Pegasus spyware, reported the French newspaper Le Monde that was part of the media collective that investigated the matter. Although over 24 hours have elapsed since Le Monde published the report, there has been no official word from any of the diplomats targeted or their missions. According to the report, the phone numbers of the New Delhi-based heads of the diplomatic missions of Pakistan, China, Afghanistan, Iran, Nepal and Saudi Arabia featured on the list of potential targets since 2017. In the case of Pakistan, it is almost a given that the government here would be monitoring the diplomats as is done by Islamabad with Indian diplomats based there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Death toll in India so far is likely to be close to four million ||The number of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic in India so far is likely to exceed three million — nearly 10 times the official Covid-19 death toll — making it one of the worst human tragedies in the nation’s history, according to a new study. In a comprehensive examination of the true toll of the pandemic in the nation of 1.4 billion, the Center for Global Development, a Washington research institute, attempted to quantify the excess deaths from all causes during the pandemic based on state data, international estimates, serological studies and household surveys. “True deaths are likely to be in the several millions, not hundreds of thousands, making this arguably India’s worst human tragedy,” said its authors, one of whom is Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi government. The official government numbers have been called into question repeatedly. Even as funeral pyres lit up the night sky and bodies washed up on the Ganga, with death all around, the Modi government was widely underreporting the scale of the devastation. A chorus of experts has said the country’s official estimates are a gross understatement. The study released on Tuesday estimates that between 3.4 and 4.7 million more people than would normally be expected died between January 2020 and June 2021, and includes an estimate suggesting that deaths from Covid-19 alone may have reached four million. “Estimating Covid deaths with statistical confidence may prove elusive,” the authors wrote. “But all estimates suggest that the death toll from the pandemic is likely to be an order of magnitude greater than the official count of 400,000; they also suggest that the first wave was more lethal than is believed.” The authors said the undercount of death after the first wave of infections last year may have resulted, in part, from the fact that it was “spread out in time”, as opposed to the sharp curve of the second wave when hundreds of thousands died amid shortages of oxygen, beds and vaccines. The study has said the country’s inability to grasp the “scale of the tragedy in real time” during its first wave from March 2020 to February 2021 may have caused “the collective complacency that led to the horrors of the second wave”. At the height of the second wave, interviews by New York Times reporters at cremation grounds across three states in India revealed an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may also have undercounted or overlooked large numbers of the dead, analysts said. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, out of shame, adding to the confusion. India is still reporting nearly 40,000 new cases and about 500 deaths a day, according to a New York Times database. Less than 7 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated. And Modi’s government has warned of an impending third wave of infections, which government scientists say could strike as early as August. “The spirit of this paper is not to privilege any one estimate but simply to lay them out with transparency,” the authors of the excess deaths study, Abhishek Anand, Justin Sandefur and Subramanian, said. “Given all the difficulties, getting at the true estimate will be difficult and only by piecing together data from different sources will we improve our understanding of the reality of the pandemic.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||All-faith Justice Day next week in memory of Stan||The Jesuit Conference of India has called upon its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who died in judicial custody while awaiting bail in the Elgaar Parishad case on July 5. In a statement, Jesuit Conference of India president Stanislaus D’Souza invited people irrespective of religious identity to pay homage to Fr Stan on July 28. D’Souza said: “We, along with civil society organisations and the people of goodwill, have now organised National Justice Day… to pay homage to Fr Stan and to recommit ourselves to the mission of truth and justice. “I cordially invite you to be a part of this collective event, a silent public gathering with placards, posters, banners and candlelight in front of churches, religious communities and institutions all over India on Wednesday, 28 July 2021, from 6pm to 6.45pm, of course following strictly the Covid-19 protocol.” Besides Catholics, the event will include staff and students from Jesuit institutions like Calcutta’s St Xavier’s, and civil society members, he added. D’Souza told The Telegraph: “The purpose is to keep the momentum, to awaken the conscience of people to human rights, tribal rights, (and) human rights defenders languishing in jail. In a way, to take forward the legacy of Fr Stan. It is locally organised. The provincials (of the Jesuits) will coordinate with the bishops and civil society.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Covid: Expert recommends opening primary schools first||Primary school classes should open to students ahead of higher classes, a top health official said on Tuesday, asserting that the decisions should be taken only after ensuring that all school employees have been fully vaccinated. “Once districts start considering (opening schools), it would be wise to open primary schools first. This should be done before the secondary schools open,” said Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). India’s shrinking epidemic has triggered speculation among sections of the public about when educational institutions, including schools, might open for indoor classes. Studies in India and other countries have established that severe Covid-19 is rare in children, although the virus infects kids. School closures have been part of restrictions adopted by most countries worldwide in efforts to curb the spread of the virus. But some countries, including Sweden, had kept preschools and primary classes open during the spring of 2020. The UN agency Unesco has said schools in 195 countries have been fully or partially closed and hundreds of millions of children around the world are unable to attend classes in schools because of enforced closures. The latest nationwide survey by the ICMR has shown that 57 per cent of children aged between six and nine years have antibodies against Covid-19, an infection prevalence level close to the national average of 67 per cent or 66 per cent in the age group of 18-44 years. “But before districts start considering to open schools, all support staff, whether bus drivers or teachers or other school staff, need to be vaccinated,” Bhargava said. A study by the Karolinska Institute in Sweden has observed the low risk of severe Covid-19 among children during March-June 2020 when its primary schools had remained open. The Swedish researchers found that between March 1 and June 30, 2020, 15 children with Covid-19 or a post-Covid inflammatory illness had been treated in intensive care units in that country. “That is the equivalent of 0.77 intensive care patients per 100,000 children in that age group,” Jonas Ludvigsson, a paediatrician and a co-author of the study in the New England Journal of Medicine, said in a media release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Afghan army chief to visit India||Afghan army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai is scheduled to visit India for three days from July 27 amid the ongoing conflict between the Taliban and Afghan forces following the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan. Government sources said he is scheduled to meet Indian Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane and national security adviser Ajit Doval, besides senior political leadership. “The Afghan army chief is scheduled to visit India on July 27 for three days amid the turmoil in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of foreign forces. Strengthening defence cooperation and bilateral military ties will be the main focus of the visit,” said a defence ministry official. Afghanistan has been reaching out to its key allies in seeking support to strengthen its security forces in the backdrop of the Taliban resorting to widespread violence to expand its influence across the country after the US began withdrawing troops from May 1. The supply of military equipment to Afghanistan, a defence ministry official said, as part of military assistance from India will come up during Gen. Ahmadzai’s the visit. India has invested $3 billion in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan over the years including building roads and the parliament building of the country. Over the past few years, India has also been training Afghan cadets at military academies. India has also gifted seven helicopters to Afghanistan, including four Mi24 attack helicopters and three Cheetal utility choppers. “Afghanistan had in the past requested for offensive military hardware, including artillery guns, tanks and armoured vehicles,” the official said. Last month President Ashraf Ghani appointed Gen. Ahmadzai as the new chief of army staff, replacing Gen. Yasin Zia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||India||Gang-rape survivor slapped and kicked by cops in Saharanpur||A minor gang-rape complainant was allegedly slapped and kicked inside a police station in Saharanpur town on Monday, prompting her to cry out she would “never go to a police station again in this life”. The alleged incident, its aftermath purportedly captured in a video, came four days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded chief minister Yogi Adityanath for protecting “sisters and daughters” in Uttar Pradesh. The girl, who seemed hardly 16 and had come to the Kotwali police station with her mother, told reporters on Tuesday that two policewomen had thrashed her and warned her not to make the gang-rape allegation public. In a widely circulated video, a weeping girl is seen standing on a courtyard, holding on to a parked car for support, and telling an older woman never to take her to any police station again. A Hindi signboard on the courtyard says “Kotwali police station Saharanpur”. Two women in police uniform are seen standing on the veranda of the police station and shouting at an unseen man after he objects to the assault on the girl. The male voice asks: “Why did you attack the girl?” A woman in khaki shirt and trousers, who a local source said was a head constable, appears to be replying: “Kaun mara re? Uski maa bhi to ro rahi hai (Who beat her up? Even her mother is crying).” The other woman on the veranda, wearing khaki salwar-kurta and apparently a constable, appears to say: “A ja, a ja, phir se aja (Come, come, come here again).” The girl, who her mother corroborated was a minor, told reporters that four youths had drugged and raped her inside a car, and later blackmailed her with nude videos. “I know one of the rapists — he lives in my neighbourhood. He gave me a lift in his car a few days ago and offered me a soft drink. I fell unconscious,” the girl said. “When I regained consciousness, I saw four youths in the car.” She said she had no clothes on her body and realised she had been raped. “They showed me nude videos of myself and threatened to circulate them if I told anybody at home. After two days, they demanded money to keep the video a secret,” the girl told reporters. “I gave them Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000 on two different dates. But their demands kept increasing, so I told my mother and she took me to the police.” She added: “Whatever happens to me, I shall never go to a police station again in this life.” Her mother said: “The policewomen asked me to wait outside and took my daughter inside a room. I then heard her cries and rushed into the room, and saw them slapping and kicking her while asking her not to reveal anything that had happened to her.” Rajesh Kumar, Saharanpur city police superintendent, denied the allegation against the policewomen. “We received a complaint and registered a case of gang rape. One of the accused, who is a minor, has already been arrested and an inquiry is on,” he told The Telegraph over the phone on Tuesday. “The allegation against the policewomen is wrong. The girl was enacting a drama because she didn’t want to give her statement.” He did not say when a medical test would be done on the girl, or explain why someone who had come to a police station by herself would refuse to give a statement — and then make the statement before the media. Adityanath has not yet reacted to the allegations or the video, busy as he has been since Monday directing the police to ensure that no cows are slaughtered on the occasion of Bakr Id on Wednesday. Modi had on July 15 claimed that Adityanath had put an end to crimes against women, ignoring the high-profile gang rapes and murders in Unnao and Hathras. “Those who used to target sisters and daughters cannot escape the law…. It became possible because of the hard work by Yogiji,” Modi had said in Varanasi. Another woman had made a similar allegation of being beaten up at Bicchawan police station in Mainpuri district when she went there on July 9 with her mother to complain of gang rape by four men. She alleged that Ativir Singh, a male sub-inspector, had assaulted her and forced her to change her statement. Taking cognisance of a video in which a man in uniform resembling Singh appears to be thrashing a woman, superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Rai has attached Singh to the police lines, removing him from active duty. A gang-rape complaint has been registered and a departmental inquiry started against Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu pays tribute to those killed in post poll violence, slams Mamata||Paying tribute to those allegedly killed in violence unleashed by the TMC after the declaration of Assembly poll results, Leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday said "what happened in the state over the past two months has eclipsed the great Calcutta killings of 1946". Maintaining that at least 30 party activists were killed by TMC goons since May 5, when the Mamata Banerjee government took over the reins of the state for the third time, Adhikari claimed that the observations made by the NHRC in its report on post-poll violence has shaken the world. "We expect the judiciary to take action after taking into consideration the NHRC report, which has just exposed the tip of the iceberg. Such report will put anyone with a sane mind to shame. "What happened in Bengal over the past two months has eclipsed the great Calcutta killings of 1946, Noakhali riots and the Sikh killings," he said as the BJP observed Shahid Shraddhanjali Divas in memory of the workers allegedly killed in the violence. Incidentally, the TMC on Wednesday marked its annual Shahid Divas' with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee virtually addressing people during the day. The Mamata Banerjee-led camp commemorates Shahid Divas every year to pay homage to the 13 Youth Congress workers who were killed in police action in 1993. Mamataback then was a member of the grand old party's youth wing. Sources in the BJP said at least 175 workers of the party were killed in the state over the past few years. The Nandigram MLA further said the TMC was under the impression that such attacks, abetted by the state police, would decimate the BJP in the state, but they are mistaken". In a jibe at the ruling party, he said, "A section of milk-giving cows of Didi (CM Mamata Banerjee) actively launched attacks on scheduled caste men and women among others. One shudders to think the kind of torture women had to endure. The NHRC could not take note of several complaints due to paucity of time." The BJP has built safe homes for its 25,000 homeless party workers, supporters and their families, he stated. The saffron camp legislator, in yet another dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said, She had gone all the way to Nandigram from Bhawanipore to contest elections. After being rejected by people there, she is now desperate to get elected to the Assembly, notwithstanding the Covis-9 situation. Setting a new precedent, a non-MLA CM is running the state. We will surely dislodge this government one day. From three, our tally has increased to 77 in the Assembly. He sought to know why the ruling dispensation isn't keen on holding long-overdue municipal polls. "In her party, there is only one post and the rest are lamp posts," he claimed. Adhikari also alleged that Covid-19 restrictions are applicable only on the movement of BJP workers, while TMC, over the past few weeks, has taken out "at least 1000 rallies to protest fuel hike. Slamming Mamata over her silence on the atrocities perpetrated on women in Bengal, Agnimitra Paul, another BJP legislator, said, "Despite everything, our woman CM remains unmoved."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals to all parties to take on BJP, save country||Mamata Banerjee’s annual July 21 rally turned into a clarion call to all national and regional parties for a grand alliance against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “I don’t know what will happen in 2024. My appeal to all parties is to make a front and plan (for the polls from now),” Mamata said in her address delivered virtually from her Kalighat residence. “If the doctor comes after death, then there is nothing that can be done. If you can call a meeting, I can attend. We can sit together and talk, where is the country heading to,” Mamata said. The Bengal chief minister made it clear that stitching together a coalition ahead of the polls would not be enough to take on the BJP monolith. “Forget self-interest. Save the country, save the states and the  federal structure,” Mamata said. The latest round of revelations under the Pegasus  scandal, in which the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is accused of compromising national security as several dozens of Indians including key political leaders were potential targets of snooping by the Israeli-made spyware, has given Mamata fresh ammo to take on the BJP. Though Mamata’s name did not figure in the list of potential targets, her nephew and Trinamul general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and adviser Prashant Kishore’s names have been included. During her speech, Mamata, however, claimed that she too was a victim of the snooping. “If they are tapping Abhishek’s phone, I talk with him, my phone is also being tapped. If they have PK in the list, I talk to him as well,” she said. Mamata alleged ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls, a meeting that she held with Abhishek and PK was recorded. Mamata said under the shadow of the Pegasus scandal it was important to hold in-person meetings with other leaders of the Opposition during her visit to Delhi next week. “I cannot talk with Pawar ji or Chidambaram ji, chief ministers of other states since my phone is being tapped. Instead of giving money to the people, they are spending it on spygiri,” she said, describing the snooping controversy as bigger than “Whitegate (Watergate scandal)". “Democracy is under threat. We have to start our planning from now. Pegasus is dangerous, ferocious. Their dictatorship is too much. Whatever you are doing is being recorded, your brain is being scanned,” she said. She also displayed her phone with sticking tapes all around it as a safety measure against snooping. The tapes are unlikely to be of any worth against the spyware that enables remote surveillance of smartphones, unlocks content and transforms it into a listening device.  The spyware is sold by the Israeli  developer NSO only to governments across the world to combat terrorism and serious crimes. The report that was released last Sunday internationally, said that  selected numbers were targeted in 2019. Mamata's  virtual address, which was streamed live in some other states, was also heard by leaders of several political parties, including two former allies of the BJP—Shiv Sena and Akali Dal—who were among the audience at the Constitution Club in Delhi. Those listening to Mamata’s speech were Sharad Pawar, P Chidambaram, Supriya Sule, Priyanka Chaturverdi, Digvijay Singh, Manoj Jha of RJD, Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Akali Dal, K Keshav Rao of TRS, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva and AAP’s Sanjay Singh. Referring to the Pegasus scandal repeatedly in her 30-minute speech, Mamata also questioned whether the judiciary could play a role. “The country will be ruined if this goes on. The phones of Supreme Court judges are being tapped. Spygiri chal raha hai. Ministers, officers, all leaders, all judges, all media houses are captured by Pegasus. The BJP has destroyed all the pillars of democracy. Whatever one says it is recorded and used for blackmail with Pegasus. Instead of a democratic state, we have surveillance state,” she said. “I want to ask the Supreme Court can’t it take suo motu cognizance of the matter (use of Pegasus for surveillance)?” Mamata reminded Pawar and Chidambaram about the time when the central agencies had hounded the two leaders. Chidambaram even had to go to jail. Repeating her "Khela hobe" slogan of the Assembly elections, Mamata said the game will be on in other states, till the BJP was removed from power. “They thought with Pegasus, money power, muscle power, mafia power, central agencies they will capture Bengal, but the people have taught them a lesson,” she said. In what would seem to be a planned show of strength on the ground, Mamata said if the Covid situation improved, she would call a rally of all the Opposition parties at Brigade Parade ground in December, with an invite to Sonia Gandhi and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||10,000 tea garden employees to strike for pay hike in north Bengal||Around 10,000 employees in the tea sector of north Bengal have decided to observe a pen-down strike for three hours on July 24 for salary hike and launch a movement if the demand is not met by then. In the tea industry, those employees are referred to as staff (those working in posts below managerial levels) and sub-staff (workers who serve as cook, gardener, driver, peon and likewise). Partha Lahiri, the general secretary of the West Bengal Tea Garden Employees’ Union, said the salaries used to revised once in three years. But since 2014, other than some interim hikes, there has been no major hike, he said. “Every month, each employee is losing a portion of his salary. That is why we have decided to observe a pen-down strike for three hours on July 24. If no initiative is taken by the planters to meet our demand, we will launch a movement,” said Lahiri. In January this year, an interim hike of 15 per cent was announced for the employees. After the increase, a sub-staff earns Rs 7,000 to Rs 9,000 a month, while a staff earns from Rs 20,000 to Rs 32,000. “But this is inadequate, if compared to the earlier revisions when there used to be agreements for three years,” Lahiri said. “We welcome the state’s plan to introduce minimum wages in the tea sector but unless it is implemented, we want the old practice of three years’ agreement to continue.” Sources in the planters’ associations said there had been a 15 per cent hike in the salaries earlier this year and they were unwilling to raise the pay further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Heads of government schools demand more Class XI seats ||Anticipating greater demand for Class XI seats across Bengal after the “100 per cent success rate” in Madhyamik, heads of government schools have demanded that the West Bengal Higher Secondary Education Council lift the cap on the number of higher secondary students an institution can admit. Madhyamik results were declared on Tuesday. Council guidelines cite that schools can admit 275 students in each of the three streams of science, humanities and commerce. But heads of institutions said this year this cap needs to be done away with. If not, many students who cleared Madhyamik won’t be able to study further. “This year, 100 per cent students have cleared the exam, which is on an average 13.66 per cent more than other years. Schools need to accommodate these students in Class XI with their available infrastructure. We fear that within a few days we will face huge pressure to admit these students. So, existing admission curbs need to be scrapped,” headmaster of Mathurapur Krishnachandrapur High School Chandan Maiti said. Maiti, also state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, said they had appealed to the council to consider relaxing the cap on admissions. “Every year the number of qualifying students goes up but the increase is usually around 1 per cent. When accommodating that 1 per cent is a problem, imagine the predicament this year,” said Santipur Municipality High School headmaster Kinshuk Chakraborty. He added that he was planning to write to the council to seek permission to  admit extra students this year. “Students deserve the right to admission and pursue their dreams,” Chakraborty said. Santanu Mandal, headmaster of Dighalgram Netaji School in Nadia’s Haringhata block, said: “Lifting the cap on the number of Class XI seats is needed particularly for the humanities stream to which most students seek admission.” Several science teachers said most schools did not have laboratory infrastructure to handle extra students. “The available infrastructure is not enough. Science aspirants will suffer,” said a headmaster in Birbhum. Teachers in several government and government-sponsored schools said the state government would have to upgrade at least 2,000 Madhyamik schools to Higher Secondary schools to accommodate all students who passed Madhyamik this year. Sources said there are around 18,500 high schools in Bengal of which around 7,000 offer higher secondary courses. An official of the education department said the demand was logical. “Normally schools are allowed to admit extra students in case of exigencies. However, it is too early to comment on this now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest grocer in connection with child trafficking case ||Police on Tuesday arrested a grocer in connection with the child trafficking case in which eight persons, including the principal of a central school, had already been held in Bankura. Grocer Bikash Gupta has been arrested from the Coke Oven police station area of Durgapur as he allegedly facilitated the “purchase” of five children from a woman. “We have arrested another person who is linked to the child trafficking racket. The principal of the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya had a plan to send the four children to Rajasthan, which is his home state. We are interrogating the principal and the husband of the woman teacher to know the actual purpose of buying the kids,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. The investigators said they were trying to find out whether the woman’s claim that she was the mother of all the five children was true. “It is clear to us that there was a deal to sell the children and Rs 2.25 lakh had been paid to the woman. But it is not clear whether the woman is the mother of all children or she had brought them from other places. We need to go for a DNA test to confirm it,” said a senior police officer in Bankura. On Friday, CPM’s youth wing DYFI and its women wing, AIDWA, jointly demonstrated in front of Bankura police station demanding punishment of those involved in the trafficking racket. Chairperson of the state commission for the protection of child rights Ananya Chakraborty met the children at the Bankura home. She also held a meeting with district magistrate Radhika K. Aiyar and police chief Sarkar at Bankura circuit house in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Over 2 crore people associated with tourism sector lost jobs, says Centre ||Over two crore people associated with tourism sector in India lost jobs because of Covid-19, revealed data shared by the Union minister of tourism in the Lok Sabha on Monday. However, tourism stakeholders pegged the number of job losses in the sector at over four crore. In a reply to questions from Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and another legislator, Union tourism minister G. Kishan Reddy said on Monday that his ministry had engaged the National Council of Applied Economic Research earlier this year to conduct a study on the economic losses for households engaged in tourism in the backdrop of the pandemic. “The study observes that a significant number of jobs were lost in the tourism sector once the lockdown was implemented,” Reddy said. He furnished data which said 14.5 million jobs were lost in the first quarter after the lockdown had been clamped last year, followed by 5.2 million jobs in the second quarter and 1.8 million jobs in the third quarter. “Altogether, 21.5 million people lost jobs. In the pre-pandemic period, that is, in 2019-2020, around 34.8 million direct jobs were available in the Indian tourism industry,” pointed out an observer. The data shared by Reddy also indicated that the foreign exchange earnings (FEE) from tourists for the calendar year of 2020 had declined by 76.3 per cent compared to 2019. The minister provided month-wise foreign tourist arrival (FTA) of 2020, which showed that around 2.7 million people from abroad had visited India last year. “There is almost a decline of 75 per cent in the FTA as compared to 2019 when 10.53 million foreign tourists had visited the country,” the observer said. Reddy told the Lok Sabha that the ministry had constituted a task force headed by himself for the revival of the industry and it would have senior officials and representatives of tourism stakeholders’ associations as members. Veterans in the tourism sector of north Bengal said the number of jobs lost in the pandemic was much more than what the minister had said. “The data only include those who are in the organised sector of the industry. Several others, who serve at grassroots like porters, cab drivers, guides, homestay owners and their employees, have also lost earnings. Altogether, we feel, at least four crore jobs have been lost,” said Raj Basu, who has been associated with tourism for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader found hanging in Raiganj, TMC flag on face||The body of a Congress leader from a village on the outskirts of Raiganj town, North Dinajpur district, was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday morning with a Trinamul flag covering his face, while a Trinamul worker from Cooch Behar district’s Dinhata sustained a bullet injury late on Monday. Sources said Debesh Burman, 50, the booth president of Congress in Gouri panchayat area under Raiganj block of North Dinajpur had gone out of home on Monday evening for tea at a local stall, but did not return home till late night. His family members started a search. On Tuesday morning, some residents spotted his body near his house hanging from a tree with the flag of Trinamul on his face. Police were told. Senior officials rushed to the spot from Raiganj. A sniffer dog was engaged. “We will also send a forensic team for investigation. Our officers are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said North Dinajpur SP Sumit Kumar. Burman, local sources said, was a CPM worker and a panchayat member till 2018. He then defected to the Congress. His son Bidrohi alleged Burman was murdered. “We suspect some people killed him and hanged his body to make it look like suicide. We want their arrests,” he said. District Congress president and former MLA Mohit Sengupta, however, said there was no point in jumping to conclusions. “There was a flag of Trinamul but it does not mean Trinamul supporters murdered him. It may be a conspiracy. First, we need to know if it is suicide or murder. We want a thorough investigation,” said Sengupta. BJP MLA of Raiganj Krishna Kalyani met bereaved family members. District BJP chief Basudeb Sarkar alleged Burman was murdered. “We suspect Trinamul,” he said. District Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “The police should find out the truth. BJP is trying to malign our party,” said a district leader. In Cooch Behar’s Gitaldaha-I panchayat under Dinhata-I block, Trinamul worker Sayed Hossain, in his early 30s, sustained a bullet injury in his leg late on Monday while he was having tea at Gitaldaha railway station. Hossain, admitted to the subdivisional hospital in Dinhata, alleged that panchayat pradhan Abual Azad and his son, also Trinamul workers, planned the attack. The incident again brought to the fore the infighting within Trinamul in Cooch Behar. Azad could not be contacted by this paper. No one has been arrested yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 752 new infections and 10 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 992 Covid-19 recoveries, 752 new infections, and 10 deaths, as its total active cases dropped for the 30th consecutive day, by 250 to 12,509. A month ago on June 20, Bengal had 23,016 active cases. Bengal has 3.11 per cent of India’s active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is  97.99 per cent, with the national rate at 97.34. A minister said over 26 per cent of Bengal got the first dose of vaccine, and 7.6 per cent both doses, ahead of national figures of 24.5  and 6.4 per cent. “In terms of people fully vaccinated in a state, we, with over 76 lakh people, are second only to Maharashtra (nearly 93 lakh) in India,” the minister said. Tuesday was the 16th successive day of less than 1,000 new infections detected in a day. With Calcutta logging 60 new infections and North 24-Parganas 82, Tuesday was also the 13th straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures while South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.48 per cent on Tuesday, indicating the decline in Covid-19 spread. Of the 10 deaths, Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Jhargram, East Midnapore, Howrah reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. The state now has a total of over 15.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.89 lakh recoveries and 18,021 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus: Trinamul vows to disrupt Parliament on hacking||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday said the party would not allow the proceedings of Parliament to take place in the ongoing monsoon session until the Pegasus “snooping” was discussed in the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha. Trinamul alleged that Mamata Banerjee’s phone, too, had been hacked and demanded clear answers from the Centre on the eavesdropping. Trinamul’s parliamentary party in both the Houses submitted notices on the alleged hack by the Israeli spyware — sold only to government agencies — and protested by the Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises on Tuesday. “The SPIES and their LIES! It is absolutely unpardonable how the @BJP4India govt. has been snooping on all opposing voices across the country!” said Trinamul in a statement issued on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon.On Monday, the names of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll consultant Prashant Kishor had emerged among those whose mobile phones were purportedly targets for the NSO Group’s spyware. Trinamul leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay on Tuesday said the party suspected that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, was a victim of the alleged misuse of Pegasus. Mamata herself had on numerous occasions in the past publicly said she suspected her phone had been hacked by the BJP, at times naming Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah as those responsible for it. “Was this done to cater to Shri @narendramodi’s peaking insecurities? We strongly condemn such grave violations. #PegasusSpying,” Trinamul tweeted on Tuesday. Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “The Centre has tried to turn the attention of the Opposition parties by mentioning that many other countries have also been the targets of Pegasus. But we do not care about any other country but India.” “We will not allow the proceedings of Parliament until they discuss the snooping,” he added. Trinamul’s Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra placed nine questions on behalf of the party for Modi, or Shah, or Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. The questions are: ⚫ Has any ministry or department or agency of the Centre purchased or used Pegasus software at all, and since when? ⚫ Is the Pegasus software still used? ⚫ Who are the people on whom spying happened? ⚫ What is the duration during which the data were collected on these individuals? ⚫ Are the data collected still being retained by these agencies? If so, for what purpose? ⚫ Under what laws did the spying happen on these people? ⚫ Which individuals and agencies requested data collection? ⚫ Which individuals had to provide authorisation for the data to be collected? ⚫ What are the agencies and individuals with whom the collected data had been shared — whether formally or informally? Seniors in Trinamul said Mamata was likely to come out firing on all cylinders in her Martyrs’ Day address. They said she would not waste time in latching on to the Pegasus “scam” as a major issue, one which could cause the BJP discomfort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Suo motu case filed against Suvendu Adhikari for ‘malicious’ picket||The inspector in charge of East Midnapore’s Tamluk police station on Tuesday evening filed a suo motu case against the BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari and 14 others, for a “malicious” picket on the premises of the East Midnapore district police headquarters on Monday. Adhikari, accompanied by 14 others, including five BJP MLAs, led the picket called “Tamluk SP gherao” to protest “police inaction” against alleged political violence inflicted on BJP workers. Tamluk inspector-in-charge Arup Sarkar’s report states Adhikari, now the BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, and others from his party had been requested not to hold the rally in the light of Covid-19 safety protocols, but they disobeyed these and also reportedly made communal statements aimed at ASP (headquarters) Syed M.M. Hasan. “The main points are that Adhikari and 14 others used questionable language and obstructed a road on the premises of the police headquarters despite being asked not to,” said a source. Among others named in Sarkar’s complaint are MLAs Ashok Dinda (Moyna), Rabindranath Maiti (Bhagabanpur), Santanu Pramanik (Khejuri), Arup Kumar Das (Contai South), Tapasi Mondal (Haldia), and BJP district unit chief Nabarun Nayak. Sources said the BJP leaders entered the area around 2pm with a large crowd, and made incendiary statements over the mic, including those aimed at ASP Hasan. Sarkar took note of the purported utterance as “demeaning and threatening” in his complaint. Adhikari allegedly also tried to browbeat the state police force, presumably the IPS officers, by threatening transfers. “Don’t do deeds that will get you posted in (Jammu and) Kashmir’s Anantnag or Baramulla,” he reportedly said. Bhagabanpur MLA Maiti said the BJP workers were being “attacked” and the “police are working for Trinamul”. “That is why the leader of the Opposition (Adhikari) warned the police. The police filed a case against us for political reasons. We will deal with it legally,” said Maiti. Amid the Pegasus phone-hack row, Adhikari claimed he was in “possession of all their (police’s) phonecalls”. Trinamul state general-secretary Kunal Ghosh said Adhikari exposed the BJP’s role in the alleged snooping scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Public works department nixes prior land nod for John Barla||The state public works department (PWD) has written to the Jalpaiguri district magistrate that it had not given any land at the district’s Chamurchi More in Banarhat to John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who was recently made the Union minister of state for minority affairs. Barla is developing a multi-storeyed commercial complex on a plot at Chamurchi More that the PWD also confirmed belongs to it. The letter from the department comes shortly after the tea company that owns the Lakhipara tea estate, also near Banarhat, told the administration that it did not grant permission to Barla to build a house on its garden. The first-time MP completed building a house on the garden, a plot taken on lease from the state government, after winning the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The clarifications from the PWD and the tea company come in the wake of allegations from district Trinamul leaders that the BJP minister had built properties on government land. Acting on them, district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had first sought a report on the status of the plots specified by Trinamul. When a report by the district land reforms department pointed to the tea garden and PWD, she wrote to both, asking if they had granted permission to the MP for private constructions. “As both the state PWD and the tea company replied to the DM’s letter in the negative, a new letter has been sent to both on Tuesday, asking them to take possession of their respective plots,” said an official. The district administration, sources said, also shared these details with Nabanna and state land and land reforms department. “No specific instruction has reached us on what to do next. So,  authorities concerned (PWD and the tea company) have been asked (at our level) to recover their plots,” the official added. District Trinamul leaders said they briefed their state leadership on the issue. “Our allegation has been proved correct. The rest is up to the administration and the state government,” said district Trinamul president K.K. Kalyani. “We know there are encroachments on many government plots in Banarhat. The administration never made any move to clear them. Trinamul is acting against Barla with vindictiveness,” said BJP’s Jalpaiguri district chief Bapi Goswami, but ducked the allegation of the MP’s illegal misuse of government land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leaders  to counter Mamata Banerjee’s annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21||Bengal BJP leaders will highlight the “plight of party supporters” in the aftermath of Assembly poll results across Bengal and in Delhi on Wednesday to counter Mamata Banerjee’s signature annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21. Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who used to be a main draw on Martyrs’ Day till he switched to the BJP last December, will lead the BJP’s assault in Calcutta. The BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal assembly’s leader of Opposition, will be present at BJP’s party office at Hastings, Calcutta, along with other state leaders. In Delhi, state BJP chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh and the other party MPs from Bengal will sit in a demonstration at Raj Ghat as part of the event named Shaheed Shraddhanjali or ‘Respect to the Martyrs’. Some sources close to Adhikari claimed that the idea of a counter event on July 21 first came from him. “This event will be observed by all BJP workers right up to the booths…The programme will also be live streamed on social media platforms so that we can inform Bengalis across the world about the breakdown of law and order in Bengal and the plight of BJP workers…” state BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. On Wednesday, images of victims of post-poll result violence will be displayed at all the BJP party offices in the state and in Delhi. “The world must know what Trinamul did in Bengal,” said Bhattacharyaa. According to him, from May 2, when the poll results were announced, 38 BJP workers were killed and 30 of them died even before May 5, the day Mamata took oath as chief minister. Since its drubbing the BJP has focussed on post-poll result violence to combat the Trinamul politically. They have moved court on this issue, raised it with the governor of Bengal, in the state Assembly and Centre. Now the BJP is planning to make the July 21 event of the party a success as part of its strategy to challenge Mamata. “There is no doubt that July 21 is an important event in Bengal politics as it is Mamata’s signature event... Hence we wanted to create a signature event for ourselves on the same day. Secondly Trinamul has planned to telecast Mamata Banerjee’s speech on giant screens in six other states apart from Bengal. This (the BJP event) will be our opportunity to counter her claims and highlight the real situation of Bengal in front of the world…” a state BJP office bearer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Trinamul aims to reach out to one crore people ||The Trinamul Congress has set for itself a goal of reaching out to one crore people in Bengal and organising over 100 programmes in at least half a dozen states for the Martyrs’ Day on Wednesday so that the message of Mamata Banerjee is spread far and wide in the wake of the party’s landslide victory in the Assembly elections. July 21 used to be observed every year by Trinamul since its inception through a mega rally at Esplanade in Calcutta in remembrance of 13 people killed in police firing in 1993 during a Youth Congress rally led by Mamata. For the second year in a row, the event has to be virtual on account of the pandemic. “We would reach out to at least one crore people in Bengal this year through over one lakh small-scale programmes, from where the speech of our supreme leader Mamata Banerjee would be telecast. There would be events in Delhi and other states too. This is above and beyond the reach through social and mainstream media,” said Trinamul’s national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, who is in charge of handling one of these events in Lucknow of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Last year, Mamata had claimed she had been able to reach at least 50 lakh people through the virtual conduct of the event. This year, in the wake of Trinamul’s historic victory — and the drubbing handed to the BJP — that ensured her third consecutive stint as chief minister, Mamata is likely to go all out in her attack against the saffron camp and its running of the nation. Senior leaders said among various raging issues, the controversy over the alleged hack via Pegasus was likely to feature prominently in her address. They said the party had directed smaller units to organise as many small programmes as possible, with TV sets or giant screens in districts, to avoid violation of Covid-19 safety protocols. Besides Bengal, the virtual event would be observed at venues such as the Constitution Club of Delhi, and at least 25 venues in Uttar Pradesh, besides states like Tripura, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Trinamul said several leaders of various parties in the non-BJP political space would be present at the Constitution Club. “Many leaders of our friendly parties would attend the programme at the Constitution Club, with us. They wished to attend the programme and listen to Mamata Banerjee,” said Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in Rajya Sabha. Trinamul sources said the move to organise the show on July 21 in Delhi and at hundreds of places in several other states was part of an exercise to gauge the level of appreciation for her after she single-handedly forced the saffron electoral juggernaut to a grinding halt outside Bengal’s gates. The sources said since the victory in the Assembly elections, people of many states, including key leaders of non-BJP parties, started inviting her for campaign. “The programmes in the other states are being organised following the proposals from people of those states, as the people there want to listen to Mamata Banerjee,” said Roy, the chief whip of Trinamul in the Rajya Sabha. Trinamul leaders in various districts of Bengal said they had a bitter experience last year in pockets where the BJP had gained in strength since the Lok Sabha election of 2019, mainly in the Jungle Mahal, north Bengal and in some districts such as Hooghly and Nadia. In those places, Trinamul had not been able to organise programmes in hundreds of booths, allegedly on account of the BJP’s atrocities. In some of those places, such as Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura, several Trinamul workers were allegedly beaten up by BJP workers and driven away from their villages before July 21. However, this year, the same Trinamul leaders have been getting requests from those areas, where BJP supporters are keen to switch flags in the wake of the results. “The tables have turned, and how. We are organising the programme in every booth where the BJP stopped us last year,” said Raju Singh, the Trinamul’s youth wing chief in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Eid al-Adha: Muslim community members urged to adhere to Covid protocol||The Bengal chapter of the All India Imam and Muezzin Organisation, headquartered in Murshidabad, on Tuesday issued a notice to all members, asking them to exhort community members to get vaccinated and adhere to Covid-19 protocol in their Eid al-Adha speeches on Wednesday. The association said the occasion of Eid should be used to motivate community members to get vaccinated and wear masks in view of the probable third wave of the pandemic. “There has been a stereotype going around that many in our community are against vaccination, which needs to be corrected. The exhortation of imams will help in achieving this. We want to change this on such an auspicious day,” said one member. The organisation has over 6,700 members in Bengal alone. The Tuesday circular also ruled that no children would be permitted into Wednesday’s prayer meet in view of the pandemic. Sources said the imams would on Wednesday also address the issues of vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Our community is over 50 lakh strong in the state. We need to take the scientific step forward,” said district president Abdul Razzaq.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
21-07-2021||West Bengal||DRI seizes gold worth Rs 4 crore, two arrested ||Acting on a tip off, a team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold worth around Rs 4 crore and arrested two persons in this connection in Siliguri late on Sunday evening. Sources in the DRI said a team raided a private bus in Siliguri and detained Rakesh Kumar and Ramesh Kumar Shukla, both residents of Uttar Pradesh. “As their luggage was frisked, 50 gold bars weighing 8.3 kilos were seized. The estimated price of the gold is around Rs 4 crore. The gold was transported illegally from Myanmar to Assam and was supposed to be smuggled to Uttar Pradesh,” said a source. Meanwhile in Jalpaiguri’s Dhupguri, a group of miscreants barged into the house of Umesh Das, a private moneylender, and decamped with Rs 1.5 lakh. They also hacked his right hand, leaving him seriously injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
21-07-2021||North East||Pegasus:  ‘Not surprised’, says ULFA leader on name in surveillance list||Leader of pro-talks faction of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), Anup Chetia, said on Wednesday that he was not surprised to find his name on the list of those under possible phone surveillance using Pegasus spyware in India. One of the founding members of the outfit formed in 1979, 64-year-old Chetia is part of the pro-talks faction of the ULFA, talking with the Centre for the past few years. “As former members of ULFA, we once indulged in anti-India activities. So, I am not surprised that my name has come up in that list. I am sure my phones are being tracked all the time,” said Chetia. As unearthed by a collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations, and reported by The Wire, which is one of the 17, the phone numbers of Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee, activists, and 38 journalists, including three from HT and one from its sister publication Mint, were among thousands of potential targets around the world. The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number on the list does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration. While NSO Group, the Israeli firm that makes Pegasus, has maintained that only governments are its clients, India’s IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has called the investigation an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”. The fact that Chetia was still in touch with several leaders of the anti-talks faction of the outfit, ULFA-Independent, of which Paresh Baruah is the commander-in-chief and his stance on several issues including the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which he opposed and even threatened in 2018 to walk out of talks if it was not scrapped, were seen as a possible reasons for his name to figure on the list. “I have not indulged in any anti-national or criminal activities in the past 18 years. Because of my past, it is natural that I could be under surveillance. But I’m not bothered about it,” he said. The Pegasus list also had the name of another prominent leader from Assam, Samujjal Bhattacharya, adviser to the influential All Assam Students Union (AASU). Despite repeated attempts, he couldn’t be reached as his phone was switched off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-07-2021||North East||CAA, NRC has nothing to do with Hindu-Muslim divide, says RSS chief||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who is in Assam on a two-day visit, said on Wednesday that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) have nothing to do with Hindu-Muslim divide and communal narrative surrounding the two issues were being peddled by some to gain political mileage. He further emphasised that no Muslim will face any loss due to the citizenship law. "After independence, the first prime minister of the country had said that minorities will be taken care of, and that has been done so far. We will continue to do so. No Muslim will face any loss due to CAA," Bhagwat said after launching a book here, titled 'Citizenship debate over NRC and CAA-Assam and the Politics of History'. The citizenship law is will provide protection to persecuted minorities in the neighbouring countries, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief underlined. "We reach out to the majority communities, too, in these countries during a calamity.... So if there are some who wish to come to our country due to threats and fear, we will definitely have to help them out," Bhagwat said. Talking about NRC, he stated that all nations have the right to know who its citizens are. "The matter is in the political domain as the government is involved in it... A section of people wants to get political mileage by creative a communal narrative around these two issues," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Stan Swamy's custodial death, India's environmental goals||Take a stand Sir — Anup Sinha must be lauded for his article, “More to come” (July 15). Sinha has rightly noted an eerie silence from the vast majority of the citizens regarding the cruel detention and tragic death of Father Stan Swamy, a humanitarian, and asked if this episode does not concern them or if they do not want to get involved in matters of statecraft. In spite of the torment suffered by the octogenarian ailing from Parkinson’s disease, a majority of the population, barring a few individuals, activists and groups, preferred to look the other way and remain engrossed in petty pursuits. This sent out the clear message that society at large has no time for the lives of activists, especially those who are not in the good books of the government. This indifferent attitude is providing a massive boost to the audacity of the government, enabling it to go all-out against the so-called ‘urban Naxals’ who dare to raise questions about the vested interests of the State by taking up the cudgel on behalf of the deprived, marginalized and exploited sections of the population. There is a remark attributed to Albert Einstein which says that the world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything. This seems to ring true in the present context. But people should also remember the poem by Martin Niemöller and know that if they do not speak up for others, then one day there would be no one left to speak up for them. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — My heart sank as I read the article, “More to come”, by Anup Sinha. Many arguments are put forth by people supporting the custodial death of Stan Swamy. We had also heard many such arguments when Graham Staines was burnt alive along with his two minor sons. The country is facing so many problems at the moment and so frequently that people are failing to figure out which problem they should prioritize. Large-scale unemployment coupled with retrenchment during the pandemic, the destruction of the economy caused by policies like demonetization, huge increase in the price of oil in the country at a time when global oil prices are falling, countless deaths of Covid patients on account of the lack of hospital beds and oxygen are just some of their concerns. So the eerie silence of the vast majority of citizens does not necessarily mean that people are accepting the cruelty of the State. It will take pages to list the economic and institutional lapses under the current regime. Social activists are being put behind bars by invoking the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The sedition law, which originated in England, has been abolished there but continues to be implemented in India. As such, there is only one satisfaction that we can derive: history will be witness that at least one section of the people protested against the atrocities of the present government. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Anup Sinha highlights the disturbing implications of the custodial death of Stan Swamy. It would not be out of context to mention another death which shook the conscience of the world: the murder of George Floyd. The police officer, Derek Chauvin, who murdered Floyd was arrested four days after the incident and was sentenced to 22.5 years in prison following his conviction within 13 months of the murder. The way American democracy responded to the murder of Floyd showed its strength. How Indian democracy responds after the tragic death of the elderly undertrial is yet to be seen. There is a high chance that the death of Swamy will end in another cover-up, with no convictions. This incident, however, must not be forgotten. In his death, Swamy might leave a larger impact on society than many living people do. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — One must thank Anup Sinha for expressing his concern for and pointing out the consequences of the custodial death of Stan Swamy. It must be agreed that this was a death ‘allowed’ by the State if one must differentiate between ‘killing’ and ‘letting die’. We must register our protest in some form, so that political leaders in question do not mistake our silence for endorsement of such brutalities. Syamal Dana,Calcutta Sir — Anup Sinha’s article provides a clear analysis of the discouraging mindset of society at present. Stan Swamy’s death must be remembered so that other undertrials do not suffer the same fate. Sandhya Pande,Howrah  Look deeper Sir — The Indian government has made a big deal out of its reported progress in meeting its environmental goals. But a recent report revealed that only half of the 53 gigawatt solar power projects tendered in India are being actualized. The primary reason for this is that state electricity distribution companies are unwilling to sign power-sharing agreements with intermediary procurers owing to falling clean-energy tariffs. This goes to show that simply sanctioning projects — or talking them up — is not enough; proper incentives are needed to overcome challenges posed by market forces. Subhro Mahato,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
21-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Budget woes||Nearly half of India’s children attend private schools — this fact is central to policy and discourse on education in this country. What, however, is often left unsaid is that nearly 70 per cent of them go to ‘budget private schools’ and 45.5 per cent private school-goers attend institutions with fees less than Rs 500. Much has been written about how the pandemic has crippled education and institutions of learning by unveiling newer challenges: the exclusion of poor students from online classes is just one example of the latter. But the plight of certain schools — low-fee private schools — seems to have slipped through the cracks unseen. This is alarming given the vast constituency of students that they serve. The ability to pay even the meagre tuition fees charged by BPSs has dwindled with parents — daily wagers, small shop owners and cab drivers, among others — rendered unemployed or earning reduced incomes. Confusing directives from state governments to parents to stop paying fees to private schools when they are shut while, simultaneously, forcing managements to continue paying the salaries of teachers and staff has not helped the cause of BPSs. What have added to the financial burden of BPSs are requirements related to infrastructure — playground, library, classrooms, student-teacher ratio — that are mandated by policy formulated with the elite private schools in mind. Additionally, the National Independent Schools Alliance reports that the government has failed to reimburse “lakhs of crores” in fees for learners, adding to the woes of these lower-middle-rung schools. Unrealistic regulations often force BPSs to operate without due recognition, not only raising their risks of closure but also compromising the quality of education imparted. Students are the losers in both instances. Strangely, policy remains blind to these issues. The National Education Policy makes no reference to BPSs; in fact, it scarcely acknowledges private schools except to say that parents need protection from commercialization and exploitation. Tarring all private schools with the same brush is problematic. The NEP also remains silent about the gaps in the Right to Education Act — low fee ceilings and infrastructure norms set by states — that weigh down these institutions. Dedicated structural reforms recognizing BPSs as a niche category ought to be the way forward. Is the new minister for education listening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
21-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sceptre games||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation to the post of state presidentship in poll-bound Punjab has been interpreted, not without reason, as a possible blunder. This is because Amarinder Singh, the party’s tallest leader and serving chief minister in the state, is unlikely to view Mr Sidhu’s rise kindly. The two have a history of animosity. Mr Sidhu had quit Mr Singh’s cabinet four years ago after a series of acrimonious disagreements: worse, he has not minced words since, and the chief minister has been the target of his acerbic comments. The Congress is notorious for internecine conflicts. Personal ambition has, more often than not, trumped party interests, leading to defections and even the fall of Congress governments. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where the Congress lost power, are cases in points. There is concern that the squabble in Punjab could cost the party dear in an election that should have otherwise gone in the Congress’s favour. The simmering anger of Punjab’s agrarian community against the three agricultural laws passed by the Centre has effectively snuffed out the chances of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Shiromani Akali Dal, usually a contender for power, has borne the brunt of collateral damage because of its association with the BJP, propelling the Aam Aadmi Party, another outfit with electoral ambitions, as the principal adversary against the Congress. Now, it seems that the Congress would have to contend with challengers outside and within. That cannot be reassuring for either the high command or the state unit. Yet, could it be that there is a method in the madness? A cursory scan of developments within the Congress would reveal that the high command is, unlike in the past, no longer averse to regional, combative, vociferous leaders. Some of them — Mr Sidhu or, say, Nana Patole in Maharashtra — have even had stints outside the party. This, in turn, is perhaps indicative of two things. The weakness of the high command — the absence of a full-time president is one manifestation — is making it more reliant on regional leaders. The patronage for the latter also mirrors a broader turn in India’s political rhetoric. Politics is increasingly turning shrill, expanding the scope of leaders who believe in hurling fire and brimstone instead of reposing their faith in dignified, nuanced dialogue. The demise of the quiet, persuasive politician may be one of the consequences of Indian politics being enamoured of the cult of personality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
21-07-2021||Opinion||Right intent, wrong model||Uttar Pradesh’s draft population bill may be a step in the right direction but some of its provisions, such as ‘disqualification from contesting elections’, merit concern. Section 9 (1) of the draft bill bars an individual with more than two children from contesting local elections. This provision fails the test of Article 14 of the Constitution because of its discriminatory implications for backward classes and women. The discriminatory nature of such a provision would become apparent if we were to look at the statistics of disqualification in states that have adopted such a measure. One study on the election disincentive programme revealed that out of 111 people who were disqualified from contesting elections on account of their failure to abide by procreation norms, 40 belonged to the scheduled castes, five were from the scheduled tribes and 44 hailed from the other backward classes. Roughly 50 per cent of the respondents were estimated to have an annual income of less than Rs 20,000. Furthermore, as per the data collected in 2004, in Madhya Pradesh, out of the total number of disqualified people, 72 per cent belonged to SC, ST and OBC communities. The reason for such a disproportionate presence of socially disadvantaged groups is that the provision can be easily circumvented by powerful classes and castes that have money as well as access to medical facilities, which permit pre-natal sex determination and illegal abortions. Furthermore, this provision can widen the already existing gender gap in electoral politics. Electoral disincentives are more likely to be prejudicial towards women willing to contest elections. A survey found that in Rajasthan 25 per cent among 450 people disadvantaged by procreation norms were women. This figure presents a problem because the number of women contesting elections is much lower than that of men. The UP government seems to be excited about the new population policy even though in India’s patriarchal set-up, women have very little say in such matters as the size of the family. So why penalize them? It would also be comparatively easy for men contesting polls to desert their spouses in order to get around the disqualification clause. Making such a rule mandatory would adversely affect the social and economic conditions of women. Measures such as these have been declared valid by the Supreme Court. For instance, the apex court had upheld Haryana’s law on population control by observing that the disqualification norm does not contravene any fundamental right, and that it has been devised in the national interest. This reasoning is flawed. The court’s judgment was premised on its belief that burgeoning population is one of the major hindrances to the country’s progress. It would be interesting to examine this assumption in the light of evidence. With a population of 220 million, UP has been suffering from low development indices for years. Yet, the population growth is declining in the state. The fertility rate came down to 2.7 in 2016 from 4.82 in 1993 and is estimated to fall to 2.1 by 2025. The Supreme Court had relied on Five Year Plans in order to support the system of disincentives for population control. It is important to note that the highest court referred to the first seven Five Year Plans (1951 to 1990). During that time, the implications of such punitive measures were not well-known. Since then, there has been a substantial departure from the policy of adopting disincentives as a means of controlling population. The Cairo Conference held in 1994 — it encouraged governments to focus on the objectives of population and development through education and voluntary campaigns instead of undertaking schemes involving incentives and disincentives — was a case in point. Again, the judgment does not discuss the implications of such measures on rights and socio-economic conditions of women. There is an abundance of scholarly material that point towards the discriminatory impact of such deterrents on women and backward sections. The Yogi Adityanath government seems to have completely discounted the possibility that these penal provisions would heighten women’s vulnerabilities to illegal abortion and desertion and subject the disadvantaged sections to newer discriminations. The policy should, instead, be framed to address such needs as a better healthcare system, improve the literacy rate and enhance women’s empowerment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
21-07-2021||Opinion||Je Récuse||"J’Accuse”, Émile Zola’s searing open letter to the French president, Félix Faure, on the injustices by the French State in the Dreyfus affair contained a litany of charges against leading members of the establishment. Zola was tried for defamation in a sham trial and sentenced to a year in prison. Its repercussions were felt long after, leading to a radical ideological reorientation in French politics. In comparison, the decision by Justice Kausik Chanda of the Calcutta High Court to recuse himself from hearing the election petition filed by Mamata Banerjee against Suvendu Adhikari may appear trifling. This is hardly the stuff of headlines, let alone something that can hold a candle to an open letter that shook the foundations of the French republic. The obvious semantic similarity apart, there is a more fundamental reason for making this comparison — if the Dreyfus affair is anything to go by, the Justice Chanda recusal episode is a bellwether of how the impression of the courts being political hastens the demise of trust in the State. There were two reasons put forward to seek the recusal of the judge —first, that he was a political appointee having earlier represented the Bharatiya Janata Party which was directly interested in the outcome of this case; second, that the chief minister, the petitioner in this case, had opposed his confirmation as a permanent judge. Till date, Justice Chanda has not been confirmed. While both these arguments appear attractive, on deeper consideration, they are devoid of justification. Who a judge may have represented in his career as a lawyer should certainly be a yardstick for his/her appointment as a judge in the first place. But once appointed, it ceases to have any relevance in deciding whether the judge should hear particular cases or not. A successful lawyer who is elevated as a judge may have had thousands of clients. Several government lawyers who would have held their government’s brief in court on a daily basis are routinely appointed as judges. Opening up such a ground for recusal will lead to a minefield that will make lawyering less about the law and more about sleuthing into the past lives of judges. Justice Chanda was right to repel this contention. To the further claim that he was not only a lawyer for the BJP but also a member of its legal cell (and purportedly a member of the party as well), if Justice Chanda’s past political record wasn’t a disqualification for him to hold office, it cannot be held against him when hearing any particular matter. After all, Justices Krishna Iyer and Chelameswar, both independent-minded judges of the Supreme Court, had overt political affiliations and did not let that get in the way of their judicial duties. Other, less politically connected, judges have had more questionable records. Justice Chanda’s past political affiliation is a red herring. Regarding the argument that Justice Chanda’s confirmation proceedings were pending and the chief minister had expressed her dissent to him being confirmed, this is a dangerous ground for seeking recusal. As the order rightly points out, the chief minister is a party to all appointees to the high court. This cannot by itself mean that a judge who is confirmed with the assent of the chief minister will be biased in her favour and those whom she has opposed will be adversarial. Upholding such a proposition would also mean that the constitutional protections for the independence of the judiciary — guaranteed tenure till retirement and no reduction of salary while in service — are meaningless and loyalty to the appointing authority will always win the day. Such an argument makes judges look like serfs of governments and is ordinarily best not made. Despite the flimsy legal basis for the recusal application, one cannot summarily dismiss the fact that two senior members of the Bar urged the judge to recuse himself. This begs the more fundamental question — why was such a politically sensitive election petition assigned to a junior additional judge with a prior history that was likely to create controversy? In this matter, the role of the acting chief justice of the Calcutta High Court must be closely examined. First, it is surprising that at the time election results were announced in early May, election petitions were not specifically assigned to any judge in the roster. Assigning a judge would have likely avoided this controversy altogether, although to be fair to the acting chief justice, it was the summer vacation of the court at the time with limited benches sitting. Second, when the matter was first mentioned before Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya who could, according to the roster, hear “other civil matters”, he agreed to hear it in due course. But instead, the matter was re-assigned to Justice Chanda. This can only lead to the conclusion that a conscious decision was taken to re-assign the matter. If the acting chief justice, as a relatively new addition to the Calcutta High Court, did so ignorant of Justice Chanda’s past association and the controversy that it was likely to create, howsoever unjustified that may be, then it is an unfortunate failure of his office to inform him of relevant facts. If he did it knowingly, his decision has sullied the image of a proud high court — its Bar, bench and everyone associated with it. Particularly and unnecessarily affected is the reputation of Justice Chanda who was put in a no-win situation. Despite manoeuvring deftly for the most part, his imposition of a cost (it appears like a penalty for contempt of court) of five lakh rupees to be paid by Mamata Banerjee for the “psychological offensives and vilification adopted” to ensure his recusal was unfortunate. Whether indeed a few stray tweets and statements by her party members amount to vilification is a question of perception, as is the potential deterrent impact of a five lakh rupees penalty in an election on which presumably crores were spent. Irrespective of how one perceives it, for a judge to act on such a perception and impose a monetary penalty in a politically sensitive matter has the effect of making the judge a participant in a political dogfight. A symbolic statement might have been a more appropriate antidote. Zola’s trial and the proceedings in the Dreyfus affair had brought considerable disrepute to the French courts. Military witnesses were only allowed to testify if they toed the military line and judges did not allow free cross-examination. The overtly political courts, which refused to speak truth to power, were key signs of a crumbling French establishment that could no longer command the respect of the people. Indian courts have not plumbed these depths. But the Justice Chanda recusal episode leaves one with the distinct impression that the image of the Indian higher judiciary as a political institution is taking root and the judiciary itself missed an opportunity to dispel it. Everyone who is a well-wisher of the Calcutta High Court and the Indian judiciary would do well to remember that when the courts of law appear political to the public, it is only a matter of time before the rule of law becomes an empty promise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||3-year-old elephant calf found dead in Palamau||A three-year-old male elephant calf was found dead with an abdominal abscess on Tuesday in the jungles of Bhajna under Kutku range of the Palamau tiger reserve, said the deputy director north division, Kumar Ashish. The wound pocket was found replete with maggots. The body was sent for post mortem on Wednesday July 21 and buried at the same spot where it was found dead, said Ashish. Ashish said the mother and other elephants remained with the deceased for hours on Tuesday but on Wednesday there was no mourning around the corpse. The burial site is the same as the death site for any wild life following a standard protocol of disposal of the wild life. The abscess could have proved fatal for the calf opined Ashish. He said the calf might have eaten something which caused this abscess or wound in his abdomen that took a toll on him. Asked if this calf had any gun shot or external wound to which he said there was none except that he had an abdominal abscess. There is no foul play he said with confidence. Ashish said poaching for a calf is highly unlikely as they don’t have tusks. “We rule out this casualty to be any man - elephant conflict just because he was a calf and villagers have special feelings for the calves of the elephants,” said Ashish. Sources said villagers may cause harm to adult elephants in sheer anger or revenge for the loss of their huts or standing or stocked food grains but spare their calves on religious grounds. Sources said the herd of the elephants tries hard to prop up the dead but when convinced that the dead will not rise abandon it faithfully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to host first state para sports event||The recently constituted managing committee of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA) has chosen Jamshedpur as the venue for its first event to be organised on Thursday. The bocce competition for students of steel city's special schools will be conducted at Children's Park in Sonari from 8 am to 11.30 am. The event is being organised jointly by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (an affiliated unit of JPSA) and Jeevika, an NGO working for the promotion of intellectually impaired. Bocce is played with eight large balls and one smaller target or object ball called a pallina. For one player teams, each player throws four balls. When there are multiple players in a team, a playing rotation is determined at the start of a game and is maintained throughout the entire game. "We have invited all special schools operating in Jamshedpur. Intellectually, orthopaedically and visually impaired students will be part of the bocce competition," said JPSA secretary Avtar Singh. According to him, the event will generate interest among the challenged. "We have started organising an event with Jamshedpur as a venue. We will subsequently conduct similar competitions, including other disciplines as well, across different districts of Jharkhand," added Singh, also president of Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (JPSA). Two students each from invited special schools will take part in the competition. "We are expecting around 30 students (boys and girls)," he said. Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion who has also captained the Indian team in 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, said the venue has been decked up for the competition. "Marking would be done before the start of the event. Special students would enjoy the competition," he added. The organisers have invited deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Babban Singh as the chief guest. Sonari-based Jeevika has been conducting bocce competitions for years and the JPSA thought it wise to include it as joint organiser.  “Joining hands with Jeevika would help us in conducting the event in a hassle-free manner. We would also like to work with the NGO while organising future events,” a JPSA functionary said. The state para sports outfit will be working at the grassroots in village, panchayat, block, district and state level to promote the challenged and help them win medals in national and international competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||JAC asks schools to hold pending practicals by July 26||Jharkhand Academic Council has asked all affiliated schools and colleges to conduct all pending practical examinations from July 23 and upload marks on the council's website latest by July 26 so that the year’s matriculation and intermediate results can be declared on time. JAC’s directive was issued on Wednesday after it received a nod from the state disaster management department on Tuesday to go ahead with the remaining practical exams. Around seven lakh students had enrolled for this year’s matric and intermediate exams. Before the lockdown was clamped in the state in April in the wake of second wave of Covid-19, JAC had already conducted offline practical exams for more than 70 per cent students. In the second week of June, the state government announced cancellation of exams because of the pandemic and directed JAC to develop a mechanism to evaluate board aspirants and publish results on time. JAC began the evaluation process from July 3 by asking all schools to send marks of internal/practical exams completed before the lockdown. It also submitted a proposal to the state disaster management department on clearing the pending practicalexams. JAC has devised 80:20 formula. For both classed 10 and 12, 80 per cent marks will be based on student’s performance in the previous year while the remaining 20 per cent will be based on internal assessments or practical exams coducted by schools. “Before the lockdown, practical exams were already held for more than 70 per cent eligible students. Only a few are left, and exams for them can easily be completed now. Schools were asked to be ready to hold practicals anytime. Everybody was just waiting for formal orders,” said an official. JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh has said that the evaluation process was on track and that the council was trying to publish results by this month- end. “We began the work fixing July 31 as the target date. If all goes well, we hope to achieve it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town leprosy patients get new lease of life||More than 100 leprosy affected persons are producing and selling a wide range of products like, bed sheets, operation theatre gowns, gauze bandage, gamchha, lungi etc at Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre (BRTC). Courtesy the training and other infrastructural support in the form of machineries, like powerloom provided to them at the BRTC as part of their comprehensive rehabilitation carried out at the centre by Damien Welfare Centre. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Fr Ajay Tiru, Director of Damien Social Welfare Centre said, “We have 18 power looms, 25 charkhas, one rolling machine, two sewing machines at the centre through which production takes places on regular basis and products are sold to different hospitals and nursing homes of Dhanbad.” “All the inhabitants of the colony are the leprosy cured (Leprosy negative) persons so there is no risk of any spread of any infection due to use of products made by them,” said Tiru. Echoing Tiru’s sentiments, Shaligram Tandon, Manager of Barmasia Rehabilitation  and Training Centre said, “The basic aim of training provided to them at the centre is to make the inmates of the centre self dependent and to bring them into the mainstream of society and training centre cum workshop has three large halls besides, two store rooms etc.” “Besides training support and machinery, free water and power supply is provided to them at 35 cottages lying in the centre,” said Tadon and added that the toilets have been constructed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at the centre. “We also arrange for education of around 20 children of these leprosy cured persons at different adjoining private schools and because of the fact they have brought into the mainstream of society through their activities, these children are leading a normal life with other children,” said Tandon and added that their centre operates not like a commercial organization but rather  as a welfare activity. “We carry out the production despite sometimes suffering losses as part of our effort to bring these people into the mainstream of society, who once due to the diseases were compelled to live at the fringe of the society,” said Tandon. Shankari Mahto, one of four permanent staff of the centre, who looks after the maintenance work of the centre said “all the inmates of the centre live in quite cordial manner as part of a family despite belonging to different socio-economic and religious backgrounds.” Samir Sheikh, 55, one of the residents of the centre who is a native resident of Nawada but living at the centre since last 20 years along with his wife Munni Sheikh, 50, said, “All the staff and manager treat us at the centre as our family members so we could not leave the centre despite our family members at our native place now requesting us to return back to Nawada.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Recovered patients fear relapse, stay away from govt post-Covid care centres||The fear of a relapse and lack of awareness about post-Covid health complications are keeping those who have recovered  away from the dedicated post-Covid care centres across Jharkhand, health officials said on Wednesday, claiming that not even 1 per cent of the over 3.41 lakh people who have survived the lethal ailment have visited the government-run centres in the state. “Only about 900 Covid survivors have visited the government-run post-Covid care centres across Jharkhand so far. The number is quite low if we take into consideration the total number of Covid survivors in the state,” said Dr. Ranjit Mandal, the nodal officer for post-Covid care management in Jharkhand. Lack of awareness about post-Covid complications was one of the reasons for the fewer visits at the post-Covid care centres, admitted Mandal, adding that the health department was running awareness campaigns about post-Covid health disorders and encouraging people to seek medical advice in case of complications following recovery from Covid-19. The state has not reported any post-Covid fatalitiesy following the directive of the health department on July 10 to maintain daily records of people suffering from post-Covid ailments, said Mandal. A source involved in post-Covid management admitted that people with severe post-Covid symptoms may not have undergone treatment at any of the post-Covid care centres in the state. “They (Covid survivors) may have directly gone to specialist doctors,” the source said. As per government records, as many as 3,46,778 people have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand and 3,41,336 of them have recovered. If officials working with the post-Covid management system in the state are to be believed, then hardly 0.26 per cent of the Covid survivors have visited post-Covid care centres in the state so far. “Since Covid-19 primarily affects the respiratory system, post-Covid management of a patient often involves physiotherapy, which includes breathing exercises,” said Dr. Mandal The Jharkhand government has set up post-Covid care centres in Sadar Hospitals of all the 24 districts in the state. Besides, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Tata Main Hospital (TMH) and many private hospitals also run dedicated post-Covid care centres. Most Covid survivors who seek medical help suffer from shortness of breath, muscle cramps and fatigue. Cases of arrhythmia, lung fibrosis and severe cardiac problems have also been reported in some Covid survivors in the state, say doctors. However, Jharkhand has not reported any case of post-Covid bone death or avascular necrosis, which causes death of bone tissues due to lack of blood supply, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister's one-time driver held for exploiting woman||State health minister Banna Gupta's driver, Munna Singh, accused of exploiting a woman on the pretext of marrying her was arrested on Wednesday morning. A resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma, Singh, 45, was arrested from his house at 7am by a team from Kadma thana. He was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate. "Munna Singh was arrested from his house in Bhatia Bustee this morning. The accused was arrested after investigation into an alleged physical exploitation case in which he was accused was completed by deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-II) Kamala Kishore, " said the Kadma thana OC, Manoj Thakur to The Telegraph Online. Thakur said as the victim belonged to Scheduled Caste community and the case had been registered under SC/ST Act beside other relevant Sections of the IPC, it was investigated by a DSP rank officer. He pointed out this was the reason it took so much time for the arrest of the accused. The victim, mother of two minor girls, had initially wanted to lodge an FIR against Munna Singh with the Kadma thana in May, but after the police refused to accept the complaint allegedly due to his influential background, she had filed the complaint with the court. In June, the court had instructed Kadma thana to register a case against the accused. Significantly, Munna Singh was the personal driver of the health minister Banna Gupta for the past eight years. But the minister discharged him from driving service after Munna's name figured in the exploitation case. The accused had been exploiting the victim since 2012 and had even taken Rs 6 lakhs from her during this period. But when she pressured the accused for the marriage in January this year, he snapped of the relationship. Later on when the Kadma police had to register a case against Munna Singh on the instruction of the court, the accused had started pressurising the divorcee to withdraw the case. The victim had on July 16 approached the office of the senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan demanding the arrest of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Barely 15,000 able to get jabs in Jharkhand as free doses remain scarce ||Jharkhand managed to vaccinate barely 15,000 residents against Covid-19 on Tuesday owing to the crisis of vaccines in the state. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 11,254 residents were administered the first jab, while 3,975 beneficiaries received the second dose on the day. As per NHM records, the state has managed to vaccinated only about 50,000 residents in the past three days. A majority of vaccine beneficiaries had to rely on private facilities to get the jabs on Tuesday, officials involved in the immunisation campaign said. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped in the state on Tuesday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 33 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state in the past 24 hours, while 49 Covid patients recovered during the same period. The active caseload in the state dropped to 320. As per data compiled by the health department, at least nine districts – Pakur, Koderma, Khunti, Gumla, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while almost all the 24 districts witnessed a dip in the active caseload. Fresh cases, however, outnumbered recoveries in Bokaro and the active caseload there rose to 33 as the district reported eight cases against three recoveries. Ranchi, on the other hand, reported one fresh case and one recovery. Two persons were found infected in East Singhbhum, while eight Covid patients recovered there. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on Tuesday and the mortality rate in Jharkhand remained 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. Covid-19 has claimed 5,122 lives in Jharkhand so far. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 53,185 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid in the state was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand rose to 5624.92 days against the national doubling rate of 814.53 days, highlighted government data. While active Covid cases dropped in the state, Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Tuesday. As per government data, Jharkhand has so far reported 100 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of the fungal infection. Black fungus has claimed at least 30 lives in the state, while 95 patients have recovered from the disease, notified as an epidemic by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
